HAMMER '. DAGENHART.
Syllabus.
HAMMER, UNITED STATES

ATTORNEY

.FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA, v. DAGENHART ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 704. Argued April 15, 16, 1918.-Decided June , 1918.
The Act of September 1, 1916, c. 432, 39 Stat. 675, prohibits transportation in interstate commerce of goods made at a factory in which,
within thirty days prior to their removal therefrom, children under
the age of 14 years have been employed or permitted to work, or
children between the ages of 14 and 16 years have been employed or
permitted to work more than eight hours in any day, or more than
six days in any week, or after the hour of 7 P. m. or before the hour
of 6 A. M. Held, unconstitutional as exceeding the commerce power
of Congress and invading the powers reserved to the States.
The power to regulate interstate commerce is the power to prescribe
the rule by which the commerce is to be governed; in other words,
to control the means by which it is carried on.
The court has never sustained a right to exclude save in cases where
the character of the particular things excluded was such as to bring
them peculiarly within the governmental authority of the State or
Nation and render their exclusion, in effect, but a regulation of interstate transportation, necessary to prevent the accomplishmentthrough that means of the evils inherent in them.
The manufacture of goods is not commerce, nor do the facts that they
are intended for, and are afterwards shipped in, interstate commerce make their production a part of that commerce subject to the
control of Congress.
The power to regulate interstate commerce was not intended as a
means of enabling Congress to equalize the economic conditions in
the States for the prevention of unfair competition among them,
by forbidating the interstate transportation of goods made under
conditions which Congress deems productive of unfairness.
It was not intended as an authority to Congress to control the States
in the exercise of their police power over local trade and manufacture,,
always existing and expressly reserved to them by the Tenth Amendment.
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

247 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson and Mr. Robert Szold were on the
brief, for appellant.
[The Government supported its argument upon the
history and physical and economic effects of child labor
by voluminous references to reports and debates in Congress and other public documents, including those bearing
direct relation to the act in question.]
Unquestionably the power conferred by the commerce
clause embraced all which the States had previously enjoyed over the subject,, and "the'power of a sovereign
State over commerce, therefore, amounts to nothing more
than a power to limit, and restrain. it at pleasure." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat, 1, 227. While doubt has existed
as to how far back Congress may r'ih prior to the actual
start of the interstate journey (Coe v; Errol, 116 U. S.
517; United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1-; Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274), and how far torward after the
journey has ceased (Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419;
McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115), it has never been
doubted that when the actual transportation begins the
jurisdiction of Congress at-once attaches.
The act is upon its face a regulation. To regulate is
"to prescribe the rule by which commerce is to be governed" (Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196); "to foster,
protect, control and restrain" (Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47). One form of such regulation is
prohibition. In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545; Lottery Case,
188 U. S. 321; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S.
45; United States v. Lexington Mill & Elevator Co., 232
U. S. 399; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; Clark
DistillingCo. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311;
Seven Cases of Eckman's Alterative v. United States, 239
U. S. 510. Indeed, the denial of the facilities of interstate

HAMMER. r. DAGENHART.
251."

Argument for Appellant.

transportation to-specified articles in terms precisely like
those now in question has become a familiar and a customary method of regulation. [Citing numerous acts of
Congress.]
The substantial connection between the regulation and
the actual interstate movement (Adair v. United States,
208 U. S. 161) -is not questioned in this case. The
statute carefully avoids the difficulties in the first
Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, by not applying to that commerce which is wholly within one
State.
It sharply distinguishes between the manufacture,
which lies wholly within one State, and the interstate
movement. No prohibitions are extended to manufacturers of goods as such, although they may intend subsequently to ship in interstate .mmerce.
United States
v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1. A manufacturer may,
notwithstanding the act, employ such children as he
pleases. The law springs into activity only when a6tual
transportation to another State begins.
It cannot be denied that a change in public opinion
regarding child labor has occurred like that in relation
to lottery tickets. Neither the ticket nor the labor is
inherently bad, but the facts of life have disclosed undeniable evils in the use of both. With the growth of industrial activity in the latter part of the nineteenth century the far-reaching effects of the employment of children
in factories became manifest. The dangers to persons of
tender years in working about machinery are apparent to
everyone. But the evil effects on the child's physical
well-being were shown by medical science to be not confined to the so-called dangerous occupations. Night work
and excessive hours of labor indoors in factories at a critical stage in the development of the child's body stunt the
physique and decrease the resistance to disease. The child
worker becomes dwarfed in body and mind, and the State

OiCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

247 U. S.

is deprived 'of that vigorous citizenship upon which the
success of democracy must depend.
The legislation of the States on the subject was not uniform, and many States were withoutth6 provisions which
came to be regarded as the stAndard necessary for the
public protection. Interst&te,commerce is n6t a technical
legal conception buta practica:l oiie, drawn from the course
of business. Swift v. United 'States, 196 U. S. 375, 398.
In the day of steam and electricity the play of the forces
of competition makes the -cause operating in one State
immediately felt in another. The slightest difference in
the cost of production, or what amounts to the same thing,
a belief on -the part of manufacturers in the existence of
such difference,, alters the. development of an industry.
As the conviction grew that the employment of child
labor was morally reput.nt and socially unwise, it came
to be regarded also in the light of unfair competition in
trade among the States. The State authorizing the use of
such' labor in products shipped into other States was
thought unfairly to discriminate against the citizens of
the latter. Citizens in the States' in which child labor
products were introduced through interstate commerce
were made unwilling parties to practices deemed immoral., The health of children in competing States was
injuriously affected by the interstate transportation of
child-made goods. Thus, if one State desired to limit
the employment of children, it was met with the objection that its manufacturers could not compete with manufacturers -of a neighboring State which imposed no such
limitation. The shipment of goods in interstate commerce by the latter, therefore, operates to deter the
former. from enacting laws it would otherwise enact"
for the protection of its own children.
The manufacturers' argument is'based upon the belief
that child labor is ch~aper. There is much reason for
thinking this belief mistaken; but the facts ;of their com-

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Argument for Appellant.

mon belief in it, of their insistent arguments before state
legislatures, and of the resultant effect in postponing or
relaxing state legislation with reference to child labor,
can notbe denied.
-The effect on one community of the importucon from
another of the products of cheap labor has been recognized by Congress in dealing with foreign commerce.
It has prohibited the importation from foreign countries
of convict-made goods. This exclusion was not designed
to prohibit convict labor in foreign countries, but to prevent the lowering of standards in this country. The theory
of much of our tariff legislation and of the Alien Contract
Labor Law is the same.
The effect of low child labor standards in one State
upon health in competing States is due entirely to the interstate character of the commerce in question. Because
this is so a State can not protect itself. A state law forbidding entrance into the State of goods made by children
of an age lower than that at which the State itself permits
young persons to work would perhaps be valid in the
absence of congressional legislation. AsbelZ v. Kansas,
209 U. S. 251; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137; but see
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S, 100; Sclhollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1. But such a law would not be adequate,
for the effects of the competition would be felt when
goods from the competing States met in other States
or at the ports for foreign exportation (the present law
as enacted, therefore;. includes a prohibition against shipment in foreign as well as domestic commerce). The
conviction became gradually settled that the situation
called for the exercise by Congress of its power to prescribe a uniform rule for the conduct of interstate commerce. Congress had thoroughly investigated the subject.
The act does not contravene the TFifth Amendment.
The due process clause in that Amendment limits Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellant.

247 U. S.

precisely as the same clause in the Fourteenth Amendment limits the State. Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 356,
357; "Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co.,
242 U. S.. 311, 320, 332; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78, 100, 101. If therefore a State, notwithstanding the
Fourteenth Amendment, may bar the facilities of intrastate commerce to goods made by children in factories,
Congress may do likewise, so far as the Fifth Amendment
is concerned, for interstate commerce. Prohibition of all
intrastate commerce in child labor by a State clearly does
not contravene the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Sturges & Burn Mfg. Co. v. Beauchamp,
231 U. S. 320;'People v. Ewer, 141 N. Y. 129; State v.
Shorey, 48 Oregon, 396; Starnes v. Albion Mfg. -Co., 147
N. Car. 556; In re Weber, 149 California, 392; In re Spencer,
149 California, 396; Inland Steel Co. v. Yedinak, 172
Indiana, 423; State v. Rose, 125 Louisiana, 462. Note
also the cases in this court upholding statutes limiting
the hours of labor for men and women.
There is no right to use the channels of interstate commerce to affect injuriously the health of the people in competing States;, nor to consummate the injury to the producing child; nor in unfair competition.
The act is a legitimate exercise of legislative power for
the protection of the public health. It is now settled that
regulations of interstate commerce may have the quality
of police measures. Seven Cases of Eckman's Alterative v.
United States, 239 U. S.510, 515; Gloucester Ferry Co. v.
Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, 215. See also Hoke v. United
States, 227 U. S. 308, 323; Wilson v. United States, 232
U. S.563, 567; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. . 470,
492.
The act is reasonably calculated to protect the health
of children in States competing with the point of origin.
The shipment of child-made goods outside of one State
directly induces 'similar employment of children in com-

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Argument for Appellant,

peting States. It is not enough to answer that each State
theoretically may regulate conditions of manufacturing
within its own borders. As Congress saw the situation,
the States were not entirely free agents. For salutary
statutes had been repealed, legislative action on their
part had been defeated and postponed time and again,
solely by reason of the argument (valid or not) that interstate competition could not be withstood.
The act also protects the health of children in'the produchig State. The Fifth Amendment imposes no obstacle to the denial by Congress of facilities of interstate
transit for the prevention of injury to children in the shipping State. Congress can outlaw such goods to prevent
pollution of the interstate stream.
That the articles excluded are themselves innocuous
is immaterial. United States v. American Tobacco Co.,
221 U. S. 106, 132. Discussion of the inherent badness
of things is largely futile. How do we judge of goodness
or badness except by their effect? Those things which
work ill effects when transported across state lines are for
that reason evil. The transportation of products of child
labor, therefore, can not be classed as innocuous in fact.
As a matter of law, the regulating power is not' limited
to goods harmful per se. United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366; Weeks v. United States, 245
U. S. 618; Wilson v. United States, 232 U. S. 563; Athanasaw v. United States, 227 U. S. 326; Compagnie Francaisv
v. Louisiana Board of Health, 186 U. S. 380; Rast v. Van
Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; Seven Cases of Eckman's Alterative v. United States, 239 U. S. 510. Liqupr,
lottery tickets, and misbranded food were legitinate
objects until the legislature made them outlaws.
Congress acted reasonably in putting child-made g$ods
in the same class.
A seller's liberty is not unduly restrained by protecting
a purchaser from becoming an unwilling party to an'm-

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
"Argument for Appellant.

247 U. S.

moral sale. Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461;
United States v. Coca Cola Co., 241 U. S. 265; 285.
There is no right to use the channels of interstate commerce for unfair competition. Large authority was exercised in removing, unfair discrimination as a means of
competition in the Act to Regulate Commerce, and the
Clayton Anti-Trust and'Fedeia I Trade Comnxmission Acts.
Industry and business are the 'controlling considerations.
Sales detrimental to a-state industry may be prohibited
by a State. Sligh v. Kirkwood- 237 U. S. 52. In interstate commerce discretion is intrusted to Congress t6
dete me Which of the various business elements of the
Nation. is entitled to protection. An example of a prohibition of interstate trade for industrial reasons is in
the quarantine of cattle fit enough for food in themselves
but likely to damage the cattle industry in the receiving
Siate. Mi ssouri, Kansas & Texas-Ry. Co. v' Haber, 169
U. S. 613, 623.
Congress believed that it was exercising in this case
its power to forbid competition deemed unfair. Senate
Repoit No. 358, 64th Cong., 1st sess.; House Report No.
46,'64th Cong., 1st sess It was not fanciful to class shipment of child-made goods as unfair competition. Fraud
and deceit are recognized acts of unfairness. An advantage derived by drawing on the blood of children is also
immoral, according to the consensus of modem thought.
Nor is immorality alone the test of unfair competition.
An act unreasonably interfering with another's right to
pursue trade, such as local price cutting, or hiring away
of- workmeli, constitutes unfairness. Congress may well
have ithought that child labor deserved a like reprobation.
The extension, of the -prohibition to all products of the
factory in *hich the child labors is a reasonable provsion
for the due enforcement of the act.
Assuming that the act does not-contravene the Fifth

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Argument for Appellees.

Amendment, there is no other clause of the Constitution
to which it is obnoxious. The Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321,
357.
To urge the reserved powers of the States is to beg the
question. The reserved powers of the States do not
begin until the power of Congress leaves off. [Instancing
numerous cases in which exercises of the commerce power
have been upheld though necessarily affecting state
policy and control as to local matters; and numerous acts
of Congress having such effect.]'
There is no encroachnent upon the reserved powers of
the States. As said by Mr. Justice McKenna in Hoke v.
United States, 227 U. S. 308, 320, "The power of Congress
under the commerce clause of the Constitution is the ultimate determining question. If the statute be a valid
exercise of that power, how it may affect persons or States
is not material to be considered."
The Constitution grants to Congress no. more power
over the public in the receiving than in the shipping
State. Neither is mentioned. It is the public, wherever
situated, that is entitled to protection.
The argument that the evil is complete prior to the interstate movement is fallacious, for Congress enacted the
statute to protect citizens outside of the shipping State.
Congress was attempting to regulate commerce .in
good faith and not to, do indirectly what it could not do
directly. It sought only to prevent the evil resulting from
the interstate transportation of child-made goods. The
court is confined to the purpose as expressed.in the act.
McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27. Nor is it concerned
with questions of the wisdom, expediency, or oppressive
character of legislation. Id.
Mr. Morgan J. O'Brien and Mr. W. M. Hendren, with
whom Mr. Clement Manly, Mr. W. P. Bynum and Mr.
JuniusParkerwere on the brief, for appellees:

OCTOBER TERM, 1917. "
Argument for Appglees.

247 U. S.

If the transaction or conduct is not within the grant
of power to Congress, it lies -;ithin the controlling power
of 'the State in the exercise of the police power. 10th
Amendment; Martin v. Hiinter, 1 Wheat. 304, 326;
House v. Mayes, 219 -U. S. 270, 281-282; New York v.
Miln,-11 Pet. 102.
The only suggested source of authority to.legislate on
the subjiect of -the act is the Commerce Clause, which
Madison said (3 Farrand, Records of Federal Constitution)
"was intended as a negative and preventive provision
against injustice in the states' themselves, rather than
as a power- to be used for the, positive purposes- of thb
general government;"
Is the act a regulation of commerce in the constitutibnal sense?- Or is it- a regulation of some one of the
many internal affairs of the States which Congress is
not empowered to deal with? United States v. D6 Witt,
9 Wall. 41; United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S.
1; Employers' Liability Cases, 2071 U. S.463, 502.- A
regulation of "all of these delicate, multiform and vital
interests-interests which in their nature are, and must
be, local in all the details of their successful management." Kiddy. Pearson, 121 U. S.1, 21. The right of
intercourse between the States has its source in the municipal law. The-Constitution found it "an existing right
and gave to Congress the right to regulate it," which is
the right to prescribe the rule-by:which commerce is to
be governed. Gibbons V. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 211. With
respect to his lawful. goods, the citizen exercises a right.
With respect to his unlawful goods, he enjoys a privilege,
which Congress may withhold largely as it pleases. •
While the power to regulate commerce among the
several States is in the same grant and in the same terms
with the -power over foreign commerce, yet there is a
difference with respect to the extent-of that power growing out of the difference in the relation of the United

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Argument for Appellees.

States to the two kinds of commerce, and the difference
in the right of the citizen of the United States and the
foreigner to engage therein. As to foreign commerce,
the United States possesses and exercises all the attributes of sovereignty. As to interstate commerce, it
exercises only that portion of sovereignty delegated to
it. Prentice & Eagan, Commerce Clause of the Federal
Constitution, 37-42; Judson on Interstate Commerce,
Par. 2; 2 Tucker on the Constitution, Pars. 255, 256.
This is illustrated in the plenary power of Congress over
territory belonging to the United States and outside the
boundaries of a State of the Union. The foreigner enjoys
a privilege. The citizen exercises a right, subject only
to that measure of interference to which he has consented.
It appears from the act itself: (1)'That the articles
made by children are in no way different from articles
made by others. (2) That the purpose and effect of
the act is to prevent the employment of children, and
not to safeguard or promote commerce or the interests
of persons or communities in the States into which childmade goods might be sent. That such is the purpose
and expected effect, was avowed in the debates upon the
floor of Congress, and before the committees to which
the bill was referred.
The act itself shows the harmless. quality of the goods.
Articles heretofore barred and dealt with by this court
have been such as could fairly be said to be "outlaws of
commercey); consequently all persons have been forbidden to ship them; the article itself is barred from commerce.
Does the power to regulate commerce extend to and
include the power to prohibit harmless and useful commodities because of pre-commerce conditions of labor?However much the Knight Case, 156 U. S.1, may beweakened by later decisions, its distinction', between
production and commerce is still effective to prevent

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellees.

247 U. S.

direct congressional regulation of, production as distinguished. from sale and transportation.
It is not necessary to resort to the Fifth Amendment.
But, if so, the grant of power in the Commerce Clause
can not, in the guise of regulation, by a mere pretense
of exercising this power, extend to the destruction of
property interests only remotely related to commerce.
In regulating commerce, Congress regulates traffic
in things, vehicles of transport and things in transitu,
but not the things themselves. Before and after the
transitus, they are beyond this power of regulation. The
production and use of things in the terminus a quo and
the terminus ad quem are not subjects of the commercial
power, but of the State from which and to which they
are transported. 2 Tucker, Const. 526.
The conditions reached and controlled by this act
are subject only to that attribute of sovereignty called
the "police power." With relation to matters of National
import, has Congress all the attributes of sovereignty,
or merely those surrendered to it by the people a:.d not
reserved to the States? Save in the instances provided
therein the Fourteenth Amendment does not entrench
upon the state police power. Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 21, 31. Is the only protection and security for the
sovereignty and freedom of conduct sought to be reserved
by the Tenth Amendment the limitation imposed upon
.Congress by the Fifth Amendment with respect to arbitrary action? Are not the rights so many and so vital
and essential to the prosperity of the citizen and .consequently of the Nation, as to indicate that their protection is entitled to and has a-more fundamental basis, that
is, that they have-not been given over to the chance of
arbitrary action?
The Keller Case, 213 U. S. 114, holds an act of Congress void, punishing harboring within a State an alien
prostitute, as a regulation of a matter within the police

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Argument for-Appellees.

power reserved to the State. The power of Congress
to regulate commerce among the States is not then the
equivalent of the reserved police power of the States.
Congress has no general police power; it may exercise
a police power only over a subject-matter already under
its jurisdiction, by virtue of some authority delegated
to it by the Constitution. In other words, a police purpose may be the reason for exercising a power possessed,
but it is not a source of power. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 187 U. S. 11; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; 12
Corpus Juris, 910.
To uphold the act upon the theory of police power it
must be clear that interstate commerce is menaced and

not something else outside that domain.
Whatever menace there is in child labor has a locality.
It cannot reasonably and fairly be said that the product
of the factory where children are employed is so tainted
by its origin that during or after transportation it constitutes a menace to health or morals or to any other
subject within, the domain of Congress. The menace, if
it exists, is confined to where the child is employed. In
invoking the police power, Congress is operating outside
the domain of interstate commerce. A process of manufacture cannot obstruct or injuriously affect commerce
when the product. of that process is indistinguishable
from the products of other processes. The statement that
the power of Congress over commerce is full and complete
does not aid the matter because that statement by Chief
Justice Marshall in Gibbons v., Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, is
preceded by and predicated upon the proposition that
the subject of regulation is within the power asserted.
That the possession .of full and complete power does
not warrant the exercise of that power to bring about
a result or condition outside that power, is strikingly exemplified in cases decided by this court, of which Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, may be

. OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argiimefl for Appellees.

247 U. S.

mentioned, where the power of a State to fix the terms
and conditions upon which foreign corporations may do
business in the State was -considered. So a general power
of prohibition must exist to sustain the act. There is no
such power. It is not a case of:the possession of power
restrained by. certain limitations, but a case of the entire
absence of power.
The authority of Congress to regulate commerce comprehends the power, within the- limitations imposed by
the nature and object of the grant, and those expressly
set forth in the Constitution, to define what shall be commerce-asmong the States, and, with a view to the effective
exercise of its power to distinguish between things deleterious and things beneficial or innocuous, and to deny
absolutely or conditionally entrance into such commerce to those things and persons which are deleterious,
and, short of prohibition, to prescribe the rule by which
the entrance to and movement in commerce of lawful
and. innocuous things and persons is to be governed.
The Obscene LiteratureCase, the Bad Egg Case, the White
Slave Vase and the) Webb-Kenyon Case, yield the principle
that Congress may prevent the facility of interstate commerce from being made an instrument of evil, but in
each of these cases the subject of regulation retains,
while moving in commerce, and at its journey's end, the
inherent capacity to further the evil. .The regulation did
not reach back to the place of the creation of the subject
as in the case at bar.
So far the adjudicated cases. have gone and no further.
A. product of a condition which exists only within the
confines of a State, before it may be said to affect com
merce in such a way as to justify Congress in regulating
it, must be one which retards or injures commerce, or in
some manner burdens that commerce itself or one which
retains its capacity to further an evil while actually moving in commerce.

HAMMER V. DAGENHART.
251.

-Argument for Appellees.

Upon the assumption-which as a matter of fact is not
correct-that the act prohibits only the product of child
labor, it is said:: the object of the act is not to regulate conditions of
labor within the States individually for these are primarily of concekn only to the State, but to establish a
certain plane of competition with respect to the utilization of such labor for the benefit of the country at large.
From this standpoint, the question raised by the act
boils down simply to 'this: May: Congress exercise its
power to reglate commerce among the States for what
it conceives the good of the country at large, even to the
extent of prohibiting altogether harmless and useful articles of commerce produced under conditions of labor
which from this point of view it deems detrimental?
Investigation of- whether Congress -has done by indirection that Which it can not do directly, is not foreclosed by the statement that courts do not pass on the
motives of Congress. " They do not pass upon them to see
whether they are -good or bad, but when power is called
into play, not for the purpose for which it was given, but
for a covert purpose, it becomes not an abuse of a power,
but the exercise of an unconferred power, and *the duty
is incumbent upon the court to determine this matter,
and legislation may properly be characterized as covert,
though its purpose and effect is to cure what is admitted
to be an evil. McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27;
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 .Qovert legislation is legislation whose constitutional support be&rs
no sincere relation to the legislative and popular purpose
sought to be attained.
The act fixes a standard of child labor and debars from
interstate and foreign commerce, for a period of thirty
days'from its production, all product of the mine, quarry,
mill, factory or workshop in which the standard fixed
by the act does not prevail, without regard to whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Appellees.

247 U. S.

child labor has entered in whole or in part into its production.
A congressional enactment can not be said to be a regulation of commerce- among the several States within
the meaning of the Constitution, unless it:
(1) Regulates some subject that is connected with
interstate commerce directly or proximately and not
merely remotely.
(2) Regulates commerce in some particular bearing a
direct relation to interstate commerce.
(3) Can fairly be said, upon construing the whole scope
of the law, that it is a regulation of interstate commerce
and not a regulation. of some other subject' which Congress is not empowered to regulate. Atlantic Coast-Line
R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186.
In the case at bar, there is no sincere and legitimate
relation between the thing prohibited and the object to be
attained. Congress is doing indirectly what it can not do
directly. Certainly the grant was not intended to give
Congress any greater power over interstate commerce
than the States have over domestic commerce.. The State
can not close the door of commerce to lawful goods,
though it may, by virtue of the police power, control the
conditions out of which the commerce comes.
: The act reaches beyond the body of 'commerce itself,
and legislates in the form of a regulation of commerce
to promote what is deemed to be the welfare of the people.
It does more than prohibit the transportation of articles of commerce. In effect it is a prohibition of their
creation, unless the local conditions of manufacture conform to the congressional standard.
The nature and ends of legislative power. limit the
extent of it, and the nature and extent of the grant must
be determined in view of the object for which those powers are given. Calder v. Bul, 3 Wall. 388; Legal Tender
Cases, 12 Wall. 531. The intention of the framers of the

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Argument for Appellees.

Constitution in conferring the power to regulate commerce was (Veazie v. Moore, 14 How. 574):
"To establish perfect equality amongst the several
states as to commercial rights," and (Lehigh Valley '. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 200):
"The chief mischief intended to be obviated was the
conflict between the commercial regulations of the several
states, which was destructive of their harmony, andfatal
to their commercial interest abroad."
The very essence of regulation is the existence of something to be regulated, and consequently the suggestion
of a general power to prohibit is contrary to the reason
of the thing. Of necessity, there must be some limit on
the power to regulate, even when, under some circumstances, it may include prohibition. . Otherwise, .commerce may be destroyed. What fixes that limit? Public
opinion as reflected by Congress, subject to thie limited
review permitted by the Fifth Amendment, or the logical
and visible line of demarcation now drawn between
"outlaws of commerte" and wholesome and lawful articles of commerce? That there is a difference with relation to the power of government between lawful and
unlawful articles of commerce, appears from the opinions
in the S&hollenberger Case, 171 U. S. 1, and McDermott v.
Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115. The prohibitory power is
limited to "the kind of traffic which no one" is "entitled
to pursue as of right." The line of demarcation is found
in the nature and quality of the. goods, and the rights
with respect thereto, rather than in the limited review
permitted under the Fifth Amendment.
The ability to create, and free and unfettered action
in transporting property, are essential to the citizen and to
the welfare of the country. The right is so necessary and
so paramount that it is difficult to say that the people
would contemplate reposing in even an elective body like
Congress an unlimited and unrestrained power over that

26

OCTOBER TERM; 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S..

right, -depending for its safety upon Congress refraining.
from arbitrary action. The right needs and has a-more
certain and fundamental protection. While the majority
opinion in the Lottery Case maintained that Congress
was vested with a wide discretion in matters of interstate
commerce, yet it based the power to prohibit upon the inherent quality of illegality in the lottery tickets themselves.
The fundamental and far reaching question here to
be determined is: Is there a line between "the commercial power of the Union and the municipal power of
the State?". Has Congress absorbed the police power of
the States? If Congress has the power here asserted, it
is difficult to conceive what is left to the States.
MR.JusricE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

A bill was filed in the United States District Court for
the Western District- of North Carolina by a father in
his own behalf and as next friend of his two minor sons,
one under the age of fourteen years and the other between
the ages of fourteen and sixteen. years, employees in a
cotton mill at Charlotte, North Carolina, to enjoin the
enforcement of the act of Congress intended to prevent
interstate commerce in the products- of child labor. Act
of Sept. 1, 1916, c. 432, 39 Stat. 675.
The District Court held the act unconstitutional and
entered a'decree enjoining its enforcement. This appeal
brings the case here. The first section of -the act, is in the
margin..
1That no producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship or deliver
for shipmen% in interstate or foreign commerce any article-or commodity the product of any mine or quarry, situated in the United States,
in which within thirty days prior to the time of the removal of such
product therefrom children under the age of sixteen years have ,been
employed or permitted- to work, or- any article or commodity the

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Opinion of the Coirt

Other sections of the act contain provisions for its
enforcement and prescribe penalties for its violation.
The attack upon the act rests upon. three propositions:
First: It is mot a regulation of interstate and foreign com-merce; Second: It contravenes the Tenth Amendment
to the Constitution; Third: It conflicts with the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution.
The controlling question for decision is: Is it within
the authority of Congress in regulating commerce among
the States to -prohibit the transportation in interstate
commerce of manufactured goods, the product ofa factory
in which, within, thirty days prior to their removal therefrom, children under the age of fourteen have been employed or permitted to work, or children between the ages
of fourteen, and sixteen years have been employed or
permitted to Vwork, more than eight hours in any day, or
more than six days in any week, or after the hour of seven
o'clock P. M. or before the hour of 6 o'clock A. M.?
'The power essential to the passage of this act, the
Government contends, is found 'in the commerce clause
of the Constitution which axithorizes Congress to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the States.
In CXbbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, Chief Justice Marshall,
speaking for this court, and defining the extent and nature
'of the commerce power, said, "It is the power to regulate;
that is, to prescribe the rule by which commerce is to be
governed." In other words, the power is one to control
the means by which commerce is carried on, which i,
product of any mill, cannery, workshop, factory, or manufacturing
establishment, situated in the United States, in-which within thirty
days prior to the removal of such product therefrom children under
the age of fourteen years have been employed or permitted to work,
or children between the ages of, fourteen years and sixteen years
have been employed or permitted to work more thari eight hours in
any day, or more than six days in any week, or after the hour of seven
o'clock postmeridian, or before the hour of six o'clock antemeridian.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opi ion of the Court.

247 U. S.

directly the contrary of the assumed right to forbid commerce from moving -andthus destroy it as' to particular

commodities. But it: is insisted that adjudged cases in
this court establish the doctrine that the power to regulate
given to -Congres-incidentally includes the authority to
prohibit the movement of ordinary commodities and therefore that the subject _is not open for discussion. The
cases demonstrate the contrary. They rest upon .the
character of the particular subjects dealt with and the
"fact-that the scope of governmental authority, 'state or
national, possessed over them-is such that the authority
.to prohibit is as to-them but the exertion of the power to
regulate. ,

The first, of these cases is Champion-v. Ames, 188 U. S.
321, the so-called Loitery Case, in which it was held that
Congress -might pass a law havingi the effect to keep the
channels of commerce free from use in the transportation
of tickets used in the promotion of lottery schemes. ,In
Hipolite Egg Co. v. -United States, 220 U. S. 45, this court
sustained the power .of Congress to. pass the Pure Food
and Drug Act which prohibited the introduction into the
States by means of interstate conunerce of impure fo6ds
and drugs. In Hoke v. United States, 227 U.-S. 308, this
court sustained the -constitutionality of the so-called
"White Slave Traffic Act": whereby the transportation
of s woman in interstate -commerce for the purpose of
prostitution was forbidden. In that case we said, having
referenceto the authority of Congresg, under the regulatory
power, to protect 'the channels of interstate commerce:
-"If
the- facility of-interstate- transportation can -be
taken away from the demoralization of lotteries, the debasement of obscene literature, the contagion of -diseased
cattle or- persons, the 'impurity of food. and drugs the
like facility can be taken' away from the systeniatic
enticement to and the enslavement in prostitution and
debauchery of women, and, more insistently, of girls."

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Opinion of the Court.

'In Caminetti V. United States, 242 U. S. 470, we held
that Congress might prohibit the transportation of women
in interstate commerce for the purposes of debauchery
and kindred purposes. In Clark Distslling Co. v. Western
Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, the power of Congress
over the transportation of intoxicating liquors was sustained. In the course of the opinion it was said:
"The power conferred is to regulate, and the very terms
of the grant would seem to'repel the contention that only
piohibition of movement in interstate commerce was embraced. And the cogency of this is manifest since if the
doctrine were applied to those manifold and important
subjects of interstate commerce as to which Congress
from the beginning has 'regulated, not 'prohibited, the
existence of goverhment under the Constitution would
"be no longer possible."
And, concluding the discussion which sustained the
authority of the Government to prohibit the transportation of -liquor in interstate commerce, the court said:
the exceptional nature of the subject here
regulated is the basis upon which the exceptional power
exerted must rest and affords no ground for any fear that
such power may be constitutionally extended to' things
which it may not, consistently with the guarantees of the
Constitution, embrace."
In each of these instances the use of interstate trans=
portation was necessary to the accomplishment of harmful results. In other words, although the power over
interstate transportation was to regulate, that could only
be accomplished- by prohibiting the use of the facilities of
interstate commerce to effect the evil intended.
This element is wanting in the present case. The thing
intended to be accomplished by this statute is the denial
of the facilities of interstate commerce to those manufacturers in the States who employ children within the
prohibited ages. The act in its effect does not regulate

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion or the Court.

247 U. S.

transportation among the States, but aims to standardize
the ages at which children'may-be employed in mining and
m nufacturing within theStates . The goods shipped are

o -themselves harmless.

The act permits them to be

freely shipped after thirty days from the time of their
removal from the factory.', When offered for shipment,
and before translportation begins, the labor of their.
production is over, and the mere -fact that they were
intended for interstate commerce transportation does not
make' their production subject t6 federal control under
the commerce Po er.
Commerce "consists of intercourse and ' traffic
and'includes the transportation of persons and property,
as well as the purchase, sale and exchange of commodities."
The -niaking of goods and the mining of coal are not commerce, nor does the fact that'these things are to be afterwards shipped or used in interstate commerce, make
their production a part thereof. Delqadrei,Lackawanna
& Western R. R. Co. v. Yurkbnis, 238 U. S. 439.
Over interstate transportation, or its incidents, -the
regulatory powe~r of Congress is ample, but the production
of articles, intended for interstate commerce, is a matter
of l cal regulation.
When the commerce begins is determined, not by.'the
character of the commodity, nor by the intention of the
owner to transfer it to another state for sale,- nor by his
preparation of it for transportation, but by its actual delivery to a- common carrier for transportation; or the
actual commencement of its transfer to another state:
(Mr. Justice Jackson in In re Green, 52 Fed. Rep. 113
This Principle has: been recognized often in this court.
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. 5. 517; Bacon v. I/flinois, 227 U. S.
504, and cases cited. If it were otherwise, all manufacture
intended for interstate'shipment wofh1d be brought under
federal control to the practical exclusion' of the authority
of the States, a result certainly not contemplated by the

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Opinion of the Court.

framers of the Constitution when they vested in Congress
the authority to regulate commerce among the States.
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 21.
It is further contended that the authority of Congress
may be exerted to control interstate commerce in the ship-ment of child-made goods because of the effect of the
circulation of such goods in other States where the evil
of this class of labor has been recognized by local legislation, and the right to thus employ child labor has been
more rigorously restrained than in the State of production.
In other words, that the unfair competition, thus engendered, may be controlled by closing the channels of
interstate commerce to manufacturers in those States
where the local laws do not meet what Congress deems
to be the more just standard of other States.
There is no power vested in Congress to require the
States to exercise their police power so as to prevent possible unfair competition. Many causes may co6perate
to give one State, by reason of local laws or conditions,
an economic advantage over others. The Commerce
Clause was not intended to give to Congress a general
authority to equalize such conditions. In some of the
States laws have been passed fixing minimum wages for
women, in others the local law regulates the hours of
labor of women in various employments. Business done
in such States may be at an econbmic disadvantage when
compared with States which have no such regulations;
surely, this fact does not give Congress the power to
deny transportation in interstate commerce to those who
carry on business where the hours of labor and the rate
of compensation for women have not been fixed by
a standard in use in other States and approved by
Congress.
The grant of power to Congress over the subject of
interstate commerce was to enable it to regulate such
commerce, and not to give it authority to control the

274

OCTOBER TERM,: 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

A7 U. S.

States in 'their exercise of the -police power over local
trade and manufacture.
-The grant of authority over a purely fedeial matter
Was'not intended to destroy the local power always existing and carefilly reserved to the States in the Tenth
Amendment to, the Constitution.Police regulations relating to.the internal trade and
affairs of the States have been uniformly recognized as
within such control. "This," said this court in United
States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41, 45, "has been so frequently
declared by this court, results so obviously from the
terms of the Constitution, and has been so fully expl ined and supported on former occasions, that we
think it unnecessary to enter again upon the discussion." See Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 138, 144,
146, 146. Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed.,

p. 1l.

In the judginent:which established the broad power
of Congress over iiterstate commerce, Chief Justice
Marshall said (9 Wheat. 203): "They [inspection laws]
act upon the subject before it becomes -an article of
foreign commerce, oriof commerce among the states,- and
prepare -it
for that'purpose. They form a portion of that
imniense mass of legislation, which embraces everything
within the territory of a state, not surrendered to the
general government; all which can be most advantageously exercised by the states themselves. Inspection
laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every description,
as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a
state, and those which respect turnpike-roads, ferries,
&c., are component parts of this mass."
And in Dartmouth College V. Woodward, 4-Whe t. 518,
629, the same great judge said:
"That-the framers of the constitution did not intend
to restrain the states in the regulation of their civil
institutions, adopted for internal government, and that

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

Opinion of the Court.

the instrument they have given us is not to be so construed may be admitted."
That there should be limitations upon the right to
employ children in mines and factories in the interest
of their own and the public welfare, all will admit. That
such employment is generally d med to require regulation is shown by the fact that the brief of counsel states
that every State in the Union has a law upon the subject,
limiting the right to thus employ children. In North
Carolina, the State wherein is located the factory in
which the employment was had in the present case,
no child under twelve years of age is permitted to work.
It may be desirable that such laws be uniform, but our
Federal- Government is one of enumerated powers;
"this principle," declared Chief Justice Marshall in
McCulloch v. Maryldnd, 4 Wheat. 316, "is universally
admitted."
A statute must be judged by its natural and reasonable
effect. Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S.30, 33, 34.
The control by Congress over interstate conunerce cannot authorize the exercise of authority not entrusted to
it by the Constitution. Pipe Line Cases, 234 U.- S. 548,
560. The maintenance 'f the authority of the States
over matters purely local is as essential to the preservation of our institutions as is the conservation of the
supremacy of the federal power in all matters entrusted
to the Nation by the Federal Constitution.
In interpreting the Constitution it must never be forgotten that the Nation is made up of States to which
are entrusted the powers of local government. And to
them and to the people the powers not expressly delegated to the National Government are reserved. Lane
County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76. The power of the
States to regulate their purely internal affairs. by such
laws as seem wise to the local authority is inherent and
has never been surrendered to the general government.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U. s.

New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 139; Slaughter House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 63; Kidd v. Pearson,supra. To sustain this statute would not be in our judgment a recognition of the lawful exertion of congressional authority
over interstate commerce, but would sanction an invasion by the federal'power of the control of a matter
purely lQcal in its character, and over which no authority
.has-been delegated to Congress in conferring the-power
to regulate commerce among the States.
We have neither authority nor-disposition to quesion
the motives of Congress in enacting this legislation.
The purposes intended must be attained consistently
with constitutional limitations and not by a4 -invasion of
the-powers of the States. This court has no morehimportant function than that which devolves upon it the oblidafiin to preserve inviolate the constitutional limitations
upon the exercise of authority, federal and state, to the end
.that each may continue to discharge, harmoniously with
the other, the duties entrusted to it by the Constitution.
In our view the necessary effect of this act is, by means
of a prohibition against the movement in interstate
commerce- of ordinary commercial commodities, to regulate the hours of labor of chilaren in factories and mines
within the States, a purely state authority. Thus the,
Act in -a twofold sense is repugnant to the Constitution.
It not only transcends the authority delegated to Congress over commerce but also exerts a power as to a purely
local matter to which the -federal authority does. not
extend> ,The far reaching result of upholding the act
cannot be more plainly indicated than by pointing out
that if Con gress can thus regulate matters entrusted to
local authority'by prohibition of the movement of commodities in interstate commerce, all freedom of commerce will be at an end, and the power of the States over
local matters may be eliminated, and t1.us our system of
government be practically destroyed.

HAMMER v. DAGENHART.
251.

HomsS, J., dissenting.

For these reasons we hold that this law exceeds the
constitutional authority of Congress. It follows that
the decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.
MR. Jusne. HoLMEs, dissenting.

The single question in this case is whether Congress
has power to prohibit the shipment in interstate or foreign commerce of any product of a cotton mill situated
in the United States, in which within thirty days before
the removal of the product children under fourteen have
been employed, or children between fourteen and sixteen
have been employed more than eight hours in a day, or
more than six days in any week, or between seven in the
evening and six in the morning. The objection urged
agamist the power is that the States have exclusive control over their methods of production and that Congress
cannot meddle with them, and taking the proposition
in the sense of direct intermeddling I agree to it and
suppose that no one denies it. But if an act is within the
powers specifically conferred upon Congress, it seems to
me that it is not made any less constitutional because
of the indirect effects that it may have, however obvious
it may be that it will have those effects, and that we are
not at liberty upon such grounds to hold it void.
The first .step in my argument is to make plain what
no one is likely to dispute--that the statute in question
is within the power expressly given to Congress if considered only as to its immediate effects and that if invalid
it is so only upon some collateral ground. The statute
confines itself to prohibiting the carriage of certain goods
in interstate or foreign commerce. Congress is given
power to regulate such commerce in unqualified terms.
It would not be argued today that the power to regulate does not include the power to prohibit. Regulation
means the prohibition of something, and when interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
HoLms, J., dissenting.

247 U. S.

commerce is the matter to be regulated I cannot doubt
that the regulation may prohibit any part of such commerce that Congress sees fit to forbid. At all events it
is established by the Lottery Case and others that-have
followed it that a law is not beyond the regulative power
of Congress merely because it prohibits certain transportation out and out. Champion v. Ames, 188 U, S. 321,
355, 359, et seq. So I repeat that this statute in its immediate operation is clearly within the Congress's constitutional power.
The question then is narrowed to whether the exercise of its otherwise constitutional power by Congress
can be pronounced unconstitutional because of its possible reaction upon the conduct of the States in a matter
upon which I have admitted that they are free from
direct control. I should have thought that that matter
had been disposed of so fully as to leave no room.for
doubt. I should have thought that the most conspicuous
decisions of this Court had made it clear that the power
to regulate commerce and -other constitutional powers
could not be cut down or qualified by the fact that it
might interfere with the :carrying out of the domestic
policy of any State.
I The manufacture of oleomargm,,e is as much a matter
of state regulation as the ,manufacture of cotton cloth.
Congress levied A-tax upon the compound when colored
so as to resemble butter that was so great as obviously
to prohibit the manufacture and sale. In a very elaborate
discussion the present Chief Justice excluded any inquiry
into the purpose of an act which apart from that purpose.
was within the power of Congress. McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27. As to foreign commerce see Weber v.
Freed, 239 U. S. 325, 329; Brolan v. United States, 236
U. S. 216, 217; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470.
Fifty years ago a tax on state banks, the obvious purpose
and actual effect of which was to dri;" them, or at least

HAMMER . DAGENHART.
251.

HOLMES,

J., dissentng.

their circulation, out of existence, was sustained, although
the result was one that Congress had no constitutional
power - to require. 'The Court made short work of the
argument as to the purpose of the act. "The judicial
cannot prescribe to the legislative department of the
government limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged powers."1 Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533.
So it well might have been argued that the corporation
tax was intended under the guise of a revenue measure to
secure a control hot otherwise belonging to Congress, but
the tax was sustained, and the objection so far as noticed
was disposed of by citing McCray v. United States. Flint
v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107. And to come to cases
upon interstate commerce, notwithatanding United States
v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1, the Sherman Act has
been made an instrument for the breaking up of combinations in restraint of trade and monopolies, using the
power to regulate commerce as a foothold, but not proceeding because that commerce was the end actually in
mind. The objection that the control of the States over
production was interfered with was urged again and again
but always in vain. Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1, 68, 69. United States v. A'merican Tobacco Co.,
221 U-. S.106, 184. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S.308,
321, 322. See finally and especially Seven Cases of Eckman's Alterative v. United States, 239 U. S. 510, 514, 515.
)-The Pu*re Food and Drug. Act which was sustained in
Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 II. S. 45, with the
intimation that "no trade can be carried on between the
States to which it [the poyer of Congress to regulate
commerce] does not extends"\ 57, applies not merely to
articles that the changing opinions of the time condemn
as intrinsically harmful but to others innocent in theijselves, simply on the ground that the order for them was
induced by a preliminary fraud. Weeks v. United States,
245 U. S.618. It does not matter whether the supposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
HoLMss, J., dissenting,

247 U. S.

evil precedes or follows the transportdtion. It is enough
that in the opinion of Congress, the transportation encourages the evil. I may add that in the cases on the
so-called White Slave Act it was established that the
means adopted by Congress as convenient to the exercise
of its power might have the character of police regulations. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308, 323. Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 492. In Clark Distilling Co. v. Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311,
328, Lewsy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108, is quoted with
seeming approval to the effect that "a subject matter
which has been confided exclusively to Congress by the
Constitution is not within the jurisdiction of the police
power of the State, unless placed there by congressiknal
action." I see no reason for that proposition not-applying here.
* The notion that prohibition is any less prohibition when
applied to things now thought evil I do not understand.
But if there is any matter upon which civilized countries
have agreed-far more unanimously than they have -with
regard to intoxicants and some other matters over which.
this country is now emotionally aroused-it is the evil of
premature and excessive child labor. I should have
thought that if we were to introduce our own moral
conceptions where in my opinion they do not belong, this
was preeminently a case for upholding the exercise of
all its powers by the United States.
But I had ttiought that the propriety of the exercise
of a power admitted to exist in some cases was for the consideration of Congress alone and that this Court always
had disavowed the right to intrude its judgment upon
questions of policy or morals. It is not for this Court
to pronounce when prohibition is necessary to regulation
if it ever may be necessary-to say that it is permissible
as against strong drink but not as against the product of

ruined lives.

HAMMER r. DAGENHART.
251.

HoIms, J., dissenting.

The act does not meddle with anything belonging to
the States. They may regulate -their internal affairs and
their domestic commerce as they like. But when they
seek to send their products across the state line they are
no longer within their rights. If there were no Constitution and no Congress their power to cross the line would
depend upon their neighbors. Under the Constitution
such commerce belongs not to the States but to Congress
to regulate. It may carry out its views of public policy
whatever indirect effect they may have upon the activities of the States. Instead of being encountered by a
prohibitive tariff at her boundaries the State encounters
the public policy of the United States which it is for Congress to express. The public policy of the United States
is shaped with a view to the benefit of the nation as a
whole. If, as has been the case within the memory of men
still living, a State should take a different view of the propriety of sustaining a lottery from that which generally
prevails, I. cannot believe that the fact would require a
different decision from that reached in Championv. Ames.
Yet in that case it would be said with quite as much
force as in this that Congress was attempting to intermeddle with the State's domestic affairs. The national
welfare as understood by Congress may require a different attitude within its sphere from that of sbme selfseeking State. It seems to me entirely constitutional for
Congress to enforce its understanding by all the means
at its command.
MR.JVSTICE MCKENNA, .M . JusTIcF BRANDEis and
Mn. JusTIcE. CLARKE concur in this opinion.

