NEW ORLEANS & N. E. R. R. CO. v. HARRIS. 867
354.

•Syllabus.

vate property taken for public use; and, for the reasons
and upon the authorities above stated, no such probibition
can be implied; and it is ther-efore within the authority
of Congress, in the exercise of the right of eminent domain,
to direct that, when part of a parcel of land is appropriated
to the public use for a highway in the District of Columbia, the tribunal vested by law with the duty of assessing
the compensation or damages due to the owner, whether
for the value of the part taken, or for any injury to therest, shall take into consideration, by way of lessening the
whole or either part of the sum due him, any special and
direct benefits, capable of present estimate and reasonable
computation, caused by the establishment of the highway
to the part not taken." See Martiny. Districtof Columbia,
205 U. S. 135.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL. v. HARRIS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF HARRIS.
ERROR TO TH SUPREME COURT OF tiHE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 276. Argued April 30, 1918.-Decided June 3,1918.
[In
actions against a railroad for injuries to employees resulting from

its negligence, it has long been the rule of the federal courts that
the negligence is to be established affirmatively by the plaintiff. ,
In proceedings brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
rights and obligations depend upon it and applicable principles of
common law as interpreted and appiied by the federal courts; and
negligence is essential to recovery.
Hence it is erroneous in such a proceeding to apply a state statute
(Mississippi Cpde, 1906, § 1985, and Laws 1912, c. 215, p. 290),

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.,
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

making proof of injury by an engine propelled b3r steam prima
fai evidence of a railroad's negligence in an action against it for
damages.
Under the federal act';there is no cause of action for pain and suffering if the employee die of his injuries without regaining conscious-"
_ness.
Under that act, no cause of action accrues for the benefit of a dependent mother where the deceased employee leaves a widow who, although she lived apart from him at the time of his death, was neither
remarried nor divorced and where the 'rights and liabilities consequent upon their marriage had not ceased under the local law.

Reversed.

THE caseis stated in-the opinion.

'

Mr. J. Blanc'Monroe with whom Mr. Monte M. Lemann, -Mr. Robert H. Thompson and Mr. L. E. Jeffries
were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Thomas G. Fewell and Mr. C. B. Cameron, for defendant in error, submitted.
'MR., JuSTIcE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.,
While employed in interstate commerce by plaintiff
in error, a common carrier by railroad then engaging in
such commerce, Van Harris a brakeman was run over by
the tender of an 'engine -moving in the yard at New Orleans, Louisiana-February 5, 1914.. He died within a
few minutos without regaining consciousness. Having
qualified: as administratrix, his mother (defendant in
error) , charging negligence and relying upon the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, suedfor damages in a state
court for Lauderdale County, Mississippi.- A judgment
in her favor was affirmed by the Siupreme Court without
opinion..-

NEW ORLEANS & N. E.
367.

. UR. CO. r. HARRIS.

369

Opinion of the Court.

The declaration contained no averment of conscious
pain or suffering by deceased. It alleged: "'That by reason
of the negligence hereinabove set. out, the defendant
railroad company is liable for the killing of said Van
Harris and the administratrix is given the right to sue by
the Act of Congress, she therefore brings this, her suit,
and demands judgment against the defendant for the suni
of ten thousand dollars." It further charged that the
dead son had been his mother's sole support but contained no reference to his widow.
One witness who claimed to have seen the accident
gave evidence tending to show negligence by the railroad;
but his presence at the scene was not left free from doubt
and other- eye witnesses narrated the circumstances
differently. Concerning deceased's contributions to his
mother's support, she said he was her sole dependence,
paid her house rent, gave her something to eat, looked
after her, was regularly at work and would bring home
thirty or forty dollars a month, Her statements are the
only evidence concerning the son 's marriage and widow.
He duly married . ollie on an undisclosed date; after living
together for six months he fell ill and she left; thereafter
her whereabouts were unknown to him; she was alive at
time of trial (October, 1914); he left no child. Nothing
indicates a divorce proceeding. Answering "Do you
know whether Mollic ever married anybody else or not?"
the witness replied, "I don't know sir; I hear them say
she married."
Upon request of the administratrix, the following instructions (among others) were given to the jury:
"No. 1. The court charges the jury for the plaintiff in
this case that under the rule of evidence in the State of
Mississippi all that is required of the plaintiff in this case,
is to prove that injury was inflicted by the movement of
the defendant's train or engine and then the law presumes
negligence and then the burden of proof shifts to the

370

,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

defendant to prove all of the facts and circumstances
surrounding the injury and from those facts so shown

exonerate itself from all negligence.
"No. 2. The court charges the jury for the plaintiff
that under the rule of evidence under the Mississippi
statutes known as the prima face statute all that the
plaintiff need prove to entitle her to a judgment or verdict is that the defendant's engine or train caused the
injury complainel of and then the plaintiff is entitled to
a verdict at the hands of the jury unless the defendant
has shown all of the facts surrounding the injury and from'
such facts has shown by a preponderance of the evidence
that its servants Were not guilty of negligence.
,,
"No. 3. The court charges the jury for the plaintiff
that-if you believe from the evidence that deceased was
injured by the runiing of defendant's engine, then the
-burden placed on defendant by the prima facie statute
cannot be met or overcome by mere speculation or conjecture, but it devolves on defendant the.duty of showing
by,a preponderance of the evidence all of the facts .and
circumstances surroundbig the injury and by such proof
i
thus exonerate itself from negligence."
"No. 8. The court charges the jury for the plaintiff in
this'case that if your verdict shall be for the plaintiff
then it should be in such sum as you may believe from the
evidence would fully compensate the deceased for hi
pain and suffering, if any have been shown by the evidence,
and the value of his life reckoned according to the American Mortality table .had the deceased survived and that
such amount or the measure -of same is peculiarly within.
the province of the jury reckoned as above outlilued..
And that the law does not require the plaintiff to prove
the damages in dollars and cents but the amount thereof.
is to befixed by the'jury in allnot to exceed the sum-,of
- -..." 1- _; , ,
ten. thousand dolarsY, ,, - _ --,
The so-called "Prima, Facie Act" -of Mississippi set

NEW ORLEANS & N. E. R. R. CO. v. HARRIS.
367,

371

Opinion of the Court.

out below I provides, that in actions against railroads for
damages proof of injury inflicted by an engine propelled
by steam shall be prima facie evidence of negligence.
Relying upon and undertaking to apply this statute, the
trial court gave the quoted instructions; and in so doing,
we think, committed error.
The federal courts have long held that where suit is
brought against a railroad for injuries to an employee
resulting from its negligence,. such neglegence is an
affirmative fact which plaintiff must establish. The NitroGlycerine Case, 15 Wall. 524, 537; Patton v., Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658, 663; Looney v. Metropolitan R..R. Co., 200 U. S. 480, 487; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Bennett, 233 U. S. 80, 85. In proceedings brought under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act rights and bbligations depend upon it and applicable principles of common
law as interpreted andtapplied in federal courts; and negligence is essential to recovery. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 501, 502; Southern Ry. Co. v. G-ray,
241 U. S. 333, 339; New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 150; Erie R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244
Mississippi Code 1906, § 1985, as amended by c. 215, Laws 1912,
p. 290.
"1985 (1808). Injury to Persons or Property by Railroads Pima
Fade Evidence of Want of Reasonable Skill and Care, etc. In all actions
against railroad corporations and all other corporations, companies,
partnerships and individuals using engines, locomotives, or cars. of
-any kind or description whatsoever, propelled by the dangerous
agencies of steam, electricity, gas, gas6line or lever power, and running on tracks, for damages done to persons or property, proof of injury inflicted by the running of the engines, locomotives or cars of any
such railroad corporations or such other. corporation, company,'partnership or individual shall be primajfcie evidence of the want of reasonab!e skill and care of such railroad corporation, or such other corporation, company, partnership or individual in reference to such injury.
This section shall also apply to passengers and employes of railroad
corporations and of such other corporations, companies, partnerships;and individuals."

