-OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Syllabus.

247 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS &
ANIITOBA RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
.PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 75.

Argued January 15, 16, 1918.-Decided June 3, 1918.

The Act of March 2, 1896, c. 39, 29 Stat. 42, limiting the time within
which suits may be brought to vacate land patents, contains a proviso
"that no suit shall be brought or maintained, nor shall recovery
be lhad for lands or the value thereof, that were certified or patented
in lieu of other lands covered by a grant which were lost or relin'quished by the grantee in consequence of the failure of the Government or its officers to withdraw the same from sale or entry." Held,
that the proviso was a curative measure referring only to lands
patented before the enactment and was no, protection for a patent
procured afterwards by fraud.
The general principle underlying the strict construction of statutes
of limitation as applied to the Government, viz., that the public
interest should not be prejudiced by negligence or default of public
officials, applies with peculiar force in the construction of a lirovision which operates to bar absolutely the recovery of the value of
land as well as the land itself, in favor of the immediate re~ipient
of a frauduleAt patent no less than a bonajide purchaser.
In the present case, resort to this principle and to the legislative
history of the proviso, added to its apparent independence and the
extraordinary and unreasonable effects of applying it to future
cases, overweigh the general rule of prospective construction and
the fact of immediate association with prospective provisions.
The equity of a statute barring equitable relief for fraud and mistake
is on the side of a strict construction.
The remarks of the chairman of a congressional committee, referring
to matters of common knowledge in explanation of an amendment
offered by him to a bill which he has previously reported, may be
considered as throwing light upon the subject-matter of the amendment, for the purpose of solving an ambiguity..
225 Fed. Rep. 27, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

UNITED STATES r. ST. PA-L M. & M. RY. CO. 311
310.

Opinion of. the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful for the United
States.
Mr. I. Parker Veazey, Jr., with whom Mr. E. C. Lindley was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE Pi'rNey delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit by the United States to annul a patent
issued June 24, 1907, to the St. Paul, Minneapolis &
Manifoba Railway Company (referred to below as the
Manitoba Company), for certain lands in the State of
Montana, upon the ground of fraud and mistake-fraud
on the part of the agents of the company in representing
that the land was non-mineral in character, and mistake
on the part of the officers of the Land Department in
failing to notify the register and receiver of the local land
office that the lands had been classified as mineral and
the classificatioii sustained by the Secretary of the Interior under the Act of February 26, 1895, c. 131, 28 Stat.
683. The District Court granted a motion to dismiss
the bill upon the ground that the sit was barred by the
proviso of ยง 1 of the Act of March 2, 1896, c. 39, 29 Stat.
42; and its decision was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, 225 Fed. Rep. 27.
It appears that by Act of March 3, 1857, c. 99, 11 Stat.
195, certain public lands were granted to the Territory
of :Minnesota for the purpose of aiding in the construction
of railroads, 'and the Manitoba Company afterwards
succeeded to the rights and privileges of the Territory
under the granting act. At the. time of he grant the
Missouri River formed the western boundary of the Territory; but in the following year the State of Minnesota
was admitted intd the Union, with its western boundary
fixed on a line some distance east of that river (Act of,
May 11, 1858, c. 31, 11 Stat. 285); the excluded land being

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

left to become a part of the Territory of Dakota (Act of
March 2, 1861, c. 86, 12 Stat. 239), afterwards admitted
as the States of North Dakota and South Dakota. After
the admission of Minnesota, the Land Department, in
the administration of the land grant, rejected the claim
of the Manitoba Company to lands within the limits of
the grant but without the limits of that State, and recognized the rights of settlers and purchasers to Dakota
lands within the limits of the grant. In St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba Ry. Co. v. Phelps (1890), 137 U. S.
528, this court set aside the departmental construction
and sustained the company's claim to the Dakota lands.
To obviate the resulting hardships to settlers and patentees, Congress passed an Act of August 5, 1892, c. 382,
27 Stat. 390, providing that the Secretary of the Interior
should cause to be prepared and delivered to the Manitoba
Company a-list of the lands claimed by purchasers or occupants, and that the company should be permitted to
select in lieu of these "an equal quantity of non mineral
'public lands, so classified as non mineral at the time of
actual Government survey . -.
. not reserved and to
which no adverse right or claim shall have attached or
have been initiated at the time of the making of such selection lying within any State into or through which the
railway owned by said railway company runs, to the extent of the lands so relinquished and released." The Montana lands here in question were selected by the company
in March, 1906, and patented to it in June, 1907, in lieu of
Dakota lands relinquished by the company pursuant to
its acceptance of the Act of 1892.
There is no .question but that the bill of complaint sets
forth sufficient grounds of fraud and mistake to warrant
the annulnnt of the patent, were it not for the bar set up
under the Act of March 2, 1896; and, whether that bar
applies is the sole matter presented for decision upon this
appeal.

I'NITED STATES r,. ST. PAUL, M. & M. RY. CO. 313
:310.

Opinion of the Court.

The act is entitled: "An Act to provide for the extension of the time within which suits may be brought
to vacate and annul land patents,.and for other purposes," and its first section reads as follows: "Be it Enacted . . . That suits by the United States to vacate
and annul any patent to lands heretofore erroneously
issued under a railroad or wagon road grant shall only be
brought within five years from the passage of this Act,
and suits to vacate and annul patents hereafter issued
shall only be brought within six years after the date of the
issuance of such patents, and the limitation of section
eight of chapter five hundred and sixty-one of the acts of
the second session of the Fifty-first Congress and amendments thereto' is extended accordingly as to the patents
herein referred to. But no patent to any lands held by
a bona fide purchaser shall be vacated or annulled, but
the right and title of such purchaser is hereby confirmed:
Provided, That no suit shall be brought or maintained,
nor shall recovery be had for lands or the value thereof,
that were certified or patented in lieu of other lands covered by a grant which were lost or relinquished by the
grantee in consequence of the failure of the Government or
its officers to withdraw the same from sale or entry."
Laying aside other questions raised by the Government,
we have reached the conclusion that, having regard to
the general principle which requires a strict construction
to be given to legislation in derogation of the public
right, and in view of the legislative history of this particular enactment, the proviso must be'given the effect of
a curative measure confined to lands.theretofore patented,
and not granting dispensation foi frauds or mistakes
thereafter occurring.
It will be observed that the proviso is not a mere statute
of limitation, but an absolute bar of suits by the United
1Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, as amended by Act of the same date,
c. 559 (26 Stat. 1099, 1093).

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

States; not merely of suits to vacate and annul patents,
but of suits to recover either the land or the value thereof;
not merely in favor of bona fide purchasers, but also of
the immediate recipient of an unlawful certification or
patent. The general principle of public policy applicable
to all governments, that the public interest should not be
prejudiced by the negligence or default of public officers,
which underlies the rule of strict construction for statutes
of limitation, applies with peculiar force to a statute of
this character. United States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301, 315;
Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 99;. United States v.
Thompson, 98 U. S. 486, 489; Fink v. O'Neil, 106 U: S.
272, 281; United States v. Nashville, Chattanooga & St.
Louis Ry. Co., 118 U. S. 120, 125; United States v.
Whited & Wheless, 246 U. S. 552.
If the language of the proviso.stood alone: "That no
suit shall be brought or maintained, nor shall recovery be
had for lands or the value thereof, that were certified or
patented in lieu of other lands covered by a grant which
were lost or relinquished by the grantee in consequence
of the failure of the Government or its officers to withdraw
the same from sale or entry," it hardly would be questioned
that the rule of strict construction would confine its effect
to past cases presumably known to the lawmaker. Aside
from a nice grammatical criticism based upon the use
of the imperfect tense, full effect can be given to its language by treating it as a validation of the title of lieu
lands theretofore certified or patented under the conditions mentioned. The very particular specification of
the circumstances under which it was to apply, with resulting narrowness of its scope, tends to negative the inference that it was designed to.lay down a general policy
-for. the future. 'It conveys rather the impression of a
curative measut, upon. which' the (general presumption
that egislati4A is internded to 6p,'rate' prospectively and
not retrospectively can h.ve little if any bearing.

UNITED STATES v. ST. PAUL, M. & M. RY. CO. 315
310.

Opinion of the Court.

-It is said that this view is untenable because in the
former part of the section specific reference is made to
patents "heretofore erroneously -issued" and to '"patents
hereafter issued," and if Congress bad intended to limit
the proviso to lands certified or patented before the
passage of the act it would have used appropriate and
specific language for the purpose. The suggestion has
weight,, but we cannot regard it as determinative, in view
of opposing considerations. Looking at the section as a
whole, it will be seen that the proviso expresses a thought
so different.fr6m what precedes, that it seems almost like
a separate provision, inserted -here for convenience, and
without much regard for structural conformity with the
context.
This impression is confirmed when we review the legislative history of the measure.
By an Act of March 3, 1887, c. 376, 24 Stat. 556,
Congress had directed the Secretary of the Interior immediately to adjust, in accordance with the decisions of this
court, railroad land grants theretofore unadjusted, with
the object of restoring to the United States the title to
lands erroneously certified or patented under such grants,
saving the entries of bonafide settlers erroneously canceled
on account of a railroad grant and the rights of bona fide
purchasers from the grantee company of lands erroneously
patented. The work of adjustment proved to be one
of great magnitude, and it had not been completed at
the time when the act under consideration was passed.
Meanwhile the Acts of March 3, 1891 (c. 561, ยง 8, 26
,Stat. 1095, 1099; c. 559, 26 Stat. 1093), had provided
that suits by the United States to vacate and annul any
patent theretofore issued should only be brought within
five years thereafter (that is, within five years after March
3, 1891). Not long before the end of the period thus
fixed, beyond which lands could not be recoVered even if
the investigation in progress under the 1887 Act should

OCTOBER TERI, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

disclose that they had been erroneously certified or
patented, the President transmitted to Congress a special
message, under date January 17, 1896 (House Doc. No.
151, 54th Cong., 1st sess.), explaining the situation and
recommending that the Act of 1891 should be so amended
as not to apply to suits brought to recover title to lands.
certified or patented on account of railroad or other grants.
This was referred to the Committee on Public Lands of
the House of Representatives, and that 'committee, not
acceding to the particular recomn-bendation of the message,
reported a bill intdnded to give five years' additional time
for bringing to a conclusion the pending investigation andadjustment, but providing that as to bona fide purchasers
even this extension should not apply (Report No. 253,
House of Representatives, 54th Cong., 1st sess.; 28 Cong.
Rec. Pt. 2, p. 1761). The first section of the bill as reported, with which alone we are concerned, is given
verbatim in the margin. I As will be observed, it contained
nothing corresponding t6 what is now the proviso.
The proviso was inserted, upon the motion of Mr. Lacey,
Chairman of the committee and in charge of the bill,
while it was under consideration in the House, for the
plainly declared purpose of providing for a specific case
refelTed to in the debate as having arisen in the State of
Nebraska, where lieu lands to the extent of more than
200,000 acres had been certified or patented to a railroad
company to make good the loss of an equal, acreage of
lands within the limits of the grant due to an erroneous
1

"Be it enacted," etc., "That suits by the United States to vacate
and annul any patent to lands heretofore erroneously issued under a
special grant shall only be brought within five years from the passage
of this act, and suits to vacate and annul patents hereafter issued shall
only be brought within ten years after the date of the issuance of such
patents. But.no patent to any lands held by a bona fide purchaser shall
be vacated or annulled, but the right and title of such purchaser is
hereby confirmed.".

UNITED STATES v. ST. PAUL, M. & M. RY. CO. 317
310.

Opinion of the Court.

ruling of the Land Department resulting in a failure to
withdraw the granted lands from entry; and upon the
ground that the-lieu land locations were without warrant
in law, suit had been brought, and was then pending, to
ancel the patents.1
l(From 28 Cong. Ree., Pt. 2, p. 1906.)

"Mr. Hepburn: . '. . In another instance that I am familiar
with, Mr. Speaker, in your own State [Mr. Mercer in the chair], there
was a grant to a company when practically, by an error or an, oversight on the part of the officers of the United States, the lands lying on
the line on either side of the file plat of the road were not withdrawn
from market for a considerable period. Settlers came in and took
these lands. Later, when the railroad was constructed, it was found
that there was not within the limits of the grant a sufficient'quantity
to meet the purposes of the grant. The Department held that lieulands
might be given-lands in another locality-and the company was compelled to go away beyond its grant to lands that-did not have the benefit of the construction of this road and take 201,00 acres, and one
block of 10,000 acres of it they sold for $2,500-25 cents an acre; but
they took these lands undei the then ruling of the Deliartment. Under
the advice of the law officers of the Department, subsequently the
Department changed its view.
.
Then they changed the ruling
and held that lands must be taken within the prescribed limits or else
the entries and selections were void. Now, one of the suits ordered is
to recover the title of these lands taken in lieu of those that the company lost through the failurd of the federal officers to withdraw the
lands from market.
"Mr. Lacey: As to the instance that my colleague cites as having
occurred in Nebraska, I propose at the proper time to offer an amendment which I think will cover the points he has in mind. I will send
the amendment to the Clerk's desk to be read as a part of my remarks,
so that it may appear in the Record for the informatior of memb6rs.
* "The amendment was read, as follows:
"Add at the end of sectio-i 1: 'Provided, that no suit shall be brought
or'maintained, nor shall recovery be had for lands or the value thereof,
that were certified or patented in lieu of other lands covered by a
grant which were lost or relinquished by the grantee in consequence
of the failure of the Government or its officers to withdraw the same
from sale or entry."'
On the following legislative day (p. 1937),. the amendment was
offered by Mr. Lacey, accompanied with this explanation: "Mv

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

It is not our 'purpose to relax the rule that debates in
Congress are not appropriate .or even reliable guides to
the meaning of thelanguage of an enactment. United
States v. Trans-MissouriFreightAssn., 166 U. S. 290, 318.
But the reports of a commitfee, including the bill as
introduced, changes made in the frame of the bill in the
course of its passage, and statements made by the committee chairman in charge of it, stand upon a different
footing, and may be resorted to under proper qualifications. Blake v. National Banks, 23 Wall. 307, 317;
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 464;
Dunlap v. United States, 173 U. S. 65, 75; Binns v. United
States, 194 U. S. :486, 495; Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co.,
196 U. S. 1, 20; PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. InternationalCoal
Co., 230 U. S. 184, 198; Five Per Cent. Discount Cases, 243
U. S. 97, 107. Theremarks of Mr. Lacey, and the amendment offered by him, in response to an objection urged
by another member during the debate, were in the nature
of a supplementary report of the committee; and as they
related to matters of common knowledge they may -ery
properly be taken into consideration as throwing light
upon the meaning of the proviso; not for the purpose of
construing it contrary to-its plain terms, but in order to
remove any ambiguity by pointing out the subject-matter
of the amendment. This is but an- application of the
doctrine of the old law, the mischief, and the remedy.
The case of the Nebraska lands, mentioned in the
debate, is easily identified from public sources of inforcolleague [Mr. Hepburn] on yesterday explained that in Nebraska
and in some other'localities 'lieu lands' had been patented in place of
lands that the railroad companies had lost by reason of mistake in the
Department in allowing settlement upon those lands. The amendment that I offer confirms the title to those lands that have been thus
patented to railroad companies where they have lost other lands by
reason of mistake committed in the Department."
The amendment was agreed to (p. 1938).

UNITED STATES v. ST. PAUL, M. & M. RY. CO. 319
310,

Opinion of the Court.

mation. By Act of July 2, 1864, c. 216, ยง 19, 13 Stat. 356,
364, the Burlington & Missouri River Railroad Company
was granted ten alternate sections per mile on each side
of its road in that State. Owing to the failure of the
Land Department to take the proper steps about withdrawing the land from the entry, large quantities of the
granted lands south of the line were taken up by settlers,
and in lieu of this the company was permitted by the
Department to take excess lands on the north side of the
line to the amount of over 200,000 acres. In United States
v. Burlington & Missouri River R. R. Co. (1878), 98 U. S.
334, this court held that the grant was not limited to lands
situate within twenty miles of the road, nor confined to
the land opposite to each'twentj-mile section of the line,
as the Department had held; the court saying (p. 340):
"If, as in the present case, by its [the Department's]
neglect for years to withdraw from sale land beyond
twenty miles from the road, the land opposite to any section of the road has been taken up by others and patented
to them, there can be no just objection to allowing the
grant to the company to be satisfied by land situat ed
elsewhere along the general line of the road." At the same
time the court held (p. 342): "The Act of Congress contemplates that one-half of the land granted should be
taken on each side of-the road; and the department could
not enlarge the quantity on one side to make up a deficiency on the other." However, because the bill as drawn
did not identify that part of the land as to which the company's patents were invalid, the decree of the circuit court
in favor 0'f the cqmpan y .was affirmed., Soon after the
passage of the Act; 6f vaffli 3, 1887.'ain adjustmient was
directed for the purpose of distinguishing the tricts erroneously patented to the company on the north side in
excess of the amount to which it was entitled on that side,
the excess being 200,364.70 acres, and procuring a relinquishment by the company or a cancellation of the pat-

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

ents in accordance with the Act of 1887. Burlington &
Missouri River R. R. Co., 6 L. D. 589; Chapman v.Burlingn & Missouri River R. R. Co., 20 L. D. 496. It appears that a suit to carry out the adjustment by vacating
the erroneous patents was pending at the time of the passage of the Act of 1896. The language of the proviso was
aptly chosen to bar such a suit.
But it is said that there is no reason for confining the
policy of the proviso to past, patents;, that ifrit is only
fair, honest, and just that lands patented in lieu of others
lost or relinquished by the grantee in consequence of some
failure on the part of the Government or its officers should
be held by indefeasible title, tl e same policy would with.
equal reason apply to future patents. In short, the appeal is to the equity of the statute. But equity implies
equality; equal fairness and honesty on both sides. If
the prospective interpretation of the proviso could be
confined to future patents obtained without fraud or
mistake, there would be force in the argument; but suits
for the annulment of patents based upon fraud or mistake
are the very ones that are proposed to be barred; and-in
such circumstances no appeal to the equity of the statute
can carry us beyond what is clearly expressed in the
language of the lawmaker; equitable considerations lie
on the side of a strict construction of a statutory provision that proposes to bar an equitable remedy.
And we deem the prospective interpretation as unreasonable as it is inequitable. It was one thing for
Congress to pass an act to-prevent further prosecution of
a suit or suits to annul patents that already had been
made, unlawfully indeed, but for the purpose of making
good the consequences of previous mistakes by the Land
Department. Thus far it could act in the reasonable
belief that it knew the extent and consequences of the
immunity it was granting. But to say that where lieu
lands were thereafter certified or patented in place of

