OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

UNION PACIFIC- RAILROAD COMPANY v.

LAUGHLIN.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 623. Argued April 18, 1918.--Decided May 20, 1918,
A state statute giving an attorney a lien on the cause of action or its
proceeds for an agreed portion of any recovery, and rendering the
actual or proposed defendant directly liable to him for its satisfaction- in case'of settlement after notice without his consent, does not
deprive the party thus niade liableof any constitutional right, even
where the settlement is made under a judgment recovered upon the
cause of action through another attorney in the federal court, and
by satisfying such judgment by.payment to the clerk of that court.
A contrary contention raises n substantial federal question.
So ,held where the cause of action (for personal injuries) arose in another
State.
Writ of error to review 196 Mo. App. 541, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. N. H. Loomis, Mr. R. W. Blair and Mr. i. N. Watson, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Edwin A. Krauthoff for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRAN-s delivered the opinion of the
court.
Xddes, a section hand on the Union Pacific Railroad,
was injured, in Kansas, while iii the performance of his
duties. Laughlin, an attorney at law, was employed by
him in Missouri to prosecute and settle his claim against
the company; and Xedes agree&dthat Laughlin should
receive as compensation one-half o( whatever amount he

UNION PAC. R. R. CO. v. LAUGHLII.
204.

Opinion of the Court.

might*obtain in settlement of the claim. The Revised
Statutes of Missouri (1909), §§ 964 and 965, authorizing
such agreements, give to the attorney a lien on the cause
of action and.on the proceeds, if notice of the lien is duly
given to the defendant or "proposed defendant"; and,
as construed by the Supreme Court of Missouri,I they also
provide that if, after such notice, the claim is settled in
any manner without first procuring the written consent
of such attorney, the defendant or "proposed defendant"
shall be liable to the attorney in an independent suit to
an amount equal to that for which he held the lien.
Laughlin gave to the company this statutory notice.
Later and without his consent, Xedes brought, through
other counsel, in a state court, suit against the company
which was removed to the District Court of the United
States for the Western Division of the Western District
of Missouri, and judgment was entered therein for $550.
The company paid this amount to the clerk of court in
satisfaction of the judgment; and it was paid by him to
Xedes and his new counsel. When Laughlin learned these
facts, he brought suit against the company in Missouri
before a justice of the peace, for $275, and recovered a
judgment therefor which was affirmed in the state circuit
court and again by the Kansas City. Court of Appeals.
A rehearing applied for in June, 1917, was denied by that
cour.t, which also refused to transfer the case to the-Supreme Court. The company, contending that the Federal
Colistitution has been violated, brings the case here under
§ 237 of the Judicial Code as amended.
It does not appear here, as it did in Dickinson v. SlWes,
246 U. S.631, -that the suit of the employee against the
railroad was brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act; and no claim is made that. the attorney's lien
' O'Connor v. St. Louis Transit Co., 198 Mo. 622, 645; Taylor v. St.
Louis Transit Co., 198 Mo. 715, 730; Wait v. Atchison, etc. 1?. R.?
204 Mo. 491, 501.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court-

247 U. S.

statute of the State is inconsigtent withi that law'or the
constitutional provision -concerning interstate commerce.
The company's contention, as set forth in its assignment
of error in this court, is that the decision below takes its
property and denies to it equal protection of the law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, because the
decision imposes a liability not imposed by the judgmentrecovered by Xedes in the federal courtf deprives it of the
lrotection afforded by the acts of Congress to those who
, pay to the clerks of the United States District Courts
money in .-atisfaction of judgments entered therein; I and
gives to -wo attorneys liens for the same service. The
defendant in error moves to dismiss on the ground that
the case does not present a federal question reviewable
under § 237 of the Judicial Code as amended by the Act
of September -6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, because there
is not drawn in question the validity of a statute of or an
authority exercised under any State on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties or laws
of the United States ; and that if such question is presented,
the Kansas City Court of Appeals was not "the highest
court of a State in which a decision in the suit could"
have been had, since the Supreme Court of Missouri has
appellate jurisdiction in cases where "the validity of a
treaty or statute of or authority exercised under the
United States is drawn in question," and no application
was made to nor any action taken by it.
The Missouri statute simply gives a cause of action
against one who, with knowledge of the existence of a
lien, deforces it. To grant suuh a remedy against the
wrongdoer clearly does not, deprive him of any right
guaranteed by, the Federal Cobstitution, even if the in1 Rev. Stats., &§966.,
967, 995, and § 996 as amended by Act of Feb- ruary

19, 1897, c. 265, § 3, 29 Stat. 578, and Act of March 3, 1911, c.
224, 36 Stat. 1083; Act of August 1, 1888, c. 729, § 1 and § 2, 25 Stat.
\357.

