MINNESOTA v. LANE.
240.

Syllabus.

verse occupation are present, deep water upon one side
of a parallelogram is as good a barrier as a fence. Evidently that is the law in Texas as well as elsewhere, and
an enclosure by fences and the Nueces River has been
said to sustain the defence of the statute as well as fences
all around. Dunn v. Taylor, 107 S. W. Rep. 952, 956;
102 Texas, 80, 87. The arguments of the respondent
on this point at the most do no more than offer considerations of fact that possibly it might be entitled to present to the jury when the case next -is tried.
Judgment reversed.

STATE OF MINNESOTA v. LANE, SECRETARY OF
THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
IN EQUITY.

No. 20.- Original. Motion to dismiss. Argued April 15, 1918.-Decided June 3,1918.

An act of Congress granted the "undisposed of" lands in certain sections to a State, saving "vested rights" of others existing atits date.
Part of the described tracts, here in question, within the indemnity
limits of the Northern Pacific, had previously been selected by that
railroad and by it sold to purchasers in good faith. After the date of
the act, the selections were canceled as being founded on improper
bases, but the Land Department, upon fully hearing the State,
allowed an application of the purchasers' aasignee, made meanwhile,
to purchase the lands in question from the United States, and secure
patents therefor, under the Adjustment Act of March 3, 1887. Held,
that the decision was not arbitrary, nd-that a suit against the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
brought by the State before the patents issued, to enjoin their issuance and to quiet its title, would not lie. Lane v. Watts, 234 U. S.
525, distinguished.
Dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

Thn case isstated in the opinion..,

Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralKearful, for defendants,
in-support of the motion..
Mr. CharleaR. Pierce,with whom Mr. Lyndon A. Smith,
Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, and Mr.
Clifford L. Hilton, Deputy Attorney General of the State
of Minnesota, were on the brief, for complainant, in opposition to the motion.
MR. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This bill of complaint is filed by the State of Minnesota
to quiet title to certain lands in that State, and to enjoin
the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner -of
the General .And Offiqe from issuing patents for the
lands to the Immigration Land Company, a corporation
of the State of Minnesota. -The defendants filed a motion
to dismiss the bill upon the following grounds:
"1. The court is without jurisdiction to entertain ihis
suit because it is in substance and effect against the United
States, which tAs not consented to be sued or waived its
immunity from suit.
"2. There is a defect of parties defendant which can
not be cured without depriving the court of jurisdition.
"3. The relief prayed for would be an invasion of the
lawful jurisdiction of the defendants as officers of the
Land Department.
"4. The bill of complaint does not state facts sufficient
to entitle the State of Minnesota to any relief."
From the allegations of the bill it appears that the State
claims title to the lands under the Act of August 3, 1892,
27 Stat. 347.1
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That all undisposed lands of

MINNESOTA v. LANE.
243.

Opinion of the Court.

The Immigration Land Company claims title under
ยง 5 of the Act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556,1 relatthe United States situated in the following subdivisions, according to
the public surveys thereof, to-wit: Section six of township one hundred
andforty-two; sections six, seven, eighteen, nineteen, thirty, and thirtyone of township one hundred andforty-three, all in range thirty-five; sections one, two, three, and four of township one hundred and fortytwo, and -sections one, two, three, four, nine, ten, eleven, twelve,
thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, twenty-one, twenty-two, twentythree, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twentyeight, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty-five, and thirty-six, of township
one hundred and forty-three, all in range thirty-six, situate in the district of lands subject to sale at Saint Cloud and Crookston, Minnesota, is hereby forever granted to the State of Minnesota, to be
perpetually used by said State as and for a public State park: Provided,
That the land hereby granted shall revert to the United States, together with all improvements thereon, if at any time it shall cease to
be exclusively used for a public State park; or if the State shall not
pass a law or laws to protect the timber thereon.
Sec. 2. That this act shall not in any manner whatsoever interfere
with, supersede, suspend, modify, or annul the vested rights of any
person, company, or corporation in respect to any of said lands existing
at the date of the passage of this act.
' That where any said company shall have sold to citizens of the
United States, or to any persons who have declared their intention
to become such citizens, as a part of its grant, lands not conveyed
to or for the use of such company, said lands being the numbered sections prescribed in the grant, and being coterminous with the constructed parts of said road, and where the lands so sold are for any
reason excepted from the operation of the grant to said company, it
shall be lawful for the bona fide purchaser thereof from said company
to make payment to the United States for said lands at the ordinary
Government price for like lands, and thereupon patents shall issue therefor to the said bona fide purchaser, his heirs or assigns: Provided, That
all lands shall be excepted from the provisions of this section which at
the date of such sales were in the bona fide occupation of adverse
claimants under the pre-emption or homestead laws of the United
States, and whose claims and occupation have not since been voluntarily abandoned, as to which excepted lands the said pre-emption
and homestead claimants shall be permitted to perfect their proofs and
entries and receive patents therefor: ProvidedfurtMer, That this section

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

ing to the adjustment of land grants to railroad companies.
- -The last-named statute-provides- that where the railroad company shall have sold to , citizens of the United
States as a part of its'grant, lands not conveyed to or for
the use of the company, said lands being the numbered
sections prescribed in the grant, and being coterminous
with the constructed parts of the road, and where the
lands so .sold are for-any reason excepted from the operation- of the grant, it shall be lawful for a bona fide purchaser thereof from said company, to make payment to
the United States for the lands at the ordinary government- price for like lands, and thereupon patents
shall issue to the bona fide purchaser,. his heirs or
assigns. '
Under this' act, oh February 9, 1907, the Land Company

made application in 'the Land Department to purchase

the land, claiming to be the assignee of a bona fide purchaser of the lands-from the railroad company., The State
of Minnesota protested against -the issuance of a patent
to the Immigration Land Company, and claimed the land
under the Act of August 3, 1892, under which undisposedoftlands 'of the United States,, situated in certain sections and townships, were granted to the State for a public
park. The Act of 1892 also provides that it shall not in
any manner interfere with, supersede, suspend, modify
or annul the vested right of any person, company, or
corporation in respect to any of the land existing at the
date of the passage of the act.
A hearing -was had -before the Commissioner of the
General Land Office upon the issue made between the
-shall not apply to lands settled upon subsequent to the first day of
December, eighteen hundred and eighty-two, by persons claiming
to enter the same under the settlement laws of the United States, as to
which lands the parties claiming the same as aforesaid shall be entitled
to prove up and enter as in other like cases.

MINNESOTA r. LANE.
243.

Opinion of the Court.

State of Minnesota and the Immigration Land Company,
wherein the Commissioner held:
"These tracts of land are within the second indemnity
limits of the grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad (now
Railway) Company, under act of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat.,.
365), as amended by Joint Resolution of May 31, 1870
(16 Stat., 378). On October 15, 1883, said railway company selected all of the above described tracts of land
per list No. 12, Crookston, rearranged list No. 12 filed
April 19, 1893. The bases given in support .of the selections covered by such rearranged list were lands claimed
to have been excepted from the company's grant of July 2,.
1864, supra, by reason Df the reservation subsisting at
the date thereof on account of the grant made by the act
of May 5, 1864 (13 Stat, 64), to aid in the construction
of the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad.
"Said list of selections No. 12 was canceled as to these
and other tracts of land by letter 'F' of March 20, 1907,
upon authority of the decision of the Supreme Court oft
the United States in the case of the Northern Lumber
Company v. O'Brien (204 U. S. 190), but the cancellation
was suspended by the order of the -Secretary of the Interior on April 1, 1907, and'remained in that status until
October 30, 1909, when said list of selections No. 12 was
canceled as to these and other tracts of land.
"The lands above described, with others were sold and
conveyed by the Northern Pacific Railway Company by
warranty deed for a valuable consideration, January 14,
1891, to Frederick Weyerhauser, Peter Musser and M. G.
Norton, whose title was afterwards conveyed by certain
mesne conveyances to the applicant Immigration Land
Company as set forth in its application to purchase dated
February 2,1907, and fied in your office February 9,1907."
Of the issues involved the Commissioner said:
"The attorneys on behalf of the State of Minnesota

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

contend that the lands herein involved, which are situated
within the limits of the Itasca State Park, were granted
to the State by act of August 3, 1892 (27 Stat., 347), and
it is urged on the part of the State that the grant took
effect immediately, the -lands being. 'undisposed of' on
that date, and that the claim asserted by the Immigration
Land Company does not have the dignity of the 'vested
right' protected in Sec. 2 of said.act.
".On behalf of the Immigration Land Company it is
-ontended that these lands were segregated from the mass
of public lands by Crookston indemnity list of selections
No. 12, made October 15, 1883, which was -not canceled
from, the records, until October 30, 1909; that the sale of.
the'lands covered by cash entry No., 05008, in the name of
the Immigration Land Company, by said railway -company on January 1-4, 1891, v'as bona fide and for a valuable consideration, and it is urged -thatthe Immigration
Land Company should have its purchase of said lands
protected under Sec. 5 of the act of. March 3, 1887 (24
Stat., 556), and receive patent therefor; the attorneys for
the Land Company contending that the lands involved
were not 'undisposed of lands' on August 3,1892, the
date of the grant to the State."
After an opinion, in which the issues were considered,.
the Commissioner reached the ,conclusion:
"Accordingly, it is held that under Sec. 5 of the act of
March 3, 1887, the rights of the Immigration Land Company under the facts and laws above cited are superior to
the claim of the State under the act of August 3, 1892,
that cash entry 05008 by said Immigration Land Company should remain intact...
"'The protest of the State is hereby dismissed subject to
the usual right of appeal within thirty days after notice to
the Secretary of the Interior."
The decision of'the Commissioner of the General Land
Office was affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior, and

MINNESOTA v. LANE.
243.

Opinion of the Court.

a rehearing denied. State of Minnesota v. Immigration
Land Co., 46 L. D. 14.
The purpose of the bill filed in this case-is to quiet title
to the lands in controversy by a decree in favor of the
State of Minnesota notwithstanding the decision of the
Secretary of the Interior, and to enjoin that officer from
issuing patents for the lands to the Immigration Land
Company.
We are of opinion that the State has mistaken its
remedy, and if it be true that the Secretaxy has made a
mistake in overruling the contention of the State that the
title passed to it under the Act of August 3, 1892, relief
must be sought in the courts after the issuance of patent.
The grant to the State of August 3, 1892, was of all
undisposed of lands in certain townships, and ยง 2 specifically provided that it should not interfere with, supersede,
suspend, modify or annul the vested rights of any person,
company, or corporation in respect to any of said lands
existing at the date of the passage of the act. The Act of
March 3, 1887, *permittingbona fide purchasers of certain
lands, in the manner which we have stated, to make payment and acquire title to the lands excepted from the
operation of the railroad 'grant, was then in full force.
A part of these lands had been purchased before the act
granting them to the State, by the predecessors of the
Immigration Land Company, and the Secretary of the Interior held that the title thus acquired was superior to that
of the State, and, in accordance with the decision of the
Secretary, patents were about to be issued to it as a bona
fide purchaser. This decision is not of an arbitrary character, and was made upon full hearing before the department of the Government entrusted with the administration
of the public land laws, and the patents were still unissued
when this suit was'brought.
This is not a case where the title had passed absolutely
in favor of the claimant, as was the fact in Lane v. Watts,

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

234 U. S. 525; 235 T. S. 17. It is a case where the grant
was in terms of "undisposed-of lands," and subject to
the vested rights of others. As against those holding
such lands the title was not intended to pass.
The Act of 1887, under which the Immigration Land
Company claims title, specifically provides that patents
shall be issued for lands to which the purchaser is entitled.
The patents not hafig issued, the lands in controversy
Were still in course of administration in that department
of the Government-which, until patent issues, has exclusive control of proceedings to acquire the title.
As we have said, the remedy must be sought in the
courts after the issuance of patent. Under such circumstances as are here disclosed this court has uniformly so
held. Litchfieid v. The Register, 9 Wall. 575, 577; Michigan Land & Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592, 593;
Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473; Kirwan v. Murphy,
189 U. S. 35; Lane v. M4,ickadiet, 241 U. S. 201, 208, 209.
It follows that the bill of the State must be dismissed,
and it is so ordered.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTIcE. McR.YNoLDS took no partin the consideration or decision of this case.

