126*

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Syllabus.

247 U. S.

he sees fit to, hold the same without exercising the privilege of cancellation therein contained. He is, as we held
in the Sargent Land Co. Case, in no legal sense a pur-chaser of ore in place.
In this case the Government took no writ of error as to
the partial deduction allowed by the District Court; it
follows that the correctness of that.ruling is not open here.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in making the additional allowance for capital depletion. It follows that
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed, and that of the District Court affirmed, and it
is so ordered.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CILAmm took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

GOLDFIELD CONSOLIDATED MINES COMPANY
v. SCOTT, -AS COLLECTOR OF U. S. INTERNAL
REVENUE, FOURTH CALIFORNIA DISTRICT.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 334. Argued March 4, 5, 6, 1918.-Decided May 20, 1918.
In computing its excise under the Corporation Tax Act of August 5,
1909, a mining corporation is not entitled to deduct from its gross
income any amount whatever on account of depletion or exhaustion
of ore bodies, caused by its operations for the year for which the tax

is assessed.
It cannot deduct the cost value of the ore in the ground before it was
mined, ascertained in compliance with the Treasury Regulations

of Fekruary 14, 1911.

GOLDFIELD CONSOL. MINES CO. v. SCOTT.
126.

127

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry M. Hoyt, 2d, for Goldfield Consolidated
Mines Company, submitted.
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Win. C. Herron
was on the brief, for Scott, Collector.
Mr. Robert R. Reed, by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of the Investment Bankers' Association of America,
as amicus curio.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon certificate from the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, from which
it appears that the Goldfield Consolidated Mines Company brought an action against Scott, United States Collector of Internal Revenue, Fourth California District,
to recover certain taxes levied for the years 1909 and
1910 under the Corporation Tax Act of 1909. The District Court sustained a demurrer to the complaint, and
entered judgment against the present plaintiff in error.
In the certificate the Circuit Court of Appeals sets out
the allegations of the complaint as to the first cause of
action, stating that the second cause of action need not
be repeated as the facts are of the same character as those
set out in the first. Omitting formal and unnecessary
matters the Circuit Court of Appeals certifies as the allegations of the complaint, to which the demurrer was sustained, the following:
"The plaintiff below, and plaintiff in error herein, The
Goldfield Consolidated Mines Company, is and was a
corporation engaged in mining in the State of Nevada,

which State is within the jurisdiction of the Fourth Internal Revenue District of California.

128

OCTOBER TERM, 197.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

"An assessment of an excise tax under section 38 of the
Act of Congress approved August 5th, 1909, entitled: 'An
Act to Provide Revenue, Equalize Duties, and Encourage the Industries of the United States, and for other
purposes,' was levied upon the plaintiff in erroi-by the
then Collector of Internal Revenue for the said District amounting to $41,890.91, upon an assessment of
$4,189,091.61, which tax was paid under protest of the
levy and assessment. The plaintiff in error had made a
return of annual net income for that year, 1909, claiming
a deduction for the value of the ore in the ground before it
was mined, of 230,463 tons of ore, of the value in the
ground before it was mined, of 85,646,940.46, upon the
ground that such ore constituted exhaustion of the capital value of the property owned by it, and its protest
against the assessment and levy was based thereon.
Thereafter, the plaintiff in error made application for refund of said tax pursuant to sections 3220 and 3226 of the
Revised Statutes, and based its 61aim to such refund
upon the propriety of the deduction so claimed, and stated
in said application that such exhaustion of capital assets
constituted a depreciation within the meaning of the Act
in question, and that the same would have more than offset the total net income of the plaintiff in error.
"Thereafter, during the pendency before the Commissioner of 'Internal Revenue of said application for refund, the plaintiff in error, by its duly authorized officials,
made full explanation before the Commissioner of In-'
ternal Revenue, and offered full proof of the correctness
in all respects of its said return of annual net income for
the year 1909 and of all statements of fact contained
therein, and while the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
was holding said application under consideration, the
plaintiff in errdr was duly and regularly granted by said
Commissioner, leave to comply fully with the then rules
and regu!ations of the Treasury Department embodied in

GOLDFIELD CONSOL. MINES CO. v. SCOTT.
126.

129

Opinion of the Court.

Treasury Decision 1675 promulgated February 14th,
1911, and particularly sections 80 to 89 thereof relating to
depreciation of p-operty of corporations whose business

involved wasting assets, and like leave was so given to
present to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, an
amended statement and return of annual net income for

said year with explanations of fact in support thereof,
and to ascertain the unit cost per ton of the estimated ore
bodies belonging to the plaintiff in its various mining
properties as of January 1st, 1909, and the estimated
value of the ore in the ground before it was mined for the
year 1909, by multiplying the said unit cost per ton by
the total numbez of tons mined in said year, all of which
was done, and the same was filed by the plaintiff in error
during the time so provided." The rules and regulations
are then set out.
"In addition to the rules and regulations as above set
out, the plaintiff in error was further required by the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to make a calculation
for the year 1909 and of previous years of operation, to
ascertain the total exhaustion of ore which had taken
place in the operation of its mining properties, and to enter
such amount of tonnage exhaustion, multiplied by the
unit cost per ton, in its official corporate books of account, and also cause the same to be included in its
printed annual rep6rt of that current year to its'stockholders and the public with' appropriate explanation
thereof, all of which requirements were performed by the
plaintiff in error in obedience to said orders of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and within the time
granted
therefor.
"The complaint alleged that the resulting figures so
rendered in said return were and are in all respects true
and correct, and resulted in a showing of net income
measuring the excise tax under the rles and regulations

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

amounting to $765,380.02 upon which the tax would have
been $7,653.86; it also appeared from said complaint that
this compliance with the requirements of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was made by the plaintiff
in error without waiving its claim to the full deduction

originally claimed.
"It further appears from the complaint, that in disobedience and disregard of the law and of the rules and
regulations of the Treasury Department, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue disallowed the application for
refund of the plaintiff in error in toto, which disallowance
was communicated to the plaintiff in error December
29th, 1913, by the defendant in error, Collector of Internal
Revenue, the then collector having succeeded to the office
*of the Collector of Internal Revenue who had originally
levied the tax in question. The complaint alleges that no
part of the said tax has been refunded or paid back, and
that the same is still due and unpaid."
The questions propounded are:
"1. Under the provisions of paragraph 38 of the Act
of Congress entitled: 'An Act t provide revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the industries of the United
States, and for other purposes,' approved August 5th,
1909, (36 Statutes at Large; p. 11, at p. 112), is a mining
corporation, for the purpose of determining its net income for the basis of taxation, entitled to deduct from
its gross income any amount whatever on account of depletion or exhaustion of ore bodies caused by its operations
for the year for which the tax is assessed?
"2. Is such a corporation under said Act, entitled in
the ascertainment of its net income, to a deduction against
gross proceeds from the mining and treatment of ores to
the extent of the cost Value of the ore in the ground before it was mined, ascertained in strict compliance with
the rules and regulations of the Treasury Department of
Febiuary 14th, 1911 (Tr. Dec. 1675)?

GOLDFIELD CONSOL. MINES CO. v. SCOTT.
126.

131

Opinion of the Court.

"3. Where such a corporation claimed originally in its
return of net income under said Act a deduction for depreciation from exhaustion of ore for the year equal to the
actual value of the ore in the ground before it was mined,
and having been denied any deduction whatever for exhaustion of ore, and having been assessed accordingly and
having paid the resulting tax, made application pursiant
to sections 3220 and 3226 Revised Statutes .for refund,
during the pendency of which application said corporation
was granted leave to amend and did amend its return of
net income in strict accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated February 14th, 1911, sections 80 to
89 T. D. 1675, resulting in an amended return based upon
cost as provided in said regulations and showing claimed
deductions therefrom less than the corporation's net
realizations for the year from the ore actually mined,
is such corporation entitled to an allowance of deductions
and refund of taxes accordingly?
"4. In what, if any, way is the right to such claimed
deductions affected by the fact that such corporation, in
obedience to requirements imposed by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue at the time of filing-its amended returns.showing the cost value as of January 1st, 1909, of
the ores mined during the year, caused to be entered in its
official books of account and printed in its annual report
of that current year to all. of its stockholders and to the
public, a statement of the total amount of ore exhaustions,
multiplied by the unit cost, per ton on its mining properties for that and all previous years?"
In the brief submitted for the Goldfield Consolidated
Mines Company counsel frankly admit that if this court
is to adhere to the principles laid down in Stratton'sInde-i
pendence v. Howbert, 231 U. S. 399, and Von Baumbach
v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503, those cases are conclusive against the contentions of the Mines Company in
this proceeding. In view of the discussion of the nature

