WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. FOSTER.
Syllabus.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY ET
AL. v. FOSTER AND MACLEOD ET AL., MEiMBERS OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY ET
AL. v. MACLEOD ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.

NOBLE, AS PRESIDENT OF THE NEW YORK
STOCK EXCHANGE, v. WESTERN UNION TEL-EGRAPH COMPANY ET AL.
NOBLE, AS PRESIDENT OF THE NEW YORK
STOCK EXCHANGE, v. UNITED TELE.GRAM
COMPANY ET Al.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos.274, 275, 419, 420.

Argued April 29, 30, 1918.-Decided May 20,
1918.

The New York Stock Exchange, for lump sums, contracted with telegraph companies to furnish them continuous stock quotations, to
be furnished by them in turn to their subscribers by ticker service;
each subscriber's application must be subject in terms to his being
approved by the Exchange before it became effective, and must
authorize th4 company to discontinue his service whenever so directed by the Exchange, the contract declaring that the Exchange
reserved these rights to prevent improper use of the facts. Under
this arrangement., the quotations, as received from the Exchange in
New York, were wired in Morse code to Boston where they were

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Public Service Commission of Mass.

247 U. S.

decoded and wired to the tickers, the wires of.other companies being
in part used in the process. Held, that the transmission of the quotations remained interstate commerce until completed in the sub-scribers' offices, and that an order of a Massachusetts commission,
requiring the companies "tocease discriminating against a would-be
subscriber whom *the Exchange disapproved, was a, direct interference with such commerce, not sanctioned under the police power
of the State or its power over streets.crossed by the telegraph, which
infringed the constitutional rights of thd companies and those of the
Exchange.
224 Massachusetts, 365, reversed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rush Taggartand Mr. John G. Milburn,with whom
Mr. Arthur Lord was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error
in Nos. 274 and 275.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins, with whom Mr. Walter F. Taylor
was on the briefs, for appellant in Nos. 419 and 420.
Mr. PatrickHenry Kelley for Foster, defendant in error
and appellee.
Mr. H. Ware Barnum, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Henry C.
Attwill, Attorney General of the State of Massachusetts,
was on the briefs, for Public Service Commission of
Massachusetts:
If an individual had compiled this information in New
York, taken train to Massachusetts, and after arrival
there disclosed his knowledge either by lecture or publication in print, it would hardly be contended that the lecture
or publication was not subject to state control, on the
ground that the information had been acquired in one
State and 'was being distributed in another. It would
be plain that the interstate journey had ended. The
essential features of this business cannot be altered by

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. r. FOSTER.
J05.

107

Argument for Public Service Commission of Mass.

reason of the fact that corporations rather than individuals
are concerned, or that modern inventions have made
greater speed possible. The interstate transaction, to
wit, the communication from the agent in New York to
the agent in Boston, is in no way affected by the requirement that all persons in Massachusetts must be treated
alike. The case of InternationalTextbook Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91, is not in point, since there the communication
was direct, by mail, from the company in Pennsylvania
tb the pupil in Kansas (see at p. 100).
. The information received by the companies in Boston
is distributed to divers customers there. If the companies'
agents, after receipt of the information, had proceeded to
set it up in type, strike off. a hundred copies and send one
by messenger to each of a hundred customers, it would
seem clear that the interstate transaction was completed
when the agent in Boston received the information, and
that the business of printing the copies and distributing
them should be regarded as entirely intrastate matter.
Can it make any difference that the printing machine is
set up in the customer's office and operated simultaneously
with ninety-nine like machines in other offices? The interstate transmission ceased before the retailing operation began, just as when the owner of goods begins retailing them out to different customers within the State
the interstate transit has ceased. Commonwealth v. Peoples
Express Co., 201 Massachusetts, 564; Kirmeyer v. Kansas,
236 U. S. 568.
The present case cannot correctly be regarded as an
interstate transportation of property by the owner, the
telegraph company, from New York to Boston, and a
sale by the company in Boston of the property transported. So far as a property right exists it is a right to
keep to, oneself or to publish or communicate to others the
matter collected. Board of Trade v. Christie., Grain &
Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236; Dodge Co. v. ConstructionInforma-

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Argument for Public Service Commission of Matm.

247 U. S.

tion Co., 183 Massachusetts, 62. In furnishing the quotations to the brokers the telegraph companies are exercising
the property right derived by them from the Stock Exchange, under contract, but in no sense are they selling
or transferring it.
However, even if the transaction is regarded as a transfer of property, the retailing out of property to a hundred
different customers in Boston which has been received
by one interstate shipment would be subject to the police
regulations of *the State. So far as the communication
of this information is spoken of as a sale of "news" it is
applying an analogy to a sale of goods, and the principle
of breaking bulk seems properly to be applied to such
analogy, and would bar any claim to exemption from
state regulation.
- Even th doctrine of special immunities inherent in
an "original package" does- not nullify police regulation
by a State as to retail trade. Austin v. Tennessee, 179
U. S. 343; Cook v. Marshall C6unty, 196 U. S. 261; Rast
v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 360.
โข There must be some time when a subject-matter, although moving in interstate commerce, becomes subject
to state control. Mutual Film Corporation v. Ohio Industrial Commission, 236 U. S. 230, 240.
The fact that it is physically impossible to operate
ticker instruments in Boston by means of a transmitter
located in New York, and that, accordingly, it is necessary
to use the Morse telegraph system for the transmission
from New York to Boston, would seem to strengthen the
claim that the interstate character of the transmission
ceased when that transmission ended.
Even if matter affected is held to constitute interstate
commerce, the subject is open to state regulation until
acted upon by Congress.
The poiver of a State to regulate common carriers,
even though interstate commerce is incidentally affected,

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. FOSTER.

105.

Argument for Public Service Commission of Mass.

is well established, and such regulations remain effective
until such time as Congress may act upon the matter.
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Vermilye v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 207 Massachusetts, 401.
Such statutes are not regulations of interstate commerce but proper police regulations for -the enforcement
of the rules and policies of the common law. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S.650; Missour,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613,
634; Western Union 'Telegraph Co. v. Wilson, 213 U. S.
52, 55.
The requirement of the Massachusetts statute that
the telegraph companies shall serve all citizens without
unfair or unreasonable discrimination is but an enforcement of a common-law duty. Primrosev. Western Union
Telegraph Co., 154 U. S.1; Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Call Publishing-Co., 181 U. S. 92, and other cases.
Surely, if it is lawful for a State to enforce the commonlaw duty by means of a penalty, as was done in the Crovo
Case, supra, it may provide a more perfect means of enforcement by specific order of a commission, and equitable
relief. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Flour Mills,
211 U. S.612.
Congress has not legislated with reference to any matters affected by the order of the Public Service Commission.
Assuming that an agreement of the telegraph company
to furnish service only to persons approved by the Stock
Exchange is wholly valid, the order of the commission and
decree of the court in no way attacked or injured this
property right, either with or without due process of law.
The order is simply for the telegraph companies to remove
the discrimination. They can do this either by furnishing
the quotations to Mr. Foster in the exercise of the rights
which they now have or may acquire from the Exchange,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

or by ceasing to give to others in Massachusetts the service
which is denied to him.
The Exchange was not an indispensable party to. the
proceedings before the Commission and in the court proceedings to enforce the order.
The clause of the contract by which the telegraph company agree to furnish its service only to persons approved
by the Stock Exchange is void so far as it prevents the
telegraph compary from serving the public without discrimination. Commercial Union Telegraph Co. v. New
England Tel. & Tel. Co., 61 Vermont, 241; Chesapeake &
Potomac Telephone Co. v. B. & 0. Telegraph Co., 66 Maryland, 399, 416; Bell Tel. Co. of Philadelphiav. Commonwealth'ex rel. B. & OX Tel. Co., 3 Atl. Rep. 825; Heaton
Peninsular Button-Fastener Co. v. Eureka Specialty Co.,:
77 Fed. Rep. 288, 293.
The Stock Exchange has granted to the telegraph company, with knowledge of the public character of the business in which it is engaged, the right to distribute this.
information by ticker or otherwise. Having so parted
with it, the property becomes subject to all obligations
which the law, from reasons of public. policy, attaches to
property devoted to a public use. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S.1, 19.
MR. JUsTICE HorES delivered the opinion of the court.
Four cases were argued together in this Court. The
first two were suits in the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, one a statutory petition by the telegraph
companies to have an-order of the Public Service Commission annulled, the other a bill by the Commission to
have the same order enforced. The cases were consolidated and reserved on the pleadings for determination
by the full Court, which decreed that -the petition of the
plaintiffs in error should-be dismissed and -the order of

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. FOSTER.

105.

Opinion of the Court.

the Commission obeyed. 224 Massachusetts, 365. The
order recited that the Gold and Stock Telegraph Company by the Western Union Telegraph Company lessee
and the United Telegram Company had without just
cause refused to supply to Calvin H. Foster the continuous quotations of the New York Stock Exchange by
means of ticker service then supplied to others, declared
the refusal an unlawful discrimination and required the
two companies to remove the discrimination forthwith.
The material facts may be abridged as follows: The
New York Stock Exchange, having a monopoly of the
information collected by it on the floor of the Exchange
concerning the prices quoted in transactions there, made
contracts with the plaintiffs in error of the same general
character as those before the Court in Board of Trade v.
Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S.236, 246, and Hunt
v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322. By these
contracts for specified lump sums the Exohange agreed
to furnish to the Telegraph Companies simultaneously
full and continuous quotations of prices made in transactions upon the Exchange. The Telegraph Companies
"may "intheir turn furnish quotations to their "patrons"
at intervals of more than fifteen minutes subject to discontinuance upon objection of the Exchange, and may
furnish continuous service by ticker to subscribers, provided the latter sign applications in duplicate, one of
which is to go to the Exchange, the application not to be
effectual until the subscriber is approved by the Exchange, agreeing that the Telegraph Company may discontinue the service "whenever directed so to do by said
New York Stock Exchange." The application recognizes
that the quotations are furnished under contract with the
Exchange and agrees not to furnish the quotations to
branch offices or correspondefits unless first approved by
the Exchange and also signing agreements, one of which
is to be delivered to the Exchange. The contract states

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

that the intent of the Exchange in reserving the right to
disapprove, etc., is only to prevent improper and unlawful use of the facts.
The Gold and Stock Telegraph Company's business is
carried on by the Western Union Telegraph Company in
the name of the former. The quotations are furnished to
the latter in New York, telegraphed by it to the office of
the Gold and Stock Company in Boston, translated from
the Morse code into English, and thence transmitted by
an operator to the tickers in the offices of the brokers
who have subscribed and have been approved. The
United Telegram- Company, a New Jersey corporation,
receives quotations for Boston alone, where is its principal
office outside of New Jersey. They are furnished by the
Exchange in New York, telegraphed to the Boston office
over a wire of the Postal Telegraph Cable Company, and
thence transmitted as in the other case. On these facts
the plaintiffs in error F y that the order is an unwarranted
inte~ference witI commerce among the States and takes
property without due process of law, setting up the Constitution of the United States.
We -shall not discuss the bearing of the Fourteenth
Amendment nor yet how far an order simply to remove a
discrimination could be effectual when, if Mr. Foster were
let in on the same terms as those now accepted as subscribers, he would agree that the Telegraph Company
might discontinue its service without notice whenever
directed so to do by the New York Stock Exchange. It
is enough that in our opinion the transmission of the quotations did not lose its character of interstate conimrce
until it was completed in the brokers' offices and that the
interference with it was of a kind not permitted to the
States. The supposed analbgy that has prevailed is that
of a receiver of a package breaking bulk and selling at will
in retail trade. But it appears to us misleading. Wealso
think it hnimportant that the contracts between the Ex-

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. FOSTER.
i05.

Opinion of the Court.

change and the Telegraph Companies emphasize the element of.quasi-sale for a lump sum and leave it to the interest of the Telegraph Companies to find subscribers.
Neither that nor the intervention of an operator, or of
another company, are in the least degree conclusive. Unlike the case of breaking bulk for subsequently determined
retail sales, in these the ultimate recipients are determined
before the message starts and have been accepted as the
contemplated recipients by theExchaige. It does not
matter if theyhave no contract with the Exchange, directly.
It does not matter that if the Telegraph Companies did not
deliver to any given one the Exchange could not complain.
If the normal, contemplated and followed course is a transmission as continuous and rapid as science can make it
from Exchange to broker's office it does not matter what
are the stages or how little they are secured by covenant
or bond.
Thus lumber purchased in Texas for the purpose of filling foreign orders was held to be carried in interstate commerce, although no contract prevented the purchaser from
giving it a -different destination. Texas & New Orleans
R.R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111, 126. Practice,
intent and the typical course, not title or niceties of form,
were recognized as determining the character, and other
cases to the same effect were cited. The principle was
reaffirmed in Railroad Commission of Louisiana v. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336; and is too well settled to
need to be further sustained. Western Oil Reflninj.Co. v.
Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346, 349. See Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 398, 399. It is admitted that the
transmission from New York to Massachusetts by the
Telegraph Company was interstate commerce. If so it
continued such until it reached "the point where the
parties originally intended that the movement should
finally end." Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Louisiana R. R.
Commission, 236 U. S. 157, 163.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

If the transmission of the quotations is interstate coinmerce the order in question cannot be sustained. It is
not like the requirement of some incidental convenience
that can be afforded without seriously impeding the interstate work. It is an attempt to affect in its very vitals
the character of a business generically, withdrawn from
state control-to change the criteria by which customers
are to be determined and so to change the business, It is
suggested that the State gets the power from its power
over the streets which it is necessary for the telegraph to
cross. But if we assume that the plaintiffs in error under
their present charters could be excluded from the streets,
the consequence would not follow. Acts generally lawful
may become unlawful when done to accomplish an unlawful end, United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324,
357, and a constitutional power cannot be used by way
of condition to attain an unconstitutional result. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. Pullman Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56. Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235
U. S. 197, 203. The regulation in question is quite as
great an interference as a tax of the kind that repeated decisions have held void. It cannot be justified "under that
somewhat ambiguous term of police powers." Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347, 359.
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.
501, 520. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Brown, 234
U. S. 542, 547. Without going into further reasons we
are of opinion that the decrees of the Supreme Judicial
Court must be reversed.
The other two. cases were suits brought by the New
York Stock Exchange against the Telegraph Companies
severally and Foster. The bills set forth the respective
contracts with the companies, allege that Foster made
applications to them in the prescribed form, was given a
full hearing before a committee of the E:change, and that
as a result the Exchange reached the conclusion that

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. FOSTER.
105.

Opinion of the Court.

Foster had been conducting bucket shops and wanted the
quotations .in aid of such shops, and therefore disapproved
the applications. They set forth the order of the State
Commission, the decree of the State Court and the intent
of the Telegraph Companies to comply with the order,
and allege that it is void as beyond the jurisdiction of the
State Commission under the Constitution and acts of
Cbngress and also as depriving the plaintiff of its property
without due process of law. Injunctions are prayed
against delivery of continuous quotations to Foster or receipt of them by him unless and until he Ehall have acquired the right by contract with the approval of the Exchange. Subsequently the members 6f the PhbliQ Service
Commission were made parties, and then upon their motion the' bills were dismissed by the District Court, the
judge accepting the reasoning of the Supreme Court of
the State. The decision seems to have been upon the
merits, but the question is certified whether the bill pre.sents a controversy which arises under the Constitution
or laws of the United States within the meaning of ยง 24
of the Judicial Code. In view of the decision in the state
cases probably it will not be necessary to prosecute these
suits farther. But it follows from what we have said that
the decision of the District Court was wrong and that the
decrees in these cases also must be reversed. It is suggested, to be sure, that the Exchange would be barred by
the state decree against the Telegraph Companies if it
stood, because the Exchange by its contracts reserved the
right to intervene in such suits. It did not intervene'and
therefore would not have been bound.
Decrees reversed.

