EX PARTE ABDU.
Opinion of the Court.

EX PARTE ,ABDU ET AL., PETITIONERS.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 31, Original. Argued April 29, 1918.-Rule-discharged May 20, 1918.

In a case ultimately within its reviewing power, this court has jurisdiction to require by mandamus the filing of the'record in the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Where the refusal to file was in accordance with orders of the Court
of Appeals, relied on in the clerk's answer, held that, while properly
the relief should have'been directed to the court; under the peculiar
circumstances the irregularity'might be treated as formal and the
authority to make the orders be determined with the clerk alone as
technical respondent.
The provision in the Act of June 12, 1917, c. 27, 4G Stat. 157, that
d'courts of the Unitd States shall be open to seamen, without furnishing bonds or prepayment of or making deposit to secure fees or
costs, for the purpose of entering and prosecuting suit," etc., does
not apply to appellate proceedings.
Rifle discharged.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Silas B. Axtell, with whom Mr. Vernon S. Jones
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert S. E~kine, with whom Mr. John M. Woolsey was oir the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIF JusTICE, WHITE delivered the opinion'of the
court.
In the trial court the petitioners, six in number, Arabian"
seamen and members of the crew of a British ship, as.
libellants sought to enforce the payment of one-half their
wages in relianceupon the provisions of ยง 4530, Rev. Stats.,
as amended bt ยง 4-of-the Act of March.4, 1915,, & 153,

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion bf.the Court.

247 JJ. S.

38 Stat. 1165. In granting an appeal from a decree dismissing their claim the court, in view either of the .provisions of the Act of Congress of July 1, 1916, c. 209, 39
Stat. 313, or those of the Act of June 12, 1917, c. 27, 40
Stat. 157, or both, directed that the appelldnts be permitted to perfect their appeal without cost.
In the Circuit Court of Appeals the clerk declined to
file the record without the deposit to secure costs required by the rules. The court was asked to direct the
"clerk to do oiherwise, but for reasons stated in a brief
memorandum it refused to do so. Assuming that tbis
action was based solely on the view that the Act of 1916
had ceased to be operative by limitation of time, relying
upon theAct of 1917, the request for direction to the clerk
to file the record without costs or security for the same was
again made to the court and refused upon the ground of
want of merit in the application, that is, upon the con"clusion that the act of Congress relied upon did not relieve seamen from costs in appellate courts. Leave to
present a petition for mandamus against the clerk.'to
compel him to file the record without costs was then here
granted and the matter is before us on the submission of
the rule to show cause consequent upon such permission and
the answer of the clerk to the rule setting out the action
of the court, in which answer reliance is placed upon the
orders of the court which are appended'and the two opinions expressedby the c.ourt on the subject.
The 'existence of ultimate dis retionary power here to
review the- ause on its merits and the deterrent influence'
which the refusal to file must b-'ve upon the practical
exertion of that power in a case properly made gives the
authority to consider the subject which the rulepresents.'
But that does not -without more dispel the seem*ng con-

"Ex parte Crane; 5 Peters, 190, 193-194; Chat.aitgay Iron Co., Pbtitioner, 128 U. S. 544; HollonParker, Petitioner,131 U. S. 221, 225-226;
in re Iiohorst, 150 U. S. 653; In re Giossmayer, 177 U. S. 48,49-50.

EX PARTE ABDU.
27.

Opinion of the Court.

fusion resulting from the fact that the remedy prayed is
directed not to the court below but to its clerk and hence
in form the relief sought is a mandamus to direct the clerk
to disobey the order of the court, leaving the order unreviewed and unreversed. The incongruity is obvious and
we cannot as a general rule sanction it. Looking, however, through form to the essence of things, as no mere independent action of the clerk as clerk is involved, but the
authority exerted by the court in directing the action of
the clerk complained of is the subject-matter at issue and
is the only justification relied upon by the clerk in the
answer to the rule, we. are of the opinion that in the exercise of a sound discretion we may treat the case from
that point of view, that is to say, under the circumstances
consider the authority to have made the order with the
tlerk alone as a technical-party to the proceeding.
The contention that the court mistakenly refused to
permit the appellate "proceedings to be conducted without payment of costs is based upon a provision in the
Appropriation Act of June 12, 1917, as'follows:
"Provided, That courts of the United States shall be
open to seamen, without furnishing bonds or prepayment
of or making deposit to secure fees or-costs, for the purpose
of entering and prosecuting suit or suits in their own nare
and for their own benefit for wages or salvage and to.enforce laws made for their health and safet&."
The provision does not in express words relate to appellate proceedings and the .whole argument advanced- to
sustain the theory that it includes such proceedings rests
upon the conception that because the provision v.as intended tb benefit seamen by giving them access to the
courts ,without*cost, therefore by necessary implication
the statute should be construed as all-embracing, that is,
as giving the ight to carry.on appellate proaeedings free
from costs. But this simply assumes the proposition
contended for and after all comes but to the contention

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opifion of the Court.

247 U. S.

that, because the statute gives the right which is asserted,
therefore the statute should be construed as conferring it
and its enjoyment consequently sustained. The error results from disregarding the broad distinction Which -exsts
between the'right to be heard Iin .courts of justice on the
onehand and the necessity for the grant f authQrity on the
other to review the results of suchx hearing by proceedings
in error or appeal. Reetz v. Mickig'an, '188 U. S. 505,'507-508; United States v. Heinze, 218 U; S. 532, 545-546; Lottv.
Pittman,243 U. S. 588, 591. This obvious distinction betwee the two we are of opinion, in the. absence of a clear
and. express legislative direction to the conttiary, exclildes
the possibility* of giving the statute the all-embracing
construction sought to be applied to it. And the correctness of this opir-on is we think conclusively illustrated by
a consideration 6f prior statutes dealing with a somewhat
cognate subject and the .decisions concerning the same.
Act of July 20, 1892, c. 209, 27 Stat. 252; Act of June 25,
1910, c. 435, 36 Stat. 866; Bradford v. Southern Ry. co.,
195 U. S. 243; Kinney v. Plymouth Rock Squab Co., 236.
U. S. "43. In other 'words, under the Act of 1892 confering a right to -pro~ecute in forma. paupeni suits in
courts of the United States, which was certainly as broad.
in its language as the one now under consideration,'it was
decided in the Bradford Case that the right did not embrace appellate proceedings. And when following that
decision the statute was amended by the-Act of 1910 so
as to cause-it in express terms to be applicable to appel-.
late proceedings, the right was subjected to accompanying
restrictions and safeguards which as held in the Kinney
Case made the new right no" absolute, but dependent
not only upon the -limitations which were otherwise put
in the statute .but also upon, the exercise of a sound discretion by the appellate court. The statute before us,
as we have seen, which was enacted in 1917 after the
decision in the -Bradford Case, containe none of the ex-

EX PARTE ABDU.
27.

.

31

BRANEis, J., dissenting.

press provisions as to appellate proceedings inserted in
the Act of 1910. Thus if resort is to be had to legislative
history and the implication of legislative intent -as a
means of reading into the statute that' which it does not
contain, a contrary result must. necessarily follow, sincethe conclusion from considering that subject* must be
that the Act of 1917 enadted after the Bradford Case
in not expressing the right .to be exempt from costs in
appellate proceedings was intended to conform and give
effect to the rule announced in the Bradford Case..Rule discharged,
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the decision of the court. Congress declared without qualification: ".TLat courts of the
for the pr..
United States shall be open to seamen
"'with.
pose of entering and prosecutingj suit"'
out
.
making deposit to secure fees or'-costs."
There being no qualiflcation,. the words "courts of the
United Stites" mean all the courts in which se amen may
have occasion to enter and prosecute suits. Seamen have
occasion to enter and prosecute- such suits in appellate
courts. Consequently they should be permitted to do so
"vithout '. . . making deposit to secure fees on costs."
.MR. JUSTICE CLARxE

joins in this dissent.

