SAN PEDRO &c. R. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 307
Opihion of the Court.
SAN PEDRO, LOS ANGELES & SALT LAKE RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR AND

PETITION FOR CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 48. Submitted November 12, 1917.-Decided June 3, 1918.
A judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not reviewable by writ
of error under Jud. Code, ยง 241, where the amount actually in dis-

pute is less than $1,000.
Writ of error to review 220 Fed. Rep. 737, dismissed; certiorari denied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans Browne, Mr. F. W.
Clements and Mr. A. S. Halsted for plaintiff in error and
petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson and Mr. S.
Milton Simpson for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals that is
sought to be reviewed affirmed in part and reversed in
part a judgment of the District Court in an action brought
by the United States to recover penalties for certain
violations of the Hours of Service Act of March 4, 1907,
c. 2939, 34 Stat. 1415, 1416. 220 Fed. Rep. 737. Defendant challenges and seeks to have reviewed only so
much of the judgment as affirmed the recovery of six
penalties of $150 each, for as many separate violations of
the act. The employees involved are a conductor and
two brakemen on each of two passenger trains, known as
Nos. 1 and 7, starting from Las Vegas, Nevada, for

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S:

Los Angeles, California, on October 3 and 4, 1912. The
cases are so miich alike that a reference to train No. 1
will suffice. It occupied 27 hours in a journey from Las
Vegas to Los Angeles, 334 miles, although the schedule
running time between those points was only 13Y2 hours.
The train left Las Vegas on schedule time and with a
fresh crew, but was subsequently detained by an unavoidable and unforeseeable accident (a landslide, requiring a detour over another railroad), so that when it
reached Daggett, a point in the route 158.6 miles from
Los Angeles, the-prescribed 16-hour period had expired
by more than an hour. At this point the engine crew.
was relieved, their places being taken by men sent from
Otis, a division point 4 miles distant. The conductor
and brakemen were not relieved, but continued on-duty
to the destination-of the train at Los Angeles, passing
through San Bernardino, which is a passenger terminal
but not :for through trains. The conductor and brakemen.
might have been relieved either at Daggett or at San
Bernardino, but no effort to do this was made. The question upon the merits is whether the act of Congress required the company, under the circumstances, to relieve
them. The contention of plaintiff in error and petitioner
is rested -upon conference ruling No. 88 (b) of the Interstate Commerce Commission, published June 25, 1908,
which, after quoting the first, proviso of ยง3 of the act:
'fProvided, That the provisions of this Act shall not apply in any case of casualty or unavoidable accident or
the act of God; nor where the delay was the result of a
cause not'known to the carrier or its officer or agent in
charge of such employee at the tim said employee left a
terminal, and which could not have been foreseen"; added
the following: "Any employee so delayed may thereafter
continue on duty to the terminal or end of that run.. The
proviso quoted.rkmoves the.application of the law to that
trio."

SAN PEDRO &c. R.. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES. .309
307.

Opinion of the Court.

Our jurisdiction by writ -of error is governed by ยง241,
Judicial Code (Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat.
1087, 1157); which gives the right of review only where
the matter in controversy exceeds one thousand dollars
besides cost. The amount actually in dispute here being
only nine hundred dollars, the writ of error must be
dismissed. Export Lumber Co. v. Port Banga Co., 237
U. S. 388.
There is an application for the allowance of a writ of
certiorari under ยง 240, consideration of which has been
postponed until the hearing on the writ of error; but,
since it was presented, all occasion for granting it has
been removed by our decision in Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 244 U. S. 336, which in
principle is indistinguishable from the present case, and
was decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals (220 Fed.
Rep. 748) upon the authority of its decision in the present case.
Writ of Error dismzssed,
Petitionfor Writ of Certioraridenied.
MR. JurTicE McREyNoLDs took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

