OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Counsel for Parties.

247 U. S.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. MINNEAPOLIS CIVIC
AND COMMERCE ASSOCIATION.
ERROR To Tm

No. 283.

SUPREME COURT
MriNNESOTA.

OF

STATE OF

Argued May 1, 2, 1918.-Decided June 10, 191.

rwo railroad companies, between them owning all the-stock and controlling conipletely the property and operations of a third company,
which had legal title to terminal tracks , caused separate switching
charges to be made in its name on traffic moved by them over those
tracks, although for substantially the same service over terminals
which each owned separately, neither made any charge in addition to
its line-haul rates. A state commission, finding that the practice discriminated against shippers on. the third company's tracks, ordered
that the separate charges be discontinued and that the tracks be
operated as a part of the terminal properties of the other companies,
in intrastate traffic. Hdd: (1) Upon examination of the findings
and evidence, that the commission and the courts below were justified in holding the third company a mere agency or instrumentality
of the other two; (2) that its technical corporate individuality and
its technical ownership of the tracks in question did not entitle it
to be treated as an independent carrier, and that the order did not
deprive it or the other companies of property without compensation
or dueprocess of law; (3) that the order imposed no unlawful burden
on interstate commerce.,
134 Minnesota, 169, affirmed.

THE case is stated in ,the opinion.-

Mr. James B. Sheean and M?.
W. Dynes, with whom
Mr. F. W. Root, Mr. William H. Norris and Mr. Edward
M. Hyzer were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Frank J. Morley, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Hilton, Attorney General 'of the State of Minnesota, and

CHICAGO, M: & ST. P. RY. v. MINN. CIVIC ASSN.
490.

401

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Lyndon A. Smiih were on the briefs, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE COL&m

delivered the opinion of the

court.
We shall adopt the designation of the parties which is
used in the record: the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Company as the "Milwaukee Company;" the
Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha Railway
Company as the "Omaha Company;" the Minneapolis
Eastern Railway Company as the. "Eastern Company;"
the Minneapolis Civic and Commerce Association as the
"Civic Association," and the Railroad & Warehouse
Commission of the State of Minnesota as the "Commission."1
This proceeding originated in a petition filed by the
Civic Association with the Commission against the three
railway corporations plaintiffs in error, in which it is
alleged, that the tracks of the Eastern Company are mere
switching or terminal facilities, hithe City of Minneapolis,
of the Milwaukee and Omaha companies, and that an
unreasonable extra charge is made for the receipt and
delivery of cars over them. The prayer is that the plaintiffs in error be required to treat th6 tracks of the Eastern
Company as if they were a part of the terminal systems
of the Milwaukee and Omaha companies, and that they
be required to publish and maintain fair and reasonable
tariffs applicable to traffic moving over them.
A hearing upon this petition resulted in findings of fact
by the Commission, among others: that the Eastern.
Company was then operating only one mile of main track
and one mile and a half of yard track and sidings in the
City of Minneapolis; that the Milwaukee and Omaha
Companieg .each owned one-half of its capital stock and
were in control of its operations; and that, assuming to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.,
Opinion of the Couit.

247 U. S.

an independent railroad company, the Eastern Company
had filed tariffs with the Interstate Commerce Commnission and with the Minnesota Commission, pursuant to
•which it was charging and .collecting, in addition to the
line rate from point of origin, an extra charge of $1.50
per car for inbound loaded cars and ten cents per. ton,
with a minimum of -$1.50 per car, for outbound loaded
cars, moving over its, tracks.
As conclusions of law the Commission found that the
tracks of the Eastern Company were a part of the terminal
property of the Milwaukee and Omaha companies; that
it was the legal duty 6f these companies to deliver cars
to and to receive them from industries on the.tracks of
the Eastern Company without charge other than that
made for the line haul; and that the extra charge which
the Eastern Company was makingresulted in discrimination against inbound shippers of grain to industries locatecl upon its tracks.
Upon these findings of fact and conclusions of law the
Commission entered an order, requiring that the three
companies cease charging $1.50 per car for inbound
shipments over either the -Milwaukee or Omaha lines
wtich arxe delivered over the Eastern Company's tracks
to industries located upon them or to connecting carriers;
that the Eastern Company cease from charging any sum
for delivering carload shipments of freight moving from
connecting carriers to the Milwaukee or Omaha companies, or- moving from mills and elevators located on the
Eastern Company's tracks to the Milwaukee or Omaha
companies; and that the Omaha and Milwaukee c6mpanies in the future shall operate the tracks of the Eastern
Company as a part of the terminal property of each of
them in the City of Minneapolis. The order is made
applicable only to intrastate shipments of freight.
On appeal to a state district court the order. of the
Commission was affirmed and adopted as the order of the

CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. v. MINN. CIVIC A SN.
490.

493

Opinion of the .Court.

court, and the decision of the Supreme Court of Minnesota
affirming this judgment is now before us for review.
The contention of the railway companies in this court
is stated by them "to be reduced to the single proposition:" That the Supreme Court of Minnesota. erred in
affirming the judgment of the District Court in finding,
as did the Commission, that "the tracks operated by the
Eastern Company are important, convenient and necessary terminal facilities of the Milwaukee and Omaha
companies, and that these companies directly colitrol and
operate the Eastern Company;" and in adjudging, "that
the Milwaukee and Omaha companies be required to
operate the Eastern Company's tracks-as a part of their
terminal property at Minneapolis, without making any
extra charge for moving traffic over them."
Review by this court is prayed for on the ground that
to give effect to the judkment and order of the Minnesota
court will deprive each of the three railroad companies
of its property without compensation and without due
process of law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution- of the United States, and, earnestly
insisting that the findings of fact upon which the judgment
proceeds are without support in the evidence, the plaintiffs in error urge that it be determined from the entire
record before us whether substantial evidence was introduced to sustain the denial of their claimed federal
right. Interstate Amusement Co. v. Albert, 239 U. S. 56,
566; Jones National Bank v. Yates, 240 U. S. 541, 552.
Thus, the question presented for our decision-is whether
the Eastern Company, in form a corporate entity, separate
ana distinct from the Milwaukee and Omaha companies,
is in reality an independent carrier, exercising an independent control over the railroad to which it holds the
legal title and over the conduct of its business affairs,
or whether it is a mere agency or instrumentality of the
two corporations, which own all of its capital stock,

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

Lhrough which they collect an extra charge from the
public for rendering by indirection a service which as
common carriers they are legally required to render
without such charge under the conditions of operation
which prevail at Minneapolis.
It is obvious that this is a mixed question of fact and of
law, and from the findings of fact as made by the Commission and by the District Court, which differ only in
unimportant details, and from evidence undisputed in the
record, we derive the foiowing statement, which we think
embraces allthat is essential to a decision of the case.
The Eastern Company is a Minnesota corporation,
with an authorized capital stock of one million dollars,
organized in 1878 for the declared purpose of building and
operating a railroad from the City of Minneapolis'to the
City of St. Paul, with branches connecting with all railroads now built or hereafter to be built to or into said
cities, and with branches to the mills and manufacturing
establishments located therein.
The formal organization of the company was by a group
of mill-owners, but befoie any right of way was acquired
or construction work done the Milwaukee and Omaha
companies came into exclusive control of the corporation
and a board of directors satisfactory to them was elected,
with the result that the only road which the company
ever built or operated (omitting small fractions) was one
mile of 'main trackl and one mile and a half of yard track
and sidings in the City of Minneapolis. At the time of
the trial the Eastern Company served several mills and
warehouses -and one elevator, it had no stations or freight
depots, its only rolling stock was two engines, and the
average number of its employees varied from twenty to
thirty men. Its tracks are used for interphange by the
Milwaukee and Omaha lines, but other companies use
them for this purpose to such a limited extent, that the
part of the Commission's order relating to such use is

CHICAGO. M. & ST. P-h RY. v. MINN. CIVIC ASSN.
490.

495

Opinion, of the Court.

neglected in the evidence Pnd arguments hnd in.'the
decisions of the state coults.
Almost immediately after the organization of the Eastem Company, the three companies entered into awritten
contract, effective for over 39 years, until May 1, 1918,
which is of much significance in determining the decisive
fact in the case, as we have stated it.
This contract provides:
(1) That only 300 shares of the authorized 10,000 shares
of capital stock of the Eastern Company shall be issued,
and of these, 75 shares each must be issued to the Omaha
and Milwaukee companies, 145 shares to a trustee for the
Eastern Company, and the remaining 5 shares shall be
issued as qualifying shares to directors. The 145 trust
shares "shall not be transferable except by the written
consent of all (3) said parties hereto, and any transfer
thereof without such consent shall be void and of no force
or effect."
(2) The Eastcn Company'shall execute in -pruper form
150 bonds of $1,b00 each and a mortgage on all the property and franchises of the company to secure their payment. The Milwaukee and Omaha companies agree each
to purchase, at 80% of their par value one-half the
amount of such of these bonds as it may be necessary to
issue to pay for the right of way, construction and equipment 'of the railroad;
(3) That the Milwaukee and Omaha companies shall
have "equal and the same rights in and to the said railway

. .

in all respects;" that they shall pay the

same charge for switching their respective cars by said
railway, and that no partiality or favor shall be shown
to either;
(4) That the superintendent having charge of the
operation of the railroad, shall be appointed "by the
consent and mutual agreement of all the parties to thesa

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.

Opinion of the Court.

247 U,8.

(5) That the Eastern Company shall charge all parties
one' dollar for switching each loaded car, but a rebate of
fifty per cent. of this charge shall be made to the Milwaukee and Omaha companies; - ,
(6) If any other company having- equal facilities-with
the Eastern Company for reaching mills in Minneapolis
shall promptly and satisfactorily do the switching for the
second and third parties (the .Milwaukee and Omaha
companies) then the Eastern Company with the written
consent of the Omaha rnd Milwaukee companies, will do
switching for such railroad companies over the said
railroad of~the Eastern Company on the same terms that
switching is done for the said second and third parties
(the Milwaukee and Omaha companies) over such other
railroad but without rebate to any company.
It is quite true; as is argued, that some of the provisions
of this contract have been departed from, and that others
have been rendered unlawful and void by statutes enacted,
and by decisioiis of courts rendered, since its date. But
this does not lessen its evidential value in determining
whether the interest of the Milwaukee and Omaha conpanies in the Eastern Company was that of mere stockholders in an independent public service corporation or
whether they intended to and did exercise the power
which they possessed as stockholders to immediately and
directly control the property and the conduct of the
business of the Eastern Company.
Whether because the Milwaukee and Omaha companies distrusted each other or for other cause, it is plain that
this contract was designed to take away from the Board
of Directors of the Eastern Company, the usual and
lawful governing body of a corporation, the normal legal
control of the company's affairs in several most important
respects. It deprived the Board of the power: to issue
the capital stock of the company and to finance its affairs;
to, select a §uperintendent to operate the company's two

CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. v. MINN. CIVIC ASSN.
490.

497

Opinion of the Court.

and one-half miles of track, by requiring that such selection be made only with the consent and mutual agreement of the three companies; to make mutual agreements for the interchange of business with any other
company except with the mutual consent of the Milwaukee
and Omaha companies; and it renders one-half (save five
shares) of the stock which it permits to be issued, transferable only with the written consent of the Milwaukee
and Omaha companies. Thus, the making of this contract
was an obvious surrender by the Eastern Company of
substantially all freedom of corporate action and an
assumption of control over that company by the Milwaukee and Omaha companies, which converted it largely
into a mere agency, or instrumentality for doing their
bidding.
That this preliminary program of control was carried
forward to realization is abundantly shown by the record.
An accumulated surplus of $95,000 was distributed by
the Eastern Company in the forn of stock dividends in
1906, by dividing it equally between the Milwaukee and
Omaha companies, and vhen the original seven per cent.
loan of $150,000 was refunded into a four and one-half
per cent. loan the new bonds were taken equally by the
two companies. Thus the equal interest of the two
owning companies and the financial dependence of the
Eastern Company were maintained.
The management and control of all the operations of
the Eastern Company has always been kept in charge
of 'a "Managing Committee" of two members, one of
whom for many years before the evidence was taken was
the general manager of the Omaha Company and the
other the general superintendent of the Milwaukee Company. The Eastern Company did not pay either of
these men any salary for their services.
The auditor of the Omaha Company has been the
auditor of the Eastern Company, which paid no part of

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 ML
S.

his salary, and the established practice has long been for
the one-bookkeeper of the Eastern Company to take his
journal and ledger to the auditor of the Omaha Company
monthly for verification.
Seven of the nine' directors, -of the Eastern Company
at the time the evidence- was taken were officers either
of the Milwaukee or- Omaha company; the eighth, the
attorney of the Eastern, had desk room in the Milwaukee
Compqny's legal department, of wiich he had recently
been a member; and the ninth director, the president,
was, not an employee of either of the two owning companies.
With the facts thus summarized, it is difficult to conceive of a'plan for the control of a jointly owned company
and for the operation of a jointly owned track more
complete than this one is and it is sheer sophistry to
argue .that, because it is technically a separate legal
entity, the Eastern Company is an independent public
carrier, free- in the iconduct of its business from the control of the two companies which own itWand therefore
free to impose separate carrying charges upon the public.
- The record further shows that the Milwaukee and
Omaha companies separately own many tracks in Minneapolis, on which large mills and elevators are located
and that they render to such industries "substantially
the same service" as- is required in delivering and receiving cars to and from like industries on the Eastern
Company's track for which they make no charge whatever in addition to the line-haul rate. The general manager of the Omaha Company, ,who was one of the two
members of the "Managing Committee" of the Eastern
Com1pany, testifies that the line-haul rate.to Minneapolis
on the Omaha line "includes switching to any industry
on its tracks" in that city regardless of the relative
distance-or expense of such delivery; that this rule prevails at all points on the. Omaha line; that, generally

CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. i'. MINN. CIVIC ASSN.
490.

499

Opinion of the Court.

speaking, this is the custom of all railroads, and that if
the Eastern tracks were exclusively owned by the Omaha
Company deliveries to and from industries located up~n
them would be made without any switching e.h4ge
additional to the line-haul rate. The Milwaukee" Company also delivers on tracks exclusively owned by it at
Minneapolis, without charge additional to the line-haul
rate.
The Eastern Company, assuming the character of an
independent common carrier, pursuant to tariffs filed,
collects the switching charge, which is objected to, of
$1.50 per car on inbound loaded cars and a charge of ten
cents per ton, with a minimum charge of $1.50 per car
on outbound loaded cars, which move over its tracks,
in addition to the line-haul rate. But the practice of the
Milwaukee and Omaha companies (with negligible exceptions) is to "absorb" this extra charge made against
outbound cars, so that as both the Commission and the
Court find, "from a practical standpoint shippers on
inbound grain are the only persons who have to pay the
charge" of the Eastern Company.
The Eastern Company does not issue bills of lading
and does not make any collection from shippers, but
charges its switching rate against the Omaha and Milwaukee companies, and it is paid by them from the line-haul
rate on outbound traffic, and from the line-haul rate
plus the switching char ge, which they also collect, on
inbound grain. Under such a system of doing business,
the controversy in the case really relates only to the
charge of the Eastern Company on inbound grain, for
as to all other traffic the charge by the Eastern Company
is simply a bookkeeping one which does not involve any
extra switching charge to the shipper. Thus, the charge
of the Eastern Company, when paid by the shipper in
addition to the linehaul rate, is obviously a discrimination against industries located on the Eastern Company's

50

O(CTOBER TEIRM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

tracks when compared with those similarly situated on
other industrial spur delivery tracks which are wholly
owned by either company.
This discussion of the evidence in the case renders it
very clear that the purpose of the Milwaukee and Omaha
companies from the beginning was to construct and
operate but one track to the group of industries to be
seryed, instead- of, each building and maintaining its
own track, and to construct and use that track in common
so that each might have the benefit of it as fully as if
it were- the sole owner. To accomplish this end they
.resorted to the familiar device of incorporating the Eastern Company, and in order that their purpose might not
be defeated in the future, by the design or business
necessity of either company, the contract between them
which we have discussed, was entered into to prevent
the corporate organization of the Eastern Company and
the control of its operations from being changed by either
owning company without the consent of the other, and
the evidence makes it very clear that all through'its
corporate life the Eastern- organization has been consistently used as-a mere agency of the -two owning companies to accomplish their original purpose.
Much emphasis is laid upon statements made in various decisions of this court that ownership, alone, of capital stock in one corporation by another, does not create
an identity of corporate interest between the two companies, or render the stockholding company the owner of
the property of the other, or create the relation of principal and agent or representative between the two.
Pullman'sPalace Car Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 115
U. S. 587; Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry.
Co., 205 U. S. 364, 391; United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co.; 213 U. S. 366, 413; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98, 108; and United
States v. Delaware, Lackawanna & WestnerrnR. R. Co., 238

CHICAGO, M. & ST. P. RY. e. MINN. CIVIC ASSN.
490.

561

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 516, 529, 530, and it is argued that since the order
of the Commission requires that the tracks, the title to
which is in the Eastern Company, be treated as the
property of the stock owning companies, the effect of it,
if enforced, will be to deprive the Eastern Company of
its property without compensation and to render valueless its capital stock owned by the Milwiaukee and Omaha
companies.
While the statements of the law thus relied upon are
satisfactory in the connection in which they were used,
they have been plainly and repeatedly held not applicable where stock ownership has been resorted to, not for
the purpose of participating in the affairs of a corporation
in the normal and usual manner, but for the purpose, bs in
this case, of controlling a subsidiary company so that it
may be used as a mere agency or instrumentality of the
owning company or companies. United States v. Lehigh
Valley R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 257, 273, and United States
v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 238 U. S.
516. In such a-case the courts will not permit themselves
to be blinded or deceived by mere forms or law but, regardless of fictions, will deal with the substance of the
transaction involved as if the corporate agency did not
exist and as the justice of the ease may require.
Satisfied as we are by the evidence that the Eastern
Company is a completely controlled' agency of the two
companies which own its capital stock, we agree with
the Supreme Court of Minnesota that the fact that tho
legal title to what are obviously terminal or spur delivery
tracks is in the Eastern Company should not be permitted
to become the warrant for permitting a charge upon
shippers greater than they would be required to pay if
that title were in the owning companies. The order of
the Commission affirmed by the Supreme Court of Minnesota, so far from being arbitrary, is plainly just, and
clearly it does not deprive the plaintiffs in error of their

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

property without compensation or without due process
of law, by requiring, as it does, that for ratemaking purposes .the Milwaukee and Omaha companies. shall extend
to shippers over their tracks the legal title to which is in
the Eastern Company, equality of treatment with that
which they give to shippers over-their separately owned
tracks, where similar service is rendered.
The claim that an unlawful burden is imposed upon
interstate commerce by requiring that the one delivery
track here involved shall be treated with respect to
intrastate traffic precisely as many other similarly used
and situated tracks have always been treated by the owning companies is too unsound to merit consideration.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota is

Afrfe d.

