HARTRANFT
288.

i,.

MULLOWNY.

295"

Syllabus.

law-then the Arkansas law-by the Act of 1902 equally
qualifies the application of the Oklahoma law, Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, but that question is not here,
for the survivors of the allottee are all Creek citizens.
Judgment affirmed.

HARTRANFT v. MULLOWNY, JUDGE OF THE
POLICE COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 19. Argued February 23, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
November 13, 1916; reargued November 7, 8, 1917.-Decided June 3,
1918.

Under Jud. Code, § 250, judgments of the Court.of Appeals of the
District of Columbia in criminal cases, and judgments which are
not final, are not reviewable by writ of error upon the ground that
the jurisdiction of the trial court is in issue, or upon the ground
that the construction of a law of the United States was brought in
question by the defendant.
The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
to supervise the criminal proceedings of inferior tribunals by removal and review through certiorari, is analogous to that of the
Court of King's Bench; and the nature and functions of the writ in
such cases are to be tested by common-law principles.
At common law, when a cause before judgment was removed by certiorari in order that justice might be done by quashing the indict,
ment or information or proceeding to trial, or otherwise, as the
circumstances might require, the nature of the cause was not changed
by the removal and a judgment quashing the writ was followed
by a procedendo as a matter of course.
The Supreme Court of the District, having by certiorarf removed for
consideration a criminal case from the local police court upon a petition alleging want of,jurisdiction and insufficiency of the information, afterwards entered judgment that the writ be quashed, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

petition dismissed, and the record "remanded" to the police court
"whence it came." This judgment having been appealed to and
affirmed by the Court of Appeals, Held: (1) That the judgment
was in a case arising under the criminal laws; (2) that it was not
final; and (3) that for these reasons a writ of error under Jud. Code,
§ 250, would not lie.
Writ of error to review 43 App. D. C. 44, dismissed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Matthew E. O'Brien and Mr. Henry E. Davis,
with whom Mr.. Walter Jeffreys Carlin was on the briefs,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson for defendant
inerror.1
MR.JusTicE Prnmy delivered the opinion of the court.
On April 17, 1914, an information in behalf of the
United States was filed by the United States attorney in
the police court of the District of Columbia against the
plaintiff in error (who will be called the petitioner) charging violations of the Food and Drugs Act of June 301906, c; 3915, 34 Stat. 768. Having first objected to the
jurisdiction of the police court by motion to quash, by
demurrer, and by special plea i bar, all of which were
overruled by that court, petitioner was arraigned upon
the information and pleaded not guilty, after which, and
before trial on the merits, he filed in the supreme court
of the District a petition praying that a writ of certiorari
might issue from that court to the present defendant in
error as judge of the police court to bring up the record
and proceedings, upon the grounds (1) that the police court
was without jurisdiction to try petitione upon the inforI Mr.Assistant Attorney General Underwood argued the case for the
defendant in exrof at the first hearing.

HA.TRANFT r. MULLOWNY.
295.

Opinion of the Court.

mation, for several reasons specified, and (2) that the
information did not sufficiently inform petitioner of the
nature and cause of the accusation against him, and his
trial thereon would deprive him of his constitutional right
in that behalf. The writ of certiorari was issued as
prayed, return was made setting forth the information
and a memorandum of the proceedings thereon, and afterwards a motion was made in the supreme court by the
United States attorney, in the name of the respondent,
to quash the writ because the police court had jurisdiction
and had assumed jurisdiction of the cause of action involved in the information. Upon consideration the supreme court granted this motion, petitioner appealed to
the court of appeals of the District, that court affirmed
the judgment of the supreme court (43 App. D. C. 44),
and to review the judgment of affirmance the present writ
of error was sued out.
At the threshold we axe confronted with the question
whether we have jurisdiction to proceed under the latter
writ. If we have, it must irise under § 250, judicial Code
(Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1159), which,
so far as need be quoted, runs as follows: "Any final judgment or decree of the court of appeals of the District of
Columbia may be refxamined and affirmed, reversed or
modified by the Supreme Court of the United -States,
upon writ of error or appeal in the following cases:"
specifying, among others, "cases in which the jurisdiction
of the trial court is in issue," and " cases in which the construction of any law of the United States is drawn in
question by the defendant;" and then proceeding: "Except as provided in the next succeeding section,, the
judgments and decrees of said court of appeals shall be
final in all cases arising under the patent laws, the copyright laws, the revenue laws, the criminal laws, and in
admiralty cases." The succeeding section confers upon
this court the discretionary power to review, by certiorari

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

or otherwise, judgments and decrees of the court of appeals otherwise made final by § 250.
Our jurisdiction is invoked upon the ground that the
police- court has-not jurisdiction to try the information,
and. that the construction of the Food and Drugs Act, a
law of the United States, is drawn in question by plaintiff
in error, who was defendant below. The motion to
dismiss is based upon the twofold ground that the case
is One arising under the criminal laws, and that the.judg*ment of the court of appeals is not a final judgment within
the meaning of the opening words of § 250. If the case is
one so arising, or if the judgment is not final, the fact that
the jurisdiction of the police court, or the construction of
a law of the United States, is in question, will not give us
jurisdiction. Chott v. Ewing, 237 .U. S. 197, -201; see
McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661. It is conceded by petitioner
that the information in the police court presents a case
arising under'the criminal laws within the meaning of the
sebtion, and that this has not proceeded"to final judgment;
the response to the niotion to- dismiss being that the
proceeding by certiorari in the supreme court of the
District was a separate and independent proceeding, not
arising under the criminal laws, and that this has been
finally concluded by the affirmance in the court of appeals
of the judgment of the supreme court, leaving nothing
to be done except the issuing of execution for costs.
Whether it was A separate and independent proceedi.g
must be'determined by a consideration of the nature an?
office of the writ of certiorari, as employed in this case,
and its relation to the crininal proceeding.
The only provision of the District of Columbia Code
respecting this form of writ is in § 68 (Act of March 3,
1901, c. 854, 31 Stat. 1189, 1200), which provides:. "The
said supreme court may, in its appropriate special terms,
issue writs of quo warranto, mandamus, prohibition, scire
facias, certiorari, injunction, prohibitory dnd mandatory,

HARTRANPT v. MULLOWNY.
295.

299

Opinion of the Court.

ne exeat, and all other writs known in common law and
equity practice that may be necessary to the effectiv6
exercise of its jurisdiction." Act of March 3, 1901, c. 854,
31 Stat. 1189, 1200.
Certiorari always has been recognized in the District as
an appropriate process for reviewing the proceedings 6f- a
subordinate tribunal when it has proceedd, or is proceeding, to judgment without lawful juris'diction. Kennedy
v. Gorman, 4 Cranch C. C. 347; Fed. Cas. No. 7702; Bates
v.- District of Columbia, 1 Mac A. 433, 449. And the
power to employ the writ inheres in the'supreme court of'
the District as possessing a general common law jurisdiction and supervisory control over. inferior tribunals,
analogous to that of the king's bench. United States v.
West, 34 App. D. C. 12, 17. The court of ajipeals, in a recent case, declared: "There is no statute prescribing the
function of, or regulating the procedure by, certiorari in
the District of Columbia, hence we must look, therefor,
to the common law. The writ lies to inferior courts and
to special tribunals exercising judicial or quasi judicial
functions, to bring their proceedings into the superior
court, where they may be reviewed and quashed if it be
made plainly to appear that such inferior court or special'
tribunal had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, or had
exceeded its jurisdiction, or had deprived a'party of a
right or imposed a burden upon him or his property;
without due process of law." Degge -v. Hitchcock, 35
App. D. C._218, 226; affined 229 U. S. 162; 170.
At the common law certiorari was one of the prerogative. or discretionary writs by which the 'court pf king's
bench exercised its supervisory authority over inferior
-tribunals, and it was employed in Three classes of cases,
among others, viz.: (1) to bring up an indictment or
presentment before trial jnorder to pass upon its validity,
to take cognizance of&-ecial matters bearing ulpon it,
or to assure an impartial trial; if the accused was in cus-

_300

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion'of the Court.

247 U. S.

tody, it was usual to employ a habeas corpus as -a companion writ; (2) asa quasi writ of error to review judgiments of inferior courts of civil or of criminal jurisdiction,
especially those proceeding otherwise than according to the
course of the common'law-and therefore not subject to
:review by the ordinary writ of error; and (3) as an auxiliary writ in aid of a writ of error, to bring up outbranches
of the record or other matters omitted from the return.
The first of these functions is the one that now concerns
us. Blackstone refers to it in these terms: "Thus much
for process to bring in the offender after -indictment
found; during which stage of the prosecution it is, that
writs of certiorari facias axe usually had, though they
may-be had at any time before .trial, to certify and re,move the indictment, with all the proceedings thereon,
from any inferior -court of criminal jurisdiction into the
court of king's bench; which is the sovereign ordinary
court of justice in causes criminal. And this is frequently
done for one of these four purposes; either, 1. To con'sider and determine the validity of appeals or indictments
and the proceedings thereon; and to quash or confirm
them as there is cause: or, 2. Where it is- surmised that a
partial or insufficient trial will probably be had in the
court below, the indictment is removed, in order to have
the prisoner or defendant tried at the bar of the court of
king's bench, or before the justices of nisi prius: or,
3. It is so removed, in order to plead the king's pardon
there: or, 4. To issue process of outlawry against the
offender, in those counties or places where the process of
the inferior judges will not reach him. Such writ of
certiorari, when issued and delivered to the inferior
-court for removing any record or other -proceeding,
as well upon indictment as otherwise, supersedes the
jurisdiction of such inferior court, and makes all subsequent proceedings Aherein entirely 'erroneous and illegal;
-unl.e, the coux, ot king's bench remands the record to

HARTRANFT .v. MULLOWNY.
295.

301.

Opinion of the Court.

the court below, to be there tried and determined."
4 Black. Com. 320, 321. 'Tothe same effect is 2 Hale
P. C. 210i where the learned commentator further says:
"If there be an indictment to be removed and the party
b in oustody, it is usual to have an habeas corpls to
remove the prisoner, and a certiorari to remove the
record, for as the certiorarialone removes not the body,
so the habeas corpus alone removes not the record itself,
but only the prisoner, with the cause of his commitment,"
etc. See, also Fitz. Nat. Brev. 245; Bacon's Abr., tit.
Certiorari (A); Harris v. Barber, 129 .U.S. 366, 369.1
. The function of the writ of certiorari, when thus issued
prior to judgment, 'being simply to remove the record and
proceedings into the superior court, to the end that
justice may there be done, by quashing the indictment
or information, by proceeding to trial upon it or otherwise as the circumstances of the case may require, it is
obvious that it merely brings into play a supervisory
jurisdiction, ivithout changing the nature of the case that
is to be heard and determined;' that a decision by the
'The use of the writ of certiorari in conjunction with that of habeas
corpus has been a,familiar part of the appellate procedure of this court
from an em.ly period, under § 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20,
1 Stat. 73, 81; § 716, Rev. Stats.; § 262, Jiidi6ial Code; Ex parte Burford, 3 Cranch, 448; Ex parle Boilman and ;Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75,
101; Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, 103; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163,
166; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U.S. 62, 85. -It is obvious that this-use of the
certiorari is available before conviction, in a: proper case;
An analogous use of the writ, befor6 judgment in the court to which
it is addressed, arises under § 239 or § 251, Judicial Code (36 Stat.
1157, 1159), wherej upon questions of law being certified to us in any
case pending in a Circuit Court of Appeals or in the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia, this court may require that the whole
record and cause be sent up to it, and thereupon decide the whole
matter in controversy as if it had been brought here-by writ of error
or appeal. In such a case the record' is brought here by writ of certiorari, with the effect of submitting the cause to this court for decision
iiistead of to the court of appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

reviewing court adverse to the accused upon any pre;liminary matter, and without trial upon the merits,
followed by a remittitur to the court below, necessitates
further proceedings before that court from the point at
which they were interrupted by the allowance of the
writ; and that a judgment quashing the writ of certiorari
simply removes the obstacle that the writ interposed
in the. way of further proceedings in the court of first
instance, so that a procedendo follows as a matter of course.
And so are the authorities. "If an indictment be removed
after issue joined and, remanded, the inferior court shall
proceed as' if no certiorari had been granted . ..
(IR',is true, that while it. continues on the file, the court
cannot award a procedendo. But it may be taken off the
file, if it have issued improvide; and when that is done, a
procedendo will be.granted.)" Bac. Abr., tit. Certiorari
(K), citing Rex v. Wakefield, 1 Burr. 485, 488; Rex v.
(Jiace, 4 Burr. 2456, 2459; Rex v. Miclethwayte, 4- Burr.
2522. And see Com. Dig., tit. Certiorari (G), citing
-Anonymous, 1 Salk. 144, to the effect that if a certiorari-be
granted to remove an indictment and the cause suggested
should afterwards appear false, a procedendo should be
awarded. See, also, Kennedy v. Gorman, 4 Cranch C. C.
347, 348; Fed. Cas. No. 7702.
The record in the present case shows that from beginning to end it.
was recognized that the writ of certiorari
was a mere method of removing the information and the
proceedings thereon from the police court into the supreme
court, for purposes of review; that it was not a new or
independent cause, but a mere step in the pending
criminal case; so that when the supreme court reached the
conclision that the writ ought be quashed, the result
was merely to remove this obstacle in the way of the
* exercise by the police court of its jurisdiction, and that
the record ought to be remanded for further proceedings
.in that court. The prayer of the petitioner was "that

HARTRANFT v. MULLOWNY.
295.

Opinion of the Court.

the writ of certiorari may issue from this court to the
respondent, commanding him to certify to this court the
record and proceedings in the said cause so as aforesaid
instituted and pending against the petitioner, tothe end
that the same may be considered by this court, and that there
may be done in behalf thereof what of law and right ought
to be done in the 'premises." The writ issued in pursuance of this petition and addressed to the judge of the
police court, after reciting that there was "now pending
before you a suit between the United States and the
above-named petitioner, William A. Hartranfi," commanded the judge to send to the supreme coiirt "the
record and proceedings in the said cause, so that the said
Supreme Court may act therein as of right and according
to the laws and customs of the United States should be
done." And the judgment of. the supreme court. was
that the writ of certiorari be quashed and the petition
dismissed, and that the record be "remanded to'the Police
Court of the District of Columbia whence it came." Clearly,
this was an implied mandate for further proceedings in the
police court. The judgment for costs was but incidental.
The contention that the certiorari case in the supreme
court was independent of the proceeding in the police court
because the two cases bore different titles is without
weight, The writ ran from the President of the United
States to the judge by name, not in his personal but in
his official capacity, as being in contemplation of law the
custodian of the record (see State v. Howell, 24 N. J. L.
519; Kirkpatrick v. Commissioners, 42 N. J. L. 510;
Hutchinson v. Rowan, 57 N. J. L. 530); but the substance
of it was a command that the record of the cause pending
in the police court be removed into the supreme court
for its consideration; and the execution. of the writ did
not change the nature of the cause but merely transferred
it to a different court.
There is a'singular and fatal inconsistency between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Op'.ionof the Court-,

247 U. S.

grounds on which plaintiff in error invokes our jurisdiction
and the ground on, which he endeavors to maintain it.
He comes saying, in 6ider, to bring himself within § 250,
Judicial Code, that Mn' this case (a), the jurisdiction of
the trial court is in issue, and (b) the construction of a
law of the United States was drawn in question by himself
as defendant. But, in resisting the objection that the case
is one arising under the criminal laws and the judgment
is
not final, he is obliged to take refuge in the theory that the
certiorari proceeding was separate and.independent from
the police -courtproceeding. This, if granted, would leave
him without a footing here, because in the certiorari
proceeding the supreme court was the "trial court," and
its jurisdiction was not and is not in issue; and in that
proceeding he was prosecutor, or plaintiff, not defendant,
and it does not appear that the construction of any law
of the United States was there drawn in question by defendant in error, who was defendant if the proceeding was
an independent one. There is no escape from the dilemma.
From what has been said it results that the decision of
the supreme court was a decision in a case arising under the
criminal laws; and, since it required further proceedings in
the police court before the merits of the case could be
deterinined, it was not a final judgment within the meaning of the opening words of § 250, Judicial Code. By
§ 226 of the District of Columbia Code, the court of appeals may review interlocutory orders of the supreme
court, as well as final judgments; but it is unnecessary to
say that if the judgment reviewed was interlocutory, so
is the judgment affirming it. Were we to review and
affirm the latter judgment, a trial upon the merits in the
police court would still be necessary. The bearing of this
is manifest. MacfarZandv. Browm, 187 U. S. 239, 246.
Two cases very much in point are to be found in the
reports-of New Jersey; both being decisions of the court

HARTRANFT v. MULLOWNY.
295.

Opinion of the Court.

of last resort. To show their pertinency, it should-be
premised that in that State the jurisdiction and practice
of the supreme court are modeled after those of the king's
bench, and there is a review of its decisions by the court
of errors and appeals (as in the house of lords), but only
after final judgment. The practice of employing the
writ of certiorari for the removal of an indictment or
presentment before trial from the court of first instance
into the supreme court has been recognized from. the
beginning, and regulated by statutes not departing essentially from the common-law practice. Act of February 6,
1799, Paterson's Laws, p. 350; Rev. Stats. 1847, p. 983;
Gen. Stats. 1895, p. 367; P. L. 1903, p. 343; 1 Comp.
Stats. (1910), p. 402. Upon the removal of an indictment
into the supreme court by this process, if that court
determines that the indictment is not sufficient in law,
the person indicted is discharged; but if it is found sufficient, the court may in its discretion retain it to be
caried down for trial before the proper circuit court, or
may order it returned to the court from which it was
removed, there to be proceeded with in the same manner
as if the writ had not been allowed. It is a common
practice to use this writ in order to obtain the judgment
of the supreme court upon the validity of an indictment,
before trial. Sailer v. State, 16 N. J. L. 357; State v.
Powder Mfg. Co., 50 N. J. L. 75; State v. New Jersey
Jockey Club, 52 N. J. L. 493; State v. Nug'nt, 77 N. J. L.
157; State v. Kelsey, 80 N. J. L. 641. Such being the
practice, in Parks v. State, 62 N. J. L. 664, the return to a
writ of error issued out of the court of errors and appeals
to the supreme court disclosed that the latter court,
by certiorari to the sessions, had removed an indictment
and entertained and denied a mhotion to quash it, and
ordered the record to be remitted to the sessions to be
proceeded in according to la*r. A motion having been
made to dismiss the writ of error, the court, speaking by

.306

OCTOBER TERM, 1917.
Opinion of the Court.

247 U. S.

Chief Justice Magie, said: "When the Supreme. Court,
by virtue of its superintending power over inferior courts,
brings, by certiorari, into it the proceedings of an inferior
court upon an indictment, it has the option, at its discretion, to retain the cause and proceed to a final disposition of the issues presented, or to remit the proceedings to the inferior court. Gen. Stat. 368. Had the Supreme Court retained the cause now before us, it is obvious that no final judgment could have been reached
until the accused had been convicted and sentenced or
acquitted and discharged by that court. It is eqaally
plain that, after the exercise of its option of remitting the
proceedings to the sessions, no -IinaIjudgment in the cause
could have been reached until a similar result had been
reached in that court. A certiorari in such cases is not the
bistitution of anew suit, nor does it bring in question any
final judgment. The result is that this writ was prematurely issued and must be dismissed." To the same effect
is State v. Kelsey, 82 N. J. L. 542.
For both reasons, that the-case is one arising under the
criminal laws and that the judgment is not final, we have
no jurisdiction under § 250, Judicial Code, and the writ
of error must be and is
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTIcE McREYNonUs took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

