OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

California and Indiana under similar statutes, from one of
which the present statute of Arizona would seem to have been
taken. Payne v Treadwell, 16 California, 220, 242-247,
Stathan v -Duoy,11 Pacific Reporter, 606, feeser v .Miller,
19 Pacific Reporter, 375, Jefferson &o. I.ailroadv Oyler, 60
Indiana, 383, 392, Tritthpo v _lorgan, 99 Indiana, 269.
The result is, that the complaint in this case is sufficient to
authorize the court to determine the claim of the defendants
and the title of the plaintiff, and also, if the facts proved at
the hearing shall justify it, to grant an injunction or other
equitable relief.
Judgment reversed, and ease remanded to the Supreme Court
of A-izona, wzth directions to overrule the demurrer to t]te
complaint, and to take suchfurther proceedings as may be
consistent with this opinion.

PATTEE PLOW COMPANY v. KIN\GMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 88. Argued November 16, 10, 1888.-Decided February 4, 1889.

The second claim of reissued letters patent No. 6080, granted to James H.
lattee, October 6, 1874, for improvements in cultivators, changes the first
claim of the original patent, (1), by omitting the plates B, and (2) by
the addition of the direct draft; and thus substantially enlarges the
invention, and consequently is invalid.
The machines manufactured by the defendants do not infringe letters patent No. 174,684, granted to Thomas W Kendall, March 14, 1876, for improvements in cultivators.
Letters patent No. 187,899, granted to Henry H. Pattee, February 27 1877
for improvements in cultivators, embrace nothing that is not old, and
nothing that is patentable, -that is, which involves invention rather
than mechanical skill.

IN EQUITY for the infringement of letters patent.
dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed.

Decree

PATTEE PLOW CO. v. KINGMAN.
Opion of the Court.

Mi John R. Bennett for appellant.
. Z. I. Bond for appellees.
him on the brief.

.X,

. A. West was with

M . CHIEF JuSTICE FULLER. delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, dismissing
appellant's bill of complaint.
The bill charges appellees with infringement of the second
claun of reissued letters patent No. 6080, dated October 6, 1874,
which is a reissue of original patent No. 124-218, to J H. Pattee, dated March 5, 1872, of the first and second claims of
original patent No. 174,684, granted Thomas W Kendall,
March 14, 1876, and of original patent No. 187,899, granted
Henry H. Pattee, February 27, 1877, all for improvements in
cultivators.
Appellee is an Illinois corporation, having a branch house in
St. Louis, selling, among other things, cultivators manufactured
by B. D. Buford &. Co., at Rock Island, Illinois, which are the
alleged infringing machines.
The opinion of the Circuit Court was as follows
"Reissued patent 6080, of 1874, second claim of which is
under consideration, has, as to that claim, expanded the origmal beyond legal limits. Therefore, said reissued patent is
void, to the extent claimed, wherein the defendant is alleged
to have infringed. Second, as to the Kendall patent No.
174,684, there is no infringement. Third, as to the Pattee
patent of 1877, No. 187,899, said patent is void, there being
no novelty of invention therein that is patentable."
The second specification of the original Pattee patent No.
124,218, states that the invention consists "in pivoting the
wheels to the axle in such manner that the wheels may either
one be advanced forward of the other, throwing the axle diagonal with the line of progression, while the wheels preserve the
same relative position to the said line of progression."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The second specification of the reissue reads as follows

"It

consists in hngmg the ends of the axle to _plates, to which the
draft antmals are attached, and whuih are supported on wheels
in such manner that the wheels are retcanedin the line of progresston of the machne by the draft of the animals, and may

either one be advanced forward of the other, throwing the
axle diagonal with the line of progression, while the wheels
preserve the same relative position to the said line of progression."
The fourth specification of the original is "It consists in
the peculiar construction of the hitching device, allowing the
draft animals to advance or recede, the one ahead or in the
rear of the other, without influencing the plow-beams to the
extent of the variation made by the said animals, all as hereinafter fully described."
The sixth specification of the reissue is "It consists in the
arrangementof a hitching device wdh the draft-plates, which
allow the draft animals to advance or recede, the one ahead or
in rear of the other, without influencing the plow-beams to the
extent of the variation made by the said animals, all as hereinafter fully described."
The description of the accompanying drawings is given in
the original and in the reissue, thus:
O2gVnal.
"A is the axle, bowed or
elevated at its central part.
B B are plates secured to the
ends of the axle A. The ends
of the plates B B are turned
outward, forming snugs b b b b.
bi bi are snugs projecting inward from the plates B B.
C ( are triangular-shaped
draft-plates, from which project snugs c c cec, corresponding with the snugs b b b b. D
D are pins or bolts, passing

Ressue.

"A represents the axle,
formed as shown in the drawings, of an elevated central
part A, vertical side portions
A' A', and horzzontal projec
tons a a, from each of the

vertical side portions Ai B
B are draft-plates, with projecting forward ends b, to
which the draft animals may
be attached direct or by any

suitable device, and with an
enlarged rear end, from which

PATTEE PLOW CO. v. KINGIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

through holes in the snugs c o
and b b,and thereby pivoting
the plates 0 0 to the axle A.
E E are the wheels. F F are
the wheel-spindles, their inner
ends shouldered, threaded, and
secured in slots o e in the lower
ends of the plates .C 0 by nuts
G G are eveners, pivoted
ff
near their centres in the forward ends of the plates 0 0.
H H are bars, their forward
ends pivoted to the inner ends
of the eveners G G, and their
rearward ends pivoted to the
snugs l P?b I I are hooks on
the outer ends of the eveners
G G, to which the draft animals are attached."

project lugs bl bl, corresponding with the projectons a a of
the axle A, to which they are
hinged by vertical bolts 0, as
plainly shown in the drawings.
D D are the supporting wheels.
E E are the wheel-spindles,
their inner ends shouldered,
threaded, and secured in slots
e in the lower ends of the
plates B by nuts a1 G G
are eveners, pivoted near their
centres in the forward ends of
the plates B. Hl El are bars,
their forward ends pivoted to
the inner ends of the eveners
G G, and their rearward ends
pivoted to lugs a' ai, which
project inwardly from the vertical parts A1 of the axle. I I
are hooks on the outer ends of
the eveners G G, to which the
draft anmals are attached."

From this on, the original and reissue specifications are substantially alike, the description of figure 1 of the reissue closing with the words, "It will be evident that the draft-plates B
support and give direction to the course of the wheels, while
the wheels in turn serve to support them."
The first claim of the original is for- "The axle A, having
plates B hinged to the wheel-spindle plates 0, so that the
wheels are retained in the line of progression when one is in
advance of the other, as set forth."
The second clam of the reissue is for "The axle A, hinged
to the wheel-spindle or draft-plates B B, so that the wheels are
retained in the line of progression y h Jiraft of the a.mal8,
when one is in advance of the other, substantially as described,
and for the purpose specified."

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opimon of the Court.

The third claim of the original is: "The evener-bars G G and
bars H 1, when combined and arranged to operate with the
hinged axle A, plates 0, and wheels E E, substantially as and
for the purpose specified."
And the sixth claim of the reissue: "The evener-bars G and
bars H, combined and arranged to operate with the hinged
axle A, plates B, and wheels D, substantially as and for the
purpose specified."
That purpose is stated m the second claim to be the retaining of the wheels "in the line of progression by the draft of
the animals, when one is in advance of the other," and as this
purpose can only be accomplished by the aid of the evenerbars G G and bars Hl H, that is, not by the combination of the
second claim alone, but only by carrying into it the eveners
and bars of the sixth claim, it follows that the latter must be
brought into the former by intendment.
In the original patent the mode of attachment of the team
to the cultivator is stated to be by the hooks I I "on the outer
ends of the eveners G G, to which the draft animals are attached," while the reissue patent contains these words "B B
are draft-plates, with projecting forward ends b, to which the
draft animals may be attached direct, or by any suitable
device."

An examination of the machine discloses that the wheels
are kept in the line of progression by the eveners G G and
their connection, and when they are dispensed with, and the
hitch made direct, the wheels follow the animals and may get
out of the line of progression.
As it is admitted that if the eveners are elements of the
second claim, the effect of their omission and of hitching
directly to the draft-plates instead of to the eveners would be
to enlarge the claim, and as in our judgment this is precisely
what was done, the reissue must be held to have been illegally
expanded.
It may also be observed that the connecting bow in the
original patent, called an axle, consists of a central curved
portion with a plate attached to each end, and two spindleplates, a combination of five parts. In the reissue the axle

PATTEE PLOW CO. v. KINGMAN.
Opmlon of the Court.

and side-plates are treated as one part, making with the two
spindle draft-plates three parts. There is, therefore, an omission in the latter combination, which tends, by reducing the
number of elements, to render its scope less narrow than that
of the original.
As we have seen, the original first claim was for "the axle
A, hav-ing plates B, hinged to the wheel-spindle plates C, so
that the wheels are retained in the line of progression when
one is in advance of the other, as set forth."
The second claim of the reissue is for "the axle A hinged to
the wheel-spindle or draft-plates B B, so that the wheels are
retained in the line of progression by the d'aft of the ansmals
when one is in advance of the other, substantially as described,
and for the purpose specified."
The axle, having plates as described hinged to wheel-spindle
plates, is not identical with an axle omitting the first-named
plates, or having them so affixed as to become a constituent
part thereof. The omission of the plates B and the addition
of the direct draft are significant and material changes, and it
is well settled that a reissue can only be granted for the same
invention intended to be embraced by the original patent, and
the specification cannot be substantially changed, either by
the addition of new matter or the omission of important
particulars, so as to enlarge the invention as intended to be
originally claimed.
Passing to the question of infringement, it will be found
that when the extent of the invention is determined, as it
must be, by reference to the state of the art, the appellee's
machine does not infringe in respect to those parts of the
claim which can be held to have been unanticipated. It is
alleged m the bill that in Pattee v. Moline Plow Company,
in the United States Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, the court sustained the validity of said reissued letters
patent No. 6080. Upon referring to that case (10 Bissell, 377
and 9 Fed. Rep. 821) we find that Judge Blodgett held "From
the proof in this case it is quite clear to me that Pattee was
not the first to conceive and embody in a working machine
the idea of a tongueless straddle-row cultivator. The first

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

machine shown in the proof which embodies this idea is that
patented by Isaac Constant, in November, 1851. It is a
tongueless straddle-row cultivator, with all the elements for a
working machine of that description, and so arranged as to
be what may be called in this art self-sustaining, that is, it will
stand upon its own supports. This was also done by Arnton
Smith in January, 1855, by Whitely in 1860 to 1865, by E.
W Yangundy in February, 1864, by Pratt in October, 1864
and by Adam Young in November, 1866. All these show
cultivators constructed without a tongue, with two plow-beams
held together by a yoke, each plow drawn by its own draft
animal and operating independently of the other."
The Constant patent here referred to is in this record and
shows a tongueless cultivator, in which the inside beams move
vertically and laterally, independent of each other, and each
draft animal is hitched to its own side, while the side supports
are beams to which two cultivator shovels are applied.
The Smith machine is a tongueless cultivator, in which two
mold-board plows are connected together by a bar in front,
not arched up in the centre. A horse is to be attached to
each plow, and the coupling so made as to allow an independent motion.
Of the Pratt patent Judge Blodgett says that Pattee's
arched and jointed axle is fully anticipated by it in form
of construction, function and mode of operation. This Pratt
patent shows a flexible, parallel, tongueless cultivator, in which
each horse pulls his own side of the machine.
The patent to William Tasker of 1859 has an axle hinged
to draft or spindle arms, having projecting bars so coupled
that the wheels are retained in the line of progression by the
draft of the animals. Tasker's fifth claim is "The connecting
of the wheel stumps to a vertical spindle or spindles, capable
of turning freely in vertical collar bearings or sockets, as hereinbefore described." The description as to this part of his
machine is thus "I J are adjustable stumps for carrying the
running wheels K K. These stumps pass through the overhanging lugs L L, formed at the top and bottom of each of
the round spindles _M M, which are contained in the vertical

PATTEE PLOW CO. v.

TNGMA-N.

Opnon of the Court.

sockets N N (one of which is shown in section in figure 3) of
the cast-iron frame C, and ai~e free to turn therein, thereby
enabling the stump of each wheel to swivel or lock round when
turning the plow, as shown by the dotted lines in figure 2."
If Pattee's claim were merely for a combination of an axle,
having an elevated central portion, with the wheel-spindles, so
that the draft of the team controls the direction of the wheels,
the Tasker patent anticipates it, but the combination differs
from that in the arrangement by which the evener-bars are
carried inwardly so as to connect with the arch or central
part of the axle, making the axle a part of the evener so combined, and thus maintaining the parallelism of the wheels.
Appellee's machine does not have "the wheel-spindles or
draft-plates" of the patent, nor the axle A with side-plates B,
but it uses the Pratt axle of 1864. Nor in appellee's machine
is the parallelism of the wheels maintained by the draft devices, nor are they retained in the line of progression by the
draft of the animals, but turn as the animals may pull. The
beam-frames of appellee's machine have nothing to do with
the wheel-spindle. The snugs of Pattee's have nothing to do
with the plow-beams. The differences are so great that interchangeability of the parts of the two machines would be
utterly out of the question.
In our judgment the reissue if valid, when limited to what
alone could be claimed -as new, is not infringed by appellee.
The first and second claims of the Kendall patent No.
174,684 are as follows,
"1. The runners E, arranged to support the axle of a tongueless cultivator, with the plows D suspended therefrom, in manner substantially as described.
"2. The combination of the runners E, plows D, hook-rods
F, and axle A of a tongueless cultivator, substantially as and
for the purpose specified."
As stated on behalf of appellant,. "the second claim in said
patent is a claim for substantially the same combination as
recited in the first claim, but differently worded from the first
claim," and as the hang-up devices are necessary for the suspension of the plows, the two claims may be treated as one.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The invention is said in the specifications to consist of the
use of runners attached to the truck-frame or axle in such
manner that they will not interfere with the operations of the
machine when in use, and will act as supporting runners for
the axle when the rear ends of the plows are elevated and suspended thereon, and, second, in the combination of hooks or
rods for suspending the plows on the axle, with said axle and
plows.
The drawings show the axle, the wheels, the draft-plates,
and the plows of an ordinary cultivator of the tongueless
class. The runners, constituting as alleged the "main feature" of the improvement, are journaled on the outer ends of
the spindles of the wheels, midway their lengths, and their
forward ends curved inward, and secured to the draft-plates
by a threaded end and nut, while their rear ends are extended
backward and downward and curved in such position that
when the plows are in operation in the field and the axle upright, the rear ends of the runners will be above and free from
the surface of the ground, and when the rear ends of the plows
are elevated and suspended by any means from the axle, the
rear ends of the runners will rest upon the ground and support the axle from being pulled backward and downward.
In short, as in the machines with a tongue, the plows are
raised up and suspended from the tongue to keep them off the
ground, so in the tongueless machine the plows are raised up
and hooked on to the axle, and, to prevent their falling backward with the axle, runners are provided, connected with the
axle and the hitchmg-arm of the machine, which sustain the
axle when the plows are hooked on, but are themselves raised
from contact with the ground by the draft when the plows
are in use.
The runners are described as "journaled on the outer ends
of the spindles," but it is also stated that they "may be attached r gdly to any suitable part of the axle at one or more
points of attachment, and extend backward in the same manner as described.
These runners having the wheel-spindle or axle for their fixed
point of support, are necessarily rigid and unyielding, and work

PATTEE PLOW CO. v. KINGMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

automatically, their rear ends being raised by the pulling of the
team and lowered by the weight of the plow-beams when
placed on the hooks.
The rigidity of the runners and the resulting automatic
action are the essential characteristics of the patent, for
tongueless wheel cultivators with runners to keep the plows
off the ground were common and well known in the art when
it was issued.
It is contended by appellant that the true state of the art is
contained in the prior patents of Poling of 1872 and Robertson of 1875, and while many others are exhibited, an examination of these will, we think, sufficiently establish the conclusion just expressed.
Poling's patent is for a tongueless cultivator, provided with
runners, which are placed under the beams by hand, when the
plows are being transported, and which are taken out and carried on the beams when the plows are in operation.
Robertson's patent is for a tongueless cultivator, with draftplates, wheels and beams, and runners pivoted to the beams
near the axle, and arranged with set-screws to lock the plows
up and let them down. It is immaterial to the operation of
the runners whether they act directly on the plow-beams or
through the axle.
In appellee's machine the runner is arranged upon the end
of an arm which projects backward from the axle. When the
plows are in use the runner is turned up out of the way
When the runners are used the plows are raised and the runners prevented from turning up by a catch on the arm.
This machine does not contain runners constructed as the
Kendall runners are, in the rigid form, and operated by the
draft of the team to keep them off, or by the weight of the
plows to keep them onthe ground, and so lacks the distinctive
features of the Kendall patent.
It is not automatic, but requires manipulation every time
the use is changed.
When the runner is put in use its rear extensioii is turned
down by hand, and a locking-dog, hung within a slot in the
arm, turned into position. When the runner is not to be used,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

it must be moved so as to release the dog and permit it to be
thrown up, and the arm is then thrown upward and forward,
the dog being allowed to drop so as to afford a support for the
runner.
This jointed runner with a lock cannot be held to be the
Kendall rigid bar.
We agree with the Circuit Court that there is no infringeinent.
Patent No. 187,899 is described as being for a new and improved mode of constructing the arch or central and main part
of straddle-row cultivator beam-yokes or axles, and of connecting the side parts thereto, and the invention as consisting
"in constructing said arch of curved adjacent bars of iron or
steel, to the ends of which may be attached, by riveting, the
cast-iron parts for securing thereto the plows and wheels, and
which may be strengthened by the use of stiffening bolts."
The use of parallel bars is exceedingly common, and so far
as the attachment of the bars to the end plates is concerned
there is nothing new in that method.
The Burnham and Lathrop patent of 1866 shows a yoke
connecting the plow-beams together, made with two parallel
bars with end castings, put together with one bolt near the
rear ends of the beams instead of with two bolts at the front
ends, as in appellant's machine. The specification says
"The two frames G G are connected by an arched or semi-circular yoke llx, the ends of which are pivoted to bars I I, which
are secured on the tops of the plow frames G G by pivots e,
the bars being allowed to turn freely on the pivots e."
The Louden patent of 1876 has an arched axle of tubular
wrought iron, gas-pipe being stated to be very suitable, having
end castings attached rigidly or cast thereon.
Tlhe Barr patent of 1872, and the Miller patent of the same
year, show arched axles or beam-yokes of two or more parts.
The Perkins patent of the same year shows the beams
themselves made of parallel curved bars.
What is sought in all these patents is strength and lightness,
together with cheapness and durability, but they are simply
modes of construction. And that described in this patent

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. McALPINE.

305

Syllabus.

embraces nothing that is not old and really nothing that is
patentable, that is, which involves invention rather than
mechanical skill.
Upon the whole case we are satisfied with the conclusions
reached by the Circuit Court, and its decree is, therefore,
Affirmed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. XoALPIXE.
APPEAL FROM THE

cRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

No. 128. Argued December 14, 15,ISS8.-Decided January 28, 1889.

In October, 1874, irs. A. owned a tract of land consisting of four acres on
Kansas River in the town of Wyandotte, Kansas, called Ferry tract, and
the Kansas Pacific Railway Company owned a tract of 25. acres lying
north of Wyandotte.
In that year negotiations were opened between
her and the company for an exchange of 2?y
4 acres of the Ferry tract,
valued at $2000, for the 25.-acre tract, valued at $1500, Mrs. A. offering
to take for the difference in value a quarter section of land estimated at
$3 an acre. N~egotiations for the exchange were had between Mrs. Al.
and officers of that company. On February 26, 1878, the president of the
company informed its general superintendent, in substance, that the exchange would be made, and directed him to proceed with the matterThe superintendent turned the matter over to the attorney of the company, who acquainted Mrs. M. with the conclusion. She, considering the
proposition for an exchange of lands accepted, took possession of the251,- acre tract with her husband, and made valuable improvements upon
it, and has remained in possession ever since. The railway company,
who had previously been permitted to lay a track across the land for temporary use, took possession of the 2,V6 acres and made improvements.
thereon. In June, 1878, at a meeting of the directors of the company,
the president presented a form of deed to Mrs. M. of 251 acres in exchange for the 21% acres at the landing, and asked for instructions. It
was then resolved that an exchange of said lands be made and the deed
executed to Mrs. M. -wheneverthe land to'be conveyed by her was released
from a tax claim thereon. A deed from her and her husband of the
2ZUO acres, had previously been executed to the company and sent to its
officers. After tiiis resolution of the board, proceedings were taken by
her for the release of the tax claim mentioned in it, which was accomplished, under the advice of the attorney of the company, by purchasing
VOL. cxxiL-20

