OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

HANOVER FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY v. KINNEARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 1152.

Submitted January 7, 1889.-Decided January 21, 1889.

This writ of error is dismissed, the value of the matter m dispute being
insufficient to give jurisdiction, and the case not being one brought on
account of the deprivation or a right, privilege or immunity secured by
the Constitution of the United States, or of any right or privilege of
a citizen of the United States.
-MOTION TO DISMISS

for want of jurisdiction.

The case is

stated in the opinion.
.A& A. J Bentley, Hr John TF Deford and Hr W Zittlefield for the motion.
XP G W Cotterill, .M Samuel Shellabargerand Xr J X.
Wilson opposing.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLEP

delivered the opimon of the

court.
John Kinneard, Lucia M. Laird, W H. Williams, G. H.
Embry and Susan M. Phillips brought suit m the District
Court of Franklin County, Kansas, against the Phoenix Insur
ance Company of Brooklyn, N. Y., against the Western Insurance Company of Toronto, Canada, and against the Hanover
Fire Insurance Company and the Citizens' Fire Insurance
Company of New York, upon three several policies of insurance, for $2500 each, which three cases were transferred, in
October, 1886, on the ground of diverse citizenship, to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas,
where they discontinued as to Lucia M. Laird and G. H. Embry,
leaving as plaintiffs the defendants in error here. Upon the 12th
of December, 1887, the court ordered, the defendants severally

HANOVER INSURANCE CO. v. KINNEARD.

1717

Opinion of the Court.

objecting and excepting, that the cases be consolidated for
trial, and they were accordingly tried together, separate verdicts being returned m favor of the Phoenix Insurance Company, against the Western Insurance Company for $1847.88,
and against the H~anover and Citizens' Companies for $2067.32,
and judgments were severally rendered thereon. To reverse
the judgment against the latter this writ of error was prosecuted, which defendants m error now move to dismiss.
It is contended on behalf of plaintiffs m error that the three
cases were independent and different from each other, both as
to the grounds of action and as to the defences, the plaintiffs
only being the same and the losses occasioned by the same
fire, that the Circuit Court, in consolidating them, abused
the discretion reposed in it under ยง 921 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that "when causes of a like nature or
relative to the same question are pending before a court of
the United States or of any Territory, the court may make
such orders and rules concerning proceedings therein as may
be conformable to the usages of courts for avoiding unnecessary costs or delay in the administration of justice, and may
consolidate said causes when it appears reasonable to do so,"
and that thereby the plaintiffs in error were deprived of due
process of law, that is, of a trial by jury according to the
settled course of judicial proceedings in like cases.
But the action of the court in refusing plaintiffs in error a
separate trial is not open to review upon this writ of error,
since it appears that the value of the matter in dispute is
insufficient to give this court jurisdiction, nor can the writ
be maintained, as argued, under subdivision 4 of ยง 699, of
the Revised Statutes, because this judgment was not rendered
in a "case brought on account of the deprivation of any right,
privilege or immunity secured by the Constitution of the
United States, or of any right or privilege of a citizen of
the United States." Cogswell v .Fordyee, 128 U. S. 391.
The motion must be granted and the writ of errordismssed.
VOL. Cxxx-12

