CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
Statement of the Case.

inasmuch as it is the opinion of this court that there has
been no infringement of it in this case by the appellees. It is
satisfactorily shown by the evidence in the record that for
more than two years prior to the application for the patent in
question the appellees had been manufacturing, at their place
of business at Richmond, Virginia, garments identical in pattern with those that are now alleged to infringe appellant's
patent.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Aflmed.

CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

STATES FOR

No. 80. Argued November 14, 15, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.

When the decree of a court of equity, for the sale of a tract of land, requires
the sale to be made " upon the terms, cash in hand upon the day of sale,"
and a person bidding for it at the sale is the highest bidder, and as such
is duly declared to be the purchaser, no confirmation of the sale by the
court is necessary in order to fix liability upon him for tue deficiency
arising upon a resale, in case he refuses, without cause, to fulfil his contract; and, if the purchaser refuses to pay the amount bid, the court,
without confirming the sale, may order the tract to be resold, and that
the purchaser shall pay the expenses arising from the non-completion of
the purchase, the application and the resale, and also any deficiency in
price in the resale.
When a purchaser at a sale of real estate, under a decree of a court of
equity, refuses, without cause, to make his bid good, he may be compelled to do so by rule or attachment issuing out of the court under
whose decree the sale was had, or he may be proceeded against in the
same suit by rule, (or in any other mode devised by the court, which will
enable him to meet the issue as to his liability,) in order to make him
liable for a deficiency resulting from a resale caused by Ins refusal to
make Is bid good.

Tim court stated the case as follows
This is an appeal from a final order in the suit, in the court
below, of -Mayew, &c. v West Virgmta Oil and Oil Land

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Company, &c., requiring the appellant Camden to pay the difference between the amount bid by him for certam real estate
offered for sale, at public auction, under the decree in that suit,
and the amount the same property brought on a resale had
because of his refusal to comply with the terms of his bid. In
the order of resale the court reserved, for future determination,
the question as to his liability for any deficiency in the amount
the property might bring.
The history of the proceedings out of which the present
appeal arises, so far as it is necessary to be stated, is as follows
By a decree rendered, November 1', 1883, in the above suit,
it was adjudged that the West Virginia Oil and Oil Land
Company was indebted, in specified amounts, to various creditors, who were entitled to be paid out of the property in question, according to certain priorities, and that upon its failure
to pay them, within a prescribed time, the property should be
sold at public auction, "upon the terms cash n hand on the
day of sale." The decree shows that William D. Thompson,
Richard A. Storrs, and Reman Loomis held debts that were to
be first paid, equally and ratably, out of the proceeds of sale.
The other debts, made liens upon the property by the decree,
were held by James I. Carrington, A. C. Worth, W H=. Beach,
the Toledo National Bank, R. S. Blair, Benjamin B. Valentine
and Reman Loomis.
Before the property was offered for sale, a writing was prepared purporting m its caption to be an " agreement made this
day of November, 1883, between J N. Camden, J H.
Carrington, W IH. Beach, A. C. Worth, Toledo National Bank,
R. S. Blair, B. B. Valentine and Heman Loomis." It provided,
among other things, that Camden should purchase the property, when sold under the decree, for the mutual benefit of
"the parties hereto," if it sold for a sum not exceeding the
aggregate amount of the claims against it, including interest
and costs, that if he bought, he should, as agent and trustee
of the parties, apply their claims in payment of the purchase
money required at the sale, and place on record, a declaration
of trust showing that the property was held by him in trust

-CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
Statement of the Case.

for the payment of said debts, but that it should belong to
him, in fee simple, when he paid them off, the rents, issues,
and profits thereof, after deducting necessary expenses, to be
applied by the trustee as follows
"11. The balance, if any, due to J N. Camden, assignee of
W D. Thompson, shall be fully paid. 2. Then forty per cent
of the proceeds of said property shall be paid to Heman
Loomis and sixty per cent thereof to the said Carrmgton,
Worth, Beach, Toledo iNational Bank, Blair and Valentine,
according to their rights and priorities, as fixed by the said
decree, as between the six parties last hamed, until they and
each of them are fully paid. 3. Then sixty per cent of said
proceeds shall be paid to said Carrmgton, so far as to reimburse and indemnify him such sums of money, if any, as he
may be held liable for as maker, acceptor, or mdorser of two
certain bills of exchange, for the payment of which the said
West Virgiia Oil and Oil Land Company is primarily liable,
one of which bills is supposed to be held by Marietta Arnold,
of Michigan, and is for the sum of $1500, and the other is held
by the National Bank of Commerce m New York, and is for
the sum of $2431.39. 4. After the payment of the foregoing
amounts the said property shall be held in trust for the payment of any balance due the said Heman Loomis until the
same is fully paid."
This writing was signed by all the parties named in its caption, except Beach and the Toledo National Bank.
It should be here stated that before any sale took place several judgment creditors of the West Virginia Oil and Oil Land
Company were allowed to intervene in the cause by petition,
each asserting a right to have his demand paid out of the
proceeds, some of them claiming priority over any creditor
whose debt had been specifically provided for by the decree.
On the 1st of May, 1881, the property was offered by commissioners for sale at public auction, and Charles 11. Shattuck
became the purchaser at the price of $163,000, although he
was at the time special receiver of the rents, profits and product arising therefrom. He was personally interested in his
bid to the extent of about $20,000. Who his associates were is

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

not disclosed by the record. The sale was duly reported, the
commissioners receiving from Shattuck on the day of sale the
entire amount bid by hin.
William P Thompson and Oliver H. Payne, with William -N.
Chancellor as their surety, having executed a bond conditioned
that if the property was resold they would bid the sum of
$173,000, and having deposited the sum of $10,000, as additional security, the court directed a resale, and required the
commissioners to return to the purchaser (which they did) the
moneys theretofore received from him.
The next sale occurred on the 1st day of October, 1884,
when Thompson and Payne, by Camden, acting as their agent,
bid the sum of $173,000. But Camden bid, in his own name,
the sum of $173,050, and, being the highest bidder, was
declared the purchaser. In their report of sale the commissioners state.
"The said Camden did not, and has not as yet, paid to your
commissioners the sum of money so bid and offered by lnm
for said property as aforesaid, or any part thereof, but when
your commissioners required the cash from said Camden, pursuant to the terms of said sale, he tendered to us a paper purporting to be a copy of a contract in writing made between
several of the creditors mentioned in said decree of the 17th
of November, 1883, authorizing the said Camden, as the agent
or trustee of the said creditors who signed said contract, to purchase the said property at any sale thereof that might be made
under said decree, and assigning to him the amounts decreed
in favor of each of said several creditors, for the purpose of
his using and applying the same in payment of the sums so
bid by him for said property Said copy of the contract, with
the paper thereto attached, signed by Heman Loomis, by B. I.
Ambler, his attorney, bearing date September 30, 1884, is
herewith filed. Said Camden also exhibited to your commissioners the original of the said contract from which the
copy hereto attached was made. Your commissioners declined
to receive the said contract in payment, in whole or in part,
of the purchase money so bid by said Camden for said property,
or to accept anything in payment thereof except lawful and

CAMDEN v. MAYtEW
Statement of the Case.

current money of the United States, and this the said Camden
has not as yet paid."
The "paper " here referred to was a letter from Loomis, in
which he notified Camden that the latter would be held liable
if he did not buy the property pursuant to the terms and conditions of the writing of November, 1883.
On the 6th of October, 1884, Camden filed his petition in
said suit, m which he states that it was distinctly agreed by
all whose names are mentioned in its caption, that he should, as
their agent, purchase the property, and that each of them did,
in person, or by their representatives, assent to that contract
and its. terms. He alleges "Your petitioner now discovers
that the paper was not actually signed by W H. Beach or by
said bank. He believes and charges that both are bound by
said agreement, though they did not sign the same, but to
avoid any vexatious litigation your petitioner is willing to pay,
if required by the court, the full amount of the claims of said
Beach and of said bank in cash. Your petitioner prays that,,
the premises being considered, he may be allowed to apply the
claims and debts adjudged by said decree in discharge of his
liability for the purchase money, that his compliance with the
terms of said contract may be considered and decreed a compliance with the terms of said sale, that the said contract
may be received m discharge of his bid, that the sale be confirmed, and that a deed be made to your petitioner for the
said property, and that the court will make such further order
or decree, and grant such other and general and further relief
in the premises as your honors may deem right, ai in equity
may be proper."
Exceptions were filed by Carrington, Worth, Beach. the
Toledo National Bank, Valentine and Blair to the report of
sale, and, on their motion, a rule was awarded against Camden
to show cause why he should not pay the sum of $1T3,050 bid
by him for the property, or why the sale should not be set
aside, and a resale had at his risk and cost. His petition above
referred to was accepted as his answer to that rule. After
answers filed by various creditors to Camden's petition, the
court, upon application of Thompson and Payne, made an

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

order cancelling their bond, and ordering that the ten thousand dollars, deposited in the registry of the court, be returned
to them, which was done. Subsequently a motion was made
by several creditors to set aside that order as having been
improperly procured and made, without notice to them.
The exceptions to the report of sale were sustained, the sale
set aside, and the commissioners directed to resell the property
at the cost of Camden for cash in accordance with the original
decree, and "if the said property shall be sold for a less sum
than one hundred and seventy-three thousand and fifty dollars,
the said bid of the said Camden, the court reserves for future
determination in this cause the question whether the said
Camden will be required to pay the deficiency"
The third sale occurred March 17, 1885, and the property
then brought only $119,100, Shattuck becoming the purchaser,
and paying that amount in cash to the commissioners. To
this sale certain creditors filed exceptions on the ground,
among others, that the amount bid was grossly inadequate.
In addition some of them filed petitions which Camden answered, whereby an issue was made as to the confirmation of
the last sale, and as to his liability for the deficiency Upon
these matters the parties took proof. The cause was heard
before Chief Justice Waite, when a final order was made June
6, 1885, reciting, among other things, that the court was of
opinion that, if the last sale was confirmed, Camden, by virtue
of his bid, was liable to pay the difference between the sum of
one hundred and seventy-three thousand and fifty dollars and
the amount, one hundred and nineteen thousand and one hundred dollars, bid by Shattuck, and all costs rendered necessary
by his failure to comply with the terms of sale, and that the
last sale to Shattuck should be confirmed, unless either Camden or Thompson and Payne would take the property at the
amounts of their respective bids.
The record shows that after announcing this opinion the
court offered Camden, who was then present, with his counsel,
the privilege of taking the property at the sum bid by him.
and of having his purchase confirmed, if he would pay in cash
the amount bid by him. This offer was refused, Camden

CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
Argument for Appellant.

declaring m open court that he would not take the property
unless the sale was confirmed on the basis of the alleged contract of November, 1883, between him and others. The court
then called on hun, as the agent of Thompson and Payne, to
elect for them whether they would take the property at the
sum he had bid for them, and pay the cash therefor, and he
thereupon declared that, while he had authority to make the
bid originally, he had not authority to make an election for
them under the offer now made. An order was, thereupon,
May 15, 1885, entered, vacating the order of the 3d day of
November, 1884, cancelling the bond of Thompson, Payne,
and Chancellor, confirming the last sale to Shattuck, and
directing the commissioners, by proper deed, to convey the
property to him.
It was further decreed that Camden pay into the registry of
the court, for the benefit of such of the parties to the suit or
other persons as might be entitled thereto, the sum of fiftythree thousand nine hundred and fifty (53,950) dollars, with
interest, and the costs rendered necessary by his failure to
comply with the terms of his bid in cash. Jfayhew v Test
Virgznza Oil and Oil Land Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 205. This is
the decree which is here for review upon Camden's appeal.
-Mr Attorney General (with whom was 2f1
on the brief) for appellant.

J B. Jackson

I. There can be no liability upon Camden for any deficiency
upon a resale of the property, because his bid for the property
at the sale made October 1, 1884, was only an offer to take
the property at the price bid, should the court receive his bid,
and conjfrm the sale. .Kable v. .Mitchell, 9 West Virginia, 517.
It is true, a rule was issued against Camden to show cause
why he should not pay the amount of his bid, and further, to
show cause why the sale should not be set aside. But it fully
appears by the Record that, upon the hearing of the rule, no
order or decree was entered accepting his bid. On the contrary, it does appear that the sale so made to him was set
aside, and as a consequence thereof his bid was rejected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

II. It is further submitted that it was error m the court to
issue the rule until the court had first confirmed the sale. In
Anonynous, 2 Ves. Jr. 335, decided 1'th June, 1794, Mr.
Richards moved that a person reported best purchaser should
complete his purchase and pay in his money on or before the
5th of July The report had been confirmed nis , and the
motion was occasioned by a doubt as to the practice whether
a purchaser can be quickened before the report is confirmed
absolutely
The Lord Chancellor said he felt a difficulty,
because, till confirmation, the purchaser is always liable to
have the biddings opened, till that, nonconstat,that he is the
purchaser. In the case under consideration the court did that
which the Lord Chancellor in the case cited said could not be
done. It was an endeavor to quicken the purchaser, to compel him to pay his money into court before confirmation.
This, we submit, was error. Confirmation is the judicial
sanction of the court. Until it takes place the bargain is
incomplete, and the sale confers no right. Busey v. fHardin,
2 B. 1\ on. 407, Blazr v Core, 20 West Virginia, 265, Core v
Strwzkler, 24 West Virginia, 696, RIichardson v Jones, 3 G.
& J 163, S. C 22 Am. Dec. 393.
The rule that the Master's report of a purchase must be
confirmed before the contract can be considered as binding
applies equallv to cases in which it is sought to compel a
purchaser to complete his purchase, as where it is sought to
enforce the contract against the vendor. As a preliminary
step, therefore, towards enforcing the completion of the contract, it is necessary to have the report confirmed. 2 Daniell
Ch. Pr. (5th Am. Ed.) *1281, Cooper v feyburm et al., 15
Grattan, 566.
The bidder, not being considered the purchaser until the
report is confirmed, is not liable to any loss by fire or otherwise, which may happen to the estate in the interim, nor is
he, until the confirmation of the report, compellable to complete his purchase. 1 Sugden Vendors & Purchasers, bottom
pp. 70-71 (7th Am. Ed.), Ew palrte .Minor,11 Yes. 559, Twzgg
v Fifeld, 13 Ves. 577.
The bid made by the purchaser at the sale must be con-

CAMDEN v. MAYHIEW
Argument for Appellant.

sidered as his offer to the court through its commissioners, and
in making it he agrees to be bound thereby if it is accepted

and approved by the court, it is discretionary with the court
whether it will accept the bid and conifim the sale, or set
it aside. -Marlngv Robrecht, 13 West Va. 440, 474, long v.
Willer, 29 Grattan, 347, 355.
In this proceeding Camden occupies an anomalous and tryng position. He is required to pay nearly fifty-four thousand
dollars and gets nothing to show for it. He has no title to
the property, and has no option to take it, as the title is in
another, and yet he must pay this large sum. This is not
regular by any means, but it quite reverses the well-recogmazed rule in orderly and consistent judicial proceedings. It
is directly at war with the doctrine as laid down in -the somewhat noted case of Williamson v Berry, 8 How 495, 545-546,
and it ignores the views expressed in Blossonm v Railroad C.,
3 Wall. 196, 207.
This court, in Stuart v Gay, 127 U S. 518, 527, gives full
sanction to the proposition here contended for in citing with
approbation authorities sustaining this position. See, also,
Carnpell v Gardner, 3 Stock. (11 NT. J Eq.) 423-425, S. C.
69 Am. Dec. 598, Conover v W'alling, 2 McCarter (15 N. J
Eq.) 173. The case from 3 Stockton, with citations, would
seem conclusive on the point.
After the report of sale by a .Master zs con)Frmed there are,
according to the English practice, three means of remedying the
failure of the purchaser to comply with the terms of sale. 1st.
If it appears that the purchase has been made by a person
unable to perform his contract, the parties interested in the
sale may, upon motion, obtain an order simply discharging
hin from his purchase, and directing the estate to be resold.
2d. If the purchaser is responsible the court will, if required,
make an order that he shall within a given time pay the
money into court, and if the purchaser, on being served
with the order, fails to obey it, his submission to it may be
enforced by attachment. 3d. Or an order wil be made for
the estate to be resold, and for the purchaser to pay the expenses arising from the non-completion of the purchase and
VOL.

cxxr-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opimon of the Court.

resale, and any deficiency in price arising under the second sale.
Lansdowm v -derton, 14: Ves. 512, Harding v Hlarding, 4
11yin. & Cr. 514, Anderson v Foulke, 2 Har. & Gill, 346,
Brasher v Cortlandt,2 Johns. Ch. 505, 2 Daniell Ch. Pr. ub?,
supra, Clarkson v Read, 15 Grattan, 288, 291, fill v. Hill,
58 Illinois, 239.
III. The decree directing the sale gave no day to the
purchaser to redeem. It is the invariable rule to give such
day in suits by mortgagee against mortgagor to foreclose
mortgage. Long v Weller, 29 Grattan, Olark v Reyburn,
8 Wall. pp. 318, 322-324. The same rule applies in judicial
sales. The contract is treated substantially as a contract
between the purchaser, on one side, and the court, as vendor,
on the other.
For these reasons, the decree appealed from should be
reversed.
.A& C. C. Cole and -Yr George Wadsworth for appellee.
Xrr W L. Cole was with them on the brief.
MR. JUSTCE HARLN,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

It is undoubtedly true that Camden's bid of one hundred
and seventy-three thousand and fifty dollars was, in legal
effect, only an offer to take property at that price, and
that the acceptance or rejection of that offer was within the
sound equitable discretion of the court, to be exercised with
due regard to the special circumstances of the case and to the
stability of judicial sales. M.ilwaukee Railroad Co. v Soutter,
5 Wall. 662, Williansorb v Dale, 3 Johns. Ch. 290, 292,
]fable v. litchell, 9 West Va. 492, 509, Core v Strwkler, 24
West Va. 689, 696, Busey v Hardin, 2 B. Mon. 407, 411,
Rlay's AjAeal, 51 Penn. St. 58, 61, Childress v Hurt, 2 Swan,
487, 489, Duncan v Dodd, 2 Paige, 99, 100, 101. It is further
contended that an acceptance of that offer could only have
been manifested by an order confirming the sale, and as no
such order was in fact made, that Camden could not be held

CAMDEN v. MAYttEW
Opinion of the Court.

liable for a deficiency arising upon a resale of the property
In support of this position his counsel cite 2 Daniell's Chancery Practice and Pleading, *1281, Cooper's 5th Am. ed., in
which it is said "The rule that the Mfaster's report of a purchase must be absolutely confirmed before the contract can
be considered as binding, applies equally to cases in which it
is sought to compel a purchaser to complete his purchase, as
where it is sought to enforce the contract against the vendor.
As a preliminary step, therefore, towards enforcing the completion of the contract, it is necessary to have the report confirmed." The present case, however, is not one in which it is
sought to compel the purchaser to complete his purchase. It
may be that if the court below had determined to hold Camden to his bid for the property, a necessary preliminary step
to that end would have been the formal confirmation of the
sale, and, perhaps, the tender of a deed, to be followed by an
order compelling him to pay the whole amount that he offered.
But it was not restricted to that particular mode of securing
the rights of the parties for whose benefit the property was
sold, for, upon appellant refusing to pay the amount bid, the
court, without confirming the sale by a formal order, could
have held him to his offer, and ordered a resale in the meantime at his risk, both in respect to the expenses of the resale
and any deficiency resulting therefrom. The latter course
was approved by Lord Cottenham in Hardingv Jcrding,4
IMyln. & Or. 514, and was in accordance with previous decisions.
Saunders v Gray, 4 Myln. & Or. 515, . 0., Gray v Gray, 1
Beavan, 199, Tanner v ]Radford, 4 Afyln. & Or.519. So in
Daniell's Chancery Pr. & P1. (vol. 2, *1282) "According,
however, to the present practice, a more complete remedy is
afforded against the purchaser refusing, without cause, to fulfil his contract, for the plaintiff may obtain an order for the
estate to be resold, and for the purchaser to pay as well the
expenses arising from the non-completion of the purchase,
the application, and the resale, as also any deficiency in price
arising upon the second sale."
In view of the terms of the decree of November 17,1883,
there is no ground for the contention that the confirmation of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
opinion of the Court.

the sale to Camden was necessary in order to fix liability on
him for the deficiency arising upon the resale. The decree expressly required that the sale should be made "upon the terms
cash in hand on the day of sale," thus practically making the
payment in cash on the day of sale of the sum bid a condition
precedent to the right of the purchaser to demand a confirmation of the sale. The commissioners appointed had no authority to accept from the purchaser anything but cash, nor could
they postpone payment of the sum offered beyond the day of
sale. They conformed in all respects to the terms of the decree, and Camden bid in his own name, without any previous
notice to them that he represented others in so bidding, or that
he desired or intended to use the debts of particular creditors
in making payment in whole or in part. His application to
the court, after the report of sale, that he be permitted to
complete his purchase by using the alleged "contract" of
November, 1883, was properly denied, for several reasons
Fi,'st,the writing of that date could not become a contract
binding upon those signing it until it was executed by all
whose names appear in its caption, Second, after the original
decree was passed, and before the first sale took place, judgment creditors, for whom the decree made no provision, inter
vened in the cause, claiming a lien upon the proceeds of any
sale that might be made, some of them asserting priority even
over the creditors named in the decree, Twi'd, the court was
not bound, in deference merely to the wishes of a part of the
creditors, to depart from the terms of sale, especially as the
creditors whose names appear in the alleged contract of November, 1883, did not, prior to the sale, ask such modification
of those terms as would enable them to use their claims in
purchasing and paying for the property
But if there was any ground to insist that a confirmation of
the sale was necessary before Camden could be made liable for
the deficiency resulting from the resale, all difficulty upon that
point was removed by the distinct offer made in open court,
to confirm the sale to him, upon his complying with the terms
thereof, by paying, in cash, the amount of his bid. This offer
having been refused, and the court having been thereby in-

CAMDEN v. MAYHEW
Opinion of the Court.

formed that he did not wish to complete the purchase according to the terms of the decree and of his bid, there was no
necessity to go through the form of confirming the sale to
him, and then, immediately, ordering a resale, at his risk and
cost, but, as we have seen, the court was at liberty, without
such formal confirmation, to order a resale, holding him
responsible for any deficiency resulting therefrom.
The only question that remains to be considered is whether
the liability of Camden for the deficiency in the price of the
property on the last sale ought to have been ascertained and
enforced by an original, independent suit. We are of opinion
that the mode adopted in the present case was entirely
,regular.
Where a purchaser refuses, without cause, to make Ins bid
good, he may be compelled to do so by rule or attachment
issuing out of the court under whose decree the sale is had.
It was so held in Blossom v Railroad Co., 1 Wall. 655, 656,
where it was said that a purchaser or bidder at a Master's sale
in chancery subjects himself quoadl hoc to the jurisdiction of the
court, and can be compelled to perform his agreement specifically In lansdown v -Elderton,14 Yes. 512, a motion that the
person reported to be the best bidder before the Master pay
within a given time the purchase money or stand committed,
was sustained by Lord Chancellor Eldon, who observed that
the purchaser could not be permitted to disobey an order, more
than any other person. That case was followed in Brasher v
Van Cortlandt, 2 Johns. Oh. 505, 506, where Chancellor Kent,
after observing, that the purchaser ought to be compelled to
complete the purchase, said "If no order of this kind could be
made, in this case, it would follow that not only the purchaser,
but the committee of the lunatic, would be permitted to baffle
the court, and sport with its decree.
I have no doubt
the court may, in its discretion, do it in every case where the
previous conditions of the sale have not given the purchaser
an alternative." See also Blossom v Railroad Co., 3 Wall.
196, 207, Smsth v Arnold, 5 M ason, 414, 420, Requa v Rea,
2 Paige, 339, 341, Cassamajor v Strode, 1 Sim. & St. 381,
Anderson v Foulke, 2 Har. & Gill, 346, 362, 373. If, as is

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

clear, the purchaser can be required, by rule or attachment, to
pay into court the entire sum bid by him and thus complete
his purchase, it is difficult to see why a bidder, sought to be
made liable for a deficiency resulting from a resale caused by
his refusal to make his bid good, may not be proceeded against
in the same suit by rule, or in any other mode devised by the
court that will enable him to meet the issue as to his liability
That issue in the present case was tried upon pleadings and
proof, and there is no pretence that the appellant had not full
opportunity to present his defence before the final order now
under review was made.
It is suggested by the learned counsel for the appellant that
his client occupies an anomalous position, being required to
pay a very large sum, without getting anything in return
therefor. It is only necessary to say that, even if the late
Chief Justice was mistaken in supposing that the appellant
was directly or indirectly interested in the last purchase by
Shattuck, his failure to obtain a conveyance of the property
was due entirely to his persistent refusal to comply with the
terms of his own bid, made with full knowledge of the terms
of sale.
Decree affrmed.

ARROWSMITH v. GLEASON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

THE NORTHERN
No. 133.

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued December 18, 1888.-

Decided January 14, 1889.

In the State of Ohio one freehold surety to a guardian's bond for the faithful discharge of his duties is sufficient, if he has enough property to
make the bond required by the statute good.
Arrowsmith v. Harmenng, 42 Ohio St. 259, followed as to the validity of the
sales attacked in these proceedings.
A guardian's bond executed by a surety upon condition that another surety
should be obtained is valid against third parties, m a collateral proceeding, although no such surety was obtained.
The other conditions of jurisdiction being satisfied, a Circuit Court of the
United States has jurisdiction in equity to set aside a sale of an infant's

