OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Syllabus.

a statement of the relation of landlord and tenant between
the parties. Now whether the proof came up to these aver
ments or not cannot be inquired into upon a writ of eertoraq.
Certzoram goes only to the jurisdiction. It does not go to any
errors of judgment that may have been committed by the
justice in the progress of the exercise of that jurisdiction."
The decisions cited at the bar, made under statutes requiring the proceedings to be commenced by affidavit of the facts
requisite to bring the case within the statutes, and giving no
appeal from the decision of the justice of the peace,' have no
application to this case.
Judgment qifrmed.

BANK OF FORT MADISON v. ALDEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 853.Submitted January 4,1889.-

Decided February 4, 189.

A stockholder in an insolvent corporation, who has paid his stock subscription in full by a transfer of a tract of land, in good faith, at an agreed
value, for the use of the company's business, is not liable in equity to a
creditor of the corporation who had knowledge of and assented to the
transaction at the time when it took place, solely upon the ground that
the land turned out to be of less value than was agreed upon.
The doctrine that the distribution of a trust fund of a corporation to the
individual stockholders upon their resolution does not deprive a creditor, not consenting thereto, of his right to compel the application of the
fund to the payment of the debts of the corporation, cannot be invoked
by a creditor who is a stockholder consenting to the distribution and
participating in the appropriation.
An indorsement of the note of a third party by one member of a partnership in the firm's name, by way of security to a bank, without the knowledge or consent of the other partner, cannot be enforced as a liability
against the estate of the latter after his decease.
N. Y. Rev Stat. pt. 3, c. 8, tit. 10- Hill v Stocking, 6 Hill, 314, Sims
v. Humphrey, 4 Demo, 185, People v. Matthews, 38 N. Y. 45- N. J. Stat.
March 4, 1847 Nixon's Digest (2d ed.) 422 Fowler v Roe, I Dutcher, (25
N. J. Law,) 549; Shepherd v. Sliker 2 Vroom, (31 N. J. Law,) 432.

FORT MADISON BANK v. ALDEN.
Opmion of the Court.

IN EQuiTY. Decree dismissing the bill, complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.

.3' Henry Strong and -Hr Theodore Seldon, for appellant,
cited. Wellman v Howard Coal and Iron Works, 19 Fed.
Rep. 51, Wood v Duramer, 3 Mason, 308, Fiske v Hills, 11
Bissell, 294, Bank of St. .Mary v. St. John, 25 Alabama, 566,
Bey v Simpson, 22 How 341, Good v .Martin,95 U. S. 90,
Bendey v Townsend, 109 U. S. 665, 667, Irwi v Williar,110
U. S. 499, MAason v Tiffany, 45 Illinois, 392, Doggett v Dill,
108 Illinois, 560, Walden v. Bodley, 14 Pet. 156, Rose v.
.Afynatt, 7 Yerger, 30, Maury v Lews, 10 Yerger, 115,
-McLaughlin v Dansel, 8 Dana, (Ky) 182, 184, Deatly v.
.Murjhy, 3 A. K. Marsh, 472, 474.
.Mr John P Wilson, for appellees, cited. Coit v. Gold
Amalgamating Co., 119 wU. S. 343, Foster v Goddard,I Black,
506, Carneal v Banks, 10 Wheat. 181, Simms v Guthrze, 9
Oranch, 19, Rubber Co. v Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 793, Des
.Moines Gas Co. v. West, 50 Iowa, 16, Terry v Anderson, 95
U. S. 628, 636, Singer v Carjpenter, 125 Illinois, 117.
Mm. JusTiE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The Bank of Fort Madison, the complainant below, the appellant here, is a corporation organized under the laws of Iowa.
The defendants are executors of the will of James S. Waterman, deceased, who, at the time of his death, was a citizen of
Illinois. The bank is a creditor of a corporation created under
the laws of Wisconsin, known as the Black River Lumber
Company, in the sum of $58,505.53, with interest from January, 1884. Waterman was a stockholder in the company, and
the present suit is brought upon the allegation that, at the
time of his decease, he was indebted to it m a large amount
for stock subscribed, which had been issued to him, but for
which he had never paid, except in lands not exceeding in
cash value forty per cent of the amount subscribed, and winch
lands have been reconveyed to him. The object of the suit is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to compel the executors to pay out of his estate the amount
of his alleged unpaid subscription, so far as may be necessary
for the satisfaction of the claim of the bank. In addition to
this, the complainant alleges an indebtedness of the estate of
Waterman upon a promissory note of the Lumber Company
to the amount of $10,000, which was indorsed by the firm of
Ketchum & Waterman, of which the deceased was a partner.
The court below decided against the claims of the bank and
dismissed the bill. From its decree the case is here on appeal.
It appears that on the 17th of October, 1879, five persons
residing at Fort Madison, Iowa, namely, Charles Brewster,
Joseph A. Smith, William H. Kretzinger, Samuel Atlee and
J C. Atlee, were the owners of a tract of "pine land" in Wisconsin, amounting to about 13,000 acres. At the same time
the firm of Ketchum & Waterman, consisting of Henry
Ketchum and Mvi.M. Ketchum and James S. Waterman, were
owners of a tract of similar land in that State, amounting to
about 30,000 acres, winch was subject to a mortgage for
$75,000. On that day, these eight persons entered into an
agreement in writing to form a corporation under the laws of
Wisconsin, to be designated the "Black River Lumber Company, for the manufacture and sale of lumber, logs, and timber," and such other business as might be included in its
charter, and to contribute and convey to a trustee or trustees,
for the benefit of the company, under certain restrictions, the
first tract mentioned, and 25,000 acres of the second tract.
The company was to assume and pay all the deferred instalments of the purchase money on this last tract as they matured,
and the Ketchums and Waterman were to advance the necessary funds to take up the notes given, which amounted to
$25,000, besides interest, and to receive the note of the company for the amount, payable, with eight per cent interest,
on or before July 1, 1880, which they were to hold as a lien
on the premises.
It was also agreed, by the same instrument, that the parties
residing at Fort Madison, owners of the 13,000-acre tract,
should have three-sevenths of the stock of the company, and
that the Ketchums and Waterman should have four-sevenths

FORT MADISON BANK v. ALDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

-such stock to be received by them in full payment for their
conveyances to the trustee. Each party was to receive stock
in proportion to his individual interest in the lands.
Pursuant to this agreement the Black River Lumber Company was, in November, 1879, incorporated under the laws of
Wisconsin -the capital stock being fixed at $437,500, divided
into, 4375 shares of $100 each. The parcels of land mentioned
above were conveyed by the respective owners to Joseph Al.
Beck, of Fort Madison, in trust for the company, upon certain conditions, and to the parties shares were issued as follows To James S. Waterman, 1250 shares, to H. Ketchum,
625 shares, to M. Ml. Ketchum, 625 shares, to J C. Atlee, 468
shares, to-S. Atlee, 469 shares, to Charles Brewster, 235
shares, to W H. Kretzinger, 468 shares, to Joseph A. Smith,
235 shares. No money was paid by any of the parties for the
stock, the land conveyed by them to the trustee being taken
in full payment of their respective shares.
As stated above, the tract held by the Ketchums and Waterman was subject to a mortgage of $75,000 of the purchase
money, and the trust upon which they conveyed the 25,000
acres to the trustee was, that upon the payment -of the said
purchase money and interest and the taxes thereon, he should
convey the lands to the Black River Lumber Company according to the conditions of the contract of October 17, 1879.
As no money was paid by the stockholders for their stock,
the company had no funds with which to commence business.
To meet this condition the contract of October 17, 1879, provided that the parties residing at Fort Madison should advance
from time to time, as the company might require funds, threefourths of $27,260.42, that is, the sum of 820,445.30, and take
the note of the Black River Lumber Company for the amount.
Upon this note indorsed by those parties, the amount was
borrowed from the Bank of Fort Madison. When this was
exhausted the Lumber Company on various occasions borrowed
money from the bank, upon its notes, indorsed by different
stockholders, until some time in arch, 1880, when the loans
thus made amounted to $65,000. Of this sum, $10,000 had
been loaned upon a note of the company indorsed by the firm

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

name of Ketchum & Waterman. The indorsement was made
by Ketchum, without any authority except that supposed to
exist from his partnership in the firm. The bank then refused
to make any further advances without additional security to
cover existing as well as future loans. A chattel mortgage
was thereupon executed to the bank by the Lumber Company
upon all its logs and lumber, to secure such advances as well
as other debts of the company The bank immediately took
possession of the property and made further advances to the
amount of $20,000.
On the 8th of April following, the two Ketchums filed a bill
in a state court of Wisconsin to set aside this chattel mortgage, making the bank, the company, and all its stockholders,
except Waterman, parties, and alleging that the mortgage was
a fraud upon the company, that the amount claimed by the
bank was not due to it, and that the company owed a large
amount, but had sufficient assets to pay all its debts. The bill
prayed that the mortgage be declared invalid, that the property of the company be restored to it, and that, pending the
suit, a receiver of the property be appointed. Soon afterwards
a stipulation was entered into by all the parties, that one
William R. Sill be appointed by the judge of the court receiver
of the property and effects of the company, and that, in addition to the usual powers of such officers, he receive authority
to manage and control the property and dispose of the same
in the customary course of trade, for cash or on credit, and
apply the proceeds to pay the debts of the company, and when
they were paid that he be discharged, and so nuch of the
property as might be undisposed of be returned to the company, that the receiver give security for the faithful discharge
of his trust in the sum of $25,000, and that as soon as he had
been appointed, and this security given, the chattel mortgage,
executed to the bank, should be cancelled, and M. Mv.Ketchum,
who was general manager of the company, should turn over
and deliver to him all its property and effects. An order was
made by the court in accordance with this stipulation.
When the first note given for the purchase money of the
Ketchum and Waterman tract became due, Waterman ad-

FORT MADISON BANK v. ALDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

vanced the money to take it up, receiving in lieu of it the
note of the Lumber Company, payable on or before July 1,
1880. After this latter note had matured he passed it over to
one Milo Smith, who recovered judgment upon it against the
Lumber Company The receiver was authorized to pay all
demands against that company, which he did, except those of
the bank and this judgment in favor of Milo Smith.
In April, 1881, at a meeting of the stockholders of the Lumber Company, it was resolved that the trustee should reconvey
the lands he held to the respective stockholders who had transferred them to hin, except that the lands transferred by the
Ketchums and Waterman should be conveyed to Waterman
alone. To this arrangement the Ketchums assented. It was
also agreed that the judgment of Mvilo Smith should be
released as a lien on the lands to be reconveyed to the parties
residing at Fort Madison, and should be collected only out of
the lands to be reconveyed to Waterman. This arrangement
was carried out in 1882, but modified, at the request of the
directors of the company, by the trustee conveying the lands
to the Lumber Company, and that company simultaneously
conveying the same to the original owners as above directed.
Milo Smith's -judgment was released as to the lands conveyed
to the parties at Fort Madison, and as to the funds m the
hands of the receiver. This disposition of the lands was made
upon the belief, which all parties at the time appeared to
entertain, that there would be sufficient money realized from
property m the hands of the receiver to pay the demands of
the bank m full. As the property consisted principally of logs
and timber scattered over a large extent of territory, it was
impossible to make any accurate estimate of its value. The
suit was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States,
and resulted m a final decree on the 15th of January, 1884,
which adjudged that there was due by the Lumber Company
to the bank the sum of $72,366.14, and directed the receiver
to turn over to it certain property and credits in his hands,
leaving a balance due of $58,505.53. The receiver was there
upon discharged.
James S. Waterman died on the 19th of July, 1883, and the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants below, appellees here, were appointed executors of
his last will and testament.
The present suit is brought to enforce the payment of the
balance thus adjudged to be due to the bank by the Lumber
Company, out of the estate of the deceased.
The bill was
framed upon the theory that the deceased was at the time of
his death indebted to the company in a large amount for the
stock issued to him, it being contended that the cash value of
the lands conveyed to the trustee for that stock did not exceed
forty per cent of the amount subscribed. But this theory falls
to thie ground before the facts of the case, as detailed above.
The parties who became stockholders had, pursuant to a previous agreement, conveyed their lands to a trustee, in trust for
the corporation formed, upon an understanding that stock
should be issued to them in proportion to their individual
interests in the property The subscription was made upon
this arrangement and the parties acted with full knowledge of
the conditions on which the property was to be transferred to
a trustee, and the stock was to be issued to them. There was
no attempt to pass off the property as different or more valuable than it was. There was no deception or misrepresentation
of any kind in the case. No demand, therefore, against the
estate of the deceased Waterman can be sustained, upon the
assumption that by the conveyance of his land he had not paid
up all that he contracted or was bound to pay by his subscription. There was no credit given by the bank to the company
upon any representation of a different set of facts than that
which actually existed. The bank was owned by two of the
stockholders of the company, Brewster and Smith, who had
participated in and had been well advised of all that was done
by the company They held all the shares of the bank, and
were respectively its president and cashier. Such being the
case, the answer to the claims of the bank is found in the
decision of this court in Cott v Gold Amalgamating Co., 119
U S. 343, 345. There the holder of a judgment against the
corporation, being unable to obtain its satisfaction upon execu
tion, and finding the company was insolvent, brought suit to
compel the stockholders to pay what he claimed to be due and

FORT MADISON BANK v. ALDEN.

0

399

Opmion of the Court.

unpaid on the shares held by tnem. He contended that the
valuation put upon the property taken for such stock was
illegally and fraudulently made at an amount far above its
actual value, but the court said "If it were proved that
,actual fraud was committed in the payment of the stock, and
that the complainant had given credit to the company from
a belief that its stock was fully paid, there would, undoubtedly,
be substantial ground for the relief asked. But where the
charter authorizes capital stock to be paid in property, and the
shareholders honestly and in good faith put in property instead
of money in payment of their subscriptions, third parties have
no ground for complaint. The case is very different from that
in which subscriptions to stock are payable in cash, and where
only a part of the ustalments has been paid. In that case
there is still a debt due to the corporation, winch, if it becomes
insolvent, may be sequestered in equity by the creditors as a
trust fund liable to the payment of their debts. But where
full paid stock is issued for property received, there must be
actual fraud in the transaction to enable creditors of the corporation to call the stockholders to account." Under this authority no foundation is laid for calling upon the estate of the
deceased to pay anything more for the stock issued to him
than was paid.
But assuming this to be the correct doctrine, so far as any
alleged difference between the subscription and the value of
the property taken in payment is concerned, it is contended
that the lands, which, in the hands of the trustee, constituted
a trust fund for the benefit of the stockholders and creditors
of the company, were not divested of their trust character upon
their reconveyance to the stockholders, that the only effect of
the reconveyance was to substitute several trustees in place of
one, and that the appellant has therefore a right to proceed
against either or all of them for an accounting. If this were
a suit by a creditor other than a stockholder there would be
great force in this position of the appellant. It might be well
contended that a conveyance of the trust fund to the stockholders upon their resolution could not deprive a creditor, not
consenting thereto, of his right to compel the application of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

that fund to the payment of his demand, or of a ratable proportion with other creditors. But the right to compel such
application cannot be invoked by a stockholder consenting to
such disposition of the trust fund, and himself participating in
its appropriation, as in the present case. Here the lands conveyed to the trustee were subject, as stated above, to a mortgage of $75,000, and its payment was assumed by the company
It turned out that the company was not prosperous in its business, and in the year following its organization it became involved in litigation, and a receiver of its property and effects
was appointed. And in April, 1880, its stockholders upon
consultation came to the conclusion that it would be impossible for the company to comply with its engagement to pay off
that mortgage, and they therefore advised, and at their meeting resolved, that the lands should be reconveyed to the
original owners, and the company be thus released. The
bank, through its stockholders, who were also stockholders of
the Lumber Company, united in this advice and resolution,
and in pursuance thereof the several reconveyances were
made, as stated above, and among others to the stockholders
of the bank. It was expected that the original owners would
then hold the lands as they had held them before the Lumber
Company was organized. That the property when reconveyed
was sold by the holders at prices which, if the company could
have obtained them, would have made its retention advisable,
does not alter the transaction. The case of Thompsorn v
Bems PDaper Co., 127 Mass. 595, supports this conclusion.
There a judgment creditor of the corporation, unable to enforce his judgment by execution, filed a bill in equity on behalf
of himself and all other creditors, against the corporation and
certain stockholders, to enforce a personal liability of the
latter, on the ground that the capital of the corporation bad
been withdrawn and paid to the stockholders. He had at
that time contracted for eight shares of the stock, paid for
them in part, and voted as owner at meetings of the stockholders. At one of the meetings the sum of $16,528, being
the amount of the cash assets of the corporation, was withdrawn from the capital of the corporation and divided among

UNITED STATES v. CORWIN.
Statement of the Case.

the stockholders in proportion to the amount of stock held by
them respectively
The plaintiff was present and voted m
favor of the division. Upon these facts it was held that the
bill could not be sustained, although upon its filing the plaintiff was the absolute owner of the eight shares, and that he
could not make the act which he had favored and voted for a
ground for charging the stockholders with a personal liability
for a debt due from the corporation to himself.
The indorsement of the note of the Black River Lumber
Company for $10,000, by Ketchum in the firm name of
Ketchum & Waterman, was made by way of security to the
bank for its loan to that company The transaction had no
connection with the business of the firm. It was a guarantee
of another's obligation which no member of the firm had any
authority to give. It was not shown, moreover, that the indorsement was made with the consent or even knowledge of
Waterman. His estate, therefore, cannot be held liable upon
the note.
Deoree cffimed.

UNITED STATES v. CORWIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 123. Argued December 12, 1888.-Decided February 4, 1889.

In an action against the sureties on a contractor's bond to the United States
to recover damages suffered by reason of the nonfulffiment of the contract, he burden of proof is on the United States to show a demand upon
the contractor for performance, and his failure and refusal to perform,
and a statement of such nonperformance, demand, failure and refusal,
made by an officer of the government in the line of his official duty in
reporting them to his official superior, is not legal evidence of any of
those facts.

AT LAW, Ol a contract. Judgment for defendants. Plaintiffs sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
opimon.

