ROSENWASSER v. SPIETH.
Statement of the Case.

The Circuit Court, however, took jurisdiction of the intervention of the city as "third opponent," and the intervention
being answered, proceeded to trial on the merits, and to judgment accordingly
The objection of the Construction Company that third opposition cannot be availed of by a defendant in execution or
in regard to such property, and so situated, as that involved
in this case, should have been made in the Circuit Court, and
cannot be properly disposed of on this motion.
As the judgment stands, it is a judgment in a short and
summary proceeding before the court under whose authority
the marshal was acting, analogous to the statutory remedy
given in many of the States to try the right of property at
the instance of the party whose property is alleged to be
wrongfully seized, and as such, as determined in 'Fan _orden
v Morton, supra, is at law, and properly reviewable upon writ
of error. The motion to dismiss is therefore denied, and as
we do not think there was color for it, the m6tion to affirm
must be denied also.

ROSENWASSER v. SPIETH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAINE.
No. 22. Argued December 11, 12, 1888.-Decided January i4, 1889.

The improvement in percolators, for which letters patent were granted
April 18, 1882, to Nathan Rosenwasser, was anticipated by an apparatus
described in Geiger's Handbuch der Pharmacie, published at Stuttgart in
1830.

Iw

rQurri

for an alleged infringement of letters patent.

The bill prayed for a discovery, and an accounting, and the
payment of all gains and profits discovered on the accounting,
and for injunctions, both interlocutory and final. The answer
denied that the plaintiffs invented the patented improvement
or that the alleged invention was patentable. The final decree

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinon of the Court.

dismissed the bill, from which the plaintiffs appealed.
case is stated in the opinion.

The

Mr William Henry Clifford for appellants.
Mr Wilbur F

Int

MR. JUSTICE GnAY

for appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity for the infringement of letters patent
granted April 18, 1882, to Nathan Rosenwasser for improvements in percolators, with the following specification and
clam
"1:fyinvention relates to percolating apparatus to be employed for filtering purposes, or for making fluid extracts or
decoctions, and it consists in a device constructed and adapted
to operate substantially in the manner hereinafter specified.
"In the drawings, figure 1 represents my device in longitudinal section, and Fig. 2 shows the application of said device
when used as a filter or in making fluid extracts.
"A is the main body of my percolator. B is a constricted
inlet. C is the enlarged open end, which serves the double
purpose of a discharge or outlet, and as an opening through
which the percolator is charged with filtering substance when
the device is to be used as a filter, or with any drug from which
an extract is to be made. D is a perforated plate. This plate
may, if desired, be replaced by any porous diaphragm or interposing substance, such as filter paper, cloth, pumice, or the
like. This is to prevent the drug from escaping from the
percolator during its use, and it is to be secured in position
by suitable means. E represents the drug from which an extract is to be made, or if the device is to be used as a filter,
then E represents charcoal, sand, or any suitable filtering
material.
"I will describe my apparatus as employed in making fluid
extracts. The container A is charged with any drug or substance, E, from which an extract is to be made. The drug E
is charged into the container A through the enlarged mouth
C. Now, by the ordinary process and mechanism for making

ROSENWASSER v. SPIETH.

49

Opinion of the Court.

fluid extracts, it has heretofore been the practice to charge the
menstruum into the large mouth C, but this method made it
impracticable to obtain any increased or variable pressure
upon the menstrum, unless a cap piece were fitted over the
enlarged mouth 0, and a tube or its equivalent attached, and
connected either to an elevated reservoir containing the menstruum, or else somespecial pressure apparatus connected with
said tube. All this in practice is impracticable, but by the
employment of my device and method it is a very easy matter
to charge the container A, and by applying the menstruum in
exactly an opposite manner from that heretofore adopted, viz.,
to the end of the container A, opposite the charging mouth C,
to exert any desired pressure upon the menstruum. Fig. 2 of
the drawings illustrates my method and mechanism, which
consists, after the container A is charged in the usual manner through its enlarged mouth 0, as already specified, in
inverting the percolator, attaching a flexible or other tube,
F, to the constricted mouth B, and applying the menstraum
through said tube from an elevated reservoir G. When thus
used, the enlarged mouth 0 becomes the ultimate discharge,
which has never before, to my knowledge, been true in any
method heretofore known or practised. By elevating the
reservoir G more or less, a greater or lighter pressure is
exerted by the menstruum, and it is therefore driven through
the drug more or less forcibly and rapidly This pressure, as
may readily be seen, can be mcely adjusted and varied at
pleasure to suit the requirements of any case. A stop-cock,
H1, may be used to govern the quantity of the menstruum
admitted to the percolator A.
"What I claim is The combination, with a vessel, G, and
adjustable tube, F, of a percolator, A, having a large filling
and discharge orifice at its lower end, and a restricted opening,
B, at its upper end, with which connects the lower end of the
adjustable tube or pipe F, substantially as set forth."
The description of the percolator, and of the mode of using
it to make fluid extracts or decoctions of drugs, amounts to
this The percolator is a cylinder wholly open at the lower
end, and with a cover at the upper end, having a small openVOL. Cx=ix-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ing, attached to which is a flexible or adjustable tube leading
from a reservoir of the liqmd to be used for steeping the drug.
The percolator is turned bottom up while the drug is put in,
and a perforated or porous diaphragm inserted to hold the drug
in place. It is then turned bottom down again. The pressure of the liquid, and consequently the quickness of its passage
through the drug, are increased or diminished by elevating or
lowering the reservoir, or by turning a stop-cock in the tube,
and the extract is discharged through the bottom of the percolator into a vessel placed below
The novelties suggested consist in having one end of the
percolator open, serving both to receive the drug and to discharge the extract, in turning the percolator bottom up to
put in the drug, and bottom down to let the extract drip out,
in having a perforated or porous diaphragm to hold the drug
in place, and in regulating the pressure of the liquid by
means of a tube from the reservoir to the small opening in
the covered end of the percolator.
But, passing over the difficulty that the diaphragm is not
claimed as part of the combination patented, neither the percolator open at one end, the diaphragm, the inversion of the
percolator, the insertion of the tube in the small opening in
the covered end, nor the making that tube flexible and with
a stop-cock, is new All those elements appear m the Real
press, as modified by Beindorf, described m Geiger's Handbuch der Pharmacie, published in 1830 at Stuttgart in Germany, which is an exhibit in the case, and a translation of the
material parts of which, (vol. 1, pp. 157-160,) verified by the
oath of a witness for the defendant, and included in the
record, appears, though not quite grammatical, to be substantially accurate, notwithstanding the opposing testimony
introduced by the plaintiff to impugn its correctness.
It will be sufficient to quote from that translation the following passages I "The Real press consists principally of a
I" Die Real'sche Fresse besteht der Hauptsache nach aus einem hohlen
Cylinder, in welchem die auszuziehende Substanz um gepulverten Zustande
zwischen 2 siebfarmig durchl6cherten Flatten fest gepackt enthalten ist, so
dass sie nach keiner Seite hin weichen kann. Wenn der Cylinder an beiden

ROSENWASSER v. SPIETHE.
Opinion of the Court.

hollow cylinder, which contains the powdered substance to
be exhausted between two perforated plates, tightly packed,
so that the substance cannot move to [in] either direction.
If the cylinder is open at both ends, a cover is fitted air-tight
at one end, having a hole in the centre, into which a long
tube is fitted, also air-tight. Between the cover and the perforated plate mentioned some space must remain. In extracting, the cylinder is placed vertical [upright], so that a vessel
for gathering the liquid may be placed underneath." "A
very practical change in the construction of the iReal press
has been introduced by Bemdorf. The cylinder is fitted into
a chair [frame], the cover or seat of winch is movable, so that
by turmng [inverting] the same the press may be filled and
connected with the tube." "The filled cylinder, turned bottom up, is placed upon a chair [frame] having a hole in the
:Enden offen ist, so wird an emem linde em Deckel luftdicht aufgepasst,
welcher in der Mitte em Loch hat, worem emne hohe lRi6hre ebenfalls luftdicht gesteckt -ird.
Zwmschen dem Deckel und der obern smebf6rmigen
Platte muss etwas Raum bleiben. Beim Extrahiren wird der Cylinder aufrecht festgestellt, so dass em Gefliss zum Aufsammeln der Flissigkeit
untergestellt werden kann." "Eine sehr zweckmiissmge Abiinderung der
Real'schen Presse hat Beindo;:f vorgenommen. Der Cylinder wird in emen
Stuhl gepasst, dessen Deckel beweglich ist, so dss durch Umdrehen desselben die Presse gefiihlt und mit dem Rohr verbunden werden kann."
"Der gefUhlte, mit dem Boden nach oben gerichtete Cylinder wird auf
emen Stuhl gestellt, der in der Mitte em Loch hat, in welches derselbe
passt und mit semem Wulste aufliegt." "Den obern leeren Raumn ffllt man
mit der auszuziehenden Fiissigkeiten an, und passt in die Oeffnung des
Bodens eme R6hre: sie kann von Weissblech, Glas, Holz, oder em lederner
Schlaucli u. s. w. seyn." "eben
das obere lEnde der R6hre stelle man em
Gefiss mit der Auszmehungsflissigkeit, so dass der Spiegel der Fliissmgkeit
etwas mederer als das Ende der R6hre steht. Man senke ]etzt emen Heber
in die Fiissmgkeit und in die R6hre, ziehe durch die R6hre mit dem Munde
etwas Luft an indem man mit den Lippen, dem Daumen und Zeigeflnger
das Eindringen derselben von aussen zu hmndern strebt, die FlUssmgkeit
wird sich heben und durch den Heber in die R6hre auslaufen, diese wsird
selbst damit angefillt, und so wirkt die Flissigkeit drflckend und 16send auf
die Substanz. Sie durchdringt sie und kommt, mit extractiven Thelien
beladen, anfangs oft von Syrupsdicke, vollkommen kiar hervor." "Um
die Wirkung nach Belieben aufharen zu machen, brmngt man emen Hahn an
die RShre, den man schliesst, oder man verschliesst, nach weggenommenem
Heber das obere Ende der RMhre."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

middle, in which the cylinder fits and around which he [it]
rests." "In the opening m the bottom, a tube is fitted, which
may be made of tinned iron [tin plate], glass, wood, leather,
etc." "Near the upper end of the tube is placed a vessel
containing the menstruum [liquid solvent], the surface of
which must be somewhat lower than the end of the tube.
A syphon is now introduced into the liquid and in the tube,
air sucked through the tube, so that the liquid will commence
to flow through the syphon into the tube, which is thereby
filled. The column of menstruum [liquid] thus obtained acts
pressing and dissolving upon the substance to be extracted.
It penetrates it, and arrives, laden with the soluble matter
contained in the substance, at the lower end of the apparatus,
often in a syrupy consistence." "In order to control the
apparatus, stop or continue the operation, the tube is provided with a cock which may be closed if necessary, or the
upper end of tube may be closed after removing the syphon."
This court concurs in opinion with the Circuit Judge that
the plaintiff's contrivance is not new, and, that if it were new,
there would be grave doubt whether it involved any invention.
22 Fed. IRep. 841. As the plaintiff's contrivance had been
anticipated in the German publication half a century before,
it is unnecessary to decide whether, if new, it would have been
patentable.

Decree afirmed.
BALDWIN v. THE STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. i54. Argued December 17, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.
The plaintiff in error was convicted of murder in a state court in Kansas.
The Supreme Court of that State affirmed the judgment. On a writ of
error from this court, it was assigned for error that the jurors were not
sworn according to the form of oath prescribed by the statute of Kansas,
and that, therefore, the jury was not a legally constituted tribunal, and
so the defendant would be deprived of his life without due process of
law and be denied the equal protection of the law. The statute did not

