GALIGHER v. JONES.
Syllabus.

.3r .. Jon, -Ellis, .Mr.. John Johns and .XP D A. .3feZnvight for plaintiff in error.
X9' Clinton Rowell for defendant in error.
MXR. JusTicE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts of this case are similar to those in Seibert v. Lewzs,
before the court at its October term, 1886, 122 U. S. 284, and
it is admitted by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
decision there, if adhered to, will control here. He, however,
asks us to reconsider our rulings and reverse our former judgment. We see no reason to justify such rconsideration and
change of position. The very elaborate argument of counsel
is but a re-presentation of the reasons originally offered against
the decision in that and analogous cases. ASeibert v Zews was
very carefully and elaborately considered, and to the doctrines
there announced we adhere. Upon its authority
The judgment of the court below must be aflrmed.

GALIHER v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 75.

Submitted November 14, 1888. -Decided

January 21, 1889.

A stock-broker received orders by telegraph from his principal to sell certain securities belonging to the principal in his hands and invest the proceeds in certain other securities, named in the order, at a fixed limit.
When the telegram arrived the order might have been executed that day,
and the securities ordered could have been bought within the limit. The
principal was in the habit of dealing with the agent in that way, the
agent executing the orders, making advances when necessary and charging the principal with commissions and interest. At the time when this
order was received the principal was indebted to the agent for advances,
commissions and interest about $4000 more than the value of the securities in his hands. The broker did not execute the order, did not notify
the principal by telegraph that he declined to do so, and made no demand
for further advances; but notified him of his refusal by a letter written
on the day when the order was received, but received by the principal
VOL. CXXLx-13

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
two days later. The securities which had been ordered sold depreciated
below the prices at which they could have been sold on that day, and
those which had been ordered bought advanced, so that they could have
been sold at a large profit. The broker sued the principal for advances
on an open account current and interest and commissions. The principal
set up as a counterclaim the losses from these sources Held,
(1) That the broker was bound to follow the directions of his principal
or give notice that he declined to continue the agency;
(2) That this notice should have been given by telegraph, and that the
delay caused by using the mail alone was inexcusable under the
circumstances,
(3) That in the absence of a special agreement to the contrary, it was
the principal's judgment, and not the broker's, that was to control,
(4) That the broker was liable for all the damages which the principal
sustained by*the refusal to change the stock, both on the stocks
ordered sold, and those ordered purchased.
The measure of damages in stock transactions between a stock-broker and his
principal, in which the principal suffers from the neglect of the broker to
execute orders, either for the sale of stock which he holds for the principal, or for the purchase of stock which the principal orders, is- not the
highest intermediate value up to the time of trial- but the highest intermediate value between the time of the conversion and a reasonable time
after the owner has received notice of it. in this respect disregarding
the rule adopted in England and in several of the States in this country
and following the more recent rulings in the Court of Appeals of the
State of New York.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr John R. )loBrzde for appellant.
Mr C. IT Bennett for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by Jones, a stock-broker, against his
customer, for the balance of account alleged to be due to the
plaintiff arising out of advances of money and purchases and
sales made, and commissions. The complaint, or declaration,
states "that between the 15th day of January, 1877, and 15th
day of January, 1879, the plaintiff, as a stock-broker, at the
special instance and request of the defendant, paid and
advanced on an open account current, to and for the use
of the defendant, divers sums of money, and also earned

GALIGHER v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

at the defendant's request, and became entitled to, divers
commissions as a broker, for all of which monthly accounts
were rendered and balances struck, and, by agreement, interest charged monthly on balances, and that on the first day
of March, 1879, there was due and unpaid from defendant to
plaintiff the sum of $6232.30 no part of which has been paad."
Judgment is demanded for this sum, with interest and costs.,
Galigher, the defendant below, in his answer, after denying
any indebtedness to the plaintiff, states that the plaintiff is
a banker at Salt Lake City, and that the defendant has had
for two years past an account with him as such, and that "the
plaintiff, at the defendant's request, and as his agent, bought
or caused to be bought at the Mining Stock Exchange Board,
in San Francisco, California, certain mining stocks, for and on
account of this defendant, and at various times thereafter m
the years 1877 and 1878, on the order and at the direction of
this defendant, and as his agent aforesaid, bought and sold
mining and other stocks up to about the date of the complaint, that at divers times during and between the dates
above specified this defendant paid into said plaintiff's bank
sums of money on account of said purchases, and to the credit
thereof, and which was so applied by plaintiff on defendant's
order.
"And defendant denies that at the date of the complaint
the sum of five thousand dollars, or any sum, was due the
plaintiff on said account, or on any account, for loans or
advances from plaintiff to defendant. Defendant further
alleges that it was distinctly agreed between the plaintiff and
this defendant in the business that said purchases of stock by
the plaintiff were made on defendant's credit, and that said
stocks were bought and were to be held subject to defendant's
order at all times, this defendant agreeing to pay said plaintiff
commissions for his services as agent and an agreed rate of
interest on any advances lie might make, and at no time had
the plaintiff any authority to either buy or sell stocks on
defendant's account, except by his order."
The defendant then set up the following counterclaims, to
wit 1. That on the 13th day of November, 1878, being at

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Virginia City, he ordered the plaintiff (at Salt Lake City), by
telegraphic despatch, to sell certain mining stocks then in his
hands as defendant's agent, to wit 320 shares of "Justice"
stock, worth 89 per share, 50 shares of "Alta" stock, worth
$8 per share, 200 shares of "Tip Top" stock, worth $1.60
per share, and to invest the proceeds in "North Bonanza"
stock, another mining stock on the same board which the
defendant had been investigating; that the plaintiff received
this despatch in ample time to make the transaction, as
directed, on that day, but refused and neglected to do so, and
that the defendant relied on its being done, and agreed with
another party to sell the stock he had ordered purchased, that
the plaintiff did not give notice to the defendant of his refusal
to comply with said order until several days afterwards, and
then by letter, that afterwards, and without any orders so to
do, the plaintiff sold the "Alta" stock at $7.75 per share, the
"Justice" at $4.40 per share, and the "Tip Top" at $1.25
per share, making a net loss to defendant of $1200, and that
the "1NorthBonanza" stock was not worth more than $2 per
share on that day, and within five days thereafter it advanced
to $5.60 per share, which the defendant would have realized
if the plaintiff had complied with his order, - whereby the
defendant lost the sum of $6125.
2. The defendant further alleged, that in the same month of
November, 1878, the plaintiff, as defendant's agent, held for
him 600 shares of mining stock known as "Challenge" stock,
and without his consent, on the 27th and 29th of said November, sold the same for his, the plaintiff's, own use, to the damage
of the defendant of $2850.
3. That on the 22d day of November, 1877, the plaintiff held
for the defendant, as his agent, as aforesaid, fifty shares of
mining stock known as "Ophir" stock, worth at that date
$37.50 per share, and on that day pretended to defendant that
he had sold said stock for defendant, and so reported to him,
when in fact he had not sold said stock, but continued to hold
the same, and afterwards sold it for $100 per share, the advance
amounting to $3125, which isjustly due from the plaintiff to
the defendant.

GALIGHER v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

The case being at issue, was tried by a jury and resulted in
a verdict of $5412.50 for the defendant. This verdict was set
aside, and a new trial awarded, and the case was next tried by
a referee appointed by the court. He duly reported his findings of fact and law, upon which the court gave judgment for
the plaintiff for the sum of $7028. The substance of the findings of fact was That the plaintiff was a banker in Salt Lake
City, that during the years 1878 and 1879 he bought and sold
mining stocks for the defendant upon defendant's order and
request, and made the advances necessary for the purchases,
and was to receive commissions on the purchases and sales, and
interest on the advances, and to hold the stocks purchased for
defendant in his own name as collateral security for any balance due to him. With regard to the first defence set up by
the defendant, the referee found, that on the 13th of November, 1878, the plaintiff held of stocks purchased for defendant,
amongst others, 320 shares of "Justice," then worth $9 per
share, 50 of "Alta," worth $18 per share, and 200 of "Tip
Top," worth $1.60 per share, and that on that day the defendant, being at Virginia City, ordered plaintiff by telegram to
turn his said stocks without limit into "North Bonanza" at
limit of 82;75, that the plaintiff received said telegram at Salt
Lake City on the same day in time to have sold the stocks
ordered sold, and to have purchased the "North Bonanza," which
was then selling for $2 and $2.50 per share, that the plaintiff failed and refused to obey the directions given in the telegram, and failed to notify the defendant of his refusal until
the 15th of November, when he notified him by letter written
on the 13th and received by defendant on the 15th, that
within a few days the price of "North Bonanza" advanced to
$5 and $5.50 per share, having reached $3.50 on the 16th
of November, and before the 23d receded to a point below
what it was on the 13th. The defendant at the time of sending his telegram to the plaintiff was owing him more than
$4000 for advances, commissions and interest, over and above
the market value of the stocks then held by him for the
defendant. As a conclusion of law, and under the decision
of the Supreme Court of the Territory, given upon setting

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

aside the verdict rendered on the first trial, the referee disallowed this counterclaim, holding, in conformity with the
view of the court, that the plaintiff was not bound to comply
with the defendant's directions about the stock, and not bound
to give him any prompter notice than he did give. The court,
in its opinion, as quoted by the referee in his report, had said
"Was the plaintiff under obligation to sell the stock and invest
the proceeds of such sale as directed by the defendant?
This order in effect directed the plaintiff to dispose of certain
securities held by him and to take another m place of them.
I do not, in the examination of the record and testimony,
find any contract or understanding between the parties requiring the plaintiff to do it. The order to sell and reinvest being
one, the plaintiff was not obliged to comply with it. The
difference between the values of the stocks at the time the
order was made and at the time they were afterwards sold is
immaterial in this action. The right of the plaintiff to sell at
the time of sale and the good faith and sound discretion in
which it was made are not in issue. I am, therefore, of the
opinion that the verdict allowing damages for the failure of
plaintiff to sell the Justice, Alta, and Tip-Top mining stocks,
as directed by the defendant on November 13th, 1878, is not
supported by evidence rightly before the jury, and that there
was error in admitting evidence as to the value of the stock of
the North Bonanza in support of the item of counterclaim,
based upon the failure of the plaintiff to comply with the
order to purchase."
In this we think the court was in error. A broker is but an
agent, and is bound to follow the directions of his principal,
or give notice that he declines to continue the agency In the
absence of a special agreement to the contrary it is the principal's judgment, and not his, that is to control in the purchase
and sale of stocks. The latter did not ask for any further
advances by the order in question, he only directed a conversion, or change of one stock into another. The plaintiff should
have given prompt notice that he objected and declined to
make the change. Telegraphic communication was used by
the defendant, and no reason appears why the plaintiff could

GALIGHER v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

not have used the same. The delay caused by using the mail
alone was inexcusable under the circumstances. The plaintiff
charged ample compensation for his services, and was bound
to act faithfully, fairly and promptly We think that he was
liable for all the damages which the defendant sustained by
his refusal to change the stocks, both for the loss on the sales
of the "Justice," "Alta" and "Tip-Top " and the loss occasioned by not purchasing the "1North Bonanza." The report
of the referee, being made in conformity with the decision of
the Supreme Court, does not show sufficient facts to determine
the amount of loss in these respects. If the answer states the
facts truly, the loss on the failure to sell the old stocks was
over $2000, and it appears from the report that the "INorth
Bonanza" could have been purchased at $2 to $2.50 per share
on the 13th of November, and sold for $5 to $5.50 within a
few days, - showing a loss of $3 per share, and as the proceeds of the other stocks, if they had been sold, as directed,
would have been sufficient to purchase 1600 to 2000 shares of
"lNorth Bonanza," the loss on this account must have been
more than $5000. But the want of a sufficient finding of
facts necessitates a new trial.
As to the second item of counterclaim set up in the answer,
pamely, the alleged wrongful sale by the plaintiff of 600 shares
of "Challenge" stock, the referee found that the plaintiff held
such stock for the defendant, and on the 27th and 29th of
November, 1878, of his own motion, and without notice to the
defendant, sold it for $1.25 per share, that in December the
stock sold as high as $2 per share, in January the highest
price was $3.10, in February, the highest price was $5.50.
The referee allowed tae defendant the highest price in January, namely, $3.10 per share, being an advance of $1.85 above
what the plaintiff sold the stock for, which, for the, whole 600
shares, amounted to $1110. The reason assigned by the referee
for not allowing the defendant the highest price in February,
(namely, $5.50 per share,) was that before that time the defendant had reasonable time, after receiving notice of the sale
of his stock by the plaintiff, to replace it by the purchase of
new stock, if he desired so to do, and he allowed hun the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

highest price which the stock reached within that reasonable
time. In this conclusion we think the referee was correct, and
as to this item we see no error in the result.
With respect to the third counterclain set up in the answer,
the referee found that the plaintiff did sell the 'fifty shares of
"Ophir" stock mentioned therein, on the 22d day of November, 1877, as reported by him to the defendant. Consequently,
the referee correctly found that the defendant was not entitled
to any damages on that account, as no dissatisfaction with the
sale was expressed by the defendant at the time. We see no
error in this conclusion.
It has been assumed, in the consideration of the case, that
the measure of damages in stock transactions of this kind is
the highest intermediate value reached by the stock between
the tune of the wrongful act complained of and a reasonable
time thereafter, to be allowed to the party injured to place
himself in the position he would have been in had not his
rights been violated. This rule is most frequently exemplified
in the wrongful conversion by one person of stocks belonging
to another. To allow merely their value at the time of conversion would, in most cases, afford a very inadequate remedy,
and, in the case of a broker, holding the stocks of his principal,
it would afford no remedy at all. The effect would be to give
to the broker the control of the stock, subject only to nominal
damages. The real injury sustained by the principal consists
not merely in the assumption of control over the stock, but in
the sale of it at an unfavorable time, and for an unfavorable
price. Other goods wrongfully converted are generally supposed to have a fixed market value at which they can be
replaced at any time, and hence, with regard to them, the
ordinary measure of damages is their value at the time of conversion, or, in case of sale and purchase, at the time fixed for
their delivery But the application of this rule to stocks
would, as before said, be very inadequate and unjust.
The rule of highest intermediate value as applied to stock
transactions has been adopted in England and in several of
the States in this country, whilst in some others it has not
obtained. The form and extent of the rule have been the sub-

GALIGHER v. JONES.
Opimon of the Court.

ject of much discussion and conflict of opinion. The cases will
be found collected in Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages,
[479,] vol. 2, 7th ed. 379, note (b), Bayne on Damages, 83,
(92 Law Lib.), 1 Smith's Lead. Cas. (7 Amer. ed.) 367. The
English cases usually referred to are Cud v Butter, 1 P Wins.
572, 4th ed. [London, 1777] note (3), Owen v Routh, 14 C. B.
327, Loder v JYekuli, 3 C. B. (N. S.) 128, -Trancev Gaudet,
L. R. 6 Q. B. 199. It is laid down in these cases that where
there has been a loan of stock and a breach of the agreement
to replace it, the measure of damages will be the value of the
stock at its highest price on or before the day of trial.
The same rule was approved by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania in Bank of M3fontgomery v Reese, 26 Penn. St.
(2 Casey,) 143, and .fusgrave v Beckendonj; 53 Pe. St. (3
P F Smith) 310. But it has been restricted in that State to
cases in which a trust relation exists between the parties, -a
relation which would probably be deemed to exist between a
stock-broker and his client. See Wilson v ]WF7taker, 49
Penn. St. (13 Wright) 114, Hwntingdon,2. R. Co. v English,
86 Penn. St. 247.
Perhaps more transactions of this kind arise in the State of
New York than in all other parts of the country The rule
of highest intermediate value up to the time of trial formerly
prevailed in that State, and may be found laid down in omane v 7an Allen, 26 N. Y 309, and 2farkam, v Jaudon,
41 N. Y 235, and other cases, - although the rigid applica,
tion of the rule was deprecated by the New York Superior
Court in an able opinion by Judge Duer, in Suydam, v. Jenkins, 3 Sandford (N.Y.) 614. The hardship which arose from
estimating the damages by the highest price up to the time of
trial, which might be years after the transaction occurred,
was often so great, that the Court of Appeals of New York
was constrained to introduce a material modification in the
form of the rule, and to hold the true and just measure of
damages in these cases to be, the highest intermediate value
of the stock between the time of its conversion and a reasonable time after the owner has received notice of it to enable
hn to replace the stock. This modification of the rule was

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

very ably enforced in an opinion of the Court of Appeals
delivered by Judge Rapallo, in the case of Baker v -Drake,
53 N. Y 211, which was subsequently followed in the same
case m 66 N. Y 518, and in Grumn v Smth, 81 N. Y 25,
Colt v Owens, 90 N. Y 368, and Trtght v Bank of .Metro2polis,

110 N. Y 237.
It would be a herculean task to review all the various and
conflicting opinions that have been delivered on this subject.
On tne whole it seems to us that the New York rule, as finally
settled by the Court of Appeals, has the most reasons in its
favor, and we adopt it as a correct view of the law
1T]e judgment -s reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Supreme Court of Utah, wth 'instructions to enter ydgment ,n conofority with ths optnton.

WADE v. METCALF
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ITLASACHUSETTS.
No. 163.

Argued January 10, 1889.-Decided January 21, 1889.

Tnder Rev Stat. ยง 4899, a specific patentable machine, constructed with
the knowledge and consent of the inventor, before his application for
a patent. is set free from the monopoly of the patent in the hands of
every one; and therefore, if constructed with the inventor's knowledge
and consent, before his application for a patent, by a partnership of
which he is a member, may be used by his copartners after the dissolution of the partnership, although the agreement of dissolution provides that nothing therein contained shall operate as an assent to such
use, or shall lessen or impair any rights which they may have to such use.

THIs was a bill in equity, filed December 4, 1880, by William
W Wade, a citizen of Massachusetts, against Henry B. Metcalf, a citizen of Rhode Island, and William McCleery, a citizen of Massachusetts, alleging that letters patent, numbered
228,233, granted to the plaintiff June 1. 1880, upon his application filed July 26, 1879, for improvements in machines

