KIMAIIISH v. BALL.
Statement of the Case.

KIMMISH v. BALL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 1254. Submitted January 2,1889. -Decided

January 28, 1889.

Section 4059 of the Code of Iowa, which provides that a person having in
his possession "Texas cattle" shall be liable for any damages which may
accrue from allowing them to run at large and thereby spread the disease
known as the "Texas fever," is not in conflict with the commerceclause of the Constitution of the United States; nor is it a denial to citizens of other States of any rights and privileges which are accorded to
citizens of Iowa, and thus in conflict with Subdivision 1 of Section 2 of
Article I of the Constitution, relating to the privileges and immunities
of the citizens of the several States.

THrE court stated the case as follows:
This case comes from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Iowa. It involves the validity of
a statute of that State, making a person having in his possession within it any Texas cattle, which have not been wintered
north of the southern boundary of Missouri and Kansas, liable
for any damages that may accrue from allowing them to run
at large, and thereby spread the disease known as Texas fever.
The statute is found in § 4059 of the Code of Q.H.9., which
refers to the preceding § 4058. The two sections are as
follows
"SEC. 4058. If any person bring into this State any Texas
cattle, he shall be fined not exceeding one thousand dollars or
imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding thirty days, unless
they have been wintered at least one winter north of the
southern boundary of the State of Missouri or Kansas Prov.tded, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent or make unlawful the transportation of such cattle
through this State on railways, or to prohibit the driving

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

through any part of this State, or having in possession, any
Texas cattle, between the first day of November and the first
day of April following.
"S-ic. 4059. If any person now or hereafter has in his possession, in this State, any such Texas cattle, he shall be liable
for any damages that may accrue from allowing said cattle to
run at large, and thereby spreading the disease among other
cattle known as the Texas fever, and shall be punished as is
prescribed in the preceding section."
The action is based upon this latter section. The petition of
the plaintiff alleges that m June, 1885, the defendants were
the owners of and had in their possession and under their control a herd of Texas cattle, which had not been wintered north
of the southern boundary of Missouri or Kansas, and which
were purchased at or near Fort Smith, in Arkansas that said
cattle, while in the possession and under the control of the
defendants, were allowed by them to run at large in Union
Township, Harrison County, Iowa, contrary to the provisions
of § 4059 of its code, and that the said cattle were infected by
a disease known as "Texas cattle fever," which was spread
and disseminated by them among the cattle of the plaintiff,
whereby they sickened and died, to his damage of five thousand dollars, for which he prays judgment.
To this petition the defendants demurred on the grounds,
first, that §§ 4058 and 4059 are in conflict with Section 8, Article 1 of the Constitution of the United States, in that the
legislature of Iowa undertakes to regulate and interfere with
interstate commerce, and second, that the sections are in conflict with Section 2 of Article 4 of the Constitution of the
United States relative to the privileges and immunities of
citizens of the several States.
The demurrer was heard at March term, 1888, of the Circuit Court, the court being held by two judges who were
opposed in opinion upon the constitutionality of § 4059, on the
grounds mentioned. The plaintiff electing to stand upon his
petition, judgment was entered for the defendants sustaining
the demurrer, according to the opinion of the presiding judge.
Thereupon, on motion of the plaintiff, it was ordered that the

KIMMISH v. BALL.
Opinion of the Court.

points of disagreement be certified to this court, and upon
this certificate 1 the cse has been heard.
_MP I.fN Flickznger for plaintiff in error.
.ff
MR.

TV' F Sapp for defendants in error.
JUsTIcE FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinon of the court.
In order to understand § 4059 of the Code of Iowa, it must
be read in connection with the preceding § 4058, to which it
refers. It must also be known what is meant by "Texas
cattle," and what influence a winter north has upon the
disease called "Texas fever," with which such cattle are liable
to be infected. Section 4058 is levelled against the importation of Texas cattle which have not been wintered north of
the southern boundary of Missouri or Kansas. Any person
bringing into the State Texas cattle, unless they have been
thus wintered, is subject to be fined or imprisoned. When,
therefore, § 4059 refers to the possession in the State of any
"such Texas cattle" it means cattle which have not been
wintered North, as mentioned in the preceding section. It is
only when they have not been thus wintered that apprehension
is felt that they may be infected with the disease and spread
it among other cattle.
The term "Texas cattle" is not defined in the Code of
Iowa, and whether used there to designate cattle from the
State of Texas alone, or, as averred by the plaintiff in error, a
particular breed or variety called Mexican or Spanish cattle,
which are also found in Arkansas and the Indian Territory, is

I The questions

certified were as follows
1st. Is § 4059 of the Code of Iowa repugnant to and in conflict with
the provisions of See. 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the United States
relative to the regulation of commerce among the several States and by reason thereof unconstitutional?
2nd. Is § 4059 of the Code of Iowa repugnant to or in conflict with See. 2
of Article 4 of the Constitution of the United States relative to the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States and by reason thereof
unconstitutional?

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

not material for the disposition of this case. Cattle coming
from both of those States and from that Territory during the
spring and summer months are often infected with what is
known as Texas fever. It is supposed that they become
infected with the germs of this distemper while feeding,
during those months, on the low and moist grounds of those
States and Territory, constituting what are called their malarial districts, which are largely covered with a thick vegetable
growth. These germs are communicated to domestic cattle
by contact, or by feeding in the same range or pasture.
Scientists are not agreed as to the causes of the malady, and
it is not important for our decision which of the many theories
advanced by them is correct. That cattle coming from those
sections of the country during the spring and summer months
are often infected with a contagious and dangerous fever is a
notorious fact, as is also the fact that cold weather, such as is
usual in the winter north of the southern boundary of Missouri
and Kansas, destroys the virus of the disease, and thus removes
all danger of infection. It is upon these notorious facts that
the legislation of Iowa for the exclusion from their limits of
these cattle, unless they have passed a winter north, is based.
See .Missour&Pacmfic Raway Company v Finley, 38 Kansas,
,550, 556, also, First Annual Report to the Commissioner of
Agriculture of the Bureau of Animal Industry for 1884, 426,
and Second Annual Report of the same bureau for 1885,
310.
Section 4059, with which we are concerned, provides that
any person who has in his possession in the State of Iowa any
Texas cattle which have not been wintered north shall be
liable for any damages that may accrue from allowing such
cattle to run at large and thereby spread the disease. We are
unable to appreciate the force of the objection that such legislation is in conflict with the paramount authority of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce. We do not see that it has
anything to do with that commerce, it is only levelled against
allowing diseased Texas cattle held within the State to run at
large. The defendants labor under the impression that the
validity of § 4058, which is directed against the importation

KIMMISH v. BALL.
Opinion of the Court.

into the State of such cattle unless they have been wintered
North, is before us, and that a consideration of its validity is
necessary in passing upon § 4059, but this is a mistake.
Section 4058 is before us only that we may ascertain from it
the meaning intended by certain terms used in the subsequent
section referring to it, and not upon any question of its constitutionality
Nor does the case of Railroad Company v ]lusen, 95 U. S.
465, upon which the defendant relies with apparent confidence,
have any bearing upon the questions presented. The decision
in that case rested upon the ground that no discrimination
was made by the law of Missouri in the transportation forbidden between sound cattle and diseased cattle, and this
circumstance is prominently put forth in the opinion. "It is
noticeable," said the court, "that the statute interposes a direct
prohibition against the introduction into the State, of all Texas,
Mexican, or Indian cattle during eight months of each year,
without any distinction between such as may be diseased and
such as are not." (p. 469.) It interpreted the law of Missouri
as saying to all transportation companies, " You shall not bring
into the State any Texas cattle or any Mexican cattle or Indian
cattle between March 1st and December 1st in any year, no
matter whether they are free from disease or not, no matter
whether they may do an injury to the inhabitants of the State
or not, and if you do bring them in, even for the purpose of
carrying them through the State without unloading them, you
shall be subject to extraordinary liabilities." (p. 473.) Such
a statute, the court held, was not a quarantine law, nor an
inspection law, but a law which interfered, with interstate
commerce, and therefore invalid. At the same time the court
admitted unhesitatingly that a State may pass laws to prevent
animals sufferm from contagious or infectious diseases from
entering within it. (p. 472.) No attempt was made to show
that all Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle coming from the
malarial districts during the months mentioned were infected
with the disease, or that such cattle were so generally infected
that it would have been impossible to separate the healthy
from the diseased. Had such proof been given, a different

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

question would have been presented for the consideration of
the court. Certainly all animals thus infected may be excluded
from the State by its laws until they are cured of the disease,
or at least until some mode of transporting them without
danger of spreading it is devised.
Railroad Company v Husen gives no support to the contention of the defendant. There is no necessary dependence
of the provisions of § 4059, imposing a civil liability, upon
those of § 4058, so that the one may not stand without the
other. If the criminal liability created by § 4058 is open to
doubt, which we do not affirm, the civil liability may remain
for the damages caused by the wilful conduct designated in
§ 4059. Packet Company v Ifeokul, 95 U. S. 80, Allen v
Zousana, 103 U. S. 80.
The case is, therefore, reduced to this, whether the State
may not provide that whoever permits diseased cattle in his
possession to run at large within its limits shall be liable for
any damages caused by the spread of the disease occasioned
thereby, and upon that we do not entertain the slightest
doubt. Our answer, therefore, to the first question upon
which the judges below differed is in the negative, that the
section in question is not unconstitutional by reason of any
conflict with the commercial clause of the Constitution.
As to the second question, our answer is also in the negative. There is no denial of any rights and privileges to citizens of other States which are accorded to citizens of Iowa.
No one can allow diseased cattle to run at large in Iowa without being held responsible for the damages caused by the
spread of disease thereby, and the clause of the Constitution
declaring that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to
all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States
does not give non-resident citizens of Iowa any greater prileges and immunities in that State than her own citizens there
enjoy So far as liability is concerned for the act mentioned,
citizens of other States and citizens of Iowa stand upon the
same footing. Paul v Virgvnta, 8 Wall. 168.
It follows that the judgment below must be
Reversed, and the cause remandedfor a new tral.

