CHAPMAN v. BARNEY.
Syllabus.

knowledge of the nature and effect of the deeds. It was for
the donor, who had sufficient capacity to take a survey of his
estate, and to dispose of it according to an intelligent, fixed
purpose of his own, regardless of the wishes of others, to determine how far such feelings should control him when selecting the objects of his bounty
In respect to the allegation that Turpm suppressed facts
touching the condition of Ralston's estate, as affected by the
claim of Mrs. Smith, it is sufficient to say that it is not sustained by the proof.
Other facts than those we have mentioned are disclosed by
the record, and other questions were discussed at the bar, but
as they do not, in our judgment, materially affect the decision
of the case, we need not specially refer to them.
Decree ttfflrmed.

CHAPMAN ,v. BARNEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 150. Submitted January 8, 1889. -Decided

March 5,1889.

Amendments are discretionary -withthe court below and are not reviewable
by this court: this rule applies to an amendment substituting a new sole
plaintiff for the sole original plaintiff.
When there has been an appearance and no plea, or when, on account of
amendments and changes of pleading the declaration remains without
an answer, it is error to call a jury and to enter a verdict unless for
assessment of damages merely.
It is error to proceed to trial and enter a verdict and render judgment
against a defendant on an amended declaration in which the party plaintiff
is changed, when he has no notice of the order giving leave to amend,
or opportunity to plead to the amended declaration, or day in court to
answer to the suit.
An allegation that the plaintiff is a joint stock company organized under
the laws of a State is not an allegation that it is a corporation, but, on
the contrary, that it is not a corporation, but a partnership.
An allegation that a joint stock company plaintiff is a citizen of a State
different from that of the defendant, will not give this court jurisdiction
on the ground of citizenship.

OCTOBER TERM:, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

It is again decided that this court will of its own motion take notice of
questions of jurisdiction presented by the record, although not raised
by the parties, and that when the jurisdiction of a Federal court is sought
on the ground of diversity of citizenship, the facts conferring the jurisdiction must either be distinctly averred in the pleadings or must clearly
appear in the record.
When the judgment below is reversed in this court for want of jurisdiction
in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in error is entitled to his costs in this
court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

_2Jfl Robert T Jfol Veal and XlIr Frank Baker, for plaintiff
in error, cited. (1) To the first point stated in the opinion.

Davis Avenue Railroadv 3fallon, 5' Alabama, 168, (2) To the
second point IRuckvale v. Iendall, 3 B. & Ald. 137;" 3lanon
3iaeline WVorks v Craig, 18 West Virginia, 559, 565, Balt2more & O/io Riailroadv Chrzsthe, 5 West Virginia, 325, 328,
AXc filleon v _Dobbns, 9 Leigh, 422, Armstrong v Barton,42
Mississippi, 506, Porterfieldv Butler, 47 Mississippi, 165, 170,
Garland v Davs, 4 How 131, (3) To the third point, Freeman on Judgments, ยง 540.
No

appearance for defendant in error.

AIR. JusTIcF LAmAR delivered the opinion of the court.
In its original form, this was an action of assumpsit, brought
in the court below, by the United States Express Company,
alleged to have been organized under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of New York, and a citizen of that State,
against Heman B. Chapman, a citizen of Illinois, to recover
the sum of $14,000, in money, alleged to have been entrusted
to him for delivery to a certain company at La Salle, Illinois,
and converted by him to his own use.
At the same term of the court in which the declaration was
filed, Chapman answered, setting up two defences, viz. (1)
n7on assumpsit, and (2) nul tiel corporation. On the 8th of
August, 1869, upon statutory affidavit filed on behalf of the
company, a writ of attachment was issued, under which writ

CHAPMAN v. BARNEY.
Opmon of the Court.

the marshal of the district levied upon certain personal property and effects of the plaintiff m error.
At the succeeding term of the court, upon motions made by
the company for that purpose, leave was given it to file an
amended declaration, and to change its action from assumpsit
to trover; and the plaintiff in error was ruled to plead to the
amended declaration within ten days after service of a copy
thereof upon his attorneys. In conformity with such order, at
the December Term, 1879, of the court, the plaintiff amended
the declaration so as to make it, in lieu of the original, read as

follows:
"Ashbel Hl. Barney, president of the United States Express
Company, a joint stock company organized under and by
virtue of a law of the State of New York, and winch said
company is authorized by the laws of the State of New York
to maintain and bring suits, in the name of its president, for
or on account of any right of action accruing to said company,
and a citizen of the State of New York, the plaintiff in this
suit, by E..F Bull and James W Duncan, its attorneys, complains of Hleman B. Chapman, a citizen of the State of Illinois," etc.

After the leave to amend the declaration was given, but
before the amended declaration was fied, the plaintiff in error
was convicted of perjury in the Circuit Court of La Salle
County, Illinois, and sentenced to imprisonment m the Joliet
Penitentiary, for the term of seven years, under which sentpnce he was, on January 2, 1880, removed to said penitentiary, and there imprisoned until October, 1884. Without any
proof of service of a copy of the amendment, or any order for
the default of the plaintiff in error for want of plea to the
amended declaration, and without any plea thereto having
been filed by him, the case was called for trial, and the record
shows the following proceedings to have been had.
"Said cause having been called for trial, plaintiff appeared,
and defendant and his attorney failing to appear, thereupon,
upon issue joined, comes a jury (naming them) who were
sworn well and truly to try said issue, and who, after hearing
the evidence, returned the following verdict: 'We, the jury,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

find the issue for the plaintiff, and assess his damages at fourteen thousand dollars; "' and then follows judgment, on March
27, 1880, in usual form, on the verdict, for $14,000, and costs.
On the 8th of October, 1885, plaintiff in error filed in
the court below his bond for the prosecution of a writ of
error to reverse said judgment, and the same was duly approved by the Circuit Judge. The mittimus under the sentence above referred to, the certificate of the warden of the
penetentiary, and the affidavit of plaintiff in error, were all
filed in the case and made part of the record, and they show
that plaintiff in error was imprisoned in the Joliet Penitentiary from January 2, 1880, to October 4, 1884, and another
affidavit of the plaintiff in error, also filed in the case and
made part of the record, shows that on his discharge from the
penitentiary, October, 1884, he was at once arrested on a cap-as ad satisfacendum, issued upon the judgment above mentioned, and from that time until the issue of the writ he had
been imprisoned in the county jail of Cook County, Illinois,
upon such capbas. His case is thus brought within the provisions of ยง 1008 Rev Stat., which provides that. in case a party
entitled to a writ of error is imprisoned he may prosecute such
writ within two years after judgment, exclusive of the term of
such imprisonment.
The assignments of error relied upon are three in number,
and are substantially as follows
(1) The court erred in pernntting a new sole plaintiff to be
substituted for, and in the place of, the sole original plaintiff.
(2) The court erred in submitting to the jury the cause as
it stood after the amendments aforesaid, as upon issue joined
between said parties, in entering the verdict of the jury m said
cause, and in rendering judgment thereon in favor of the defendant in error, when there was no issue joined between said
parties.
(3) The court erred in proceeding to trial and entering a
verdict and rendering judgment against plaintiff in error when
he had no notice of the order giving leave to amend, or of
such amendment, and had had no time or opportunity to plead
to the amended declaration, nor any day in court to answer
to, or defend against, the suit of the new plaintiff.

CHAPMAN v. BARNEY.
Opinon of the Court.

We do not think the first assignment of error well taken.
Amendments are discretionary with the court below, and not
reviewable by this court. Mlandeville v Wilson, 5 Cranch,
15, Skleeliy v 2andeville, 6 Cranch, 253, Walden v Craig, 9
Wheat. 576, Chirac v Renscler, 11 Wheat. 280, Wrght v
Hollingsworth, 1 Pet. 165, United States v Buford, 3 Pet.
12, Mliatheson v grant, 2 How 263, E parte Bradstreet 7
Pet. 634.
We think the second point for plaintiff in error is well taken.
Where there has been an appearance and no plea, or where,
on account of amendments and changes of pleadings, the
declaration remains without an answer, the plaintiff may move
for a judgment for the want of a plea, as upon nil dicit. But
no such .motion was made. Certainly a jury should not be
called, and verdict entered where no issue is joined, unless for
assessment of damages, merely The court erred in rendering
judgment thereon. In addition to the authorities cited by
counsel for plaintiff in error, see Hogan v. Ross, 13 How 173.
We also think the third point well taken. The plaintiff was
not entitled to judgment without conforming to the conditions
imposed by the court in the very order giving leave to amend
the declaration, and, under such circumstances, the court
erred in rendering judgment against defendant.
But aside from all this, we are confronted with the question
of jurisdiction, which, although not raised by either party in
the court below or in this court, is presented by the record,
and under repeated decisions of this court must be considered.
Sullivan v Fulton Steamboat Co., 6 Wheat. 450, Jackson v.
Ashton, 8 Pet. 148, Grace v American Central*Ins. Co., 109
U. S. 278, Continental Ins. Co. v Rhoads, 119 U. S. 237,
Cameron v Hodges, 127 U.S. 322, and authorities there cited.
The ground upon which the jurisdiction of the Federal court
is invoked is that of diverse citizenship of the parties. In
Robertson v Cease, 97 U. S. 646, 649, it was said that "where
jurisdiction depends upon the citizenship of the parties, such
citizenship, or the facts which in legal intendment constitute
it, should be distinctly and positively averred in the pleadings,
or they should appear affirmatively, and with equal distinct-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ness, in other parts of the record," citing lRcilway Co. v Ramsey, 22 Wall. 322, Brnges v Sperry, 95 U S. 401, and B'own
v Keene, 8 Pet. 112. See also -Menardv Goggan, 121 U. S.
253, HZalsted v Buster, 119 U S.341, Everhart v Huntsville
College, 120 U. S.223.
On looking -nto the record we find no satisfactory showing
as to the citizenship of the plaintiff. The allegation of the
amended petition is, that the United States Express Company
is a joint stock company organized under a law of the State
of New York, and is a citizen of that State. But the express
company cannot be a otftzen of New York, within the meaning
of the statutes regulating jurisdiction, unless it be a corporation. The allegation that the company was organzed under
the laws of New York is not an allegation that it is a corporation. In fact, the allegation is, that the company is not a corporation, but a joint-stock company- that is, a mere partnership. And, although it may be authorized by the laws of the
State of New York to bring suit in the name of its president,
that fact cannot give the company power, by that name, to
sue in a Federal court.
The company may have been organized under the laws of
the State of New York, and may be doing business in that
State, and yet all the members of it may not be citizens of
that State. The record does not show the citizenship of Barney or of any of the members of the company They are not
shown to be citizens of some State other than Illinois. Grace
v Anerwan Central Ins., Co. supra, and authorities there
cited.
For these reasons we are of the opinion that the record does
not show a case of which the Circuit Court could take jurisdiction. The judgment of that court must therefore be
reversed at the costs, in this court, of the defendant in error.
Hancock v H~olbrook, 112 U S.229, Halstedv Buster, supra,
Men ard v Goggan, sujra.
The judgment ts reversed and the cause remanded,wzth directions to set aside the judgment, and for such further proceedings as may not be 'inconsstent with this opnzon.

