OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

There is nothing in these decisions which supports the positions for which the plaintiff in error contends. They only
determine, that one who is in the enjoyment of a right to
preach and teach the Christian religion as a priest of a regular
church, and one who has been admitted to practise the profession of the law, cannot be deprived of the right to continue
in the exercise of their respective professions by the exaction
from them of an oath as to their past conduct, respecting
matters which have no connection with such professions. Between this doctrine and that for which the plaintiff in error
contends there is no analogy or resemblance. The constitution of Missouri and the act of Congress in question in
those cases were designed to deprive parties of their right to
continue in their professions for past acts or past expressions of
desires and sympathies, many of which had no bearing upon
their fitness to continue in their professions. The law of
West Virginia was intended to secure such skill and learning
in the profession of medicine that the community might trust
with confidence those receiving a license under authority of
the State.
Judgment affrmed.

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT
No. 86.

OF

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Argued November 15, 16, 1888.-Decided January 14, 18S9.

A railway company received cotton for transportation as a common carrier
giving the owner a bill of lading received and accepted by him which
contained a " stipulation and agreement" that the carrier "should have
the benefit of any insurance which may have been effected upon or on
account of said cotton." While in the carrier's custody the cotton was
destroyed by fire. The owner had open policies against loss by fire
which covered this loss. These policies all provided for the transfer
of the owner's claim against the carrier to the insurer on payment of the
loss, and some of them contained further provisions forfeiting the insurance in case any agreement was made by the insured whereby the insurer's right to recover of the carrier was released or lost. In case of loss

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY CO.

129

Statement of the Case.
these open policies were to be kept good for their full amount by the
insured paying to the insurers four per cent of the insured loss, on receivig the amount of it from the insurer. In the present case, instead of
making these mutual payments, the insurers adjusted the loss and reinstated the policies, charging the four per cent prennum, and the parties
agreed that the owner should proceed against the carrier without pre3udicing Ins claim against the insurers, and that the insurers should allow
him interest on the claim until collected. The owner brought suit against
the carrier. Negligence on the carrier's part, although demed in the
pleadings, was not contested at the trial, but the defence rested on the
failure to give the carrier the benefit of insurance. Held.
(1) That as the defendant's nght to the benefit of the insurance depended upon the maintenance of the plaintiff's cause of action,
it could not be set up in denial of the truth of the complaint.
(2) That it could not be set up as a counterclaim, because no unconditional payment of insurance had been made to the plamtitf.
(3) That as recovery could not be had against the insurers except upon
condition of resort over against the carrier, any act to defeat
wlnch was to operate to cancel the insurers' liability, the policies
could not be made available for the benefit of the carrier.
(4) That the agreement made with the insurers subsequent to the loss
did not amount to a payment.
(5) That the insurers were entitled under their contract to require the
insured to proceed first against the carrier, and to decline to
indemnify him until the question and the measure of the carrier's
liability were determined.

Wn'Inir H. Lmi&x, John H. Inman, James Swann, Bernard
S. Clark and Robert W Inman, copartners m business under
the firm name of Inman, Swann & Company, brought suit
against the South Carolina Railway Company, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina,
on the 18th of July, 1884, to recover damages for the loss of
two hundred and forty-eight bales of cotton, (out of 809 bales,)
which the defendant, as a common carrier, had received at
Columbia, South Carolina, to be safely carried for certain
freight money to Charleston in that State, and there delivered
to a connecting carrier to be transported to New York, and
which, the plaintiffs averred, the defendant did not safely
carry and deliver, but which were, while m the defendant's
possession, custody and control as a common carrier, "by the
carelessness and negligence of the defendant, its officers,
agents and servants, destroyed by fire."
VOL. CXxix-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

In its answer the defendant admitted the shipment, names
of shippers, place of shipment and number of bales shipped,
and averred "that at the date of the receipt and shipment of
said cotton, bills of lading were given therefor, m which were
stated the conditions, stipulations and agreements upon which
said cotton should be carried by the railroad company receiving
it, and by the connecting roads, which bills of lading and the
conditions, stipulations and agreements thereof, were received
and accepted by the plaintiffs, and constitute the contract
between them and the defendant," that the cotton was
received "subject to the conditions, stipulations and agreements of said bills of ladino-" and that the two hundred and
forty-eight bales were destroyed by fire, but denied, as a first
defence, the allegations in respect to negligence, and, as a
second defence, stated "that among other stipulations and
agreements in said bills of lading under which said cotton so
destroyed by fire was carried is the following, to wit ' And
it is further stipulated and agreed that in case of any loss or
damage done to or sustained by any cotton herein receipted
for during transportation, whereby any legal liability may be
incurred by the terms of this contract, that the company alone
shall be held responsible therefor in whose actual custody the
cotton may be at the time of the happening of such loss or
damage, and the company incurring such liability shall have
the benefit of any insurance which may have been effected
upon or on account of said cotton,' that the plaintiffs had
fully insured said cotton so destroyed by fire, in solvent compames, from risks, among which fire was one, and that at the
time of the occurrence of said fire said cotton was fully covered by insurance, but that this defendant has not had the
benefit of such insurance, nor have the plaintiffs given or
offered to give it the benefit of such insurance."
The bill of exceptions states that the plaintiffs, to maintain
the issue on their part, examined Bernard S. Clark, (one of
the plaintiffs,) who proved the delivery of the *cotton to the
Greenville and Columbia Railroad, to be carried to the plaintiffs at New York, the receipt of the cotton by the defendant
as a connecting carrier, its destruction by fire at Charleston,

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY CO.

131

Statement of the Case.

on the 29th day of October, .D. 1883, while in the custody
of the defendant, awaiting delivery to the next connecting
carrier, and that the value of the cotton, less freight, was
$10,717.21, that the form of the bills of lading given to the
agent of the plaintiffs by the Greenville and Columbia Railroad Company, the first carrier, was as set out, and contained
the clause above quoted.
Upon examination by defendant, the witness testified that
plaintiffs had open policies of insurance m the Phcemx,
Mechanics' and Traders' and Greenwich Insurance Companies,
but had not received any money for the loss occasioned by the
burning pf the cotton in question, that the insurance compames had signed certain memoranda which witness produced,
that witness instructed Mr. Gallagher, an insurance adjuster
at Charleston. to bring suit if defendant did not pay, that
witness did not know that Gallagher represented the abovenamed insurance companies, but he had said there would be
no expense to plaintiffs, that "by our policies, in case of loss,
we have to pay four per cent on that loss, to keep our policy
good for twenty thousand dollars all the time. My object is
to get this money from the railroad companies and save this
four per cent, and $150 average comes in there, and in case
I don't get it from them to fall back on my insurers -the
insurance companies- and make them pay it. That is the
exact reason, and if I don't get it from them the idea is that
I will fall back on the insurance company" On re-direct
examination -the witness testified that the plaintiffs were the
owners of the cotton, and did not authorize their agent to take
bill of lading with insurance clause, but plaintiffs had received
the balance of the cotton and settled for the freight on it
under the same bill of lading, that the agent "had authority
to take bills of lading for the cotton, but had to accept what
the company would give hun or no bill of lading."
The policy issued to plaintiffs by the Mechamcs' and Traders'
Insurance Company on cotton burned bears date Yth September, 1883, and contains the following provisions
"It is also agreed and understood, that, in case of loss or
damage under this policy, the assured, in accepting payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

therefor, hereby and by that act assigns and transfers to the
said insurance company all his or their right to claim for loss
or damage as against the carrier or other person or persons, to
inure to their benefit, however, to the extent only of the
amount of the loss or damage and attendant expenses of
recovery paid or incurred by the said insurance company, and
any act of the insured waiving or transferring or tending to
defeat or decrease any such claim against the carrier or such
other person or persons, whether before or after the insurance
was made under this policy, shall be a cancellation of the
liability of the said insurance company for or on account of
the risk insured for which loss is claimed.
.Inevent
of loss the assured agrees to subrogate to the insurers all their
claims against the transporters of said cotton, not exceeding
the amount paid by said insurers."
Similar provisions are contained in the policy issued by the
Greenwich Company to the plaintiffs on cotton destroyed.
The policy issued by the Phcenix Insurance Company on said
cotton contained the following provision "In case of any
agreement or act, past or future, by the insured, whereby any
right of recovery of the insured against any persons or corporations is released or lost, which would, on acceptance of abandonment or payment of loss by this company, belong to this
company but for such agreement or act, or, m case this insurance is made for the benefit of any carrier or bailee of the
property insured other than the person named as insured, the
company shall not be bound to pay any loss, but its right to
retain or recover the premium shall not be affected," also the
further provision "that in event of loss the insured agrees to
subrogate to the insurers all their claims against the transporters of said cotton, not exceeding the amount paid by said
insurers."
The memoranda referred to as signed by the insurance companies on the dates named are as follows
"1Ew YoRiK, _iov. 17T, 1883.

"To Inman, Swan & Co.
"In accordance with the provision of this policy the estimated loss sustained by this company of $3667 in consequence

INMIAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY CO.

133

Statement of the Case.
of fire at Charleston, S. C., about Oct. 29th, '83, is hereby reinstated and $114.90 additional premium is charged by this company therefor, it being fully understood and agreed that when
the above loss is finally adjusted the amount reinstated and
the preium charged shall be made correct.
"Attached to this policy, 21,773."

"N w Yorx, Dec. lst, 1883.
"It is hereby understood and agreed by the undersigned
companies insuring Messrs. Inman, Swan & Co., that proofs
of loss by fire at Charleston, S. C., of Oct. 29th, 1883, presented this day, are to be considered as filed on :November
17th, as all papers and vouchers to prove such loss were forwarded by Messrs. Inman, Swaun & Co., with their consent,
to the South Carolina R. R. Co. to collect loss from them as
common carriers, which, however, is not to prejudice Messrs.
Inman, Swann & Co.'s claim against the undersigned insurance companes."
"NEw You, Jan. 18th, 1884.
"The undersigned companies having been notified by Messrs.
Inman, Swan & Co. of loss by fire at Charleston, S. C., on or
about Oct. 29th, '83, and proofs of loss having been presented
to the South Carolina R. iR. Co. direct, on Nov 1'Tth, '83, with
consent of said insurance companies, which, however, it was
agreed upon should not prejudice the assurer's claim against
them, the claims having been agreed upon as filed with insurance companies on said Nov 17th, in case the railroad should
refuse to pay, and the claim being due on Jan. 17th, 1884,
Messrs. Inman, Swan & Co. will still use every effort to collect the claim direct, and the undersigned insurance companies
hereby agree to pay them (six) 6 per cent interest from January 17th, '84, to the time when clain is collected. This
agreement, however, is not to prejudice their claim against the
undersigned insurance companies."
It was conceded upon the argument that the bills of lading
were dated October 18th, October 24th, October 25th and
October 27th, 1883, and were signed for the Columbia and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Greenville IRailroad Company and the companies constituting
the through line, of which defendant was one, "separately
but not jointly;" and that the policies of insurance were dated
August 29th, September 6th and September 7th, 1883, and
expired August 29th, 1884, and contained these clauses "The
total amount of each and every loss, less $150 to be deducted
in lieu of average, shall be paid within thirty days after receipt
of proofs of loss," and "that, in the event of loss, the assured
agree to pay the insurers additional premium or premiums at
the rate of four per cent on the amount of such loss or losses,
and this policy is thereby to be reinstated and in force to the
full amount of $20,000, unless either party desire the cancelment of same."
At the request of the defendant and subject to plaintiffs'
exceptions the court gave to the jury the following instructions
" First. That the bill or bills of lading under which the cotton of plaintiffs in this case was transported by the defendant
constituted the contract of the parties, and the plaintiffs are
bound by the stipulation that the defendant company 'shall
have the benefit of any insurance that may have been effected
upon or on account of said cotton.'
"Second. That the plaintiffs, before they can recover
against defendant here, must show that they have performed
their part of this contract by proving that they have given to
the South Carolina Railway Company the benefit of the insurance, or that they have been ready to perform their contract by
tendering such benefit, and that the same has been refused.
"Third. That if the jury find that an agreement was made
between plaintiffs and their insurers by which the insurers
waived proofs of loss and admitted the claim of plaintiffs to
be due by them on the 1st of January, 1884, and plaintiffs
agreed to give time upon said claim to the insurers and meantime
to press the claim for the cotton against the South Carolina
Railway Company, defendant, in consideration of the payment
to plaintiffs by their insurers of 6 per cent interest per annum
on said admitted claim from 1st January, 1884, then plaintiffs
cannot recover, and verdict must be for defendant."

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY CO.

135

Statement of the Case.

The plaintiffs requested the following instructions, which
0
the court refused, and plaintiffs excepted.
giving
bills
of
lading
"First. That the stipulations in the
the defendant the benefit of insurance effected by the plaintiffs is unreasonable, contrary to public policy, and the duties
and obligations imposed by law upon carriers, and therefore
void.
"Second. That if the stipulation in the bills of lading under
winch the cotton of the plaintiffs was to be transported by the
defendant-givmg to the carrier the benefit of insurance, is valid,
then such stipulation only entitles the defendant to such insurance upon payment by it of plaintiffs' loss, unless the plaintiffs
have already been paid by the insurer.
"Third. That if the stipulation in the bills of lading under
which plaintiffs' cotton was to be transported by the defendant
giving to the carrier the benefit of plaintiffs' insurance is valid,
then such stipulation only entitles the defendant to such insurance as it is in the hands of the plaintiffs, and if the policy is
void or unproductive this is no defence, and the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover in tins action.
"Fourth. That if the stipulation in the bills of lading under
winch plaintiffs' cotton was to be transported by the defendant giving the carrier benefit of insurance effected by plaintiffs
is valid, then no legal obligation arose therefrom that the
plaintiffs should effect valid insurance, and if such insurance
is invalid tins is no defence to plaintiffs' action.
"Fifth. That as the plaintiffs, under the stipulation in the
bills of lading giving the carrier benefit of the insurance, may
or may not have insured as they please, the defendant takes
such insurance, if effected, subject to all infirmities, and the
same constitutes no defence to plaintiffs' action.
"Sixth. That the carrier does not lose his character as carrier by reason of a stipulation giving him the benefit of insurance by the sinpper or owner, and that as carrier he is primarily
liable for loss or damage, if not arising from causes exempted
by law or ins contract, and if the defendant desires the benefit
of plaintiffs' insurance it must first pay the loss sustained by
them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

"Seventh. That the defendants, under the. bills of lading in
question,Oare not exempt from loss by fire, as such exemption,
under said bills of lading, only applies to the carrier by water."
.Ar George A. Black for plaintiffs in error.
-z'r William,Allen Butler and XAr Theodore G Barker for
defendant in error.
I. In South Carolina, the State, as it happens, m which the
contract in this case was made, and where, so far as defendant
was concerned, it was to be performed, it has been always
held, that the bill of lading, given by a railroad company
to a shipper, constitutes the contract between the parties, and
recently thus "The bill of lading is the contract between the
shipper and the company, by which the company agrees to
transport and deliver beyond its own lines and the terms and
conditions of the contract regulate and determine the duties
and obligations of the contracting parties. The signature of
the shipper is not necessary to establish his assent to the terms
of a bill of lading." APedront .ManufacturngCo. v Columbea
and Greenville Railroad Co., 19 So. Car. 353. In New York
it is held that, "On contract for through transportation exemptions mure to connecting carriers although not so expressly provided." .Manhattan Oil Co. v Camden and Amboy
Railroadand TranslportationCo., 54 N. Y 197. "The acceptance of the carrier's receipt creates a contract according to
its terms between him and the shipper." Hutchinson on
Carriers, 240, Bank of Rentucky v Adams Express Co., 93
U. S. 174.
II. The consideration of the contract, upon which the liability of defendant to pay in case of loss of the cotton by fire
depended, was the giving by plaintiffs to the defendant the
benefit of the insurance, which had been effected upon, or on
account of the cotton shipped.
It is a case of a "promise for a prormse" "or of mutual
promises, where the plaintiffs' promise is executed, but the
thing they had agreed to perform was executory"
"If the

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY CO.

137

Argument for Defendant in Error.

consideration be executory, the plaintiff cannot bring his action
till the consideration be performed." 1 Tidd Pr. 435. Here
the plaintiffs had promised, that "in case of any loss or damage
done to or sustained by any cotton whereby any legal liability
may be incurred by the terms of the contract, the company
incurring such liability shall have the benefit of any insurance,
which may have been effected upon or on aczount of the said
cotton."

By the terms of the contract, then, the defendant company
incurred such "'legal liability" the moment when the loss
occurred to the cotton. According to the plaintiffs' promise,
defendant then became, eo instanti,entitled to have from the
plaintiffs the benefit of the insurance, which had been effected.
The plaintiffs were, then, under the executed promise to give
to defendant the benefit of such insurance, and the thing to. be
done -the giving the benefit- was executory, and according
to the established principle of law above stated, the plaintiffs
cannot bring their action till the consideration be performed.
See also Pordage v Cole, 1 Wins. Saunders, 319. This is
what the French law calls "a commuta6tve contract, involving mutual and reciprocal obligations, where the acts to be
done on one side form the consideration for those to be done
on the other," and "it would seem to follow," says Judge
Story, "upon principles of natural justice, that, if they are to
be done, at the same time, neither party could claim a fulfilment thereof, unless he had first performed, or was ready to
perform, all the acts required on his own part." HYyde v
Booraem, 16 Pet. 169.
III. The stipulations in the bills of lading giving the defendant the benefit of insurance effected by the plaintiffs are "not
unreasonable, contrary to public policy and the duties and
obligations imposed by law upon carriers, and therefore void,"
as is claimed in plaintiffs' first exception.
These exceptions to the like stipulations, in similar bills of
lading to those proven in this case, were met and answered,
in the recent decision of this court in P]hwn Insurance Company v Erie Tanorfation Comnpany, 1i7 U. S. 312.
IV The plaintiffs have, by their own proof, shown that

OCTOBER TERM:, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

they have been virtually paid, or have been so absolutely
secured to be paid, by the insurance companies as actually to
occupy the position of lenders of the insurance money to their
insurers, upon an investment, bearing six per cent interest,
from the date, when the insurance money was, in an account
stated in writing, acknowledged to be due and promised to
be paid, unconditionally, by the insurance companies to the
plaintiffs. The only condition of the agreement of settlement
is, that the plaintiffs shall sue the carrier, and use every effort
to collect the claim from the defendant. This, however, it is
stipulated between them, is not to prejudice the plaintiffs' claim
against the insurance companies. They are, therefore, estopped
from saying that they have not been, in effect, paid by the
insurers. The stipulation of the bills of lading that the
defendant (carrier) shall have the benefit of that insurance,
in the language of the decision of this court, above quoted,
"does prevent either the owner himself" (the plaintiffs here)
"or the insurer from maintaining an action against the carrier
upon any terms inconsistent with the stipulation."
V Even if the policy could be shown to be void or unproductive the plaintiffs are not entitled to pronounce judgment
to that effect upon it. The courts alone, upon an issue legally
framed between proper parties, could so declare, until such
judgment, it must be presumed to be valid and productive.
But, by the proof in thi case, these plaintiffs are absolutely
estopped from saying, that these policies, which the insurers,
since the loss, have recognized as valid, under which they have
accepted proofs of loss, and have agreed to pay the loss, are
void. So, by the same proof, they are conclusively estopped
from saying that they are unproductive.
MR.CHIEF JUSTiCE FULLER, after stating, the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The defendant, a corporation of South Carolina, received the
cotton m question for safe carriage from the point of connection with the Colunibia and Greenvillo Railroad Company to
Charleston, S. C., and delivery to the steamship company at

INMAN v. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILWAY CO.

139

Opinion of the Court.

that port. The loss occurred by fire, in Charleston, before the
obligation was discharged, and this is an action as on the case,
based on defendant's breach of duty, as a common carrier, in
failing to safely carry and deliver.
To secure care, diligence and fidelity in the discharge of his
important public functions, the common law charged the common carrier as an insurer, but the rigor of the rule has been
relaxed so as to allow reasonable limitations upon responsibility
at all events, to be imposed by contract. We have, however
uniformly held, that this concession to changed conditions of
business cannot be extended so far as to permit the carrier to
exempt himself, by a contract with the owner of the goods;.
from liability for his own negligence. And as in case of loss the
presumption is against the carrier, and no attempt was made
here to rebut that presumption, the defendant's liability because in fault must be assumed upon the evidence before us.
The cause went to judgment, however, in favor of the
defendant upon its second defence, which was sustained by
the rulings of the Cir6uit Court brought under review upon
this writ of error.
That defence set up the clause in the bills of lading providing that "the company incurring such liability shall have the
benefit of any insurance which may have been effected upon
or on account of said cotton;" and it was averred that the
plaintiffs had fully insured the cotton against the risk of fire,
but that defendant had not had the benefit .of such insurance,
nor had the plaintiffs given or offered to give to it such
benefit.
If this bill of lading had contained a provision that the railroad company would not be liable unless the owners should
insure for its benefit, such provision could not be sustained, for
that would be to allow the carrier to decline the discharge of
its duties and obligations as such, unless furnished with indemnity against the consequences of failure in such discharge.
Refusal by the owners to enter into a contract so worded
would furnigh no defence to an action to compel the company
to carry, and submission to such a requisition would be presumed to be the result of duress of circumstances, and not

OCTOBER TERMT, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

binding. But the clause in question bears no such construction, and obviously cannot be relied on as in itself absolving
the company from liability, for by its terms the benefit of
insurance was only to be had when a legal liability had been
incurred, and in favor of "the company incurring such liability" Since the right to the benefit of insurance at all
depended upon the maintenance of plaintiffs' cause of action,
the fact of not receiving such benefit could not be put forward
in denial of the truth or validity of their complaint.
If, on the other hand, the contention of the defendant may
be regarded as in the nature of a counterclaim by way of
recoupment or set-off, then the question arises as to the extent
of the stipulation, assuming it to be otherwise valid, and what
would amount to a breach of it.
By its terms the plaintiffs were not compelled to insure for
the benefit of the railroad company, but if they had insurance
at the time of the loss, which they .could make available to
the carrier, or which, before bringing suit against the company,
they had collected, without condition, then, if they had wrongfully refused to allow the carrier the benefit of the insurance,
such a counterclai might be sustained, but otherwise not.
The policies here were all taken out some weeks before the
shipments were made, although, of course, they did not attach
until then, and recovery upon neither of them could have been
had, except upon condition of resort over against the caxrier,
any act of the owners to defeat which operated to cancel the
liability of the insurers. They could not, therefore, be made
available for the benefit of the carrier. Nor have the insurance compames paid the owners. It is true that after the loss
had been incurred, the companies signed certain memoranda,
by which the face of the insurance was reinstated, proofs of
loss waived, and provision made for postponing the question
of indemnity until the owners, if the carrier refused to pay, had
used effort to collect, without prejudice to the owners' claims
against the insurance companies. But this falls fax short of
the equivalent of payment, and, indeed, under the terms of
these policies, payment itself would have been subject to such
conditions as the companies chose to impose. Although in

STOUTENBURGH v. HENNICK.
Syllabus.

the order of ultimate liability, that of the carrier is in legal
effect primary and that of the insurer secondary, yet the
insured can, m the absence of provisions otherwise controlling
the subject, insist upon proceeding, under his contract, first,
against the party secondarily liable, and when he does so is
bound m conscience to give to the latter the benefit of the
remedy against the party principal, but these insurers could,
under their contracts, require the owners to pursue the carrier
in the first instanceand decline to indemnify them until the
question and the measure of the latter's liability were determined. This they did, and to their action in that regard the
defendant is not so situated as to be entitled to object.
In our judgment the second defence, in any aspect in wich it
may be considered upon this record, cannot be maitained, and
it follows that the action of the Circuit Court was erroneous.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause rema'nded, wtth
directions to the ircutt Court to award a new trzal.

STOUTENBURGH v.H NE-NICK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE DISTRICT

OF COLU3BIA.

No. 722. Submitted December 1S, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.

Under the authority conferred upon Congress by ยง 8, Article I, of the Constitution, "to make all laws which shall be necessary or proper for carrymg into execution" the power "to exercise exclusive legislation in all
cases whatsoever over" the District of Columbia, Congress may constitute the District "a body corporate for municipal purposes," but can
only authorize it to exercise municipal powers.
The Act of the Legislative Assembly of the District of Columbia of August
23, 1871, as amended June 20, 1872, relating to license taxes on persons
engaging in trade, business or profession within the District, was intended to be a regulation of a purely mumcipal character; but nevertheless the provision in clause 3, of ยง 21, which required commercial agents,
engaged in dffering merchandise for sale by sample, to take out and pay
for such a license, is a regulation of interstate commerce, so far as applicable to persons soliciting the sale of goods on behalf of individuals or
firms doing business outside of the District, and it was not i-ithin the

