BARTON v. UNITED STATES.

249

Opimon of the Court.

BARTON

v. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLA-A S.
No. 1184.

Submitted January 2, 1889. -Decided

January21, 1889.

The act of Mlarch 3, 1883, c. 97 22 Stat. 473, relating to longevity pay,
deals with credit for length of service and the additional pay which
arises therefrom, and not with the matter of regular salary ;:and it has
no reference to benefits derived from promotions to different grades, but
is confined to the lowest grade having graduated pay.

THE Court of Claims dismissed the claimant's petition whereupon he took this appeal. The case is stated m the opinion.
_Ar George S. Boutwell for appellant.
Mr Attorney General, 1 rf' Asswstant Attorney GeneralHoward, and I/b' F..
.Dewees for appellees.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
finding in favor of the United States, and dismissing the
petition of the claimant, Barton.
The findings of fact and conclusion of law were as follows
"I. The claimant was appointed acting assistant paymaster
in the volunteer navy of the United States, January 30, 1864,
assistant paymaster, March 2, 1867, passed assistant paymaster,
February 10, 1870; and paymaster in the regular navy, May
29, 1882. He has been continuously in the navy from his
first appointment to the present time.
"II. He has received the salary and graduated or longevity
pay allowed by the act of July 17, 1861, 12 Stat. 258, and the
act of March 2, 1867, c. 197, § 3,'14 Stat. 516, now Rev.
Stat. 1412, and the benefit of all laws in force during the time
he has held the offices mentioned in the preceding finding,
except that he has received no additional benefits under the

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1888".
Opinion of the Court.

acts of August 5, 1882, c. 391, 22 Stat. 287, and March 3, 1883,
c. 97, 22 Stat. 473.
"III. If he be entitled under said last-mentioned acts of
1882 and 1883 to allowance for the sums which he would have
received had he entered the regular navy when he entered the
volunteer navy, and had he been promoted from time to time,
under the rule of promotion provided by the Revised Statutes,
§§ 1380, 1458, 1496, and the previous statutes embodied therein,
the defendant would be indebted to him to an amount which,
for reasons which appear in the opinion, we do not compute.
" Conluston. of Law.
"Upon the foregoing findings of fact the court decides, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimant is not entitled to recover,
and his petition must be dismissed."
The acts of Congress of 1882 and 1883 read thus
"And all officers of the navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men
in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both, and shall
receive all the benefits of such actual service in all respects in
the same manner as if all said service had been continuous and
in the regular navy Provided, That nothing in this clause
shall be so construed as to authorize any change in the dates
of commission or in the relative rank of such officers." Act of
August 5, 1882, c. 391, 22 Stat. 287.
"And all officers of the navy shall be credited with the
actual time they may have served as officers or enlisted men
in the regular or volunteer army or navy, or both, and shall
receive all the benefits of such actual service in all respects in
the same manner as if all said service had been continuous and
in the regular navy, =i the lowest grade having graduated pay
held by such oficer since last entertng the service Proded,
That nothing in this clause shall be so construed as to authorize
any change in the dates of commission or in the relative rank
of such officers Provided,further, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to gmve any additionalpay to
any such oficer during the time of his sermce in the volunteer
army or navy." Act of March 3, 1883, c. 97, 22 Stat. 473.

BARTON v. UNITED STATES.

251

Opinion of the Court.

Under the provisions of the act of July 17, 1861, entitled
"An act to provide for the appointment of assistant paymasters
in the navy," 12 Stat. 258, assistant paymasters were entitled
to receive graduated pay And under the provisions of § 3 of
the act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 516, Rev Stat. § 1412,
Barton received a credit as assistant paymaster for three years
and thirty-one days' service in the volunteer navy as acting
assistant paymaster, and his second five years' service in the
regular navy commenced after the expiration of the five years
preceding, including therein the volunteer service, and he has
consequently received all the benefits, under the longevity pay
acts, of his whole service, "as if all such service had been continuous and in the regular navy"
But he contends that if he had been appointed in the regular
navy January 30, 1864, he would have been promoted from
time to time earlier than he was, and that he is entitled to
pay in the several grades of service as if he had received such
earlier promotion. And by his petition he claims that the
difference between what he has received and what he would
have received if he had been commissioned as assistant paymaster January 30, 1864, when he entered the volunteer navy,
amounts to $7672.40, made up of the differences of pay in the
several grades if he had attained them as early as he believes
he would if his service had commenced in the regular navy
The argument is, that under the act of 1883, which amended
and superseded that of 1882, officers so situated as Barton,
while denied rank and commissions under the statute, have
the right to the pay of the several grades they might have
reached if their appointments in the regular navy are treated
as having been made at the date of their entry into the volunteer service.
We cannot concur in this interpretation of the act, which,
in our opinion, deals with credit for length of service and the
additional pay which arises therefrom, and not with the matter
of regular salary, and has no reference to benefits derived from
promotion to different grades, but is confined to the lowest
grade having graduated pay
It was upon this -view that it was held in United States v

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

Rocfwell, 120 U. S. 60, that the effect of the act was to
lengthen the time of service in the lowest grade, having graduated pay, by crediting all previous services for the purpose only
of increasing longevity pay in that grade.
It follows that the Court of Claims was right in its conclusion in the premises, and we need not enter upon the
consideration of what the learned Chief Justice of that court
correctly terms "the complicated problem of promotion which
he [Barton] might have had, involving, as it does, the promotion of many other officers above and below him in rank,
who would in like manner be affected by the provisions of the
statute, and whose promotion, dependent upon previous service
not found in this case, would materially affect his own."
The judgment appealed from is
-Affrmed.

CARR v. HAMILTON.
APPEAL

FROM THE

cIuIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 105.

Argued December 4, 1888. -Decided

January 28, 1889.

When a life insurance company becomes insolvent and goes into liquidation,
the amount due on an endowment policy payable in any event at a fixed
time, and sooner if the party dies before that time, should, in settling
the company's affairs, be set off against the amount due on a mortgage
debt from the holder of the policy to the company by way of compensation or reconvention.
When a life insurance company becomes insolvent before the time fixed for
the termination of an endowment policy payable to the holder in case
of survival until that time, or to his children in case of his death before
it, the contingent interest of each party is fixed by the insolvency to be
determined by the tables ordinarily used for that purpose.
Where a holder of a life policy borrows money of his insurer, it will be
presumed prima facte, that he does so on the faith of the insurance and
in expectation of possibly meeting his own obligation to the company by
that of the company to him.
Newcomb v Almy, 96 N. Y. 308, disapproved.

