TILLSON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

of equity, and a purchase under it, or of a judgment at law, or
of other transactions between the actors m the fraud." See
also Colclougl v Bolger, 4 Dow, 54:, 64, Barnesly v Powe], 1
Yes. Sen. 120, 284, 289, R.lthmond v. Tayleur, 1 P Wins. 734,
736, ffiles v Anderson, 5 How (Miss.) 365, 386.
These principles control the present case, which, althoughinvolving rights arising under judicial proceedings in another
jurisdiction, is an original, independent suit for equitable relief
between the parties, such relief being grounded upon a new
state of facts, disclosing not only imposition upon a court of
justice in procuring from it authority to sell an infant's lands
when there was no necessity therefor, but actual fraud in the
exercise, from time to tine, of the authority so obtained. As
this case is within the equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
as defined by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
-that court may, by its decree, lay hold of the parties, and
compel them to do what according to the principles of equity
they ought to do, thereby securing and establishing the rights
of which the plaintiff is alleged to have been deprived by
fraud and collusion.
TIte decree ss reversed and the cause remanded,with directzons to overrule the demurrers, to reguzre the defendants
to answer, andforfurther _proceedings consistent with law.

TILLSOK v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
1o.227.

Submitted December 19, 1888. -Decided

January14, 1889.

In a contract by winch the owner of a quarry on an island on the coast
agrees to furmish and deliver at a public building in the interior the
granite required for its construction, at specified prices by the cubic
foot, and to furnish all the labor, tools and materials necessary to cut,
dress and box the granite at the quarry, the United States, under a
stipulation to pay " the full cost of the said labor, tools and materials,
and inarance on the same," are not bound to pay anything for insurance,
unless effected by the other party; nor are they, under a stipulation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
"assume the risk of damage to cutting on said stone while being transported to the site of said building," bound to pay any part of the expense
of raising granite sunk by a peril of the sea with its cutting uninjured.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Xlfr Halbert JE. P abne for appellant.
iMp Asszstant Atto'rney General Howard (with whom was
Mr IF 1. Hill) for appellees.
MR.

JuSTicE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit to recover money under contracts made in
1873 and 1877 between the supervising architect of the Treasury, in behalf of the United States, and the petitioners. The
Court of Claims dismissed the petition. 20 C. C1. 213. The
petitioners appealed, and at the argument in this court have
insisted upon two claims only
By the contract of 1873, the petitioners agreed to cut and
furnish from their quarry at Hurricane Island in the State of
Maine, and to deliver at St. Louis in the State of Missouri, as
much granite as might be required for the construction of a
custom-house at St. Louis, the United States agreed to pay
them specified prices by the cubic foot for the granite upon its
delivery and acceptance at the site of the custom-house, the
petitioners agreed "to furnish all the labor, tools and materials necessary to cut, dress and box at the quarry all the
granite aforesaid," and the United States agreed to pay them
"in lawful money of the United States, the full cost of the
said labor, tools and materials, and insurance on the same,
increased by fifteen per centum thereof."
The Court of Claims found as facts that in performance of
this contract the petitioners delivered at St. Louis a large
quantity of dressed granite, which was transported by sea
from Hurricane Island to Baltimore, and thence by railway to
St. Louis. It also found the reasonable price and value of
marine insurance on the granite from Hurricane Island to
Baltimore, as compared with the value of the granite, and

TILLSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

with the cost of cutting it; that no part of such insurance or
of fifteen per cent thereon had been paid to the petitioners,
and that no insurance on the granite was actually effected or
paid for by them.
The first claun is based-upon the clause in this contract by
which the United States agreed to pay to the petitioners "the
full cost of the said labor, tools and materials, and insurance
on the same." The petitioners contend that the insurance
thus agreed to be paid for is insurance on the cost of the
labor, tools and materials used, that is to say, on that part of
the value of the cut granite which was represented by the
cost of the labor, tools and materials used in cutting and
boxing it.
We have not found it necessary to consider whether the
words "insurance on the same" mean insurance on the granite, or insurance on the cost of the labor, tools and materials
used in cutting and boxing it, or only insurance on the materials so used, because, it being found as a fact that the petitioners never did effect or pay for any insurance whatever, we
are clearly of opinion that they are not entitled to recover
anything for insurance. The United States have not agreed
to obtain insurance, or to become insurers themselves, but only
to pay to the petitioners the "cost of insurance," which is as
much as to say, reasonable premiums of insurance paid by the
petitioners. By the terms of the contract, the United States
are no more bound to pay for insurance winch has not been
effected, than for tools or materials which have not been used,
or for labor which has not been performed.
The second claim arises under the contract of 1877, in which
the contract of 1873 was modified, the clause as to insurance
omitted, the petitioners agreed to furnish, cut, dress and box
and deliver at St. Louis the granite required for the exterior
walls of the building, and the United States "assume all
risk of damage to cutting on said stone while being transported to the site of said building, provided such damage does
not result from the carelessness or negligence of" the petitioners.
A vessel laden with granite cut and dressed under this con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tract was sunk at sea by collision, and her cargo was raised by
wreckers employed by the master, and was taken to Baltimore
in another vessel. The petitioners seek to recover from the
United States such a proportion of the expense of raising the
cargo as the value of the cutting bore to the whole value of
the granite.
But the only risk assumed by the United States under this
contract was of "damage to cutting on said stone while being
transported," which evidently looks only to injuries to the
smooth surface or the sharp edges of the cut granite in the
course of transportation, and not to a loss, by a peril of the
sea, of the granite with its cutting uninjured. Such a loss, as
well as any expenses incurred by the petitioners in recovering
the granite, fell upon them by virtue of their agreement to
deliver the granite at St. Louis.
Judgment a~ffirimed.

FARNSWORTH v. TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
No. 93. Argued November 23, 1888.-Decided January 14, 1889.

A writ of error does not lie from tns court to the Supreme Court of the
Territory of Montana to review a judgment of that court, affirming the
judgment of a District Court in that Territory, finding the plaintiff in
error guilty of the crime of misdemeanor, and sentencing him to pay a
fine.
The act of March 3, 1885, (23 Stat. 443,) held not to apply to a criminal case.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Montana, in a criminal case, brought by George W
Farnsworth, who was proceeded against by an information in
the Probate Court in and for Gallatin County, in that Territory, for the crime of misdemeanor, in having, in violation
of a statute, as a commercial traveller, offered for sale in that
Territory merchandise to be delivered at a future time, without
first having obtained a license. He was arrested, and pleaded

