OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

The second was a solution of permanganate of potash in
water with sulphuric acid and muriatic acid in proper proportions.
The third was a solution of sulphurous acid in water, and
also a solution of permanganate of potash.
The fourth was treated by one of the same methods. Another specimen was treated by a concentration of peroxide of
hydrogen.
To break the force of this testimony, Keith was recalled,
and, upon many points, contradicted Marchand's statements.
He testified that he had made experiments according to the
methods described by Marchand, and found them failures, and
the hair subjected to them worthless and unrefined.
The testimony of these two witnesses is conflicting. But
the testimony of Marchand relates to facts declared to be
within his knowledge and experience, whilst that of Keith is
largely the assertion of a theory and a presentation of arguments, to show that the facts testified to by Marchand cannot
exist. The experiments which Keith said he had made according to Marchand's formula, and which failed to produce refined
hair, were, as be admitted, his first experiments for that purpose, whilst those made' by Marchand were the results of
twelve years of practice, and attested themselves by the specimens produced.
We think the complainants did not make out a case of infringement. There is not a preponderance of evidence in their
favor.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.
SCHRAEDER

MINIiNG AND
MANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. PACKER.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 118.

Argued December 10, 11, 1888.-Decided March 5, 1889.

In Pennsylvania, after a survey of a tract of public land, whether a chamber survey or an actual one, has been returned more than twenty-one

SCHRAEDER MINING CO. v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.
years, the presumption that it was actually and legally made is conclusive, and cannot be controverted by a party claiming under a junior
survey.
Clement v Packer, 125 U. S. 309, explained and distinguished.
A consent by coternnous proprietors of real estate to mark a boundary
line supposed to run according to the marking between undisputed
tracts, given by both in ignorance of the real facts and of the existence
of a conflict, does not estop either from claiming his rights when the
mistake is discovered, nor can it be construed as a license from the
one party to the other, to cut timber on the disputed tract up to the
mistaken boundary line.
A petition for removal of a cause from a state court to a Circuit Court of
the United States, on the ground of diversity of citizenship, filed after
a judgment therein has been reversed by the Supreme Court of the State,
and the remand of the case for a new trial, is in time.
The plaintiff below was entitled to recover for the cutting and carrying
away up to the time that he sold.

T-uEspAss QvArE c&usum. Verdict for plaintiff, and judgment on the verdict. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated m the opinion.
.AT John F Sanderson (with whom was Ar William T
Davies and Mr ' -EdwardOverton on the brief) for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr .D C. -DeWfitt for defendant in error.
Mm. JusTICE L~xR delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of trespassquare clausum fpegt for timber
felled and carried away, originally brought in the Common
Pleas Court of Bradford County, Pennsylvania, where, after
certain amendments of the record with respect to the parties
thereto, the case stood as Eis/u A. Packer, Plantiff, v The
Sehraeder .Minng and lManufacturnng Company. A judgment of that court, on a verdict in favor of the defendant,
having been reversed by the Supreme Court of the State, and
the case remanded for a new trial, (97 Penn. St. 3'19,) and
three other verdicts having been set aside by the trial court,
the case was, on application of the plaintiff, removed into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
voL. CX

-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania on the ground of diverse citizenship of the
parties.
The declaration averred that the defendant, by its agents
and employes, entered upon plaintiff's lands in the years 1867,
1868 and 1869, and cut down and took therefrom over two
millions of feet of timber, amounting in value to $15,000.
The defences pleaded to the action were (1) that defendant
did not commit any of the trespasses complained of on plaintiff's land, (2) that the land on which the alleged trespass
was committed did not belong to the plaintiff, but was the
property of the defendant itself. It was also contended by
the defendant that the plaintiff, through his agent, had aided,
by consent and acquiescence, in establishing a boundary between the two contiguous tracts of the parties, up to which
he, the plaintiff, agreed that defendant's agents and officers
could cut and carry away as much timber as they pleased.
Issue having been joined upon these pleas, the case was tried
by a jury, resulting in a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for
the sum of $8000, upon which judgment was rendered. The
defendant sued out this writ of error.
Upon the trial the plaintiff, in support of his claim to the
land in dispute, introduced evidence deducing his title from a
warrant granted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to
one George M oore, for a tract of 375 acres of land. The
official return shows that the warrant was issued on the 27th
of April, 1792, and that the survey was made for the said
George Moore on the 21st of November, 1792. The survey is
thus described in the official return
"A certain tract situated on the waters of Towanda Creek,
Luzerne County, beginning at a post, thence by land of
Joseph Betz and Henry Betz north twenty-nine degrees east,
three hundred and eighteen perches to a hemlock, thence
by vacant land north sixty-one degrees west, two hundred
perches to a post, thence by the same and land of General
Brodhead south twenty-nine degrees west, three hundred and
eighteen perches to a post, and thence by land of Samuel
Cooley south sixty-one degrees east, two hundred perches to
the beginning, containing three hundred and seventy-five acres
and allowance of six per cent for roads," etc.

SCHRAEDER MINING CO. v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

As evidence to show that the land m dispute ]s part of this
George Moore tract, the plaintiff produced copies of the returns of these surveys, called for as adjoinders, the location of
which, it is claimed, was fixed by the evidence beyond dispute.
And in connection with that evidence he called several surveyors, who gave testimony, with maps and other returns,
tending to show, by identifying the hemlock northeast corner,
and other marks on the ground corresponding with the survey, that the Moore tract, located according to its calls, embraced the land in dispute.
The defendant, on his part, introduced evidence to show
that the land m dispute was a portion of a tract of about
409 acres, surveyed March 24, 1794, in the warranty name of
Andrew Tybout. He introduced a copy of a warrant and
return of the Tybout tract and a patent from the State to one
Daniel Brodhead for that tract. Evidence was also given by
defendant showing that original marks were found on certain
trees on the north, east and south lines of the Tybout survey,
and that the hemlock northeast corner, the sugar southeast
corner, and the hemlock sapling southwest corner, called for
in the return, were marked respectively as corners m 1794.
The hemlock sapling had disappeared, but the defendant's surveyor determined the age of the corner by a witness found
there, and by other signs.
Defendant also introduced evidence of certain surveyors,
tending to show that no marks upon the ground had ever been
found for the Moore survey on the line north from the hemlock sapling corner, or on the line west from the hemlock
northeast corner thereof, which bore the date of such survey
In this connection, it put in evidence certain official maps from
the land office of Pennsylvania, showing the location of what
is known as the General Brodhead lands, lying west of the
west line of the Moore survey extended southerly, and also
produced evidence tending to show that a line bearing marks
dating 1792 was found from the sugar tree, the southeast corner of the Tybout tract, to the hemlock sapling corner mentioned, and that the sugar tree was marked as a corner of
1792, and that a corner of 1792 was found at the hemlock sa.p-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ling corner. Other evidence was introduced by the defendant
designed to show the non-existence of an actual survey of the
:Moore warrant according to the official return thereof, the
details of which need not be stated here.
In connection with this contention the defendant offered
to give further evidence, founded upon examinations made
upon the ground by surveyors, to show that the Moore warrant was not actually surveyed on the ground according to its
return of survey, but was surveyed, together with the Cooley
and other warrants to the south of it, in one block, of which
the Moore was the northern member, that the north line of
that block, if actually surveyed upon the ground m 1792, was
run between the hemlock sapling and sugar corners, corresponding to what was claimed by the defendant to be the south
line of the Andrew Tybout tract, that no line of 1792 was surveyed on the ground for the Moore warrant north from the
hemlock sapling corner, nor west from the hemlock northeast
corner of the Tybout tract, and that the line south from the
hemlock northeast corner aforesaid was run for warrants to
the east of said line, and was merely adopted by the return of
the Moore survey To this evidence the plaintiff objected on
the ground that twenty-one years and upwards having elapsed
from the date of the Moore survey, there was a presumption
jurts et de jure that the said survey had been made as
returned, and that the evidence was, therefore, inadmissible.
The court sustained this objection and excluded the evidence
so offered, to which ruling the defendant excepted.
The defendant also contended on the trial of the case. that
the plaintiff was estopped from setting up any claim to the
land m dispute, by reason of certain alleged acts and declarations of his, and of his duly authorized agent, one Jacob
DeWitt.
The evidence which it produced on this subject tended to
establish the following facts Prior to the year 1866, the plaintiff, at that time a resident of New York City, purchased a
large amount of lands lying east of and adjoining those of the
Schreder Land Company, the predecessor of tins defendant,
and including the tract in controversy, none of which lands he

SCHRAEDER MINING CO. v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

had ever seen. Soon after that purchase he employed Jacob
DeWitt as his agent and attorney in the management and
protection of said lands from depredations, etc., and gave him
full power and authority to carry out the purposes of his
agency
The land company having in contemplation the erection of
a saw-mill and extensive lumbering operations, and being
desirous of painting a boundary line of its lands as a guard
against trespassing upon the lands of adjoining owners, informed DeWitt of its intentions; and, upon his assent thereto,
as plaintiff's agent, the company employed on its own responsibility one Z. F Walker to run and paint such line. Walker
knew nothing of any conference having taken place between
DeWitt and the company upon the subject of the painted line.
He was paid for his work by the company alone, and his instructions to paint the boundary line of the Schrmder lands were
received from it.
Having in his possession certain old maps of the lands in
that neighborhood, including both the Moore and Tybout
tracts, some of which showed the interference between these
two tracts, and certain old field notes made by a surveyor in
1828 while surveying the Brodhead lands, Walker went upon
the lands and painted a line on the north, east and south sides
of the Tybout tract, according to its location claimed by the
defendant.
Afterwards, DeWitt having examined certain portions of
this painted line, assented to it as a correct boundary line
between the lands of the company and those under his management and control.
This occurred in the summer of 1866. In the following fall
two members of the executive committee which had charge of
the affairs of the land company, went to New York City to
see the plaintiff and assure themselves of DeWitt's authority
for establishing the painted line. They saw plaintiff and informed him of the transaction that had taken place with
regard to the running of the painted line. He replied to them
that he had never been on the lands, but that DeWitt was his
attorney and agent in the matter, and what DeWitt did met

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

his approval. In 1869, after most *of the cutting had been
done, DeWitt again expressed himself as satisfied with the
painted line.
A question also arose in the progress of the trial as to the
time to which the plaintiff was entitled to claim damages, it
being contended by the defendant that he had sold and conveyed the lands in question to Jacob DeWitt on the 2d of
November, 1869, by an absolute deed of general warranty, a
copy of which was introduced in evidence. The plaintiff,
however, claimed that that deed was to be considered not
alone but in connection with a certain other agreement between the parties thereto, which was also introduced in evidence, and that when so considered, it showed that title to
the lands embraced in it did not pass to DeWitt until October
1, 1870. Plaintiff's oral evidence on this point was also to
the same effect.
So far as the record shows, there was no serious dispute
between the parties as to the cutting down, removal and
appropriation of the timber complained of. or as to the amount
and value thereof, or as to the fact that all of the alleged
trespasses had been committed within a certain boundary
marked by a line of trees blazed, and painted white, known as
the painted line, which was claimed to have been established
by consent of the parties.
It also appears from the record that the hemlock northeast
corner tree, called for in the George Moore return of survey,
was identical with the hemlock northeast corner called for by
the Andrew Tybout return of survey, and that the said surveys, by runmng from this common corner, according to their
respective returns, would overlap and include within the same
boundaries about 325 acres, being the tract on which the
cutting, etc., complained of occurred.
The first and decisive question is, who owned this overlapped land at the time the timber was cut 2 The plaintiff
who holds title to the Moore warrant and survey of 1792, or
the defendant holding title under the Tybout warrant and
survey of 17942 As we have seen, it was clearly established
that the adjoinders to the location of the ground corresponded

SCHRAEDER MINING CO. v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

exactly with the adjoinders named in the official return, so
that the latter was a photograph of the former. It was also
proved that the hemlock northeast corner, called for in the
Moore survey, was identified, that that hemlock was the
northwest corner called for in the Henry Betz return of survey, which adjoined the George Moore survey on the east for
about two thirds of the length of its line, and was separated
therefrom by an old line marked as early as 1784, and remarked in 1792 and subsequent years, extending several miles
southerly, that south of the Henry Betz survey and George
Moore survey on the east is the Joseph Betz tract, and that
both of these Betz tracts were surveyed on the 4th of July,
1793, and were returned into the land office on the 16th of
April, 1'794, at the same time the return of the Moore survey
was made, their location being undisputed.
It is shown that along the southern portion of its western
line the George Moore is bounded on the west by a tract in the
warranty name of Robert Irwin, surveyed November 22, 1792,
and returned into the land office the same day as the Moori
survey Tins Irwin tract was a part of a large body of lands,
known as the General Brodhead lands, whose eastern line ex.
tended southerly, identified by the surveyors by marks bear,
ing date 1792, and that on the south the George Moore adjom5
the Samuel Cooley survey, whose location is not disputed.
We concur with the Circuit Court that the Moore survey,
if located according to its calls as made in the official return
in the land office, would include within its limits the tract
where the timber was cut by the defendant and its agents.
The question then is presented, why should it not be located
according to these calls 2 That the Moore warrant is older
than the Tybout warrant is indisputable. That it was regularly and legally granted on the 24th of April, 1792, to
Moore is not questioned, and that it was legally surveyed in
the same year appears on the face of the official return duly
certified. All the presumptions favor the regularity, fairness
and legality of a survey thus authenticated. The calls for
adjoining surveys are regarded by the law of Pennsylvania as
high and important evidence in determining the true location

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of a survey, superior in character to the courses and distances
therein described, and next in conclusiveness to living monuments and original marks upon the ground. Upon what
ground, then, can it be contended that the adjoining surveys,
a living monument, and many of the marks upon the ground,
called for in the official return, shoula not determine the location of the George Moore surveys 9 The only conceivable
ground is the one asserted by the defendant below, that there
was, as matter of fact, no such actual survey as the one exhibited in the official return, that, in other words, the Moore
warrant was never actually surveyed on the ground according to its return of survey In support of this contention the
defendant offered evidence to show that the official return was
a chamber location, never having been made in fact. The
evidence was rejected by the court, upon the ground, as stated
in its charge to the jury, that "an old survey like that of the
George Moore cannot be questioned at this late day by any
parties claiming under a junior title, whether that title took
its origin within twenty or twenty-one years of the older survey, or after that time." This action and ruling form the
basis of numerous assignments of error. We think the court
did not err, either in rejecting the testimony or in the charge.
Many of the authorities cited by the counsel for plaintiff in
error, carefully examined, support the principle laid down by
the court with reference to chamber surveys in Pennsylvania.
At an early day in that State great abuses crept into the
administration of its land-office system, growing out of the
illegal acts of the surveyors, who, instead of going into
the field and establishing the lines and marking corners upon
the ground, would make drafts on paper of pretended surveys,
and return them into the land office as duly certified. These
false, fraudulent pretences of surveys never made, were called
chamber surveys. Owing to the confusion and uncertainty of
titles arising from the numerous patents issued, and the large
quantities of land purchased in good faith under these fabricated surveys, the courts found it expedient, for the common
good and the promotion of peace and quiet m the community,
to hold that when a warrant was returned as reoularly sur-

SCHRAEDER MINING CO. v. PACKER.
Opinion of the Court.

veyed, and this official return allowed to remain unchallenged
for twenty-one years, it was strong presumptive evidence of
the regularity and legality of the survey Many of the earlier
decisions in Pennsylvama, cited by the counsel for plaintiff in
error, held this presumption to be prma facze only, and subject to rebutting proofs. But the later adjudications are in
harmony with the doctrine announced by the Circuit Court.
Such was the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of
Packer v Tw &hrraeder _Minng and Afanufacturvng Corn_pany, 97 Penn. St. 3,79.
There is nothing in the case of Clement v rPacker, 125
U S. 309, contrary to this view The decision in that case
had no application to the subject of chamber surveys. The
controversy arose as to the location of one line of a tract, the
actual survey of which was admitted and insisted on by both
parties. The only question was as to the true mode of ascertaining the location of the disputed line, the plaintiff below
contending that the survey as marked upon the ground would
properly define its position, whilst the defendant contended
that the location should be determined by the courses and distances described in the survey, disregarding the marks called
for and said to be found on the ground.
The court decided that the true mode of ascertaiing the
lines of a survey was to run them according to the marks and
monuments on the ground made by the surveyor at the time
of the survey, along with the lines and distances in the official
return, when these latter corresponded with such marks and
monuments, but in case of a conflict and variance, the original marks and monuments were to prevail and determine the
location of the line in dispute. It also held that after the
'lapse of twenty-one years from the return of a survey,
the presumption is that the warrant was located as returned
by the surveyor of the land office, and that in the absence of
rebutting facts, the official courses and distances will determine
the location of the disputed line or corner, but that this presumption is not conclusive, and may be rebutted by the proof
of original marks and monuments tending to show that the
actual location on the ground was different from the official

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opmon of the Court.

courses and distances. The whole issue in the case was as to
the relative weight to be attached to these two classes of evidence m case of a discrepancy between them, and whether the
period of prescription could be invoked in behalf of the one
class as conclusive against the other. The contention, as in
this case, that no survey was actually made, and that the official return of the survey relied on was a chamber survey, presents a different question, and involves the application of a
different principle. And it may now be regarded as settled
by the latest adjudications of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania that, after a survey has been returned more than
twenty-one years, the presumption that it has been actually
and legally made is conclusive, and cannot be controverted by
a party claiumg under a junior survey
The specifications of error, from eight to fifteen inclusive,
are based upon the charge of the circuit justice with reference
to the alleged consent of Jacob DeWitt, the agent of Packer,
to the establishment of what is known as the painted line,
up to which it was understood that the Schraeder Company
might cut the timber.
The court charged the jury that the evidence relating to
this painted line, and to the assent given to it by DeWitt,
and afterwards approved by Packer, could have no influence
on the question of title under the plea of liberun tenementumi that the assent was given not to settle a dispute but to
acquiesce in the running of a line about which no dispute had
then arisen, and upon the supposition that the person engaged
in running it knew where the true lines were, that it was an
acquiescence resulting from a pure mistake and error, which
should not bind the plaintiff or estop him from claiming his
rights when he discovered the mistake. We think the court
in its charge brought out clearly and fairly before the jury
the distinction between a mutual undertaking to adjust and
settle a doubtful and disputed dividing line, in case of conflicting titles, on the one hand, and, on the other, the consent of
parties to mark a boundary supposed to run between undisputed tracts, but in ignorance and mistake of both as to the
existence of any conflict.

SCHRAEDER MINING CO. v. PACKER.
Opimon of the Court.

Upon the claim of the plaintiff in error that the consent of
Packer to the running of the painted line amounted to a leave
and license to cut the timber up to that line, the court charged
that the adoption of a boundary line by mistake had no element of license in it, and does not necessarily indicate intention
on the part of either Packer to give, or of the Schraeder Company to receive, a license to cut and appropriate timber on
Packer's lands.
We cannot discover any error in tins part of the charge to
the jury
The Pennsylvania decisions cited by counsel M support of
the assignments of error vary very much from the case at bar.
Most of them are cases in which the boundary was agreed
upon as a settlement of a dispute. In the others, the party
setting up the estoppel had been misled as to a material fact
by the false or mistaken representation of the party making
a claim inconsistent with such representation. In the case of
Perkins v. Gay, 3 S. & R. .327, 331, the remarks of Mr. Justice Gibson, quoted by plaintiff in error, apply expressly and
solely to "a settlement of a disputed right." In the next
paragraph he says
"If the parties, from misapprehension, adjust their fences
and exercise acts of ownership in conformity with a line which
turns out not to be the true boundary, or permission be ignorantly given to place a fence on the land of the party, this will
not amount to an agreement or be binding as an assent of
the parties, and I agree it is a principle of equity that the
parties to an agreement must be acquainted with the extent
of their rights and the nature of the information they can call
for respecting them, else they will not be bound. The reason
is, that they proceed under an idea that the fact winch is the
inducement to the agreement is in a particular way, and give
their assent, not absolutely, but on conditions that are falsified
by the event," citing Turner v Turner, 2 Rep. in Ch. 81,
Bngham v Bzngham, 1 Ves. Sen. 126, Gee v. Spener, 1
Vern. 32, Pusey v Desbouveme, 3 P Wins. 316.
The decisions in the other States generally support the rule
that owners of adjacent tracts of land are not bound by con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

sent to a boundary winch has been defined under a mistaken
apprehension that it is the true line, each claiming only the
true line, wherever it may be found, and that in such case
neither party is precluded or estopped from claiming his own
rights under the true one, when it is discovered. Nor can such
consent in an action of trespass quare clauswur fregit, upon
the theory of leave and license given, operate as an estoppel
upon the claim of a plaintiff to recover damages to the extent
of the value of the timber taken, any more than it can under
the plea of liberum tenernentum divest his title to land on
which the alleged cutting and removal were committed.
There remain three other assignments of error not yet disposed of, winch do not call for any extended notice. First,
in relation to the refusal of the Circuit Court to remand this
cause to the state court in which it originated. The reply to
this is, the petition for removal into the Circuit Court was
filed before the final hearing of the case, and therefore in time.
Hess v Reynolds, 113 U S. 73. Second, as to the alleged
refusal of the court to allow the defendant to plead the statute
of limitations. The record shows no such order. The sixteenth and seventeenth assignments of error, relating to the
time to which plaintiff was entitled to claim damages, are
fully covered by the charge of the court that the plaintiff, if
entitled to recover at all, was entitled to recover damages for
all cutting and carrying away of timber from the disputed
premises up to the time he actually sold, etc.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afirmed.

