OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Appellees.

WALLACE v. JOHNSTONE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 94. Argued November 23, 1888.--Decided January14, 1889.

A deed of lands, absolute in form, with general warranty of title, and an
agreement by the vendee to reconvey the property to the vendor, or to a
third person, upon his payment of a fixed sum within a specified time,
do not of themselves constitute a mortgage; nor will they be held to
operate as a mortgage unless it is clearly shown, either by parol evidence
or by the attendant circumstances, such as the condition and relation of
the parties, or gross inadequacy of price, to have been intended by the
parties as a security for a loan or an existing debt.
The fact of a collateral agreement by the grantee in a deed of real estate to
reconvey to the grantor on the payment of a sum of money at a future
day is not inconsistent with the idea of a sale.
Whether the transaction in dispute was a sale or a mortgage is a question of
fact, to be determined from the proof, and here the proof shows it to
have been a sale.

THE case is stated in the opimon of the court.
36' George Norris for appellant cited Teal v Walker, 111
U. S. 242, lNugent v Riley, I Met. 117, S. C. 35 Am. Dec.
355, Wilson v Soenberger, 31 Penn. St. 295, -Dow v Chamberlin, 5 McLean, 281, Bayley v Bailey, 5 Gray, 505, -Lane
v Shears, 1 Wend. 433, Friedley v Hamilton, 17 S. & 1. 70,
X C. 17 Am. Dec. 638, S/haw v ]rskine, 43 Maine, 371,
Peugh v -Dam?.s, 96 U S. 332, Russell v Southard, 12 How
139, Shillaber v Robznson, 97 U S. 68, Conway v Alexander,
7 Cranch, 218, Jlolrrzs v Nixon, 1 How 126, Vernon v
Betell, 2 Eden, 110, Oldh/am v Halley, 2 J J Marsh. 113,
]3drzngton v Harper,3 5 ยฃ Marsh. 353, S. C. 20 Am. Dec. 145.
a

Mr James Hagerman, with whom was 316' Joseph G Anderson for appellees, cited Conway v Alexander, 7 Cranch,
218, Snavely v Pickle, 29 Gratt. 27, Slutz v Desenburg,
28 Ohio St. 371, -Yagg v -Mann, 14 Pick- 467, Glover v
Payn, 19 Wend. 518, Slowey v Ateturray, 27 -Missounri, 113,
S. C. 72 Am. Dec. 251, Galt v Jackson, 9 Georgia, 151,

WALLACE v. JOHNSTONE.
Opmon of the Court.

Spence v Steadman, 49 Georgia, 133, West v Hendrzx,' 28
Alabama, 226, 1?u2pr v TFomack, 30 Texas, 332, Pitts v
Cable, 44 Illinois, 103, -Magnussonv Johnson, 73 Illinois, 156,
Hicks v Hicks, 5 Gill & Johns. 75, ilfc2arnara v Culver, 22
Kansas, 661, Budd v 'an Orden, 33 N. J Eq. 143, Shaw v
.Ersk-ne, 43 Maine, 371, Treat v Strnckland, 23 Maine, 234,
Hill v Grant, 46 N. Y 496, Penn. Co. v. Austin, 42 Ienn.
St. 257, Stevenson v Thompson, 13 Illinois, 186, Carr v
Rsng, 62 Illinois, 14, Saxton v H-itchcock, 47 Barb. 220,
Howland v Blake, 97 U. S. 624, Coyle v Davms, 116 'U. S.
108, Cadman v Peter,118 U. S. 73, Corlzt v Smith, 7 Iowa,
60, S. '. 71 Am. Dec. 431, Cooper v Bkeel, 14 Iowa, 578,
Gardnerv. Weston, 18 Iowa, 533, H7yatt v Cochran, 37 Iowa,
309, Sinclair v Walker, 38 Iowa, 575, Zuver v -Lyons, 40

Iowa, 510,

Woodworth v Carman, 43 Iowa, 504, Ribby v

Harsh, 61 Iowa, 196, .Knight v -McCord,63 Iowa, 429.
lM. JUSTICE LAmAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

Tins is a suit in equity originally brought in a state court
by the appellees against the appellant and one E. R. Ford, to
qiet the title to about 3184 acres of land in Sioux and Clay
coulaties in the State of Iowa.
The petition alleged that on February 17, 1875, the defendant, John A. Wallace, who was then the owner in fee of the
land in dispute, by a deed of warranty, which was afterwards
duly recorded, for a valuable consideration, sold and conveyed
the same to the plaintiffs and one William Leighton, that on
the same day said grantees executed and delivered to the
defendant Ford a contract in writing, giving hin the option,
for the period of sixty days from that date, of purchasing the
land in question, upon the payment by hun of the sum of
$5876, winch contract was on that day assigned by Ford to
defendant Wallace, and was afterwards duly recorded, that
Leighton afterwards conveyed his undivided one-fourth interest to the plaintiff C. F Davis, who afterwards cgnveyed onehalf thereof to plaintiff Edward Johnstone, that neither of the
defendants ever paid anything on the lands, and neither ever

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

exercised the option of purchasing within the time specified
in the option contract, or at any time thereafter, and that the
rights of the defendants under that contract had become forfeited, that the plaintiffs, upon the purchase of the lands,
assumed control of them, and had paid the taxes thereon,
and that the defendants had no rights under the contract, nor
any interest, legal or equitable, in the lands, but the contract,
being upon the records of the counties where the lands lie,
constituted a cloud upon the title to them.
The prayer of the petition was, that the option contract be
declared forfeited, rescinded and cancelled, and the title to
the plaintiffs be qui~ted against all claims of the defendants,
or either of them, and for further relief, etc.
Defendant Wallace answered, admitting the execution and
delivery of the deed and option contract of February 17, 1875,
but alleging that, taken together, they were understood by
the parties thereto as constituting a mortgage for the security
of the money received by him at that time, which was in
reality a loan, alleging, further, that the transaction was to
avoid the effect of the usury laws of Iowa, the plaintiffs not
being willing to accept simply the legal rate of ten per cent
interest on such loan, that the lands were worth at that time
fully $20,000, and the money actually received by him was
only about $4250, that defendant Ford never had any real
interest in the option contract, but actually assigned it to him
before it was signed and executed by the plaintiffs and Leighton, all of which was well known to said parties, that the
loan was obtained in good faith, and he was willing to bind
himself, in the way he did, for said $5876, for the use of the
said $4250 for sixty days, because he badly needed money, and
believed he could sell the land so as to pay off the loan and
leave a large surplus for himself, and that this defendant has
considered himself indebted to plaintiffs and Leighton in the
sum of $4250, and lawful interest from February 17, 1875,
and now asks that he be required to pay only that amount.
He, therefore, prayed that said deed be declared by the
court to be a mortgage, that the title to the real estate be
decreed to be in the defendant, subject to such claim as the

WALLACE v. JOHNSTONE.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs may legitimately have against it by virtue of that
deed, and any taxes they have paid, and that defendant have
a legal right to redeem, as provided by law, upon such terms
of payment of such amount as the court shall think just and
proper, and for other and further relief, etc.
The suit was then removed into the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Iowa, upon the ground of
diverse citizenship. of the parties, where defendant Wallace
fied a cross-bill substantially m matter and form the same as
his answer, asking to redeem. Plaintiffs replied to the answer
of Wallace, and answered his cross-bill denying every material allegation therein not in harmony with the allegations of
the petition. Defendant Ford answered, admitting all the allegations of plaintiffs' petition, and disclaimmg any interest in
the lands. Testimony was taken, and the decree of the Circuit Court was in favor of the plaintiffs, the option contract
was cancelled and annulled, the title to the lands in question
was quieted in the plaintiffs forever as against any claim
thereto on the part of either of the defendants or any one
clanimng under them through the option contract, and the
cross-bill of defendant Wallace was dismissed. From this
decre6 Wallace prayed and perfected an appeal, which brings
the case into this court.
The sole question presented in the case is - was the transaction of February 11, 18'15, an absolute sale or a mortgage
If this question could be determined by inspection of the
written papers alone, the transaction was clearly not a mortgage, but an absolute sale and deed, accompanied by an
independent contract between the vendee and a third person,
not a party to the sale, to convey the lands to him upon his
payment of a fixed sum within a certain time. Upon their face
there are none of the 'indicza by which courts are led to
construe such instruments to be intended as a mortgage or
security for a loan, nothing from which there can be inferred
the existence of a debt, or the relation of borrower and lender
between the parties to the deeds or between the parties to the
contract.
The question whether the extrinsic proof shows that the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

$4250 was a loan to Wallace, and that the deed and option
contract were made to secure its repayment with large interest, is a question of fact to be determined by the circumstances attending the execution of the instruments in question.
The evidence, as it appears in the record, is much less contradictory than is usual in such cases where it issought by
parol testimony to change an absolute conveyance, with a
collateral agreement for a repurchase, into a mortgage.
With the single exception of the appellant, all the witnesses
conversant with the negotiations between the parties unite in
giving testimony tending to show that the transaction was a
purchase of the lands by the appellees for the purpose of
acquiring the property, and that they made a collateral agreement with Ford that if he, or his assigns, should, within sixty
days, deposit in bank to their credit the sum of $5876, they
would convey the lands to them.
It is not necessary to discuss the testimony in detail. There
are two points, however, to which we will make reference.
Edward Johnstone, one of the appellees, after giving the particulars of the contract, as expressed in the papers, says
"Upon the purchase of these lands we went into possession
of them, and we paid taxes for them, and sold a portion, and
I never heard anything of any clain of Mr. Wallace of this
being a loan, until I saw it set up in his answer to this case.
I never heard from Dr. Ford or Mr. Wallace that
he wanted a loan, there was never such a thing as a loan
intimated.
"Did you ever hear Mr. Leighton say anything on the subject?
"I talked frequently to Mr. Leighton and Mr. Davis and
Mr. Connable, and I never heard a word said that would intimate that a loan was desired by Mr. Wallace, it was all with
reference to the purchase of these lands."
Both Davis and Connable testify to the same effect. Each
denies, positively, that a loan was proposed, or a debt incurred,
or a mortgage at any time contemplated. These statements
are strongly corroborated by the other witnesses, and are not
contradicted even by the appellant.

WALLACE v. JOHNSTONE.
Opinon of the Court.

E. R. Ford, the agent of Wallace, who initiated negotiations
between the parties, and who was present at the execution and
delivery of the papers, the option contract being made with
hm, being called as a witness for the appellant, testified
"That the deed and option contract expressed the whole transaction.
I didn't so understand it as. a loan." In
response to the question, "In your negotiation you did not
understand it in that light as a loan 9."he answered "I did
not. From the beginning, in St. Louis I think it was, my
own suggestion as to this option of repurchase, knowing that
a mortgage or deed of trust would not be accepted for a short
loan, as no loan was contemplated, the subject-matter of a
loan was left out of the question altogether." And he proceeds afterwards to state, in reference to his suggestion to
Mr. Wallace, that he should make a sale and take back the
contract of repurchase within a stipulated time and for a
stipulated price, that it was the only method he thought of,
believing, as he did, "that a sale might be effected, but that a
short loan could not be made upon unimproved lands, hence
I am quite positive that the subject of loans was not entertained at all." He also states "That the question of interest
was never discussed between the parties, and that whatever
compensation the purchasers would consider in the matter
would be in the nature of a profit of the land in selling."
W B. Collins, who was the attorney for the appellees, states
that the appellant, his agent, Ford, and Leighton, one of the
purchasers, frequently met at his office and conversed about
the pending negotiations for the sale of the land, that they
always spoke of it as a sale and purchase, and thathe did not
hear at any time of its being a loan.
There is. but one witness, the appellant Wallace, who testifies
that the transaction was a loan. His statements as to any
particular fact are singularly indefinite, mconsistent, and unsatisfactory His testimony consists, largely, of his version of
certain conversations and arrangements with Leighton, who
died before the commencement of the suit.
These arrangements looking to the loan and mortgage he
expected, as he alleges, to be carried out by the appellees, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

he admits, after many indirect answers, that he does not
remember any conversations with the appellees, or any one of
them, in which the transaction was spoken of by himself, or by
them, as a loan, or in which the subject of interest was mentioned between them, or in his own language, "it is more than
likely that I did not have such conversation." If there was no
other testimony in the case than that of the appellant, we do
not think the prooi sufficient to overcome the effect due to the
clear and distinct terms of the written instruments.
But it is urged by appellant's counsel that the disparity
between the price paid for the lands and their actual value
shows the transaction to be a loan, and not a purchase. The
evidence on this subject is at first view contradictory, some of
the witnesses putting a market value per acre of such lands in
large lots at the price paid for them by the appellees, others
stating their value to be from $2.50 to $3.00 per acre. The
real fact, taking all the testimony together, seems to be that
those lands, when sold in small areas to actual settlers for the
purposes of habitation, would bring the higher prices, whilst
in large quantities they could be sold to speculators, for profit,
only at the lower prices.
Nothing presented by the assignment of errors calls for correction. The legal questions which they raise have been settled beyond doubt or controversy by repeated decisions of this
court.
A deed of lands, absolute in form with general warranty of
title, and an agreement by the vendee to reconvey the property
to the vendor or a third person, upon his payment of a fixed
sum within a specified time, do not of themselves constitute a
mortgage, nor will they be held to operate as a mortgage,
unless it is clearly shown, either by parol evidence or by the
attendant circumstances, such as the condition and relation of
the parties, or gross inadequacy of price, to have been intended
by the parties as a security for a loan or an existing debt.
Cadman v Peter, 118 U. S. 73, 80, Coyle v Dams, 116 U S.
108, Howland v Blake, 97 U S. 624, Horbach v Hill, 112
U. S. 144.
The fact of such a collateral agreement to reconvey is not
inconsistent with the idea of a sale.

NOBLE v. HAMMOND.
Statement of the Case.

When the time fixed for the payment elapsed, Wallace's
right to repurchase became extinct, and appellees held the
lands discharged from any claim upon his part.
The decree of the court below is
AJ7-?med.

NOBLE v. llAM-OND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF VERMONT.
No. 101. Argued December 3, 188. - Decided January 14, 1889.

A for his own accommodation asked B to collect money for him, without
eompensation, and to keep it until A called for it. B collected the money,
and, without actual fraud or fraudulent intent, deposited the proceeds to
his own credit with his own funds. By an unexpected revulsion he was
forced into bankruptcy before he had paid it over, and made a composition with his creditors
Held, that the debt thus incurred by B to A was
not a debt created by fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or while
he was acting in a fiduciary capacity within the exception provided for
in Rev Stat. ยง 5117.
The word "fraud" as used m Rev Stat. ยง 5117 means positive fraud, or
fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, and not
merely implied fraud, or fraud m law.

Ti court stated the case as follows
This is an action of general assumpsit originally brought in
the county court of Franklin County, Vermont, by the late
firm of Hammond & Burt, of which the defendant in error,
DeForest Hammond, is the survivor, against the plaintiff in
error, Sylvester C. Noble, to recover the sum of $1000 in
money alleged to have been received by him of and from them.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and also gave notice
under the statute, as a special defence, of his discharge by
composition in bankruptcy, as provided for by the United
States statutes. The case was tried by a jury, resulting in a
verdict in favor of plaintiffs for 81149.83, for which, with
costs, judgment was rendered. The Supreme Court of the
VoL. CXXIX-5

