OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

MARROW v. BRINKLEY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 1262. Submitted January j, 1889.-Decided January 21, 1889.

It being plain that the decision m the court below, adverse to the plaintiffs
in error, was made upon the principles of laches and estoppel, and that
there was no decision against a right, title, privilege or immunity, claimed
under the Constitution, or any statute of, or authority exercised under,
the United States, no Federal question is involved, and this court is
without jurisdiction.
If the highest court of a State, proceeding upon the principles of general
law only errs in the rendition of a judgment or decree affecting property,
this does not deprive the party to the suit of his property without due
process of law.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Xlr A 'redP Thorn, . r Thomas Tabb and .JMr R
Walke for the motion.
-lr

ha'd

If H. Burrows opposing.

MR. CHIEF JusTiCE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In 1870 certain suits were pending in the Circuit Court of
the county of Elizabeth City, Virginia, brought by judgment
creditors of one Parker West to subject his lands to the satisfaction of their judgments, under the provisions of c. 182 of
the code of 1873, authorizing a sale of the judgment debtor's
lands when it appeared that the rents and profits for five years
would be insufficient to discharge the liens against them. These
causes were consolidatdd, and proceeded to decree in September,
1870, for an account of all the real estate of said West, its
annual value, and the liens thereon, under which a report was
made by a commissioner showing the judgments against West
and the lands belonging to him and their annual and fee-siple

MARROW v. BRINKLEY.
Opimon of the Court.

value, and that the rents and profits would not satisfy the liens
in five years, which report was confirmed by decree entered
May 4, 1871, which also appointed special commissioners to
sell said lands, including "all the interest of Parker West m
that certain tract of land known as 'INewport lNews,' containing 300 acres," etc. This land had been sold June 30, 1864,
upon proceedings against West under the confiscation act of
July 17, 1862, and a deed had been executed and delivered to
the purchasers February 15, 1865. No such proceedings had
taken place m reference to other lands of 'West involved in the
litigation, and one of the judgments counted on had been
recovered as early as 1861. West died in December, 1871, and
on the 4th of May, 1872, the following decree was entered in
said consolidated cause
"The death of Parker West being suggested, on the motion
of William P Marrow and Mary E. his wife, Elizabeth R.
West, George B. West, and M. Smith and Missouri, is wife,
the said Mary E. Marrow, Elizabeth iR.West, G. B. West and
Missouri Smith being the heirs at law of the said Parker West,
to be made parties defendant to these causes, the said William
P Marrow and M. E. his wife, E. R. West, G. B. West, and
M. Smith and Missouri, his wife, are hereby made parties defendant to tbese causes, with leave to file their answers. This
cause then, this day, again came on to be heard on the papers
formerly read and on the report of Special Commissioners
C. K. M allory, Thomas Tabb and G. M. Peek of the sales
made by them under a former decree in these causes, to which
report no exceptions have been filed, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof the court doth adjudge, order
and decree that the said report and the sales reported therein
be, and the same are hereby, confirmed."
The sale of a portion of the Newport News land in controversy here was confirmed by that decree, and the sale of the
remainder was made thereafter, and reported to the court, and
the sale confirmed in October, 1872.
In January, 1886, W P Marrow and Mary E. his wife,
George B. West, and Missouri Smith filed their bill of complaint in the state Circuit Court, seeking to set aside the

OCTOBER TERM, 188.
Opinon of the Court.

decrees of May 4, 1871, and May 4, 1872, and the deeds which
had been made to purchasers of lands thereunder, insistingthat West's title had been divested by the confiscation proceedings, and alleging that they never appeared in said consolidated causes in person, or employed any attorney at law to
represent them, and that no process was ever served upon
them, and charging fraud in the entry of their appearance.
Upon the final hearing their bill was dismissed, and they
prosecuted an appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia, which court affirmed the decree of the court below,
holding that, as between the heirs and the purchasers, the
former were bound by the recitals of the decree of May 4,
187'2, and that upon the evidence aliunde the record, the heirs
were estopped by laches and by conduct, to claim title as against
the purchasers who were such in good faith for value and without notice. The complainants filed a petition for rehearing in
the Court of Appeals, in which they stated "that on the 17th
day of May, 1888, in the above-entitled cause a decree was
entered simply affirming the decree of the lower court entered
on the 26th day of October, 1886, dismissing the bill of the
plaintiffs below for reasons stated in the opinion of the court.
The reasons stated are based upon the equitable doctrine of
estoppel sn pas and innocent purchaser for value, without
notice, the language of the opinion upon these points being as
follows (a) ' Having kept a sinister silence when they should
have spoken with candor and courage, equity now closes her
door and leaves them to obtain from a court of law what they
can.' (b) ' That as against an innocent purchaser for value,
without notice, a court of equity is without jurisdiction, and
will refuse to give any assistance whatever, leaving the party
to enforce his technical rights at law'" The rehearing was
denied, and the writ of error sued out of this court, a motion
to dismiss which is now before us. In the petition for the
allowance of this writ it is said that the final judgment of the
Court of Appeals against plaintiffs in error was rendered in a
suit -'wherein was drawn in question a right, title, privilege
and immunity to real estate arising upon the construction of
the act of Congress of the United States approved July 17,

MARROW v. BRINKLEY
Opinion of the Court.

1862, entitled 'An act to suppress insurrection, to punish
treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels, and for other purposes,' and the joint resolution passed
concurrently therewith, and the decision is against the right,
title, privilege and immunity claimed under the said statute."
We do not- so understand this record. Conceding that
West's title to the particular lands had been divested by the
sale under the confiscation proceedings, and that the interest
of the heirs remained unaffected thereby, yet, if they were
concluded under the circumstances by the decree of May, 1872,
or upon the principles of estoppel and laches, that disposed of
their case adversely to them, and it was upon these grounds
that the Virginia courts proceeded, and not upon any decision
against a right, title, privilege and immunity claimed under
the Constitution or any statute of, or authority exercised
under, the United States. It was only if the decision had
been otherwise upon these points that any question could have
arisen as to the validity of the confiscation act and resolution
and the proceedings thereunder.
Unless it appears affirmatively that the decision of a Federal question was necessary to the determination of the cause,
and that it was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not have been given without deciding it, this court
has no jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state court. In this
case the judgment as rendered involved the decision of no such
question, and none such was actually decided.
Nor can jurisdiction be retained upon the suggestion, made
for the first time in this court, that if the Court of Appeals,
proceeding upon the principles of general law only, were
found to have erred in the rendition of its decree, the State of
Virginia had therelby deprived the plaintiffs in error of their
property without due process.
The writ of error w dism2wsed.

