OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

Rocfwell, 120 U. S. 60, that the effect of the act was to
lengthen the time of service in the lowest grade, having graduated pay, by crediting all previous services for the purpose only
of increasing longevity pay in that grade.
It follows that the Court of Claims was right in its conclusion in the premises, and we need not enter upon the
consideration of what the learned Chief Justice of that court
correctly terms "the complicated problem of promotion which
he [Barton] might have had, involving, as it does, the promotion of many other officers above and below him in rank,
who would in like manner be affected by the provisions of the
statute, and whose promotion, dependent upon previous service
not found in this case, would materially affect his own."
The judgment appealed from is
-Affrmed.

CARR v. HAMILTON.
APPEAL

FROM THE

cIuIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 105.

Argued December 4, 1888. -Decided

January 28, 1889.

When a life insurance company becomes insolvent and goes into liquidation,
the amount due on an endowment policy payable in any event at a fixed
time, and sooner if the party dies before that time, should, in settling
the company's affairs, be set off against the amount due on a mortgage
debt from the holder of the policy to the company by way of compensation or reconvention.
When a life insurance company becomes insolvent before the time fixed for
the termination of an endowment policy payable to the holder in case
of survival until that time, or to his children in case of his death before
it, the contingent interest of each party is fixed by the insolvency to be
determined by the tables ordinarily used for that purpose.
Where a holder of a life policy borrows money of his insurer, it will be
presumed prima facte, that he does so on the faith of the insurance and
in expectation of possibly meeting his own obligation to the company by
that of the company to him.
Newcomb v Almy, 96 N. Y. 308, disapproved.

CARR v. HAMILTON.
Opinion of the Court.

BILL i EQUITY to foreclose a mortgage. The case is stated
in the opimon.

.2kb Afred GoNdthwade for appellant.
-Yr N . Blanchard for appellee. -Mr 1. TJ Looney and
.3f/- T Alexander were with him on the brief.
MRn. JusTicE

BP.ALEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises out of a policy of life insurance, dated July
14, 1869, granted by The Life Association of America, a corporation of the State of Missouri, to William E. Hamilton,
the appellee, of Shreveport, Louisiana, upon the life of said
Hamilton, and also out of a mortgage given by said Hamilton
to the said association, for a loan of money, and the main
question is, whether the amount due on the policy ought to be
set off by way of compensation or reconvention against the
amount due on the mortgage.
The policy was not an ordinary one, payable only at the
termination of the life insured, but was what is sometimes
called an endowment policy, payable at a certain time at all
events, or sooner if the party should die sooner, and the premiums were all to be paid within a certain limited time, to
wit, ten years. By the terms of the policy, in consideration
of $877.80, paid by Hamilton. trustee, and of the annual payment of a like amount on the 14th of July, every year, for
nine years thereafter, the association assured his life in the
amount of $10,000, payable to him or his assigns, on the 14th
of July, 1881, or, if he should die previously, payable to his
children, naming them.
By the rules of the association, the insured was only required
to pay two thirds of the annual premium in cash, and had the
option of a credit or loan for the otner third, paying the interest thereon at eight per cent per annum. Hamilton availed
himself of this privilege of credit, and made all the cash payments reqnired for the whole ten yeaxs. His premium loan
amounted in 1879, when the association failed, to $2372.90,
and the equitable value of his policy, at that time, was

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opmnon of the Court.

$7779.95, leaving in his favor the sum of $5407.05. This is
the amount which he contends should be allowed to him by
way of compensation or reconvention against his mortgage
debt due to the association.
The mortgage debt referred to arose as follows In March,
1870, Hamilton borrowed of the association the sum of $3850,
as he contends,. entitled to such loan as a policy
-being,
holder, and which he would not have made but for his being
such policy holder. To secure the payment of this loan he
gave his promissory note for $3850, dated 11th of March, 1870,
and payable twelve months after date with eight per cent interest after maturity, and to secure the note he gave a mortgage of same date on certain lots and buildings in Shreveport,
Louisiana. The mortgage contained the usual pact de non
ahenando, and was recorded 11th March, 1870, and reinscribed
28th May, 1881.
By an amended charter of the association, approved October
2d, 1869, it was authorized by its directors to form separate departments and branches in the different States, with separate
organizations of directors and officers, but having a general connection with the parent company, and it was provided that
each department should have the management and investment
of the funds received therein. Under this charter a separate
department was made of Louisiana and Texas, and Shreveport
was one of the districts of this department. The loan made
by Hamilton, who resided in Shreveport, was made, as he testifies, from the funds raised from the business of the association
in that district.
The Insurance Association became insolvent in 1879, and on
the 13th of October, in that year, proceedings were instituted
against it by the Superintendent of the Insurance Department
of M1issouri, under the laws of that State, for the liquidation
of its affairs, and such proceedings were had that on the 10th
day of November, 1879, a decree was made by the Circuit
Court of the city of St. Louis, (having jurisdiction of the
matter,) declaring that the association was insolvent and that
its condition was such as to render its further proceedings hazardous to the public and to its policy holders, and that the

CARRv. HAMILTON.
Opinion of the Court.

association be dissolved, and its officers and agents enjoined
from exercising any control over its property or affairs, and
from the further continuance of its business of life insurance.
The decree further proceeded to vest the title to all the property and assets of the association in the Superintendent of the
Insurance Department of the State, to hold and dispose of the
same for the use and benefit of the creditors and policy holders
of the institution, and its officers were directed to convey,
assign and transfer all its property and assets to the said
superintendent. In short, the association was put into a condition of absolute bankruptcy and liquidation.
In June, 1883, the Insurance Superintendent of Missouri for
the time being, finding Hamilton's note and mortgage amongst
the assets of the Life Association, filed a petition for executory
process, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Louisiana, for the seizure and sale of the
property covered by the defendant's mortgage before referred
to, and afterwards filed a bill of foreclosure against Hamilton,
the appellee. The latter, besides an answer, filed a cross-bill,
setting up the amount due on the policy of insurance by way
of compensation and reconvention. It is conceded that the
interest was paid on the mortgage debt up to March, 1879,
and there is no question that the equitable value of the policy
in November, 1879, was, as before stated, $5407.05 after deducting all defprred premiums. This was more than enough,
by over $1300, to pay and satisfy the mortgage. The question
is whether the appellee is entitled to such compensation or
reconvention.
Natural justice and equity would seem to dictate that the
demands of parties mutually indebted should be set off against
each other, and that the balance only should be considered as
due. But the common law, for simplicity of procedure, determined otherwise, and held that each claim must be prosecuted
separately "1The natural sense of mankind," says Lord
Mansfield, "was first shocked at this in the case of bankrupts,
and it was provided for by &Ann. c. 17, § 11, and 5 Geo. II.
c. 30, § 28." Green v Farmer, 4 Burrow, 2214, 2220, cited in
2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1433, . C. 1 W Bl. 651. In pursuance

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

of these old statutes. and of the dictates of equity, the principle
of set-off between mutual debts and credits has for nearly two
centuries past been adopted in the English bankrupt laws, and
has always prevailed in our own whenever we have had such a
law in force on our statute book, and it mattered not whether
the debt was due at the time of bankruptcy or not. See
Babington on Set-off, 118, PEpartePrescott,1 Atk. 230, 231,
Bacon's Abridg. tit. Bankrupt (K), Acts of Congress 1800, c.
19, § 42, 2 Stat. 33, 1841, c. 9, § 5, 5 Stat. 445, 1867, c. 176,
§ 20, 14 Stat. 526, Bump on Bankruptcy, 10th ed. 91. It is
difficult to see why this principle of justice should not apply
to persons holding policies of life insurance in a company
which becomes bankrupt and goes into liquidation. By that
act the company becomes cmviliter mortuus, its business is
brought to an absolute end, and the policy holders become
creditors to an amount equal to the equitable value of their
respective policies, and entitled to paxticipate po rata in its
assets. If any one is indebted to the company, especially if
his debt was contracted with reference to, and because of, his
holding a policy, there would seem to be strong reason for
allowing him a set-off, and no good reason to the contrary
One objection raised against the allowance of set-off, or
compensation, in the present case, is that when the Life
Association became insolvent, and when the present suit was
commenced, the insurance had not become absolute in Hamilton, and did not become so until July 14th, 188-, -previous
to which time his children had a contingent interest therein,
they being the beneficiaries in case he should die before that
date. But this reason cannot be sound, for a settlement of
the company's affairs cannot be postponed to await the determination of every contingency on which its policy engagements
are suspended. This would postpone a settlement for at least
half a century Every person's interest in life insurance is
capable of instant and present valuation, almost as certain and
determinate as the discount of a note or bill payable in the
future. Tables of mortality and of all values dependent
thereon are adopted by every company, and furnish an assured
basis of computation for this purpose. The table used by the

CARR v. HAMILTON";
Opimon of the Court.

Life Association of America is set out m the record, and other
tables based upon it are used to facilitate the calculations
desired.
Another reason urged against allowing a set-off in this case
is, that the defendant, Hamilton, holds the policy as trustee,
and cannot set off his claim as trustee against a debt due in his
own right.
This argument has no better foundation than the other.
Hamilton was only trustee so far as his children were interested, he could not be trustee for himself, and his interest was
separate from theirs. The value of each was easy of calculation by any competent actuary The policy had less than
five years to run, and the interest of his children was contingent upon his dying within that time, he being then fifty-one
years of age. Calculated according to the American table
of mortality annexed to the charter of the association and
contained in the record, at five per cent compound interest,
(the usual rate assumed,) the value of the children's interest
was less than seven per cent of the total insurance, or less
than 8'00, whilst the value of Hamilton's interest was more
than seventy per cent of the insurance, or more than $7000.1
Or, first deducting from the whole present value of the policy
(which at five per cent per annum for five years deferred is
$7835.26) the amount due for deferred premiums (823-72.90),
the value of the children's interest was less than $500, and
that of Hamilton's nearly $5000, a sum sufficient to cancel all
1 The process is a simple one, as shown by the elementary books on the
subject. ,lThe policy at the time the association failed (Nov. 1879) had
nearly five years to run; suppose it five. Present value of $10,000, five
years deferred, at 5 p. c. compound interest is $7835.26. This sum less the
value of his children's expectancy, was the value of Hamilton's interest.
lie was then 51 years old. The mortality table shows that out of 68,842
persons living at that age, 1001 die the first year; 1044, the second year;
1091, the third, 1143, the fourth, and 1199, the fifth; showing that the
chances of the children's receiving the insurance the first year were only
1001 in 68,842, or gyo,, the second year, 1044, etc., and the present value
of the expectancy for each year would be the sum expected divided by 1.05,
2
1.05 1.053, etc. The present value of the children's expectancy for each
year, therefore, was as follows, to wit.
VOL. cxxix-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

his indebtedness to the company and leave a considerable balance over.
The proceedings which took place in the Circuit 0ourt of
St. Louis in the course of liquidating the affairs of. the association may be referred to in this connection. In the progress of
the case an actuary was appointed by the court to value all the
policies of the company then in force. Hamilton presented a
petition to the court, claiming that the net value which his
policy had on November 10, 1879, (the day the association
was declared bankrupt and dissolved,) should be an offset to
his note of $3850, and the interest thereon. The actuary
made a report exhibiting the particulars relating to the policy,
and concluded as follows "The value of the policy on November 10, 1879, the date of the dissolution of the company by
order of the court, was, of the whole $10,000, $7779.95, from
which deducting outstanding note of $2372.90 left $5407.05,
as the net value, and which amount was allowed by the Commissioner and approved by the Circuit Court."
ist year,

2nd year,
3rd year,
4th year,
5th year,

6S,842

X loo 2
x00
1.05

104

68,842
1
68,842

1143

68,842

1.052

X

1.053

=
=

137.53

=

136.90

i0,000
1.0 4

10,00X =
68,S42

$138.48

1.05i

Total for the five years =$
This deducted from,

136.60

13.46
_____

685.97
7,835.26

Leaves value of Hamilton's interest,
Or,
If the entire present value,
Is reduced by the amount of deferred premiums,

$7,149.29

The net equitable value is,

$5,462.36

$7,83U.26
2,372.90

If this be divided in the same proportion as before,the value of the children's interest was,
$478.22
And that of Hamilton's,
4,984.14
In November, 1879, his interest would be a little more, and that of the
children a little less, than in July. By the subsidiary tables in use by all
life insurance companies the above calculation would be greatly shortened
and simplified.

CARR v. HAM ILTON.
Opinion of the Court.

It does not appear whether the Circuit Court of St. Louis
allowed the set-off or not. But the Circuit Court of the
United States dismissed the original bill in the present case,
and granted a perpetual injunction against the sale of the
defendant's* property under his mortgage, but disallowed his
demand of reconvention. The form of the decree was as follows After stating the titles of the bill and cross-bill, the
decree was in the words following, to wit.
"In the above cases, after trial and due consideration by the
court, it is ordered and adjudged by the court that John F
Williams, superintendent, take nothing on his bill of complaint,
and said bill is hereby dismissed.
"And it is further adjudged and ordered that the bill of
complaint of W E. Hamilton be sustained and the injunction
of said Hamilton be, and is hereby, made perpetual.
"And it is further ordered that the demand in reconvention
of the said Hamilton in his bill of complaint be, and is hereby,
rejected without prejudice and of nonsuit." Also, decree for
costs.
We think that this decree attained the substantial justice of
the case. If not absolutely correct it erred against the defendant, who has not appealed. The counsel for the appellant,
however, strenuously contends that compensation could not
properly be allowed in this case. In support of his views he
refers to the case of Nfewcomb v .Almy, 96 N. Y 308, decided
by the Court of Appeals of New York. That case was almost
parallel with the present one, and the claim of set-off was disallowed. The suit was brought by the receiver of an insolvent
life insurance company against the holder of an endowment
policy issued by the company, to recover the amount of a
promissory note. The defendant, as in this case, sought to
set off the value of his policy against the note. The policy
was not yet due, and in case the defendant died before it became due, the amount was payable to his wife. The court
assumed that the interests of the assured and his wife were so
involved together that they could not be separated, and that
it did not yet appear who would be entitled to the insurance,
- not adverting to the fact that the interests of all the parties

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Courtl

became fixed by the insolvency of the company, and must'be
computed as expectancies reduced to present values. It is true,
the court does, in the next sentence, concede that the policy
had a reserve value, - but asks, "To whom was that vilue
payable 2" The plain answer was at hand, that the reserve
value of each person's interest was payable to him or her. We
cannot but think that if the true character of the interests in
question had been brought to the attention of that learned
court, it would have come to a different conclusion from that
which was reached.
The counsel for the appellant further contends that, by the
law of Louisiana, (which must undoubtedly govern the case,)
compensation is not allowed against an insolvency in favor of
a party whose credit was not due when the insolvency occurred. The Civil Code of Louisiana on the subject of set-off
is identical with the Code Napoleon. The article apropos of
the point now under consideration is the 1291st of the Code
Napoleon, and the 2209th of the Civil Code of Louisiana, and
reads as follows "Compensation takes place only between
two debts, having equally for their object a sum of money, or
a certain quantity of consumable things of one and the same
kind, and which are equally liquudatedand demandable [exi-

gibles, t.e. due]." INow, although upon a bankruptcy declared,
all claims against the bankrupt become instantly due (subject,
of course, if not matured, to a rebate of interest), and are
equally entitled to dividends of the bankrupt assets, yet, in
order that a claim may be the cause of compensation, the
commentators hold that it must be due [exigible] at the time
when the bankruptcy is declared. Touillier, vol. 7, art. 381,
Demolombe, vol. 28, art. 540. There have also been judicial
decisions to the same effect, though not uniformly so. See
Merlin Rep. vol. 3, p. 262, tit. Compensation.
But if there are techmcal reasons in the law of Louisiana
for rejecting the defence when set up by way of compensation,
it was nevertheless allowed by the Supreme Court of that
State, by way of reconvention, in a case exactly like the present.

_fe Association of Anmeaw

v Levy, 33 La. Ann. 1203.

Levy was the holder of an endowment policy in the same

C,ARR v. HAMILTON.
Opinion of the Court.

company as Hamilton, and in the same district (Shreveport).
Astm. this case the policy had not matured. But the court
held that it might be set up by way of reconvention, and that
the .,amount to which the defendant was entitled could. be
recovered by him and deducted from the amount of his indebtedness to the company This decision was based on a
statute of Louisiana, enacted in 1839, as an amendment to
article 375 of the Code of Practice. Article 375 was originally m the following form, to wit "In order to entitle the
defendant to institute a demand in reconvention, it is requisite
that such demand, though different from the main action, be,
nevertheless, necessarily connected with, and incidental to,
the same, as, for instance, the demand instituted by the possessor in good faith against tim who sues m order to evict
him, or for the purpose of obtaining the payment of the improvements made on the premises." The amendment adopted
m the act of 1839, and now forming part of the article, provides, "that when the plaintiff resides out of the State, or in
the State, but m a different parish from the defendant, said
defendant may institute a demand m reconvention against him
for any cause, although such demand be not necessarily connected with, or incidental to, the main cause of action." The
court m Life Assocuztwn v Levy, say "The right of the
defendant to set up and urge his demand m reconvention
against the plaintiff, a resident of the State of Missouri, is,
under our law, and the jurisdiction of our State, too plain to
require argument," and reference is made to Spznney v Ride,
16 La. Ann. 250, Spears' Ltquzdator v Spears, 27 La. Ann.
642. The court add "The objections urged by plaintiff to the
allowance of the reconventional demand, on the ground that
it would be a compensation of plaintiff 's demand, and that
this cannot take place, because plaantiff is insolvent, and
defendant cannot compensate his own debt, but is entitled
only to such dividend as may be declared after a final settlement, and because the policy holders of,the association are
partners and can only sue for a settlement of the partnership
affairs, are fully met, discussed, and overruled by the lower
judge, and we think properly" The court, in its judgment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

allowed the cash value of the policy, as reported by the actuary, with interest thereon from the time of the adjudication in
bankruptcy, November 10, 1879. In our opinion this was a
just judgment, and the present case being precisely like, is
governed by it.
It is true, the court below disallowed the claim in reconvention, but it decreed a perpetual injunction against the enforcement of the defendant's mortgage, and thereby did substantial
justice. The result which the court reached was correct,
though it may have been led thereto on an insufficient ground.
We are free to say, however, that if the court below went on
the ground that the defendant was entitled to the benefit of
compensation, we should be disposed to concur with it, notwithstanding the doctrine laid down by the commentators.
We are inclined to the view that where a holder of a life
policy borrows money of his insurer, it will be presumed,
pr2ma face, that he does so on the faith of the insurance and
in expectation of possibly meeting his own obligation to the
company by that of the company to him, and that the case
is one of mutual credit, and entitled to the privilege of compensation or set-off whenever the mutual liquidation of the
demands is judicially decreed on the insolvency of the company The case of AScammo v Jiimball, Asszgnee, 92 U S.
362, is in condurrence with this view It was there held, that
a banker, having insurance in a company which was rendered
utterly insolvent by the great Chicago fire of 1871, by which
the banker's insured property was consumed with the rest,
bad a right to set up the amount of his insurance against
money of the company in his hands on deposit. The insurance was not a debt due at the time of the insolvency; it
became due afterwards, when the banker had performed all
the conditions required in such cases. As the defendant took
no appeal, the case is so clearly decided rightly as regards any
complaint to be made by the plaintiff against the decree, that
we have no difficulty in affirming it.
Decree afflmed.

