OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

clear, the purchaser can be required, by rule or attachment, to
pay into court the entire sum bid by him and thus complete
his purchase, it is difficult to see why a bidder, sought to be
made liable for a deficiency resulting from a resale caused by
his refusal to make his bid good, may not be proceeded against
in the same suit by rule, or in any other mode devised by the
court that will enable him to meet the issue as to his liability
That issue in the present case was tried upon pleadings and
proof, and there is no pretence that the appellant had not full
opportunity to present his defence before the final order now
under review was made.
It is suggested by the learned counsel for the appellant that
his client occupies an anomalous position, being required to
pay a very large sum, without getting anything in return
therefor. It is only necessary to say that, even if the late
Chief Justice was mistaken in supposing that the appellant
was directly or indirectly interested in the last purchase by
Shattuck, his failure to obtain a conveyance of the property
was due entirely to his persistent refusal to comply with the
terms of his own bid, made with full knowledge of the terms
of sale.
Decree affrmed.

ARROWSMITH v. GLEASON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

THE NORTHERN
No. 133.

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued December 18, 1888.-

Decided January 14, 1889.

In the State of Ohio one freehold surety to a guardian's bond for the faithful discharge of his duties is sufficient, if he has enough property to
make the bond required by the statute good.
Arrowsmith v. Harmenng, 42 Ohio St. 259, followed as to the validity of the
sales attacked in these proceedings.
A guardian's bond executed by a surety upon condition that another surety
should be obtained is valid against third parties, m a collateral proceeding, although no such surety was obtained.
The other conditions of jurisdiction being satisfied, a Circuit Court of the
United States has jurisdiction in equity to set aside a sale of an infant's

ARROWSMITH v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.
lands, fraudulently made by his guardian, under authority derived from a
Probate Court, and may give such relief therein as is consistent with
equity.

THE case was stated by the court as follows
This suit involves the title to certain lands inherited by the
plaintiff, and sold some years ago by his statutory guardian,
the defendant Gleason, under authority conferred by proceedings instituted by him in the Probate Court of Defiance
County, in the State of Ohio. The plaintiff attacks the order
of sale as invalid, prays that the deeds executed to the purchaser be declared void, that an accounting in respect to rents
and profits be had, and that such other relief be granted as
may be proper. The court below sustained demurrers to the
bill, and dismissed the suit. We arc, therefore, to inquire,
upon this appeal, whether the bill discloses a cause of action
entitling the appellant to relief in a court of equity
The case made by the bill is substantially as follows The
lands in controversy formerly belonged to John 0. Arrowsmith, who died in 1869, his wife, and the plaintiff, his only
child and heir-at-law, surviving him. On the 15th of July,
1869, Gleason petitioned said Probate Court to be appointed
guardian of the estate of the plaintiff, then but six years of
age. He applied to one Henry Hardy, a freeholder, to become
surety upon his bond as guardian, in the penalty of $5000,
which Hardy did, upon the express agreement that, before
the bond was delivered, Gleason would procure another surety
of equal responsibility
Gleason filed the bond in the Probate
Court, without obtaining the signature of an additional surety
The bond contained no condition except that if Gleason "shall
faithfully discharge all his duties as guardian, then the above
obligation is to be void, otherwise, to remain in full force."
Upon its being filed, an order was made appointing Gleason
guardian of the plaintiff's estate, and letters of guardianship
were issued to hun.
On the 22d of July, 1869, Gleason filed a petition in the
Probate Court of Defiance County, representing that no personal estate of the ward had ever come to his possession or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

knowledge, and that there was no such estate dependent upon
the settlement of the father's estate, or upon the execution of
any trust, that his ward was the owner of the fee simple of
certain tracts of lands in Defiance County, one being section
thirty-six in that county, containing 640 acres, less a small
strip containing 6 2 -5 acres used and occupied by the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railroad Company as way-ground, and
others, aggregating 400 acres, and, in addition, a tract of about
seven acres in Paulding County, that the ward was, also, the
owner of the fee simple, by virtue of tax titles, of certain other
described tracts of lands in Defiance County, aggregating
nearly one thousand acres, all of which, the petition alleged,
were wild lands, yielding no income, that he had received no
rents whatever from any of the ward's real estate, that its
sale was necessary for the maintenance and education of the
ward, who was indebted for boarding and lodging in the sum
of $210, that there were no liens upon it, to his knowledge,
and that the widow had a dower interest in said lands. The
prayer of the petition was that the infant and widow be made
defendants, that dower be set off to the latter, that the
guardian be ordered to sell the real estate for the purposes
above set forth, and that petitioner have such other relief as
was proper. The court ordered notice to be served upon the
widow and infant of the hearing of the petition on the 10th
day of August, 1869. Personal notice was given to the
former, and the latter was notified by a written copy being
left at the residence of his mother.
The widow filed an answer in the Probate Court, waiving
a formal assignment of dower by metes and bounds, and
asking such sun out of the proceeds of sale, in lieu of dower,
as was just and reasonable.
On the 10th of August, 1869, the cause was heard, the
Probate Court deciding that the real estate named therein
should be sold. Thereupon appraisers were appointed to report its fair cash value. On the 17th of August, 1869, the
Probate Court, without having taken any bond from the
guardian, except the one above referred to, which was conditioned simply for the faithful discharge of his duties, made

ARROWSMIITH v. GLEASON.
Statement of the Case.

this order "It is, therefore, ordered by the court that the
same [the report] be, and it is hereby, approved and confirmed,
and the said Edward H. Gleason having upon his appointment
as such guardian given bond with reference to the value and
sale of the said real estate of his said ward, which bond is now
adjudged to be sufficient for the purposes hereof, therefore, the
giving of additional bond is hereby dispensed with." And on
the 10th day of November, 1869, the following order of sale
was entered in said cause "Said guardian is ordered to pro0ceed to sell said lands, or any parcel thereof, at private sale,
but at not less than the appraised value thereof, and upon the
following terms One-third cash m hand on the day of sale,
one-third in one year, and one-third in two years, with interest,
payable annually, and the deferred payments to be secured by
mortgage on the premises sold."
Within a few days after this order was made, Gleason
reported to the Probate Court that he had sold to John Frederick Harmening, at private sale, and for the sum of $1537.50,
"that being the full amount of the appraised value thereof,"
the southeast quarter of said section thirtv-six, excluding the
small strip occupied by the railway company The sale was
approved, and the guardian directed to make a conveyance to
the purchaser, reserving for the widow, in lieu of dower, the
sum of $400 out of the proceeds.
The bill charges that on the 15th of February, 1873, more
than three years after the said order of sale was entered,
and without any new or further appraisement of plaintiff's
lands, though their value, as he was informed, had greatly
advanced, and without any additional bond having been executed, Gleason, "for the purpose of getting money into his
hands for his own private gain, and without reference to the
true interest of his ward," and "willing to allow the said
Harmenmg to get at a low and under-price the lands" of the
plaintiff, and "though there was no necessity whatever for
said sale, as he, the said Gleason, and the said Harmening
well knew," sold to the latter at private sale, for the sum
of $8712.10, the east half of the southwest quarter of section
thirty-six in Defiance County, containing eighty acres, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tract of 7-fu acres in Paulding County, which sale, being
reported to the Probate Court, was by it wrongfully approved
and a deed directed to be made and was made to the. purchaser, the sum of $200 being reserved out of the proceeds,
pursuant to the order of the court, for the dower interest of
the widow
The plaintiff also alleges that notwithstanding there was no
necessity for any further sale or sacrifice of his estate of inheritance, Gleason, on the 4th day of December, 1874, although
having in his hands, unexpended, large sums derived from the*
sale of the above premises, as well as considerable sums
received from the release of tax titles, all -of which was
known to Harmening, and without any new appraisement of
the plaintiff's lands, (though they had risen greatly in value,)
and without giving an additional bond or obtaining a new
order of sale, (" for the purpose of getting money into his hands
for his own private gain, without reference to the true interest
of your orator in the premises, and willing that the said Harmening should get the lands bought at a low and under-price,
connived and colluded with him, the said Harmening, to sell
the said lands hereinafter described in violation of his duties
and the trust imposed on him, claiming to act on the said
order of sale long since entered in said court, sold, Dec. 4, 1874,
to Harmening the following described lands, situated in Defiance County aforesaid, viz. the north half of section thirty-six,
in township four north of range three east, and the west half
of the same section in the same township and range, containing together four hundred acres, for the sum of six thousand
dollars, and reported the sale to the said court on the same
day, and the same was, without proper examination, or opportunity for the friends of the said ward, your orator, or his
relatives, to examine the same and advise the said court or the
said Gleason in the premises, improperly, - illegally confirmed
the said sale, and ordered the said guardian to make, execute,
and deliver a deed for the same to the said Harmening on his
compliance with the terms of sale, and further ordered the
said guardian to pay out of the proceeds of said sale the sum
of fifteen hundred dollars as and for the dower interest therein
held by the said Mary Arrowsmith ").

ARROWSMITEI

v. GLEASON.

Argument for Appellees.

The bill further charges that the order authorizing said sales
to be made as well as the orders confirming them were illegal,
that.the sales made by Gleason were in violation of his trust
and in fraud of his rights, "as the said Harmening and the
said Gleason well knew;" that he has never received from
said Gleason or from any source, to his knowledge, any of the
proceeds of such sales, nor to his knowledge, belief, or information, have any part thereof been applied for his benefit.,
and that the deeds, placed upon record by Harmemng, so
cloud his title to said lands that he cannot sell them or otherwise enjoy the beneficial use of them.
After averring that he has been a non-resident of Ohio since
1869, that Harmemng enjoyed, up to his death, all the rents
and profits of said lands, that his heirs at law, who are
infants, and defendants herein, are m possession of them,
claiming to hold them under said pretended sales and deeds,
and that Gleason has been for a long time hopelessly insolvent, so that an action at law against him would be unavailing; he prayed that a decree be rendered setting aside and
vacating the order of sale in the Probate Court, and all proceedings therem affecting his title to the lands, and declaring
the same, as well as the deeds executed by his pretended
guardian, to be void and of no effect. He also prayed for the
additional relief, specific and general, indicated in the beginnmg of this opinion.
-Yr Henry Hewlegzn and -Mr BenVam
appellant.

B. .Engsburyfor

Air H enry B. llamw and Mfr [Viltiam . Cochran for
appellees. .Mr John P Cameron was with them on the
brief.
I. The appellant's title, if he has any, is a legal title, for
which he has a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law,
- an action for possession, with which, under the laws of Ohio,
he may couple an action for mesne profits. Rev. Stat. Ohio,
§ 5019, AX-Einney v. Me.Kinney, 8 Ohio St. 423.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellees.

If the proceedings m the Probate Court were such as to
divest the legal title of appellant, and vest it m Harmening, he
has no remedy, unless the proceedings were void for want of
jurisdiction, or unless the orders were obtained by fraud, to
which Harmemng was a party If the sales were void for
want of jurisdiction, or for fraud in obtaining the orders, the
remedy is equally adequate at law Hipp v Babn, 19 How
271, Jfiles v Caldwell, 2 Wall. 35, Blanchard v Brown, 3
Wall. 245, Grand Chute v TVinegar, 15 Wall. 373, Lewis v
Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, Ellis v Daws, 109 U S. 485, X'illian v
Ebbtngiaus, 110 U S. 568, Fussell v Gregg, 113 U S. 550,
United States v Wilson, 118 U. S. 86, Frost v Spztley, 121
U S. 552.
Instead of this complete remedy at law, he seeks inadequate relief in equity. Although he alleges that such order
and deeds and entries "cloud the title" to the said lands so
that he cannot effectually dispose of them, or otherwise make
any beneficial use of them, he disclaims any intention to make
this a bill to quiet title, for he would be met by the objection
that a Court of Equity cannot sustain such a bill, because the
complainant, by his own admission, is out of possession. 2
Story's Eq. Jur. § 859, Bispham's Principles of Equity, § 575,
Orton v Smith, 18 How 263, Stark v Starrs, 6 Wall. 402
Unted States v Wilson, 118 U S. 86, Frost v Sijitley, 121
U S. 552, Clark v Hubbard,8 Ohio, 382, Rlhea v Dick, 34
Ohio St. 420.
Section 5779 of Ohio Revised Statutes provides, "That an
action may be brought by a person in possesszon, by himself
or tenant of real property, against any person who claims an
estate or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose of
determining such adverse estate or interest." By necessary
implication a person out of possesston cannot maintain such an
action.
II. The Circuit Court of the United States has no power to
grant the specific prayer of the bill, and set aside and vacate
the orders of the Probate Court of Defiance County, and
declare the same to be void and of no effect. Fouvergne v
2Yew Orleans, 18 How 470, Tarver v Tarver, 9 Pet. 174,

ARROWSMITH

v. GLEASON.

Argument for Appellees.

Adams v Preston, 22 How 473, Case of Brodenck's Will, 21
Wall. 503, Ellis v Dams, 109 U. S. 485, Fussell v aregg,
113 U. S. 550, Amory v Amory, 3 Bissell, 266. The cases of
Games v Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10, as limited and explained in
Ellis v Dams, supra, and of Johnson v Waters, 111 U. S. 640,
are not in conflict with these authorities.
We do not deny the right of courts of general jurisdiction
to set aside their own judgments and decrees on bills of review,
for errors apparent on the record, or original bills m the nature
of bills of review for fraud in obtaining the judgments or decrees, where such bills are part of the recognized practice of
the courts.
Most of the cases cited by counsel for appellant are of this
nature, and do not at all support the theory that one court can
entertain a bill to set aside the decree of another. Taylor v
Walker, 1 Heiskell, 734 NSewcomb v Dewey, 27 Iowa, 381,
Lloyd v .Kirkwood, 112 Illinois, 329, XYuchenbezser v Beekert,
41 Illinois, 172, Lloyd v .Xlalone, 23 Illinois, 43, Tnght v
Afiller, 1 Sandf. Oh. 103, Reynolds v -loCurry, 100 Illinois,
356, _fofYeever v Ball, 71 Indiana, 398, Sheldon v. Tiffin, 6
How 163, Long v fuoford, 17 Ohio, 484:, S. C. 93 Am. Dec.
638, Bank of United States v ]?itehe, 8 Pet. 128.
Assuming, for the sake of argument, that the Circuit Court
has the right to entertain a bill for setting aside the orders
and sales of a Probate Court on the ground of fraud in
obtaining such orders, are the allegations of the bill in this
case, taken in connection with the record which is annexed to
and forms a part of it, sufficient to bring the case within such
jurisdiction 2 Where there is a discrepancybetween the allegations of the bill as to what the record discloses and the
record itself, the latter must be taken as conclusive. 1 Danell's Ch. P1. and Pr. (5th ed.), : 546.
As to the allegations concerning Hardy's agreement with
Gleason, and his want of knowledge and consent to the filing
of his bond without another surety, it is enough to say that
the fraud, if there was any, was upon Hardy, that Harmening was in no way connected with it, that the validity of
the bond when filed in court was not affected thereby, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

that Hardy could not e§cape his liability upon it. Bigelow v
C'omegys, 5 Ohio St. 256, D3angler v Baker, 35 Ohio St.
673-677, Elliott v Stevens, 10 Iowa, 418, Bloom v Bu'dick,
1 Hill, 130, S. C. 37 Am. Dec. 299, Glezen v Rood, 2 A-[et.
490, 492, Dar v. Un-ded States, 16 Wall. 1, EKeys v Williamson, 31 Ohio St. 562, 563. It is nowhere alleged in the
bill that Hardy is insolvent, or that the money could not be
made out of him.
There is absolutely nothing in the allegations of the bill,
thus far, that points to fraud upon the part of Gleason,
Harmening, or the court, in obtaining these orders or making
this sale, and, on the contrary, everything is consistent with
the utmost good faith on the part of all concerned. When
examined closely, the allegations amount to little more than a
charge that said orders, sales, confirmations, etc., were irregular in some respects and, in the opinion of counsel for appellant, erroneous.
The necessity for the sales, and the sufficiency of the price
were matters of fact which the court must pass upon before
confirmation, and unless there is some specific allegation of

corrupt action on his part, or fraudulent misrepresentations
or concealement on the part of Gleason and Harmemng, by
which the court was imposed upon and induced to make unjust
decisions in ignorance of what he ought to have known, his
action must be held as final. United States v Throcmorton,
98 -U S. 61.

If this court should consider that it is its province to examine
the proceedings of the Probate Court of Defiance County with
a view to deter~aming whether the same were erroneous or
not, we submit that in such investigation they would be gov-

erned by the rules applicable to a similar proceeding on a bill
of review, and would be limited in the investigations to errors
of law apparent on the face of the record. Grggs v Greer,
3 Gilman (Illinois), 2, Whiting v Bank of the Uinted States,
13 Pet. 6.
MR. JusTicE HARiax, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of tne court.

ARROWSMITH v. GLEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

One of the grounds of demurrer was that the plaintiff had,
upon his own showing, a plain, adequate and complete remedy
at law, namely, an action of ejectment for the recovery of the
lands in controversy The statutes of Ohio, in force at the
well as when these
time Gleason was appointed guardian, a's
lands were sold by him, provides that "Before any person
shall be appointed guardian of the estate of any minor, he
shall give bond, with freehold sureties, payable to the
which bond shall be conditioned for
State of Ohio,
the faithful discharge of the duties of said person as such
guardian, and shall be approved by the court making such
appointment." Rev Stat. Ohio, p. 671, Swan & Critchfield,
1860. The same statutes prescribe the mode in which, and
the purposes for which, the real estate of a minor may be sold.
They give power to the Probate Court, by which the guardian
of the person and estate, or of the estate only, was appointed,
upon the application by petition of such guardian, to order
the sale of the minor's real estate, whenever necessary for his
education or support, or for the payment of his just debts, or
for the discharge of any liens on his real estate, or when such
estate is suffering unavoidable waste, or a better investment of
the value thereof can be made, and, if it is satisfied that his
real estate ought to be sold, then three freeholders must be
appointed to appraise, under oath, its fair cash value. It is
further provided
"SEc. 27. Upon the appraisement of said real estate being

filed, signed by said appraisers, the court shall require such
guardian to execute a bond, with sufficient freehold, sureties,
payable to the State of Ohio, in double the appraised value of
such real estate, with condition for the faithful discharge of
his duties, and the faithful payment and accounting for of all
moneys arising from such sale according to law
"'SEC. 28 [as amended by the act of February 15, 1867].
Upon such bond being filed and approved by the court, it shall
Provded, howorder the sale of such real estate,
ever, That if it is made to appear to such Probate Court that
it will be more for the interest of said ward to sell such real
estate at private sale, it may authorize said guardian to sell,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opmnon of the Court.

either in whole or in parcels, and upon such terms of payment as may be prescribed by the court, and in no case
shall such real estate be sold at private sale for less than the
appraised value thereof." Rev Stat. Ohio, 1 Swan & Critchfield (1860), 671, 672, 675, §§ 6, 22 to 28 inclusive, 1 S. & S.
383.
It is evident that the bill was framed upon the theory 1.
That the bond given by the guardian at the time of his appointment was void, because filed in violation of Gleason's
agreement with Hardy, and because it contained the name of
but one surety, 2. The Probate Court was without jurisdiction, and its proceedings were absolutely void, because the
guardian did not execute the additional bond required by the
two sections last above quoted. If these propositions were
sound it might be, as contended, that the plaintiff has a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law But we are of opinion that they cannot be sustained. As to the first one, it is
clear that the delivery of the bond that Hardy signed, without
procuring an additional surety, was a thing of which he, but
not the plaintiff, may complain. Besides, the statute, upon
any reasonable interpretation, does not require a bond with
more than one freehold surety The words "with freehold
sureties" are not to be taken literally, so as to forbid the
acceptance of a guardian's bond, with one surety, having sufficient property to make it good for the entire amount prescribed by the statute.
As to the suggestion that the proceedings in the Probate
Court were void, because of its failure, upon the return of the
appraisement, to require from the guardian an additional bond
conditioned "for the faithful discharge of his duties, and the
faithful payment and accounting for of all moneys arising
from such sale according to law," we are of opinion that it is
fully met by the decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio in
Arrowsm?.th v larmewng, 42 Ohio St. 251, 259. That was
an action at law by the present appellant against Harmemng
to recover possession of the real estate now in controversy
The question was there distinctly made by him that the order
of sale by the Probate Court was void, by reason of its

ARROWSMITH v. GLEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

neglecting to take this additional bond. Adhering to its prior
decision in Yaualr v Parmsh, 26 Ohio St. 636, the court held
that, although the order of sale and the confirmation of the
sales may have been erroneous, the Probate Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter, and of the parties, and its action,
therefore, was not void. It further said that the decision in
2fauarr v Parrs7 had become a rule of property in Ohio,
and could not be disturbed without consequences of a mischievous character. It is thus seen that the question now presented, as to the jurisdiction of the Probate Court to make the
order for the sale of the lands now in controversy, and to confirm the several sales reported by the guardian, has been
determined adversely to the appellant in an action brought by
him against the present appellees. As this construction of the
local statute should, under the circumstances stated by the
Supreme Court of Ohio, be followed by the Circuit Court, we
cannot approve the suggestion that the appellant has an adequate remedy by an action of ejectment for the recovery of
these lands.
But is the appellant without remedy for the wrong alleged
to have been done him 2 We think not. If all the substantial
averinents .of his bill are true - and, upon demurrer, they
must be so regarded - he makes a case of actual fraud, upon
the part of his guardian, in which Harmemng to some extent
participated, or of which, at the time, he either had knowledge
or such notice as put him upon inquiry According to these
averments, there was no necessity whatever for these sales, at
least for the sale of the east half of the southwest quarter of
section thirty-six, township four north, range three east, in
Defiance County, containing eighty acres, or of the smaller
tract in Paulding County, or of the four hundred acres in
Defiance County that were sold in December, 1874. It is
alleged, and by the demurrer it is admitted, that when the
last sale was made, Gleason had in his hands unexpended, as
Harmening well knew, large sums derived from the previous
sales, as well as considerable amounts received from releases
of tax titles on lands held by appellant, and yet, by collusion
with Harmening, and in order that the latter might get the
VOL.

cx=-7

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

lands for less than their value, he made the sale of the four
hundred acres.
But it is insisted that the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting in Ohio, is without jurisdiction to make such a decree
as is specifically prayed for, namely, a decree setting aside and
vacating the orders of the Probate Court of Defiance County
If by this is meant only that the Circuit Court cannot by its
orders act directly upon the Probate Court, or that the Circuit
Court cannot compel or require the Probate Court to set aside
or vacate its own orders, the position of the defendants could
not be disputed. But it does not follow that the right of
llarmenmg, in his lifetime, or of his heirs since his death, to
hold these lands, as against the plaintiff, cannot be questioned
in a court of general equitable jurisdiction upon the ground
of fraud. If the case made by the bill is clearly established
by proof, it may be assumed that some state court, of superior
jurisdiction and equity powers, and having before it all
the parties interested, might afford the plaintiff relief of a
substantial character. But whether that be so or not, it is
difficult to perceive why the Circuit Court is not bound to give
relief according to the recognized rules of equity, as admimstered in the courts of the United States, the plaintiff being
a citizen of Nevada, the defendants citizens of Ohio, and the
value of the matter in dispute, exclusive of interest and costs,
being in excess of the amount required for the original jurisdiction of such courts.
A leading case upon this point is Payne v HTook, 7 Wall.
425, 430. That was a suit, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Missouri, by a citizen of Virginia, against a public
administrator, to obtain a distributive share of an estate then
under administration in a court of Missouri. It was objected
that the complainant, if a citizen of Missouri, could obtain
redress only through the local Probate Court, and that she
had no better or different rights by reason of being a citizen
of Virginia. But this court, observing that the constitutional
right of the citizen of one State to sue a citizen of another
State in the courts of the United States, instead of resorting
to a state tribunal, would be worth nothing, if the court in

ARROWSMITH v. GLEASON.
Opinion of the Court.

which the suit is instituted could not proceed to judgment and
afford a suitable measure of redress, said "We have repeatedly
held 'that the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States,
over controversies between citizens of different States, cannot
be impaired by the laws of the States which prescribe the
modes of redress in their courts, or which regulate the distribution of their judicial power.' If legal remedies are
sometimes modified to suit the changes m the laws of the
States and the practice of their courts, it is not so with equitable. The equity jurisdiction conferred on the Federal courts
is the same as that the High Court of Chancery in England
possesses, is subject to neither limitation or restraint by state
legislation, and is uniform throughout the different States of the
Union. The Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Missouri, therefore, had jurisdiction to hear and determine
this controversy, notwithstanding the peculiar structure of the
Missouri probate system, and was bound to exercise it, if the
bill, according to the received principles of equity, states
a case for eqmtable ielief. The absence of a complete and
adequate remedy at law is the only test of equity jurisdiction, and the application of this principle to a particular case
must depend on the character of the case as disclosed in the
pleadings."
While there are general expressions in some cases apparently
asserting a contrary doctrine, the later decisions of 'this court
show that the proper Circuit Court of the United States may,
without controlling, supervising, or annulling the proceedings
of state courts, give such relief, in a case like the one before
us, as is consistent with the principles of equity As said in
Barrow v Hunton, 99 U. S.80, 85, the character of the case
"is always open to examination, for the purpose of determining whether, ratione materiae,the courts of the United States
are incompetent to take jurisdiction thereof. State rules on
the subject cannot deprive them of it."
This whole subject was fully Qonsidered in Johnson v
Mtaters, 1117 U. S. 640, 667. That was an original suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
It was brought by a citizen of Kentucky against citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opnon of the Court.

Louisiana. Its main object was to set aside as fraudulent and
void certain sales made by a testamentary executor under the
orders of a Probate Court in the latter State. It was contended that the plaintiff was concluded by the proceedings in
the Probate Court, which was alleged to have exclusive jurisdiction of the subject matter, and that its decision was conclusive against the world, especially against the plaintiff, a
party to the proceedings. This court, while conceding that
the administration of the estate there in question properly
belonged to the Probate Court, and that, in a general sense,
the decisions of that court were conclusive and binding,
especially upon parties, said. "But this is not universally true.
The most solemn transactions and judgments may, at the
instance of the parties, be set aside or rendered inoperative
for fraud. The fact of being a party does not estop a person
from obtaining in a court of equity relief against fraud. It
is generally parties that are the victims of fraud. The Court
of Chancery is always open to hear complaints against it,
-whethercommitted in pazs or in or by means of judicial proceedings. In such cases the court does not act as a court of
review, nor does it inquire into any irregularities or errors of
proceeding in another court, but it will scrutinize the conduct
of the parties, and if it finds that they have been guilty of
fraud in obtaimng a judgment or decree, it will deprive them
of the benefit of it, and of any inequitable advantage which
they have derived under it"-citing Story's Eq. Jur. §§
1570-1573, Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 352-353, Gaimes v
uentes, 92 U S. 10, and Bajrrow v Huntor, 99 U S. 80.
So, in Retgal v Wood, 1 Johns. Ch. 402, 406 "Relief is to
be obtained not only against writings, deeds, and the most solemn assurances, but against judgments and decrees, if obtained
by fraud and imposition.'
To the same effect is Bowen v
Evans, 2 11. L. Cas. 257, 281 "If a case of fraud be established equity will set aside all transactions founded upon it,
by whatever machinery they may have been effected, and
notwithstanding any contrivances by which it may have
been attempted to protect them. It is immaterial, therefore,
whether such machinery and contrivances consisted of a decree

TILLSON v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

of equity, and a purchase under it, or of a judgment at law, or
of other transactions between the actors m the fraud." See
also Colclougl v Bolger, 4 Dow, 54:, 64, Barnesly v Powe], 1
Yes. Sen. 120, 284, 289, R.lthmond v. Tayleur, 1 P Wins. 734,
736, ffiles v Anderson, 5 How (Miss.) 365, 386.
These principles control the present case, which, althoughinvolving rights arising under judicial proceedings in another
jurisdiction, is an original, independent suit for equitable relief
between the parties, such relief being grounded upon a new
state of facts, disclosing not only imposition upon a court of
justice in procuring from it authority to sell an infant's lands
when there was no necessity therefor, but actual fraud in the
exercise, from time to tine, of the authority so obtained. As
this case is within the equity jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
as defined by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
-that court may, by its decree, lay hold of the parties, and
compel them to do what according to the principles of equity
they ought to do, thereby securing and establishing the rights
of which the plaintiff is alleged to have been deprived by
fraud and collusion.
TIte decree ss reversed and the cause remanded,with directzons to overrule the demurrers, to reguzre the defendants
to answer, andforfurther _proceedings consistent with law.

TILLSOK v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIS.
1o.227.

Submitted December 19, 1888. -Decided

January14, 1889.

In a contract by winch the owner of a quarry on an island on the coast
agrees to furmish and deliver at a public building in the interior the
granite required for its construction, at specified prices by the cubic
foot, and to furnish all the labor, tools and materials necessary to cut,
dress and box the granite at the quarry, the United States, under a
stipulation to pay " the full cost of the said labor, tools and materials,
and inarance on the same," are not bound to pay anything for insurance,
unless effected by the other party; nor are they, under a stipulation to

