BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMDIOND.

-151

Syllabus.

that its practical utility is in the power to regulate commerce
between the citizens of the different States.
Commerce between a citizen of Baltimore, which llenmck
is alleged to be in the prosecution in this case, and citizens of
Washington, or of the District of Columbia, is not commerce
"among the several States," and is not commerce between
citizens of different States, m any sense. Commerce by a
,citizen of one State, in order to come within the constitutional
-provision, must be commerce with a citizen of another iState,
:and where one of the parties is a citizen of a Territory, or of
the District of Columbia, or of any other place out of a State
,of the Union, it is not commerce among the citizens of the
several States.
As the license law under which E:enmck was prosecuted
made it necessary for hin to take out a license to do his business in the city of Washington, or the District of Columbia,
which was not a State, nor a foreign nation, nor within the
domain of an Indian tribe, the act upon the subject does not
-infrmgethe Constitution of the United States.
For these reasons I di sept fo..m the judgment of the court.

BATE REFRIGERATING COMPANY v. HAMMOND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UJ ITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
o. 862. Argued January 2, 3, 4, 1889.-Decided January 21,1889.

A United States patent was granted November 20, 1877, for seventeen years,
on an application filed December 1, 1876. A patent for the same invention
had been granted in Canada, January 9, 1877, to the same patentee, for
five years from that day, on an application made December 19, 1876. On
a petition filed in Canada by the patentee, December 5, 1881, the Canada
patent was, on December 12, 1881,extended for five years from Sanuary
9, 1882, and, on December 13, 1881, for five years from January 9, 1887,
under § 17 of the Canada act assented to June 14, 1872 (35 Victoria,
c. 26)
Held, under § 4887 of the Rev. Stat., that, as the Canada act
'was m force when the United States patent was applied for and issued,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
and the Canada extension was a matter of right, at the option of the
patentee, on his payment of a required fee, and the fifteen years' term of
the Canada patent had been continuous and without interruption, the
United States patent did not expire before the end of the fifteen years'
duration of the Canada patent.
It was not necessary to the validity of the United States patent that it
should have been limited in duration, on its face, to the duration of the
Canada patent, but it is to be so limited by the courts, on evidence 7n pais,
as to expire at the same time with the Canada patent, not running more
than the seventeen years.

THIS was a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, December 16,
1886, by the Bate Refrigerating Company, a New York corporation, against George H. Hammond and Company, a Michigan
corporation, founded on the alleged infringement of letters
patent No. 197,314, granted to John J Bate, November 20,
1877, for the term of seventeen years from that day, on an
application filed December 1, 1876, for an "improvement in
processes for preserving meats during transportation and
storage."
The plaintiff was the assignee of the patent. The bill
alleged infringement, within the District of Massachusetts
and elsewhere in the United States, by the making, using,
and vending of the patented process, and alleged that the
defendant had been engaged in the business of shipping
fresh meat from the port of Boston to ports in Great
Britain, by means of the process claimed in the patent.
The claim was as follows "The herein-described process
of preserving meat during transportation and storage, by
enveloping the same in a covering of fibrous or woven material, and subjecting it when thus enveloped to the continuous
action of a current of air of suitably low and regulated temperature, substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
The defendant filed a plea, setting up, among other things,
that, on the 9th of January, 1877, letters patent of the
Dominion of Canada, No. 6938, ior the same invention as
that described and claimed in No. 197,314, were granted to
the same John J Bate, for the term of five years from the
9th of January, 1877, that, after No. 197,314 had expired,

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.

153

Statement of the Case.
at the end of the term of five years for which such Canadian
patent was granted, the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of New Jersey, upon being advised of the grant
of such Canadian patent, vacated and set aside an injunction
winch it had theretofore granted, by an interlocutory decree
made in a suit m equity founded on No. 197,314, brought by
the Bate Refrigerating Company against Benjamin W Gillett
and others, that thereafter Bate and the Bate Refrigerating
Company procured the rendition of a judgment by the Superior
Court for Lower Canada, declaring the Canadian patent to
have been void ab imnitzo and vacating it and setting it aside,
that such judgment of the Superior Cqurt for Lower Canada
being brought to the attention of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, that court reinstated said injunction, and that afterwards the Superior Court
for Lower Canada, in a suit brought by Sir Alexander Campbell, minister of justice and attorney general for the Dominion
of Canada, against Bate and the Bate Refrigerating Compaiiy
and others, adjudged that its said prior judgment had been
"C
arrived at through the fraud to the law and collusion" of
Bate, the Bate Refrigerating Company, and another person,
"deceiving the attorney general, the advocates, and the court,
employing and paying counsel on both sides, as well, seemmgly, against themselves as on their apparent behalf," and
revoked and annulled its said prior judgment. The piea concluded by averring that No. 197,314 expired on the 9th of
January, 1882, and that the Circuit Court, sitting as a court
of equity, had no jurisdiction to hear and determine an action
in equity for the infringement of the patent.
The bill was then amended by averring that the application
for the Canadian patent was not made until December 19,
1876, while the application for No. 197,314 was made December 1, 1876, and that the Canadian patent was not actually or
legally issued until on or about June 26, 1878, on or about
winch date a model of the invention, as required by law, was
filed in the Canadian Patent Office. The amendment to the
bill also set forth the two judgments of the Superior Court for
Lower Canada, and averred that, by virtue of an act of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

parliament of the Dominion of Canada, assented to May 25,
1883, 46 Victoria, c. 19, the original term of the Canadian
patent was actually fifteen years, instead of five years, and it
would not terminate before the 9th of January, 1892.
Subsequently the defendant filed an answer to the bill, setting up, among other defences, want of novelty in the patented
invention, but not denying that it had used the invention subsequently to the granting of the patent, and also setting up
the granting of the Canadian patent for five years from January 9, 1877, that No. 197,314 was void, because it was issued
for seventeen years, and its term was not limited by the Commissioner of Patents to five years from January 9, 1877, that
the Canadian application was not made until after the application for No. 197,314 was filed, that Bate did not file a model
in the Canadian Patent Office until after the grant of the
Canadian patent, and that the Canadian patent was actually
patented to Bate on the 9th of January, 1877, and took effect
on that date, although not actually delivered to the patentee
until after the filing of the model. It also set forth the two
Canadian judgments, and averred that, on the 30th of November, 1881, Bate made a petition to the Commissioner of Patents
for Canada, for the extension of No. 6938, in which he averred
that on the 9th of January, 1877, he "obtained a patent for
the period of five years from the said date, for new and useful
improvements on apparatus and process for ventilation, refrigeration, &c.," and that he was the holder of that patent in
trust for the Bate Refrigerating Company, and prayed that it
might be extended "for another period of ten years," that, on
the filing of that petition, an extension of the patent was
granted, on December 12, 1881, "for a second period of five
years" from January 9, 1882, that a further extension of
the patent was granted, December 13, 1881, "for a third
period of five years" from January 9, 1887, that the plaintiff was thereby estopped from denying the fact that No. 6938
was legally granted, January 9, 1877, for a period of five
years, that by virtue of the act of 46 Victoria, c. 19, the original
term for which No. 6938 was granted, was not fifteen years
instead of five years, that said act can have no effect on the

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.

155

Statement of the Case.

duration of 1o. 197,314, that, by reason of the prior patenting of the invention by Bate in Canada for five years from
January 9, 1877, No. 197,314, if valid at all, expired on January 9, 1882; and that, therefore, the court, sitting in equity,
had no jurisdiction to hear and determine an action for its
infringement.
Without the filing of any replication to this answer, the parties entered into a written stipulation, setting forth as follows
"Whereas the answer of the defendant corporation in this
cause sets up, in addition to other defences, that the patent on
which this suit is brought, being number 197,314, granted to
John J Bate complainant's assignor and president, on the
twentieth day of November, A.D. 18 7, expired on the ninth
day of January, A.D. 1882, by reason of the prior grant to
said John J. Bate of a patent in the Dominion of Canada for
the same invention, and prays the same benefit of said defence
as if the same had been pleaded to the bill of complaint, and
whereas both parties desire to have said matter of defence
argued and decided without incurring the great expense of
talng testimony necessary to present for final hearing all the
defences raised in said answer It is, therefore, stipulated and
agreed by and between the parties, that the defence above
named shall be submitted to the court, as on plea set down for
argument, upon the following agreed state of facts." The
facts so agreed to were substantially as follows
1. The patent in suit, No. 197,314, was granted to John J
Bate on November 20, 1877, and the application therefor was
filed in the United States Patent Office, December 1, 1876,
and said patent was assigned to complai-nant before this suit was
brought, the said Bate being a citizen of the United States at
the time of said application, and the said invention having been
made and reduced to practice by him therein.
2. On December 19, 1876, said John J. Bate filed in the
Patent Office of the Dominion of Canada an application for a
patent for improvements in apparatus and processes for ventilation, refrigeration, &c., including therein, as one feature, the
process described and claimed in said patent, No. 197,314.
3. In pursuance of said application the Commissioner of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Patents for the Domimon of Canada caused letters patent of
the Dominion of Canada, No. 6938, for the invention set forth
in said application, and granting to said John J Bate, his
executors, administrators, and assigns, the exclusive right,
privilege, and liberty of making, constructing, using, and
vending to others to be used, the said invention, to be signed
and sealed with the seal of the Patent Office on January 9,
1877, and to be registered on January 11, 1877, and that the
period of said grant expressed in said patent was five years
from and after January 9, 1877.
4. On January 12, 1877, said Commissioner of Patents
called upon said John J Bate to furnish to the Patent Office
a model of his said invention, and such model was furnished
by said Bate on June 26, 1878, on which day said patent No.
6938 was mailed to said John J Bate.
5. On December 5, 1881, said John J Bate filed a petition
in the Canada Patent Office, setting forth, "that on the 9th
day of January, A.D. 1877, your petitioner obtained a patent
for the period of five years from the said date, for new and
useful improvements on apparatus and process for ventilation,
refrigeration, &c., that he is the holder of the said patent in
trust for the 'Bate Refrigerating Company,' and therefore
prays that it may be extended for another period of ten
years."
6. On December 12, 1881, said patent No. 6938 was extended for five years from January 9, 1882, under renewal
No. 13,812, and, on December 13, 1881, said patent was further extended for five years from January 9, 1887, under
renewal No. 13,813, in pursuance of the above-named petition.
7. On or about July 9, 1883, and June 30, 1886, the Superior
Court for Lower Canada rendered two judgments affecting
said Canada patent, to the purport set forth in the plea and
the answer.
The stipulation further provided, that, if the decision of the
Circuit Court should be in favor of the plaintiff, it should
have a reasonable time thereafter to file a replication to the
answer, and the cause should proceed in the ordinary manner;
that, if the Circuit Court should decide the cause in favor of

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.

157

Argument for Appellee.

the defendant, a decree should be entered dismissing the bill,
so that the plaintiff ught take an appeal therefrom to the
Supreme Court of the United States, and that, if the Circuit
Court should decide the cause in favor of the defendant, and
the Supreme Court of the United States should, on appeal,
reverse that decision, the defendant should have a right to
proceed in the Circuit Court, under its answer, as to all
defences set up therein, except the one mentioned in the stipulation, as it might have proceeded if the stipulation had not
been made.
The cause was heard on the pleadings and stipulation, and
the Circuit Court entered a decree disnnssing the bill, from
which decree the plaintiff has appealed to this court. The
Circuit Court gave no opinion on the merits of the case, but in
deciding it followed, as it stated, the decision of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of -ew Jersey,
held by Mr. Justice Bradley, in August, 1887, made in the
case of Bate Refrigerating Co. v Gillett, 31 Fed. Rep. 809.
.Wr Clarence A. Seward, with whom was -Ur Johnlowell
and .2W' 1whardV -Dyer on the brief, opened for appellant.
.Ar Nfoah .Dams,by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of
the Edison Electric Light Company, in support of appellant.
Xi, Benamin F
for appellee.

Thsrston and -Yr George H. Lothrop

I. The fact that the Bate Canadian Patent was extended
prior to its .expiration in Canada for two further terms of
five years respectively, has no effect to extend the life of the
United States Bate Patent.
The "foreign patent" referred to in § 4887, the expiration
of which is to affect the life of the American patent granted
for the same invention, is, in contemplation of law, the then
eresting foreign patent, and not any subsequent patent to be
granted to such holder of a foreign patent for such invention,
either by royal favor or by the effect of acts which the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Appellee.

patentee may elect to do or omit to do under the provisions
of the general law
In considering the effect of a foreign patent under § 4887,
reference must be had to the statutory authority under which
such patent is granted. If the statute be after the form of
the British Patent Act, then the patent is a grant ab om gme
for fourteen years, although its life may be shortened by the
non-performance on the part of the patentee of conditions
subsequent imposed by the act. In such case the American
patent is not limited by the failure on the part of the holder
of a foreign patent to perform such conditions, and for the plain
reason that the foreign patent in existence at the time when
the American patent was granted was in law an existing grant
for fourteen years.
Under the 17th' section of the Canadian Patent Act of 1872,
it is not provided that patents shall issue in all cases for a term
of fifteen years, with a liability to be shortened as to their
duration in the event that certain conditions subsequent are
not performed, but by express terms they are issued for a
period of "five, ten or fifteen years, at the option of applicant," with a privilege to the patentee, before the expiration
of such period, to obtain an extension for a second period, and
before the expiration of such second period, to obtain an extension for a third period. The section requires that "the instrument delivered by the Patent Office for such extension of
time shall be in the form which may be from time to time
adopted to be attached, with reference to the patent."
Now the construction that was given to this act by the
17 Patents of invention issued by the patent office shall be valid for a
period of five, ten, or fifteen years, at the option of the applicant, but at
or before the expiration of the said five or ten years the holder thereof
may obtain an extension of the patent for another period of five years, and
after those second five years may again obtain a further extension for
another period of five years, not in any case to exceed a total period of
fifteen years in all, and the instrument delivered by the patent office for
such extension of time shall be in the form which may be from time to
time adopted, to be attached, with reference to the patent and under the
signature of the commissioner or of any other member of the privy council
in the case of absence of the commissioner.

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.

159

Argument for Appellee.

Canadian authorities has always been, up to the passage of
the act, 46 Vict. c. 19,1 May 25, 1883, that if the patentee
elected to take a patent for five years, a grant should be made
to him for that term only On the other hand, if he elected
to take a patent for fifteen years, the grant was for suoh
period. In the present case the Bate patent, No. 6938, was
expressly limited for the period of five years from its date,
accompanied with the proviso that the patent should cease
within that time, and at the end of two years, unless the
patentee or his assignee should have commenced and carried
on the practice of the invention within the Dominion, and
with the further proviso that it should cease at expiration of
one year in case the patentee or his representatives should
'1. Section 17 of "the Patent Act of 1872" is hereby repealed, and the
following is substituted therefor "17. The term limited for the duration of every patent of invention
issued by the patent office shall be fifteen years; but at the time of the
application therefor it shall be at the option of the applicant to pay the full
fee required for the term of fifteen years, or the partial fee required for
the term of five years, or the partial fee required for the term of ten
years. In case a partial fee only is paid the proportion of the fee paid
shall be stated in the patent, and the patent shall, notwithstanding anything therein or in tls act contained, cease at the end of the term for
which the partial fee has been paid, unless at or before the expiration of
the said term the holder of the patent pays the fee required for the further
term of five or ten years, and takes out from the patent office a certificate
of such payment (in the form which may be from time to time adopted),
to be attached to and to refer to the patent, and under the signature of the
commissioner, or, in case of his absence, another member of the privy
council, and in case such second payment, together with the first payment,
makes up only the fee required for ten years, then the patent shall, notwithstanding anything therein or in this act contained, cease at the end of
the term of ten years, unless at or before the expiration of such term the
holder thereof pays the further fee required for the remaining five years,
making up the full term of fifteen years, and takes out a like certificate in
respect thereof. Every patent heretofore issued by the patent office in
respect of which the fee required for the whole or for any unexpired portion of the term of fifteen years has been duly paid, according to the provisions of the now existing law in that behalf, has been and shall be deemed
to have been issued for the term of fifteen years, subject, in case a partial
fee only has been paid, to cease on the same conditions on which natents
hereafter issued are to cease under the operation of this section."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument for Appellee.

import or cause to be imported into the Dominion the subject
for which the patent was granted.
The question whether the words "foreign patent" occurring
in § 4887 could refer to any other patent for the same invention than the foreign patent then existing, was first raised in
the case of Henry v The Prowdence Tool Co., 3 Ban. & Ard.
Pat. Cas. 501. Mr. Justice Clifford held that the patent
referred to in § 4887, which would affect the life of a subsequently obtained United States patent, was the then existing
grant in Great Britain for a term of fourteen years, and that
no prolongation of the patented protection for a further term
would operate to extend the period of duration of the United
States patent.
The next case which arose was that of -=ezssnerv ShaPJ2, 16
Blatchford, 383. In that case the previous patent was one
granted in Canada for a period of five years, and such Canadian patent had been duly extended for two further periods of
five years each. Mr. Justice Blatchford held that the patent
in this country expired with the expiration of the first term of
five years, notwithstanding the fact that the patent was still
alive in Canada in virtue of the procurement of two extensions
for five years each.
The same doctrine has been applied in dealing with the Bate
patent by Judge Nixon, in Bate Refrtgerating Co. v Gillett,
13 Fed. Rep. 553, and by Mr. Justice Bradley in his discussion
of the question in the same suit, 31 Fed. Rep. 809.
We therefore submit that the fact that the Bate patent has
been extended in Canada for an entirely new term, beyond the
original term for which the letters patent were granted, cannot relieve the Bate patent in this country from the operation

of § 4887.
II. The Bate United States patent is not relieved from the
operation of § 4887 in consequence of the Canadian Statute 46
Vict. c. 19, May 25, 1883.
This act on its face purports to be "An act to amend the
Patent Act of 1872," and it proceeds to execute its purpose by
repealing in terms the 17th section of the former act, and substituting a new section in its place. This new law became opera-

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.

161

Argument for Appellee.

tive when it received royal assent May 25, 1883, and the necessary implication is that prior to that date the duration of all
patents previously issued in the Dominion were limited as to
their duration to the periods specifically named in the grants.
We submit, however, that, upon its face, the act m question
does not profess to be a declaratory act, or one which is intended to make intelligible and clear an existing ambiguous
statute. So far as the defendants are advised, this act has
never been declared by any Canadian tribunal to be a proper
declaratory act. If the act can be so construed as to be intelligible, and furmsh a remedy for the future, without the necessity of holding that it is retroactive, even in Canada, to the
extent of changing the grant of a patent from five years to
fifteen years, tis rule of construction should be employed. It
is a fundamental rule of construction of statutes wherever the
English law prevails. In tins case ,there is no necessity for
resorting to any other rule. The statute is intelligible, and it
can be made to apply to existing patents without holding that
the Canadian Parliament had committed the solecism of declaring that an expired term of five years was in truth an unexpired term of fifteen years.
It is unnecessary, however, to pursue the argument upon the
character of the legislation as regarded from a Canadian
standpoint. The pertinent inquiry is-one which must not be
lost sight of - what is the effect of the act, no matter how it
may be interpreted in Canada, upon § 4887 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, in the application of that
statute in determining the rights of the public under it.
The case of Liverpool Insu'ance Co. v .Jfassackusetts, 10
Wall. 566, is directly in point, where this court held that the
company was a corporation within the meaning of the statute
of Massachusetts, notwithstanding that upon the highest possible judicial authority the company in England, where it was
created, was declared not to be a corporation.
The contention now made by the appellant is precisely the
same contention that was made before Mr. Justice Clifford in
Hennj v The Ppovwdence Tool Co., 'ub' siTra. And further,
Mr. Justice Bradley, in Bate RefPsgerating Co. v Gillett, 31
VOL. cxxix-11

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Argument for Appellee.

Fed. Rep. 813, says: "I may say at once that I attach no
importance to the last-mentioned act. The American patent
received its operative force and effect on the day it was issued,
and no subsequent legislation m Canada or elsewhere could
change it, whatever might be the effect of such legislation
where made. The force and effect of the American patent
could only be affected by the Canadian patent as the latter
stood when granted, and not as it was afterwards modified by
legislation."
We ask now, what is the effect of the act of 46 Vict. c. 19,
upon § 4887, and assume that in the event that the act in
question had not been passed, the courts would have held,
without question, under the authority of the cases supra, as
determined by three independent tribunals, that the American
patent to Bate expired January 9, 1882.
We are instructed by the late Mr. Justice Clifford in Henry
v P'ovzdence Tool Co., that § 4887 contemplates the then
existing patent grant of a foreign country It is too plain for
argument that under the statute of Canada, in force at the
tume when the Bate United States patent was granted, the
term of the Canadian patent was expressly limited on its face
to five years. The statutes of every civilized people are intended for the guidance of the people of the country under
the jurisdiction of its laws. Such laws cannot be enlarged,
modified, or affected by the legislation of any foreign power.
The statutes are intended to be intelligible and certain on their
face, for the guidance of the people subject to them, or as the
same shall be made certain by the judicial interpretation of the
courts within the country enacting them.
It may be pertinent to ask, what was the condition of the
Bate patent in this country between January 9, 1882, and
Mv[ay 20, 1883, when the act of 46 Vict. c. 19, received royal
assent. Beyond doubt it was not in force as a legal instrument in this country The complainants say "True, such was
the fact according to the legal lights that existed at that time
both in Canada and in this country, but it now turns out that
the Canadian patent was contrary to the act of 1872, and contrary to the limitation expressed upon its face -a
patent in

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v, HAMMOND.

169

Argument for Appellee.

law for fifteen years. The reply is: This fact, or legal intendment, whichever it may be, had no existence until May, 1883,
because the supposed fact was made such by a new statute in
derogation of a former statute. Otherwise put, there was
nothing to support the American patent between January 9,
1882, and May 20, 1883. The condition of things is exactly
parallel with that which existed in the case of Henry v. Tool
Co. In the last named case there was an actual interval of
thirteen days which occurred between the expiration of the
patent and the decision of the Queen to prolong it. Now it
cannot be said that the Bate patent, within the interval
between January, 1882, and May, 1883, was in a state of
suspended animation. It was in force in this country, or
inoperative, for that period. The legislation under the effect
of which it is now claimed it was in force, is ex post facto, so
far at least as its effect upon § 4887 is concerned, and nothing
can give vitality to the patent, except some special legislation
of Congress which shall revivify it from the time when such
special legislation is had.
III. The fact that the Bate patent was applied for in the
United States prior to the application for a patent for the
same invention in Canada does not relieve the patent granted
in the United States subsequent to the grant of the Canadian
patent from the operation of § 4887. As the court expressly
declined to pass upon this point, it is only necessary to state it.
IV As to the argument that it is the policy of our Patent
System to discriminate in favor of American citizens agamst
foreigners, we submit that it is plain that whatever may have
been a former policy, since the act of 1870 there is no distinction whatsoever made between citizens of the United States
and foreigners as to their rights in acquiring and holding
letters patent for inventions which are to promote the progress
of the useful arts m this country
Other points were argued, which, in view of the opinion of
the court, it is not necessary to state.
Mr Edm nd
etmore, -HP Samuel A. Duncan am
.Mr Leonard . Curtis, on behalf of the 'United States Electric

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Lighting Company, _Y1 WiTHlia, Bakewell and .& Thomas
B. -Yerr, on behalf of the Westinghouse Electric Company,
ilbr Amos Broadnaw, on behalf of the Consolidated Electric
Light Company, .Mr Chauncey Smith, _"i Thomas . Lter-7oreand frI Fedenck P Fish,on behalf of the ThomsonItouston Electric Company, and Mr R. S. Taylor, on behalf
of the Fort Wayne Electric Light Company filed a brief by
leave of court m support of the contention of the appellees.
Alp fohn 1R. Bennett, on behalf of Gillett and Eastman, by
leave of court, filed an argument in support of the position
taken by the appellees.
Mr Chauncey SmitA also, by leave of court and by consent
of appellees, argued on behalf of appellees.
.MXr William X.-.Evarts closed on behalf of appellant.
MR. JusTicE BLATcnoORD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opimon of the court.

The questions discussed at the bar arise under § 4887 of
the Revised Statutes, which is as follows "INo person shall
be debarred from receiving a patent for his invention or
-discovery, nor shall any patent be declared invalid, by reason
of its having been first patented or caused to be patented m
a foreign country, unless the same has been introduced into
public use in the United States for more than two years prior
to the application. But every patent granted for an invention
which has been previously patented in a foreign country shall
be so limited as to expire at the same time with the foreign
patent, or, if there be more than one, at the same time with
the one having the shortest term, and in no case, shall it be
in force for more than seventeen years."
Two propositions as to the construction of this section are
contended for by the appellant (1) that the words "first
patented or cause to be patented m a foreign country" do not
mean "first patented or caused to be patented" before the
issuing, or granting, or date, of the United States patent, but

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.
Opimon of the Court.

mean "first patented or caused to be patented" before the
date of the application for the United. States patent, (2) that
the declaration of the section, that "every patent granted for
an invention which has been previously patented in a foreign
country shall be so limited as to expire at the same time with
the foreign patent, or, if there be more than one, at the same
time with the one having the shortest term," does not mean
that the patent so granted shall expire at the same tune with
the term to which the foreign patent was m fact limited at
the time the United States patent was granted, but that it
means that it shall expire when the foreign patent expires,
without reference to the limitation of the term of such foreign
patent in actual force at the time the United States patent
was granted.
We do not find it necessary to consider the first of these
questions, because we are of opinion that the proper construction of § 4887, upon the second question, is, that the patent in
the present case does not expire before January 9, 1892, the
time when the Canadian patent, No. 6938, will expire.
The Canadian patent was extended for the two periods of
five years each, under the provisions of § 17 of the Canadian
act assented to June 14, 1872, 35 Victoria, c. 26, which was in
force when the United States patent, No. 197,314, was applied
for and granted, and which read as follows: "17. Patents of
invention issued by the Patent Office shall be valid for a period
of five, ten, or fifteen years, at the option of the applicant, but
at or before the expiration of the said five or ten years the
holder thereof may obtain an extension of the patent for
another period of five years, and after those second five years
may again obtain a further extension for another period of
five years, not in any case to exceed a total period of fifteen
years in all, and the instrument delivered by the Patent Office
for such extension of time shall be in the form which may be
from time to tune adopted, to be attached, with reference to
the patent and under the signature of the Commissioner or of
any other member of the Privy Council in the case of absence
of the Commissioner."
This statute appears to have been strictly complied with in

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the present case. The Canadian patent, No. 6938, ran, on its
face, for five years from January 9, 1877, and, prior to the
expiration of that time, and on the 5th of December, 1881,
Bate applied for its extension for ten years, and it was, before
the five years expired, and on the 12th of December, 1881, extended for five years from January 9, 1882, and, on DeCember
13, 1881, for five years from January 9, 1887. The Canadian
patent, therefore, has never ceased to exist, but has been .in
force continuously from January 9, 1877. It was in force
when No. 197,314 was issued, and it has, by virtue of a Canadian statute, in force when the application for No. 197,314
was filed, continued to be in force at all times since the latter
patent was granted. This is true, although the Canadian
patent, No. 6938, as originally granted, stated on its face that
it was granted "for the period of five years" from January 9,
1877, and although the instrument granting the first extension
of five years states that it is granted "for another period of
five years, to commence and be computed on and from the
ninth day of January, which will be in the year one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-two," and although the instrument
granting the second extension of five years states that it is
granted "for another period of five years, to commence and
be computed on and from the ninth day of January, which
will be in the year one thousand eight hundred and eightyseven." By the language of § 17 of the Canadian act of 1872,
what was granted under it was "an extension of the patent"
- of the same patent-for a further term. Therefore the
Canadian patent does not expire, and it never could have been
properly said that it would expire, before January 9, 1892,
and hence No. 197,314, if so limited as to expire at the same
time with the Canadian patent, cannot expire before January
9, 1892.
Section 6 of the act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat. 354, provided
that a United States patent for an invention patented in a
foreign country more than six months prior to the application
of the inventor for the United States patent, should be limited
to the term of fourteen years from the date or publication of
the foreign patent. Section 25 of the act of July 8, 1870, 16

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND
Opinon of the Court.

Stat. 201, provided that the United States patent for an invention "first patented or caused to be patented m a foreign country" should "expire at the same time with the foreign patent,
or, if there be more than one, at the same time with the one
having the shortest term, but in no case shall it be in force
more than seventeen years." Section 4887 of the Revised
Statutes provides, that "every patent granted for an mvention which has been previously patented in a foreign country
shall be so limited as to expire at the same time with the
foreign patent, or, if there be more than one, at the same time
with the one having the shortest term, and in no case shall it
be in force more than seventeen years."
These provisions of the act of 180T and of the Revised Statutes mean that the United States patent shall not expire so
long as the foreign patent continues to exist, not extending
beyond seventeen years from the date of the United States
patent, but shall continue in force, though not longer than
seventeen years from its date, so long as the foreign patent
continues to exist. Under § 488K, although, m the case provided for by it, the United States patent may on its face run
for seventeen years from its date, it is to be so limited by the
courts, as a matter to be adjudicated on evidence nipass,as to
expire at the same time with the foreign patent, not running
in any case more than the seventeen years, but, subject to the
latter limitation, it is to be in force as long as the foreign patent
is in force.
A contrary view to this has been expressed by several Circuit Courts of the United States.
In October, 1878, in the Circuit Court for the District of
v .Pevowdence Tool Co., 3 Ban. &
:Rhode Island, in
Ard. Pat. Cas. 501, it was held that the 25th section of the act
of July 8, 1870, meant that the United States patent should expire at the same time with the original term of a foreign patent
for the same invention, without regard to any prolongation of
the foreign patent which the patentee might procure from the
foreign government. In that case, the United States patent
was granted October 10, 1871. A British patent for the same
invention had been granted to the patentee on the 15th of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

November, 1860, for fourteen years, and expired November 15,
1874. Thirteen days after the latter date an order was made
for the extension of the British patent for four years, thle
extension bearing date as of the day after the expiration of
the original term, but the court held that the United States
patent expired on the 15th of November, 1874.
That decision was followed by the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York, in Resner v Shaqp, 16 Blatchford, 383, in June, 1879, which case arose under § 4887 of the
Revised Statutes. In that case, the United States patent,
granted October 20, 1874, for 17 years, was held to have
expired on the 15th of May, 1878, because a patent was
granted in Canada, under the authority of the patentee, for
the same invention, on the 15th of May, 1873, for five years
from that day, although in March, 1878, the Canada patent
was extended for five years from the 15th of May, 1878, and
also for five years from the 15th of May, 1883.
In Bate -RefrzgeratingCo. v Gillett, 13 Fed. Rep. 553, in
the Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey, m August,
1882, and in the same suit, in the same court, in August, 1887,
31 Fed. Rep. 809, in regard to the patent in question in the
present suit, and on the same facts here presented, it was
held,, on the strength of the two Circuit Court cases above
referred to, that the United States patent expired when the
original term of the Canadian patent expired.
But we are of opinion that, in the present case, where the
Canadian statute under which the extensions of the Canadian
patent were granted, was m force when the United States
patent was issued, and also when that patent was applied for,
and where, by the Canadian statute, the extension of the
patent for Canada was a matter entirely of right, at the option
of the patentee, on his payment of a required fee, and where
the fifteen years term of the Canadian patent has been continuous and without interruption, the United States patent does
not expire before the end of the fifteen years' duration of the
Canadian patent. Tins is true although the United States
patent runs, on its face, for seventeen years from its date, and
is not, on its face, so limited as to expire at the same time with

BATE REFRIGERATING CO. v. HAMMOND.

169

Opunon of the Court.

the foreign patent, it not being necessary that the United
States patent should, on its face, be limited m duration to the
duration of the foreign patent.
In O'Reilly v .- forse, 15 How 62, the patent to Morse was
issued June 20, 1840, for fourteen years from that day, while
§ 6 of the act of March 3, 1839, 5 Stat. 354, was in force, which
required that every United States patent for an invention
patented in a foreign country should be "limited to the term
of fourteen years from the date or publication of such foreign
letters patent." Morse applied for his United States patent
April 7, 1838. He obtained a patent in France for hi invention October 30, 1838. The objection was taken in the answer
that the United States patent was void on its face because not
limited to the term of the French patent. The Circuit Court
held that the patent was not void, but that the exclusive right
granted b:r it must be limited to fourteen years from October
30, 1838. The same objection was urged in this court, and the
same ruling was made. In &nmzta v Ely, 15 How 137, which
was a suit on the same patent under the same facts, the same
question arose and was decided in the same way A full and
interesting discussion of the question is to be found in Canan
v The Pound .Xfg. Co., 23 Blatchford, 173, m regard to
§ 4887, which contains the same word "limited" found m § 6 of
the act of 1839, which word is not found in § 25 of the act of
July 8, 1870, from which § 4887 was taken.
Under this view, the time of the expiration of the foreign
patent may be shown by evidence sn pas, either the record
of the foreign patent itself, showing its duration, or other
proper evidence, and it is no more objectionable to show the
time of the expiration of the foreign patent, by giving evidence of extensions such as those in the present case, and thus
to show the time when, by virtue of such extensions, the
United States patent will expire.
We find in the record in this case, among the papers which it
states were submitted to the court under the stipulation above
referred to, a certificate of the Commissioner of Patents,
dated July 3, 1883, appended to a certified copy of the United
States patent, stating that the term thereof is limited so that

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

it shall expire with the patent obtained by the patentee in
Canada, No. 6938, dated January 9, 1877, for the same invention, that the proper entries and corrections have been made
m the files and records of the Patent Office, that it had been
shown that the original patent had been lost, and that the
certificate is made because that patent was issued without
limitation, as required by § 4887 of the Revised Statutes.
While it may be proper, in a case where the date of a foreign
patent issued prior to the granting of a United States patent
to the same patentee for the same invention is made known
to the Patent Office prior to the granting of the United States
patent, to insert in that patent a statement of the limitation
of its duration, in accordance with the duration of the foreign
patent, it does not affect the validity of the United States
patent, if such limitation is not contained on its face.
It results from these views, that
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
ease be remanded to that court, wzth a direction to take
such further proceedings as shall be in accordance with
above
law and with the sthpulafton between the yarts,
referred to, and not znconsistent wzth this omnwn.

HILL v. CHICAGO AND EVANSTON RAILROAD
COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 866. Submitted December 20, 1888.-

Decided January 21, 1889.

This court has no jurisdiction of an appeal unless the transcript of the
record is filed here at the next term after the taking of the appeal.
It is not proper, on a motion to dismiss an appeal from a decree, to decide
whether a prior decree was a final decree, or what orders and decrees
made by the court below in the cause prior to the making of the decree
appealed from can be reviewed here on the appeal.
Where the decree appealed from awarded a money decree against one defendant, and the plaintiff appealed, and the obligees named in the appeal

