OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

Tr

case is stated in the opinion.

Jb Sparrel Hill, Air ienry Craft and -Mr L. P Cooper
for plaintiffs in error.
Xr IF F Rutledge and -Mr William . Smith for defendants in error.
AR.

CmEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Judgment was rendered against the plaintiffs in error in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Tennessee on the 29th of November, 1886, and writ of
error brought December 28th, 1886, accompanied by a citation
to the adverse party, duly returnable to the October Term,
1887, and served in January and March of the latter year.
But the record was not filed herein until December 20th, 1888,
and the rule is settled that under such circumstances we do
not entertain jurisdiction. Grigsby v Purcell, 99 U S. 505,

Credit Company v Arkansas Central Railway Co., 128 U S.
258, ilill v Chwago & Evanston Railroad Co., ante, 170,
.Edmonsonv Bloom shire, 7 Wall. 306.
The writ of error is

Dsmissed.

McKENNA v. SIMPSON'.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
No. 767.

Submitted January 4, 1889. -Decided

March 5, 1889.

A state court has jurisdiction of an action brought by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside, as made to defraud creditors, conveyances made by
the bankrupt before the bankruptcy
When an assignee in bankruptcy resorts to a state court to set aside a conveyance by the bankrupt as made to defraud creditors, and no question
is raised there as to his power under the acts of Congress, or as to
the rights vested in him as assignee, the judgment of the state court is
subject to review here in the same manner and to the same extent as

MeKENNA v. SIMPSON.
Statement of the Case.
proceedings of a similar character by a creditor to set aside conveyances
in fraud of his rights by a debtor.
Tlfe decision of the state court in this case, as to what should be deemed a
fraudulent conveyance and as to the application of the evidence in reaching that decision, presents no Federal question.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as
follows:
This was a suit by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside
certain conveyances of the bankrupt, and of others under his
direction, upon the ground that they were made to defraud his
creditors. It was commenced in one of the courts of Tennessee. The facts upon which it is founded, briefly stated, are as
follows In August, 1878, Robert McKenna, a resident of that
State, one of the defendants below, filed his petition in bankruptcy in the District Court for the Western District of Tennessee, and was, in November, 1878, adjudged a bankrupt. In
December following, Oscar Woodbridge was appointed his
assignee, and a deed of assignment was made to hun of the
property and effects of the bankrupt.
In May, 1880, the assignee filed a bill in the Chancery Court
of Shelby County, Tennessee, against the bankrupt and his
infant daughter, Maud McKenna, to set aside, as fraudulent
and void, certain conveyances of about two hundred acres of
land in that county, one executed by the bankrupt, Robert
McKenna, dated February 15, 1873, to Solomon Rose, for the
alleged consideration of $8000, one executed by Rose on the
same day for the like consideration to Mrs. John Kirkup, of
Kentucky, a sister of McKenna, and one executed by Mrs.
Kirkup, August 1, 1816, to Mrs. Anna McKenna, wife of the
bankrupt, and her three children, for the alleged consideration
of $5000. Of these grantees, Maud McKenna was the only
one surviving when the bill was filed. Metcalf and Walker
were also made defendants because they claimed a lien upon
the premises which had been adjudged in their favor in another suit. Woodbridge, the assignee, having died, the suit
was revived in the name of J Lawrence Simpson, who had
been appointed assignee in place of the deceased. Afterwards

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

the defendant Robert McKenna filed an answer to the complaint, denying that the conveyances were fraudulent and void,
and alleging that the object of them was to effect a settlement
of the land upon his wife and children, and that his financial
condition at the time was such as to render it legal and proper
for him to do so, as he had no debts. Robert McKenna having been appointed guardian of Maud McKenna, an answer
was filed by him, as such guardian, for her, in which substantially the same matters of defence were set up. The defendants Metcalf and Walker filed an answer and also a cross-bill,
asserting their lien on the premises. :Proofs were then taken,
from which it appeared that no money consideration ever
passed between the parties to the several conveyances mentioned, that Solomon Rose, grantor to Mrs. IKirkup, never saw
her, and did not remember anything about the transaction,
except that McKenna came to his office and asked him to go
to the court-house and make the conveyance, and that the
deed of Mrs. Kirkup, dated August 1, 1876, was acknowledged
July 18, 1878, one month before McKenna's bankruptcy, and
was not registered until January 15, 1879, six months afterwards. The court held that the conveyances were voluntary
and fraudulent, and made to hinder, delay and defraud the
creditors of the bankrupt McKenna, and further, that the
conveyances were inoperative to create an estate in the wife
and children of McKenna as against the assignee in bankruptcy, the same not having been filed for registration until
after the adjudication of the bankruptcy of McKenna. It was
also held that the defendants Metcalf and Walker were entitled
to the lien asserted by them. A decree was accordingly entered in favor of the complainant, adjudging that the title to
the land was in him as assignee, and that neither the defendant Robert McKenna nor Maud McKenna had any title thereto, and ordering that the complainant recover the land and
possession thereof, and also in favor of the defendants Metcalf and Walker for their lien on the land. On appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State a decree was entered there, in substance, and almost in identical language, in effect affirming
the decree appealed from. To review this latter decree the

McKENNA v. SIMPSON.
Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

case is brought here on writ of error by Robert and Maud
McKenna. The defendants m error now move to dismiss the
writ on the ground that this court has no jurisdiction to review
that decree.
.MX'r Villiarm .X.Bandolplh for plaintiffs in error, argued
the case on its merits in his brief. Oil the question of jurisdiction, he said. In Glenny v Zangdom, 98 U. S. 20, Mr. Justice
Clifford said. "KNeither the assignee nor any creditor can have
any greater right under the Bankrupt Act than the act itself
confers." In the same case the same judge said. "Creditors
can have no remedy which will reach property fraudulently
conveyed, except through the assignee, for two reasons 1,
because all such property, by the express words of the Bankrupt Act, vests in the assignee by virtue of the adjudication
in bankruptcy and of his appointment 2, because they cannot
sustain any suit against the bankrupt. Propertv fraudulently
conveyed vests in the assignee, who may recover the same
and distribute its proceeds as the Bankrupt Act requires." In
that case the bill was by creditors who sought to maintain a
suit to set aside a conveyance made by bankrupt, in fraud of
the creditors, the assignee refusing to proceed. In Th'mble v
W'oodkead, 102 U. S. 647, 'Gennyv langdon was re-affirmed,
as it was also in the later case of .ioyer v Dewey, 103 U. S.
301. It is then upon the Bankrupt Act alone that this case
is to turn. In Hidder v Horrobzn, 72 N. Y 159, the Court
of Appeals held that a state court had jurisdiction of an action
by an assignee in bankruptcy to recover a debt due the bankrupt. In Olcott v 3faclean, 73 N. Y 223, the same court
held that a state court had jurisdiction of an action by an
assignee in bankruptcy to recover property conveyed by the
bankrupt in fraud of his creditors. In Barton v Geiler, 108
U. S.161, this court reviewed on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Tennessee, a decree rendered m the state court, in a
suit brought by an assignee in bankruptcy, to set aside a conveyance made by the bankrupt in fraud of his creditors, and
affirmed the decree. And I take it that, although the court
did not m that case discuss the question, I am to assume it is

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the settled law that the state court in this case had jurisdiction of the original suit, and this court has jurisdiction by the
present writ of error. Upon the question of the jurisdiction
of this court over the judgment or decree of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee by this writ of error, I refer also to 0'.Brzen v
Weld, 92 U. S. 81, Shavpe v. Doyle, 102 U S. 686, Factorfs'
and Traders' Insuranee Co. v -Murphy, 111 U S. 738, Hill
v Blarding, 107 U S. 631, Palmer v H ussey, 119 U S. 96,
Winchester v Hetskell, 119 U. S. 450, Jenkazns v Internattonal
Bank, 127 U. S. 484 , -Mace v Wells, 7 How 272, Peck v
Jenness, 7 How 612, Bush v Cooper, 18 How 82.
.Mr&
C. IF 3letcalf and 3fr S. P
in error.
IR. JUSTIcE FIELD

Walker for defendants

delivered the opinion of the court.

Section 709 of the Revised Statutes points out the cases in
which the judgment or decree of the highest court of a State,
in which a decision could be had, may be reviewed by the
Supreme Court of the United States. It provides for such
review in three classes of cases, First, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority
exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against
its validity, second, where is drawn in question the validity
of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State,
on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is in
favor of its validity, third, where any title, right, privilege,
or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty
or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under,
the United States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed by either
party under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or
authority
In neither of the clauses mentioned is there any provision
which covers the present case. It is true, by ยง 4972 of the
Revised Statutes the jurisdiction of the District Courts of
the United States, as courts of bankruptcy, extends to all
cases and controversies arising between the bankrupt and any

McKENNA v. SIMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

creditor or creditors who may claim any debt or demand under
the bankruptcy, and to the collection of the assets. of the
bankrupt, and, indeed, to all acts, matters or things to be done
under and in virtue of the bankruptcy, until the final distribution and settlement of his estate, and the close of the proceedings in bankruptcy Under these provisions the assignee
might undoubtedly have brought suit to set aside the conveyances in question in the District Court of the United States
for the district.. Hlad he done so, this court would have had
jurisdiction to review its decree, but he was not precluded
from proceeding in the state court to set aside the alleged
fraudulent conveyances. And when he resorted to that court,
and no question was raised as to his power under the acts of
Congress, or the rights vested in him as assignee, the proceedings were governed, and the judgment of the court upon the
validity of the conveyances was subject to review, in the same
manner and to the same extent, as proceedings of a similar
character by a creditor to set aside conveyances in fraud of
his rights by a debtor. Glenny v. Langdon, 98 T. S. 20, and
Tsmble v Toodhead, 102 U S. 64', were cases commenced
in the Circuit Court of the United States, and Bartonv Geiler,
108 U. S. 161, was commenced in a state court. See also Clark
v. Ewzng, 9 Bissell, 440, Olcott v .Maclean,73 N. Y 223, and
Goodrich v 1ilson, 119 Mass. 429. In the proceedings in
the state court no decision was made against the validity of
any statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States,
or against any title, right, privilege, or immunity claimed
under the Constitution of the United States or any statute
thereof. No question, indeed, arose under the action of the
state court which could bring its decision within the provisions of ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes.
The several cases to which our attention is called, as being
in supposed conflict with this view, have no bearing upon the
questions involved. In O'Brien v. Weld, 92 U. S. 81, the
question arose whether under the bankrupt act the District
Court of the United States had authority to make the order
involved, and the decision of the highest state court was
against the authority, and that was held sufficient to sustain

OCTOBER TER-I,

1888.

Syllabus.

In .Factors'insurance Co. v lurffmy,
111 U S. 738, the effect to be given to a sale of property under
an order of the District Court in bankruptcy was in question.
the authority of the court to direct a sale free from encumthe Federal jurisdiction.

brances being denied.

Jenkins v 1atwnal Bank of Chweago,

127 U. S. 484, involved a question as to the authority of the
assignee in bankruptcy to institute a suit touching any property or rights of property vested in him after the expiration of
two years from the time when the cause of action accrued.
The decision of the state court as to what should be deemed
a fraudulent conveyance does not present any Federal question,
nor does the application by the court of the evidence in reachmrg that decision raise one.
We are of opinion, therefore, that this court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
Tie wrdt of error must consequently be dismtssed, and zt is
so ordered.

KIMBERLY v. ARMS.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, EASTERN DIVISION.
No. 169. Argued January 21, 22, 1889.-Decided March o, 1889.

It is not within the general province of a master in chancery to pass upon
all the issues in a cause in equity nor is it competent for the court to
refer the entire decision of a case to him without consent of the parties.
When the parties consent to the reference of a case to a master or other
officer to hear and decide all the issues therein, both of fact and of law,
and such reference is entered as a rule of court, it is a submission of the
controversy to a special tribunal, selected by the parties, to be governed
in its conduct by the ordinary rules applicable to the administration of
justice in tribunals established by law; and its determinations are not
subject to be set aside and disregarded at the discretioh of the court.
In practice it is not usual for the court to reject the report of a master,
with his findings upon the matters referred to him, unless exceptions are
taken to them, and brought to its attention, and unless, upon examination, the findings are found unsupported or essentially defective.
The law exacts good faith and fair dealing between partners, to the exclusion of all arrangements which can possibly affect injuriously the profits
of the concern.

