MORRIS v. GILMER.
Syllabus.

in contained should "prevent any valid debt, obligation or
liability of either constituent company from being enforced
against the property of the proper- constituent company,"
which by force of the articles became the property of the
consolidated company
The property transferred, which included the 25&acre tract, thus passed to the new company,
subject to all charges, liens and equities to which it was before
subject, and the obligation of the Kansas Pacific Company to
make a conveyance of that tract devolved upon the defendant.
The same principle applies also to the mortgage executed in
1879 by the Kansas Pacific Company to Gould and Sage, as
trustees covering the 251-acre tract. At that time the order of
June 28, 1878, was a matter of record in the books of the Kansas Pacific Company, and the MeAlpines were in possession of
the tract. Under these circumstances, it may be claimed that
the property was taken by the trustees with notice of the rights
of the complainants, and, therefore, subject to their enforcement. It is sufficient that the Union Pacific Company cannot
set up that mortgage as a release from its obligation to make
a conveyance in execution of the contract with the McAlpines.
Decree affirmed.

MOR:RIS v. GILMER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE MIDDLE DISTRICT

OF ALA:BANA..

No. 1150. Submitted January 2, 1889. -Decided January 28, 1889.
When the record discloses a controversy of which a Circuit Court cannot
properly take cognizance, its duty is to proceed no further, and to dismiss the suit; and its failure or refusal to do so is an error which this
court will correct of its own motion, when the case is brought before it
for review.

It appearing from the evidence in this record that the sole object of the
plaintif in removing to the State of Tennessee was to place himself m a
situation to invoke the jursdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States, and that he had no purpose to acquire a domicil or settled home
there, and no question of a Federal nature being presented to givejurs-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
diction independently of the citizenship of the parties, the court below
should have dismissed the case.
Hartog v Memory, 116 U. S. 588, explained and qualified.

THE court stated the case as follows.

The first assignment of error relates to the action of the
Circuit Court in overruling a motion to dismiss this suit, as
one not really and substantially involving a dispute or controversy properly within its jurisdiction.
On the -Ith of July, 1884, the present appellee, James N.
Gilmer, who was then, and during all his previous life had
been, a citizen of Alabama, instituted a suit in equity, in one
of the Chancery Courts of that State, against Josiah Morris,
individually, and against Josiah Morris and F If. Billing as
composing the firm of Josiah Morris & Co., citizens of Alabama. Its object was to obtain a decree declaring that the
transfer, by the plaintiff to Morris, of sixty shares of the capital stock of the Elyton Land Company, an Alabama corporation, was made in trust and as collateral security for the payment of a debt due from the plaintiff to Josiah Morris & Co.,
ordering an accounting in respect to the amount of that debt,
the value of the stock, and the dividends thereon received by
Morris, and directing him upon the payment of the debt and
interest, or so much thereof as appeared to be unpaid, to transfer sixtv shares of the stock to the plaintiff, and pay over any
dividends received in excess of the debt due from the latter.
Besides putting in issue all the material averments of the
bill, the answer relied upon laches and the Statute of Limitations in bar of the suit. The cause went to a hearing, upon
pleadings and proofs, and, on the 29th of April, 1885, a final
decree was rendered disnissing the suit, the Chancery Court
holding that the claim was barred by the Statute of Limitations. Upon appeal, the decree was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Alabama, on the 27th of January, 1886. That court,
as appears from the opinion of its Chief Justice, refused to
modify the decree, so as to make it a dismissal without prejudice to another suit. Gilmer v iorris,80 Alabama, 78.
The present suit was instituted, September*20, 1886, m the

MORRIS v. GILMER.
Statement of the Case.

Circuit Court of the United States by Gilmer, claiming to be
a citizen of Tennessee, against Morris and Billing. It relates
to the same shares of stock, and the relief asked is that Morris
be decreed to account for and pay over to the plaintiff all dividends paid after it came to the defendant's hands, (after deducting Gilmer's indebtedness to Morris or to Morris & Co.,)
and to transfer the sixty shares of stock to the plaintiff. The
defendants filed a plea setting up the final decree m the state
court in bar of the present suit. That plea having been overruled, Gilmer v .2lorris,30 Fed. Rep. 476, they separately
answered, Billing disclaiming any interest in the stock, or in
the dividends thereon. The plaintiff filed a replication. Subsequently, December 16, 1887, the defendant Morrs filed in
the cause the affidavit of A. S. Gerald to the effect that, in a
conversation held by him with the plaintiff on or about November 14, 1887, the latter informed him "that he had returned
to the city of Montgomery to reside permanently, and bad been
living here with! that intent some time previous to said conversation " and also his own affidavit to the effect that he had
been informed and believed that the plaintiff returned to the
city of Montgomery "some time in the latter part of May or
early part of June, 188T, with the purpose and intent of permanently residing in the State of Alabama, and has continuously resided in said 'State of Alabama ever since said time."
On the 17th of November, 1881, before the final hearing of
the cause, the defendants, with leave of court, filed a written
motion for the dismissal of the suit upon the ground that it
did not really and substantially involve a controversy within
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, basing his motion upon
the above affidavits of Gerald and Morris, and upon the depositions of the plaintiff, and of his father, F M. Gilmer, taken
in this cause in behalf of the plaintiff. The father, in ns deposition taken de bene esse, October 27, 1886, makes the following
statements on cross-examination.
"Q. Where does your son, J N. Gilmer, now reside? A.
He resides in Memphis, Tennessee.
"Q. When did he remove there? A. I think he removed in
April or May

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

"Q.
"Q.
"Q.
"Q.

Of this year , A. Yes, sir, of this year.
Did he take his family with him 2 A. He did.
Did he take his furniture with him ? A. He did.
Is not his home at present furnished with the same
furniture and pictures that were in it when he was there?
A. No, sir.
" Q. Does any one occupy his house2 A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Who 2 A. Mr. Mitchell.
"Q. How long has he occupied it 2 A. I think he occupied
it on the first of the month, it was rented to him the month
before.
"Q. You think he occupied it from the first of October 2
A. Yes, sir.
"Q. I ask you if up to the first of October his furniture and
effects were not in the house A. No, sir, his effects went
with him.
"Q. Did he remove all his furniture2 A. Yes, sir.
"Q. Were not pictures left hanging on the wall of the house
A. No, sir.
"Q. Did he not move to the State of Tennessee for the pur
pose of bringing this suit in the United States court, and did
he not so view it before he left2 A. That is a question that
he only can answer. I cannot answer for him.
" Q. I ask you if he did not tell you thAt his purpose in moving to Tennessee was for the purpose of bringing this suit in
the United States court2 A. He did not tell me that.
"Q. I ask you if you do not know that it was his purpose,
and if it was not done under advice 2 A. I can tell you what
I believe, but I cannot tell you what I know about it. I do
not know it.
"Q. You say that you do not know whether that was his
purpose or whether he was ever so advised 2 A. Well, I can
say I advised him to do that.
"Q. Well, before his removal 2 A. Yes, sir.
"Q. How long before he removed was it that you advised
him 2 A. Well, it was some months.
"Q. When did you advise him2 Was it after the decision
of the Supreme Court of Alabama in the chancery suit that
you have spoken of 2 A. Yes, sir, it was after that.

MORRIS v. GILMER.
Statement of the Case.

"Q. I ask you if you didn't advise him to move for the
purpose of bringing this suit in the United States court?.
A. I did.
"Q. And he changed his residence after that advice 2 A. I
can say, further, that it was not the only thing that induced
me to advise him. I wanted him relieved from his military
occupation. I did not think that he would ever succeed in
business as long as he was hanging on to a military organization, and I thought that his wife's mother lived in Memphis,
and the family there were very desirous that they should go
there. That was really the primary cause of my advising
him, and I then suggested to him, 'If you go there you will
have an opportunity of instituting suit' (in U. S. court). The
prime object was to get him rid of all military organizations.
"Q. But part of the purpose was to get him so that he
could institute suit in the United States court 9 A. Well, it
was incidental. The primary purpose with me was to get hin
square out of the military organization.
"Q. Don't you know that he said his purpose in moving to
Tennessee was to bring this suit in the United States court 9
A. I do not know that he said that. I may have heard him,
but I cannot now bring it to mind.
"Q. Don't you know that it was his purpose to return here at
the termination of this suit, don't you know this 2 A. I do not:
"Q. Do you know that he has moved to Tennessee, permanently, or with a view of remaining there 2 A. I do not.
"Q. Has he gone into any business in Tennessee 2 A. He
has.
2 A. Cotton-ginning business.
2ess
"Q. What is his bus
On his own account 2 A. No, sir, in connection with
CQ.
others.
"Q. Is he proprietor or employe 9 A. I really do not know
"Q. Do you know whether he has made any investment in
Tennessee 2 A. I do not.
"Q. Have his business connections here been severed 2 A.
Yes, sir.

"Q. Entirely 2 A. Yes, sir, entirely
"Q. How long before this present suit begun did he move

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

to Tennessee? A. I do not know when this suit was istituted, exactly, but I suppose about four or five months.
"Q. What month did he move away in, do you know? A.
I do not bear in mind the exact date, I think it was in April.
"Q. Of this year 9 A. Yes, sir.
"Q. When did you say that your intimacy with Mr. Morris
ceased 9 A. At the institution of this suit of J N. Gilmer in
the Chancery Court.
"Q. That suit was commenced in the Chancery Court of
Alabama by Gilmer, the same plaintiff, with Morris, the same
defendant, and prosecuted through the Chancery Court, and
then went to the Supreme Court on appeal, did it not 9 A. It
did.
"Q. And you were examined as a witness 2 A. I was.
"Q. Is not this a continuation of that same controversy that suit?, A. It is a continuation of the merits of the same
transaction, but it is a new controversy
"Q. iHow old are you, Mr. Gilmer 2 A. I am 76 years old."
Redirect examination

"Q. Do you know whether J N. Gilmer sold his residence
before he left 2 A. He did.
"Q. Did he sell any other property -did he sell his cows
and horses 2 A. He sold everything, sir, that he didn't carry
with him.
"Q. Before he went to Memphis 2 A. Yes, sir."
The plaintiff, in his deposition, taken April 26, 1887, made
these statements on cross-examination.
"Q. Where do you reside now 2 A. In Memphis.
"Q. What State 2 A. The State of Tennessee.
"Q. How long have you resided there2 , A. One year.
"Q. Did you not go there, Mr. Gilmer, for the purpose of
getting jurisdiction to the Federal court of this State? A. I
did, sir.
"Q. Is it your purpose to return to Montgomery if you gain
this suit 2 A. That depends altogether upon circumstances.
"Q. What circumstances 2 A. If inducements be offered to
make it to my interest, I may

MORRIS v. GILMER.
Argument for Appellee.

"Q. Well, is there not expectation that such inducements
will be offered 2 A. I have had inducements offered, but I
have not accepted.
"Q. I repeat the question. Is it not your expectation that,
in the event you gain this suit, such inducements will be offered
you to return here that you will accept them 2 A. 2 es, sir.
"Q. So that you think, if you gain this suit, you will come
back to Montgomery to live 2 A. Yes, sir.
" Q. Were you born and raised here in Montgomery 9, A. I
was.
"Q. And lived here until May, 1885, or June, was it 2 A. I
left here on the first day of May, 1886.
"Q. That was after the suit in the State Chancery Court
had been decided against you in the Supreme Court of Alabama 2 A. Yes, sir."
Upon consideration of said affidavits and depositions, and
after argument by counsel for the respective parties, the motion to dismiss was denied. The cause subsequently went to a
final decree giving the plaintiff the relief asked. Gilmer v
. rona, 35 Fed. Rep. 682.
.36 Hen-y C. Tomnpkns, .Mr Alexandye T. London, Mr
Samuel F .Rwe and .Mr Dansel S. Troy for appellant.
Xr Hen7y C. Semple and .r

TT A. Gunter for appellee.

It is insisted, by the appellant, that the lower court should
have .dismissed this case for the want of jurisdiction, and there
is an assignment of error, to that effect, in the argument of
counsel.
So far as this matter is concerned, there is nothing in the
record on which to predicate any assignment of error. The
averment of citizenship to give jurisdiction in the bill is full.
Before the passage of the act of March 3, 1&75, 18 Stat. 470, it
was well settled "that the citizenship of the parties could not be
put in issue on the merits, but that it must be brought forward
at an earlier stage in the proceedings by plea in abatement, in
the nature of a plea to the jurisdiction." Farmington v
VOL. cxxix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellee.

Pillsbury,114 U. S. 138, 143. "Such was the condition of
the iaw when the act of 1875 was passed," but by that law
"the old rule established by the decisions, which required all
objections to the citizenship of the parties, unless shown on the
face of the record, to be taken by plea in abatement, before
pleading 'to the merits, was changed, and the courts were
given full authority to protect themselves against the false pretences of apparent parties." 1b.
The terms of that act are "If in any such suit
it
shall appear to the satisfaction of the Circuit Court, at any
ftmne after such subt has been brought
that such suit
does not really and substantially involve a suit or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court
the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further therem, but
shall dismiss the suit,
but the order dismissing
said cause shall be reviewable by the Supreme Court on writ of
error or appeal, as the case may be."
In Williams v .Hrottawa.104 U. S.209, 212, in speaking of
cases under this law it is said "Whether, if a defendant
allows a case to go on until judgment has been rendered
against him, he can take advantage of the objection on appeal,
or writ of error, we need not decide. That would be a different case from this."
In I-artog v Af1emory, 116 U. S.588, construing this statute,
and reviewing all the prior decisions, the following propositions may be said to be definitely settled.
1. That the general rule, well settled before the act of
1875, that when the citizenship necessary to give jurisdiction
appeared on the face of the record, evidence to contradict the
record was not admissible, except under a plea in abatement,
and that a plea to the merits was an admission of the citizenship and waiver of a plea to the jurisdiction
was not altered
by the act of 1875.
2. That the act of 1875 was enacted to enable the court, of
its own motion, at any stage of the cause, to investigate the
question of jurisdiction, and upon doing so, to protect itself
from fraud, by a proper judgment.
3. That neither party under that act, has the right, with-

MORRIS v. GILAIER.
Argument for Appellee.

out pleading at the proper time, and m, the proper way, to
introduce evidence, the only purpose of which is to make out
a case for dismissal, and that they cannot call on the court to
go behind the averments of citizenship in the record, except
by plea to the jurisdiction.
4. That the case is not to be tried by the parties as if there
was a plea to the jurisdiction, when no such plea has been filed,
and that the evidence must be directed to the issues, and that
it is only when facts matersal to the 'ssues show there is no
jurisdiction, that the court can dismiss the case.
This authority disposes of the question at issue. The appellant did not plead to the jurisdiction, he pleaded in bar, and,
after judgment against him on that, he filed his answer setting
up other issues to the merits, on which the testimony was
taken.
When the case came on for trial on these issues, to which,
of course, the evidence could only be directed, the appellant,
putting, as we affirm, an unwarranted construction on some
immaterial, illegal and irrelevant evidence, asked the court to
adopt his views, and, without more, to dismiss the cause in
which he had already been defeated on the only debatable
matter on the merits.
We do not deny that it was in the power of the court, if it
suspected that its jurisdiction had been imposed upon, to have
caused the proper inquiry to be made, or issue to be framed
for that purpose. But this was a matter entirely for the
court.
We insist that the law still is, as heretofore declared, that a
citizen of the United States can instantly transfer his citizenship from one State to another by commensurate acts and
purposes. And the right to sue in the courts of the United
States attaches and adheres as an incident to the citizenship.
.Rwe v IHouston, 13 Wall. 66, 68. And it makes not the
slightest difference that the purpose of the change of domicil
was to seek the independent judgment of a Federal court.
Briggs v. French, 2 Sumner, 251, .Manhattan Ins. Co. v
Broughton, 109 U. S. 121, 125, 126 ,.Jones v League, 18 How
76, Cooper v Galbratth,3 Wash. 0. C. 546, Castor,v -Mitchell,

OCTOBER TER-l,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

4 Wash. C. C. 191, Case v Olark, 5 Mason, 70, Gardner v
Slia,:, 4 Wash. C. C. 609, Read v Bertrand,4 Wash. C. C.
514, Shelton v Tiffln, 6 How 163.
The motive of a party in changing his domicil is not mquirable into. If the removal is real and is only for a day, the
citizenship is acquired necessary for bringing suit. The motive
can only be looked at as an element of evidence, to determine
the reality of the removal. "Where a person lives is taken
przma facze to be his domicil, until the facts establish the
contrary" Ennis v Smith, 14 How 400, 423. A party who
resides in a State with his family, and carries on business there
is deemed a citizen of that State. iEnox v Greenleaf, 4 Dall.
360; Byrne v H-olt, 2 Wash. C. C. 282, Shelton v Tffin, 6
How 163. "For the purposes of jurisdiction of the courts of
the United States, domicil is the test ot citizenship. A person
cannot be a citizen of the State when he has abandoned his
domicil there." Poppenhausenv India Rubber Co., 14 Fed.
Rep. 707, Case v Clark, 5 Mason, 70, Cooper v Galbraith. 3
Wash. C. C. 546, lanz v Randall, 4 Dillon, 425, Sheppard
v Graves, 14 How 505, _Kemna v. Brockhaus, 5 Fed. Rep.
762.
All persons born or naturalized in the United States are,
by the 14th amendment of the Constitution, "citizens of the
United States and of the State where they reside." The appellee being in business in Alabama, with a family, and furniture, and property, including a residence, sells everything, and
severing entirely his business connections, establishes his home
and residence in Tennessee, and goes into business there. This
is sufficient to satisfy any court that Tennessee had become
his domicil.
Mn.

opi ,on

.UsTIcE

]HIARLiLAN ,

after stating the case, delivered the

of the court.

It is unnecessary to decide whether the Circuit Court erred
in overruling the plea of former adjudication, or in rendering
the decree appealed from, for we are of opinion that the
motion to dismiss the suit, as one not really involving a con-

MORRIS v. GILMER.
Opinion of the Court.

troversy within its jurisdiction, should have been sustained.
It is provided by the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1875,
(18 Stat. 472,) determining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States, that if in any suit commenced in one of
such courts "it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit
Court, at any time after such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such suit does not really and substantially
involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdic
tion of said.Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have
been improperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or removable under this act, the said Circuit Court shall
proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand
it to the court from which it was removed, as justice may
require, and shall make such order as to costs as shall be just."
The case presents no question of a Federal nature, and the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked solely upon the
ground that the plaintiff was a citizen of Tennessee, and the
defendants citizens of Alabama. But if the plaintiff, who was
a citizen of Alabama when the suit in the state court was
determined, had not become, in fact, a citizen of Tennessee
when the present suit was instituted, then, clearly, the controversy between him and the defendants was not one of which
the Circuit Court could properly take cognizance, in which
case, it became the duty of that court to dismiss it. It is true
that, by the words of the statute, this duty arose only when it
appeared to the satisfaction of the court that the suit was not
one within its jurisdiction. But if the record discloses a controversy of which the court cannot properly take cognizance,
its duty is to proceed no further and to dismiss the suit, and
its failure or refusal to do what, under the law applicable to
the facts proved, it ought to do, is an error which this court,
upon its own motion, will correct, when the case is brought
here for review The rule is inflexible and without exception,
as was said, upon full consideration, in Zansfeid, Coldwater
&c. Railway v Swan, 111 U S.379, 382, "which requires this
court, of its own motion, to deny its own jurisdiction, and, in
the exercise of its appellate power, that of all other courts of

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States, m all cases where such jurisdiction does not
affirmatively appear in the record on which, m the exercise
of that power, it is called to act. On every writ of error or
appeal, the first and fundamental question is that of jurisdiction, first, of this court, and then of the court from which
the record comes. This question the court is bound to ask
and answer for itself, even when not otherwise suggested, and
without respect to the relations of the parties to it." To the
same effect are Zing Bndge Co. v Otoe County, 120 U S.
225, Grace v Amencan Central Insurance Co., 109 U. S. 278,
283, Blacekloc v Small, 127 U S. 96, 105, and other cases.
These were cases in which the record did not affirmatively show
the citizenship of the parties, the Circuit Court being without
jurisdiction in either of them unless the parties were citizens
of different States. But the above rule is equally applicable in
a case in which the averment as to citizenship is sufficient, and
such averment is shown, in some appropriate mode, to be
untrue. While under the judiciary act of 1789, an issue as to
the fact of citizenship could only be made by a plea in abatement, when the pleadings properly averred the citizenship of
the parties, the act of 1875 imposes upon the Circuit Court
the duty of dismissing a suit, if it appears at any time after
it is brought and before it is finally disposed of, that it does
not really and substantially involve a controversy of which
it may properly take cognizance. Williams v _Hottaw, 104
U S.209, 211, Farmngto v Pillsbury,114 U. S. 138, 143,
]2tle v Giles, 118 U. S.596, 602. And the statute does not
prescribe any particular mode in which such fact may be
brought to the attention of the court. It may be done by
affidavits, or the depositions taken in the cause may be used
for that purpose. However done, it should be upon due
notice to the parties to be affected by the dismissal.
It is contended that the defendant precluded himself from
raising the question of jurisdiction, by inviting the action of
the court upon his plea of former adjudication, and by waiting
until the court had ruled that plea to be insufficient in law In
support of this position Hartog v Memory, 116 U S.588, is
cited. We have already seen that this court must, upon its

MORRIS v. GILMER.
Opunon of the Court.

own motion, guard against any invasion of the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States as defined by law, where
the want of jurisdiction appears from the record brought here
on appeal or writ of error. At the present term it was held
that whether the Circuit Court has or has npt jurisdiction is a
question which this court must examine and determine, even
if the parties forbear to make it or consent that the case be
considered upon its merits. .Hetcalf v Watrtown, 128 U. S.
586.
Nor does the case of Hartog v .Memory sustain the position
taken by the defendant, for it was there said that "if, from
any source, the court is led to suspect that its jurisdiction has
been imposed upon by the collusion of the parties or in any
other way, it may at once, of its own motion, cause the necessary inquiry to be made, either by having the proper issue
joined and tried, or by some other appropriate form of proceeding, and act as justice may require for its own protection
against fraud or imposition." In that -case, the citizenship of
the parties was properly set out in the pleadings, and the case
was submitted to the jury without any question being raised
as to want of jurisdiction, and without the attention of the
court being drawn to certain statements incidentally made in
the deposition of the defendant against whom the verdict was
rendered. After verdict, the latter moved for a new trial,
raising upon that motion, for the first time, the question of
jurisdiction. The court summarily disrssed the action, upon
the ground, solely, of want of jurisdiction, without affording
the plaintiff any opportunity whatever to rebut or control the
evidence upon the question of jurisdiction. The failure, under
the peculiar circumstances disclosed m that case, to give such
opportunity, was, itself, sufficient to justify a reversal of the
order dismissing the action, and what was said that was irrelevant to the determination of that question was unnecessary to
the decision, and cannot be regarded as authoritative. The
court certainly did not intend in that case to modify or relax
the rule announced in previous well-considered cases. In the
case before us the question was formally raised, during the
progress of the cause, by written motion, of which the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opimon of the Court.

had due notice, and to which he appeared and objected. So
that there can be no question as to any want of opportunity
for him to be heard, and to produce evidence in opposition to
the motion to dismiss.
We are thus brought to the question whether the plaintiff
was entitled to sue in the Circuit Court. Was he, at the commencement of this suit, a citizen of Tennessee ? It is true, as
contended by the defendant, that a citizen of the United
States can instantly transfer his citizenship from one State to
another, Cooper v Galbraith,3 Wash. C. C. 546, 554, and that
his right to sue in the courts of the United States is none the
less because his change of domicil was induced by the purpose,
whether avowed or not, of invoking, for the protection of his
rights, the jurisdiction of a Federal court. As said by Mr.
Justice Story, in Briggs v -French,2 Sumner, 251, 256, "if
the new citizenship is really and truly acquired, his right to
sue is a legitimate, constittitional and legal consequence, not to
be impeached by the motive of his removal." -ManhattanAms.
Co. v Broughton, 109 U S. 121, 125, Jones v League, 18 How
76, 81. There must be an actual, not pretended, change of
domicil, in other words, the removal must be "a real one,
anvmo manendi, and not merely ostensible." Case v. Clarke,
5 Mrason, 70. The intention and the act must concur in order
to effect such a change of domicil as constitutes a change of
citizenship. In .Einms v Smith, 14 How 400, 423, it was said
that "a removal which does not contemplate an absence from
the former domicil for an indefinite and uncertain time is not
a change of it," and that while it was difficult to lay down
any rule under which every instance of residence could be
brought which may make a domicil of choice, "there must be,
to constitute it, actual residence in the place, with the intention
that it is to be a principal and permanent residence."
Upon the evidence in this record, we cannot resist the conviction that the plaintiff had no purpose to acquire a domicil
or settled home in Tennessee, and that his sole object in removing to that State was to place himself in a situation to
invoke the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States. He went to Tennessee without any present intention

WHITE v. COTZHAUSEN.
Syllabus.

to remain there permanently or for an indefinite time, but
with a present intention to return to Alabama as soon as he
could do so without defeating the jurisdiction of the Federal
court to determine his new suit. He was, therefore, a mere
sojourner in the former State when this suit was brought.
He returned to Alabama almost immediately after giving his
deposition. The case comes within the principle announced m
Butler v .Farnsworth.,4 Wash. 0. 0. 101, 103, where Mr. Justice Washington said "If the removal be for the purpose of
committing a fraud upon the law, and to enable the party to
avail himself of the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, and
that fact be made out by his acts, the court must pronounce
that his removal was not with a bona fide intention of changing his domicil, however frequent and public his declarations
to the contrary may have been."
The decree ss reversed, wtth costs to the appellant in thts
court, and the cause remanded,with a direction to "dismiss
the suit wzthout costs '&n the court below.

WHITE v. COTZHATUSE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 129. Argued December 13, 14, 1888.-Decided January 28, 1889.

The Voluntary Assignment Act of the State of Illinois of 1877 which went
into effect July 1, 1877 was intended to secure equality of right among
all the creditors of the debtor making the assignment, and was a remedial
act, to be liberally construed.
In Illinois the surrender by an insolvent debtor of the dominion over his
entire estate, with an intent to evade the operation of the Voluntary
Assignment Act of that State, and the transfer of the whole or substantially the whole of his property to a part of his creditors in order to give
them a preference over other creditors, whether made by one instrument
or more and whatever their form may be, operates as an assignment
under that act; the benefit of which may be claimed by any unpreferred
creditor who will take appropriate steps in a court of equity to enforce
the equality contemplated by it.

