OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Syllabus.

him to do so. Mining partnerships or associations, whilst
governed by many rules relating to ordinary partnerships,
have some rules peculiar to themselves.
One of such rules
is that a member may convey his interest or shares to another
person without dissolving the partnership, and thus bring into
it a new member without the consent of his associates, and
may purchase interests in the same or in other mines for his
own benefit without being required to account to the partnership for the property Kahn v Smeltng Co., 102 U S. 641.
The partnership between Arms and Kimberly was not a
mining partnership, in the proper sense of that term. It was
not a partnership for developing and working mines, but for
the purchase and sale of minerals and mining lands, and in
that respect was subject to the rules governing ordinary
trading or commercial partnerships. It can no more be called
a mining partnership than a partnership for the purchase of
the products of a farm and the lands upon which those products are raised, can be called a partnership to farm the
lands.
It follows from the views expressed that the decree of the
court below must be
Peversed, and the clause remanded with directions to confirm
the report of the &pecialmaster, and to take further proceedings not inconsistent with thts op'nton.

PETERS v. ACTIVE MANUFACTURING
APPEAL FROM

COMPAT Y

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 65. Argued January 25, 1889.-

Decided March 5, 1889.

Claims 1 and 2 of letters patent No. 178,463, granted June 6, 1876, to George
M. Peters, for an improvement in tools for attaching sheet-metal moldings, on an application filed March 7, 1876, namely, "1. A sheath for
applying metallic moldings, said sheath being furnished with a stop for

advancing the molding, all substantially as and for the purpose specified,

PETERS v. ACTIVE MANUFACTURING CO.

531

Opinion of the Court.
2. The within described sheath for applying metallic moldings, said
sheath being furnished with recesses fl g' and a key G, or their equivalent stops, as and for the purposes explained," cover improvements wlich
are merely adaptations of old devices to new uses, not involving invention.
Claim 3 of the patent, namely, "3. A sheath composed of two grooved
bars A B B E' bolts or screws C,and washers D, whereby the sheath is
rendered capable of adjustment to contain moldings of different diameters, as herein set forth," is not infringed by an apparatus in which no
washers are used for adjustment.
Iw EQITY, to restrain an alleged infringement of letters
patent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant
appealed.
The case isstated in the opinion.

.Xf Benja

n Butterworth for appellant.

Xr21Aptkur Stere

for appellee.

.m.
JusTicE BLATeFoiR delivered the opimon of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, in January,
1882, by George M. Peters against The Active Manufacturing
Company, for the alleged infringement of letters patent No.
178,463, granted June 6, 1876, to the plaintiff, George M.
Peters, for an inprovement in tools for attaching sheet-metal
moldings, on an application filed March 7, 1876.
The specification, drawings and clais of the patent are as
follows
"M[y invention comprises a peculiarly constructed sheath or
holder, wherewith the ornamental molding on the top of the
carriage dashes may be applied in the most expeditious manner, and without bending or buckling, or otherwise injuring or
marring either said molding or its supporting dash-board.
"In its preferred form, said sheath consists of a two-part
holder or receiver, connected together with bolts and washers,
and provided with a longitudinal groove or channel of such
size and shape as to readily inclose the molding that is to be
applied to the upper edge of the dash, a key or other suitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

stop being fitted within the sheath, to prevent the molding
slipping through said longitudinal groove when the device is
in use.
"The sheath is rendered capable of carrying moldings of
various lengths and sizes by an arrangement of adjusting
devices whose details of construction will be hereinafter more
fully explained.
"In the accompanying drawing, forming part of this specification, Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a two-part sheath in
an inverted position, the middle portion and rear end of the
device being broken away Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the
molding detached from sheath. Fig. 3 is a plan showing the
molding located within the sheath. Fig. 4 is a longitudinal
section through the rear end of the sheath, with a screw stop
for the molding to bear against. Fig. 5 is a transverse section
at the line x x,showing the molding incased within the sheath,
and Figs. 6 and 7 represent modifications of the holder.
"A and B represent two metallic bars of any appropriate
size and having their lower outer edges slightly bevelled off at
a and b. These bars are maintained in a parallel position with
reference to each other by means of bolts or screws C and
washers or fillings D. Instead of washers and bolts or screws
0, the bars may be maintained in parallel position, and separated or brought nearer together, by means of right and left
screws, the right-hand thread of said screw engaging a female screw in one bar, and the left-hand thread engaging a
female screw in the other.
"The bar A has a longitudinal groove E, formed along its
inner surface and near the lower edge of said bar. E' is a precisely similar groove made in the other bar 1B, and when the
two members A B of the sheath are joined together the
grooves E E' form a channel that is approximately circular
in its transverse section.
"F represents a hook, shackle, or link, pivoted to the front
end of the sheath and guttered atf, to avoid contact with the
upper edge of the dash.
"The bars are furnished with undercut notches g g' to
receive a detachable key G, which latter serves as a stop or

PETERS 'v. ACTIVE

[ANUFATOURNG CO.

OPnion ol the
Court.

'--

'

1

:"

533

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

abutment for the rear end of the molding to rest against. A
series of similar notches may be made in the bars A B at such
distances from the front end of the sheath as will correspond
with the various lengths of moldings, or, if preferred, the
notches and key may be dispensed with, and a screw H may
be arranged for the molding to bear against, as seen in Fig. 4.
This screw may be adjusted out or in to agree with the length
of molding.
"The advancing end of the sheath is rounded off at I, so as
not to tear up the leather coverings of the dash while the
molding is being applied. The molding consists of a sheetmetal tube J, having a longitudinal slot or parting K, and a
flaring or trumpet-mouthed end, L. This trumpet mouth is
located at the forward end of the molding.
"As represented in Fig. 7,the sides of the molding M are
straight and have an outward flare, the top of said molding being somewhat crowning. This illustration shows a three-part
sheath, the two outer bars N N' being secured to the central
member 0 by right and left hand screws n n' and nuts P
Fig. 6 represents the sheath as made of a single piece of metal,
or other suitable material.
"Previous to using the sheath the key G is first inserted in
the notches g g', at such a distance from the end I as will correspond with the length of molding J, which latter is then
slid into the groove E E', the rear end of said molding being
brought in contact with the vertical edge of said key When
thus located within the sheath the flaring mouth L of the
molding has a slight projection beyond the chamfered end I of
the bars A B, as represented in Fig. 3. The carriage dash is
then held perfectly rigid, and the upper margins of the coverings of the same are inserted in the flaring end L of the molding, after which any suitable power is applied to the hook F
to draw the sheath along the top of said margins or projections.
As the sheath advances the flaring mouth serves to conduct
the leather margins into the slot K of the molding, and as the
grooves E E' prevent any radial distension of the tube J, it is
evident that the molding is caused to embrace said margins in
the most uniform and secure manner. After the molding has

PETERS v. ACTIVE MANUFACTURING

CO.

Opinon of the Court.

traversed the entire length of the dash, the sheath can then be
retracted, thereby leaving the tube J in its proper position
upon the dash, the flaring end L being either filed off or else
disposed of in any other suitable manner. During the progress
of the sheath along the top of dash, the molding is impelled
forward by the key G, and consequently no strain whatever is
brought to bear upon the flaring end L of the tube.
"As a considerable degree of force is required to anchor the
molding X securely to the leathern margins, it is evident that
the driving action of key G would have a tendency to buckle
said tube, but this defect is obviated by making the channel
of the sheath of such capacity as to allow a pretty snug fit of
the molding within it.
"When a longer molding is to be applied to a dash, the key
G is driven out and inserted in another set of notches nearer
the rear end of the sheath, or the same results may be effected
by causing the molding to abut against the end of screw H,
the latter being adjusted either out or in, so as to agree with
the length of molding that the sheath is to carry The width
of channel E E' may be increased, to receive a molding of
greater diameter, by removing washers or filling, and inserting
thicker ones in their place, or by turning the right and left
hand screws, where the latter are employed.
"It is preferred to make the sheath of two pieces, on
account of the facility of grooving them, but it is evident the
holder may be made of a greater or less number, if desired.
(See Figs. 6 and 1.) It is also preferred to have the sheath
embrace the molding as completely as possible, so as to bring
the lower edges of the bars A B near the parting K, and
thereby prevent any spreading of the tube at said slot, but if
the tube is sufficiently stiff to prevent such spreading, the
This
sheath need not surround the molding so completely
modified form of sheath is shown in Fig. 6.
"Furthermore, the sheath may be composed of wood lined
with a metallic bushing. It is evident that this form of sheath
may be advantageously employed for attaching sheet-metal
moldings for tubes to various articles, and I reserve the right
to use it for any and every purpose that it is capable of.-

OCTOBER TERAT, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"What I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters patent,
is
"1.

A sheath for applying metallic moldings, said sheath
being furnished with a stop for advancing the molding, all
substantially as and for the purpose specified.
"2. The within-described sheath for applying metallic moldings, said sheath being furnished with recessesf g', and a key
G, or their eqivalent stops, as and for the purposes explained.
"3. A sheath composed of two grooved bars A E B E',
bolts or screws C, and washers D, whereby the sheath is rendered capable of adjustment to contain moldings of different
diameters, as herein set forth.
"4. The combination of bars, A E B E' and guttered hook
,or shackle Ff, for the object stated."
Infringement is alleged of claims 1, 2 and 3.
The defences insisted upon are want of invention, want of
novelty and non-infringement of clai 3.
The substance of the invention set forth in the specification
is the use of a sheath or holder or receiver, having in it a longitudinal groove or channel, in which is placed the molding that
is to be applied to the upper edge of the dash-boaxd, the sheath
or holder, when pulled, drawing with it the molding over the
upper edge of the dash-board, and the key or stop being fitted
within the sheath or holder, to prevent the molding from slipping through the groove. One useful effect of the sheath is
to support the molding laterally, and prevent it from bending
or buckling, or injuring the dash-board. Claim 1 covers the
use of a sheath fuirmshed with a stop, which operates to prevent the further advancing of the molding when i.t reaches the
stop. Claim 2 covers the use of a sheath with a stop formed
by means of notches or recesses, and a detachable key to be
inserted in the notches. Claim 3 covers a sheath composed of
two grooved bars, parallel to each other, and having bolts
or screws connecting them, and washers between them, so as
to render the apparatus capable of being adjusted to contain
moldings of different diameters.
The Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill, from
which the plaintiff has appealed. The opinion of that court,

PETERS v. ACTIVE MANUFACTURING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

reported in 21 Fed. Rep. 319, says in regard to claims 1 and 2
The respondents' evidence establishes that, as early as September, 1867, Joseph P Noyes, a manufacturer of combs at
Binghamton, New York, used a machine for putting moldings
on combs, in which the molding was held in a sheath fitting
it closely, and having an extension enough smaller to fit the
comb. In this extension there was a sliding follower fitted to
abut against the end of the comb. At the extreme opposite
end of the larger part of the sheath there was a slot across the
sheath, containing a key or stop to prevent the sliding of the
molding. The follower was attached to a slide and lever, so
that when a molding was laid in the larger part of the sheath
and the comb in the smaller part, the comb, being prevented
from bending by the walls of the sheath, could be forced into
the molding by the action of the slide and lever upon the
follower, the molding being prevented from bending by the
walls of the part of the sheath within which it was placed.
This machine was in use more than three years before the date
of the complainant's invention. That this was a comparatively
small machine and used only for applying moldings to combs,
is not material Plansng Afachne v Xefh, 101 U S. 490.
Nor is it material that the groove or gutter was so open in
cross-section that the molding could be dropped into it. Fig.
6 of the drawings accompanying the letters patent issued to
complainant shows a sheath of like shape, and is referred to in
the specifications as a modified form of the sheath patented,
and the claim is so broad as to cover any sheath, of any
material, shape, or size, for applying moldings to any article.
There iso nothing more in the sheath patented to the complainant than an adaptation of the sheath used at Binghamton
to the application of moldings to carriage dash-boards - an
adaptation which would have occurred to a skilled mechanic
without the exercise of the inventive faculty
Had the
complainant's invention been first in tne and patented, the.
Binghamton sheath would have been an infringement, and,
conversely, had the Binghamton sheath been patented, the
complainant's would have been an infringement. That which
infringes, if later, would anticipate, if earlier." We concur in
these views.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The affirmative evidence on the part of the defendant, in
regard to the Noyes apparatus, consists of the testimony of
Noyes and Yingling, their testimony having been taken in
August, 1882. Noyes testified that he had been engaged
in making combs, at Binghamton, Broome County, New York,
since 1860, and had, since 1864, made combs with metallic
moldings for stiffening the backs. He produced one of such
combs, marked A, and one of such moldings, marked B. He
further testified as follows "Q. 6. State whether or not you
have ever used any machinery for putting these moldings on
combs2 Ans. I have. Q. 7. Can you describe any of the
machines used by you for putting moldings on combs 2 Ans.
Yes. I have one machine in which the molding is held in a
groove, which fits it closely, and the same groove has an
extension enough smaller to fit the comb closely, and in this
extension there slides a follower, which is fitted to abut against
the end of the comb. At the extreme opposite end of the
larger part of the groove there is a slot across the groove,
containing a key or stop to prevent the molding sliding through
the groove. The follower before mentioned is attached to a
suitable slide and lever, so that when a molding is laid in the
larger part of the groove, and the comb in the smaller part,
the comb, being prevented from bending by the walls of the
groove, can be forced tightly into the molding, by the action
of the follower and its connected parts, the molding being, at
the same time, prevented from bending by the walls of the
larger part of the groove. Q. 8. Can you produce a drawing
illustrating the machine above described and its operation 2
Ans. I here produce a drawing which illustrates said, machine.
In this drawing, figure 1, A represents the main body of the
machine. In the part A is the groove C and its smaller extension D, in which are placed the molding and the comb, as
described in my previous answer. 0 represents the slot in
, which is placed the key, marked figure 2. E, figure 1, represents the follower B, the slide of which the follower forms a
part, L, K, M and H the lever and connecting parts by which
E and B is operated. Figure 3 shows an end view of the
slide and follower. Q. 9. Into which of the grooves do you

PETERS v. ACTIVE MANUFACTURING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

place the metallic molding 2 Ans. Into the groove 0. Q. 10.
And into which the comb 2 A-us. Into the groove D. Q. 11.
In use, the key or stop, figure 2, is placed in the slot 0 to
prevent the metallic molding sliding, is it not 2 Ans. It is.
Q. 12: State whether the groove C in the sheath A effectually
prevents the metallic molding from bending as it is forced over
the back of the comb. Ans. It does. Q. 13. State how long
you have used the above-described machine for putting metallic
moldings on combs m the manner described. Ans. Since
September, 1867. Q. 14. Can you fix the date by any positive
evidence besides your memory 2 Ans. I can, I have referred
to the tune-book of the men who made the machines, and find
the machine to have been finished at the date named, and
remember that it was put into immediate use. Q. 15. Has it
been used ever since 2 Ans. It has been in continued use ever
since without any alteration. Q. 16. Have you ever made any
effort to keep its use a secret, or has it always been open
to the inspection of any person who nght come into your
shop 2 Ans. I have made no effort to keep it secret, but the
shop has always been open to visitors, and any one could see
the machine who cared to look at it." The drawing so produced, marked 0, shows a machine substantially like that of
the plaintiff.
Yingling testified that he was, at the time of testifying, in
the employ of N~oyes, and, since 1868, or for about fourteen
years, had used a machine like that shown by the drawing 0,
above referred to, for putting metallic moldings upon combs.
Noyes had stated, on cross-examination, in answer to a question as to who made the machine he had described as made in
1867, that William Knopp and his son were in his (Noyes's)
employ as machinists at that time, and worked some on it,
that his time-book, kept at that time, which he had consulted,
contained a record of the fact that Knopp and his son so
worked on the machine, and that the machine was built during the first week in September, 1867. In rebuttal, the plaintiff examined as witnesses William Knopp and three persons
named Newman, Coyle, and McAuley
Knopp testified that he was employed in Noyes's comb fac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opimon of the Court.

tory from 1865 to 1869, and was familiar with the kind of
machinery manufactured by them during that time, for use in
their comb factory He then proceeded "Q. 5. In September, 1867, or at any other time, did you make machinery for
putting metallic backs on combs 9, A. I did. Q. 6. Without
going into detail as to the kind you did make, I will ask you
whether, in September, 1867, you made, or helped to make, a
machine for putting moldings on the backs of combs, where
the molding is held m a groove which fits it closely, and the
same groove has an extension enough smaller to fit the comb
closely, and in this extension there slides a 'follower,' which is
fitted to butt against the end of the comb. At the extreme
opposite end of the groove there is a slot across the groove,
containing a key or stop, to prevent the molding from sliding
through the groove. The follower is attached to a suitable
slide or lever, so that, when a molding is laid in the larger
part of the groove, and the comb in the smaller part, the comb
is prevented from bending by the walls of the groove, and can
be forced tightly into the molding, by the action of the follower and of the connecting parts 2 A. I do not remember
that I made anything of that kind. Q. 7. Did you at any
other time make such a machine 2 A. I don't remember that
I did. Q. 8. Please examine the comb I now hand you, and
state whether Noyes Bros. & Co., at that time when you
worked for them, and since, manufactured a comb with metallic back similar to this one, and, if so, state how said metallic
back was put on the comb. [Comb marked Exhibit A shown
witness and offered in evidence by solicitor for complainant.]
A. They manufactured a comb in general appearance similar.
The metallic back was put on and fastened to the comb by
compression. The back was compressed m a vice to make it
fit in a groove in the comb tightly The molding was placed
on the comb by hand, and then put in a vice, and the molding
pressed up tightly against the comb. Q. 9. Do you remember
working on or making machinery for compressing the molding on the comb, as above described 2 A. I do. Q. 10. Is the
mode above described the only way Noyes Bros. & Co. put
metallic moldings on that kind of a comb 2 A. It is. Q. 11.

PETERS v. HANSON.
Syllabus.

You was familiar at that tne with the mode employed by
them for putting moldings on combs, was you 9 A. I was."

This testimony of Knopp is very inconclusive. He merely
testifies, thirteen years after he had left Noyes's establishment,
that he does not remember that he made, fifteen years before
the time when he was testifying, a machine like that described
in question 6 put to him. The drawing produced by Noyes
was not shown to Knopp.
The testimony of Newman, Coyle and McAuley amounts to
nothing. Although they were employed in the comb factory
of Noyes at the time they gave ther testimony, in December,
1882, and had been employed there, Newman from 1862, Coyle
for 14 or 15 years, and IMcAuley for about 30 years, neither of
them was shown the comb A, nor the molding B, nor the
drawing 0, above mentioned, nor was a distinct question put
to either of them as to the use of a machine like that described
in question 6 put to the witness Knopp.
The only difference between Noyes's device and that of the
plaintiff is, that in Noyes's the stop holds the molding stationary while the comb is forced into the molding by the action of
the follower. 1But its action is substantially the same as that
of the stop in the plaintiff's patent, which prevents the molding from slipping through the groove.
The case falls within the principle applied in Pennsylvarna
.Railroadv Locomot'e Truck Co., 110 U S. 490, and cases
there cited.
As to the third claim, it is not infringed, because, in the
defendant's apparatus, no washers are used for adjustment.
The decree of the Circuit Court s affirmed.

PETERS v. HANSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 66. Argued January 25, 28, I8S9.- Decided Marcb 5, 1889.

Claims 1, 2 and 3 of letters patent No. 213,529, granted to George M1.
Peters, Mlarch 25, 1879, for an improvement in vehicle dashes, namely,

