OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

property and on certain land. On- the 25th of July, 1877,
Todd filed his answer, denying each and every allegation of
the complaint, and on that day the case was tried by a jury,
which found a verdict for Smith and assessed his damages
at $8000. The burden of proof is on the plaintiffs in this
suit to impeach that judgment. We do not think they have
successfully done it. It would not be profitable to discuss the
evidence.
Mluch comment is made on the fact that Todd did not plead
the statute of limitations of the State to a pait of Smith's
claim. But this is not an objection of which the plaintiffs can
avail themselves. Todd was at liberty to waive the plea, and
there was evidently sufficient in the relations of the parties
and in the circumstances of the case to warrant him in doing
SO.

We have carefully considered the evidence, and the various
propositions advanced by the counsel for the appellants in
regard to the facts, and are of opinion that the decree of the
Circuit Court was right, and that it must be
Afi rmed.
M . CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER was not a member of the court
when tins case was submitted, and took no part in its decision.

UNITED STATES. ex rel. LEVEY v. STOCKSLAGER.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE31E COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
-No.1481. Argued January 24, 25, 1889. -Decided

March 5, 1889.

The act approved March 2, 1867, c. 208, 14 Stat. 635, confirmed to the widow
and children of one Bouligny the one sixth part, amounting to 75,840
acres, of a certain land claim in Louisiana, and enacted that, inasmuch
as the land embraced in the claim had been appropriated by the United
States to other purposes, certificates of new location, in eighty-acre lots,
be issued to the widow in lieu of said lands, to be located on public
lands. The next Congress, twenty-eight days afterwards, and on March
30, 1867 passed a joint resolution, which was approved by the President,
directing the Secretary of the Interior to suspend the execution of the act,
" until the further order of Congress." No action had meantime been
taken by the General Land Office to carry out the act. On a petition by

LEVEY v. STOCKSLAGER.
Opinion of the Court.
the widow for a mandamus to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office directing him to execute and deliver to her the certificates. Held,
(1) The execution of the act was suspended not merely until the further order of the same Congress which passed the joint resolution,
but until the further order of the legislative body called, m Section 1, of Article 1, of the Constitution, "a Congress of the
United States",
(2) The act did not vest in the beneficiaries a title to specific land, nor
give them a vested right in the certificates which were to be issued,
(3) No vested right, amounting to property, had attached at the time of
the approval of the joint resolution, and it did not deprive the
beneficiaries of any property, or right of property, m violation
of the Constitution,
(4) If the claim, founded on the act, amounted to a contract, the demand for relief would be substantiallv a prayer for a specific
performance of the contract by the United States, jurisdiction to
grant which was not given by statute to the court below.

PETrrioN for a writ of mandamus.

The case is stated m the

opinion.
X, Watler H Srmith and _Nr A. B. Browne (with whom
were .lr A. T Britton and .Mr ,S. W Johnston on the brief)
for plaintiff in error.
eb er J .May and 3.r Attorney General for defendant
_21r
in error.
AIR. JUSTiCE BLA.THFOrD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, in general term. The writ
is brought by the United States, on the relation of Mary
Elizabeth Levey, intermarried with George Collins Levey,
against Strother M. Stockslager, Commissioner of the General
Land Office.
Mary Elizabeth Levey filed a petition in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, praying for a writ of mandamus.
The petition set forth that the petitioner was formerly Mary
:Elizabeth Bouligny, the widow of John E. Bouligny, deceased,
and the person named in tle act of Congress of March 2,
1867, hereinafter set forth, and that she is now the wife of
George Collins Levey, and was such on the 29th of March,
1888. The act of Congress referred to (c. 208, 14 Stat. 635)
was set forth in the petition, and is in these words

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"An actfor the Relief of the Hers of John E. Bouligny.
"Be .t enacted by the Senate and Rouse of Representatives
of the Unded States of America qn Congress assembled, That
there be, and hereby is, confirmed to Mary Elizabeth Bouligny,
Corrinne Bouligny, and Felice iBouligny, widow and children
of John E. Bouligny, deceased, the one sixth part of the land
claim of Jean Antoine Bernard D'Autrive, in the State of Louisiana, said one sixth part amounting to seventy-five thousand
eight hundred and forty acres, and that, inasmuch as the said
land embraced in said claim have [has] been already appropriated by the United States to other purposes, certificates of new
location, in eighty-acre lots, be issued to the said Mary Elizabeth Bouligny, for her own benefit and that of her said minor
children, in lieu of said lands, to be located at any land office
in the United States, upon any public lands subject to private
entry at a price not exceeding one dollar and twenty-five cents
per acre. The commissioner of the general land office is
hereby directed to issue said certificates of new location in
accordance with existing regulations in such cases.
" APPRovED,March 2, 1867."
The petition set forth, that, on the 6th of March, 1867, the
petitioner's attorney filed with the Commissioner of the General Land Office a certified copy of said act, and requested
that the certificates of new location named in the act be
issued, that the act was passed by the Thirty-ninth Congress,
which adjourned on the 3d of March, 1867, that, at the next
session of Congress, being the Fortieth Congress, the latter
Congress, on the 30th of March, 1867, passed the following
joint resolution (No. 35, 15 Stat. 353:)
"Joint Resolution directing the Secretary of the Interior to
suspend the Execution of a 7aw passed by the Thirty-Ninth
Congressfor the Relief of the Heirs of John -E.Bulgny.
".Be it resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
the Secretary of the Interior be directed to suspend the execu-

LEVEY v. STOCKSLAGER.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the act entitled ' An act for the relief of the heirs of
John E. Bouligny,' approved March second, eighteen hundred
and sixty-seven, until the further order of Congress.
"APPROVED,

March 30, 1867,"

that Congress had made no "further order" in the matter,
that the defendant was, on the 29th of March, 1888, and since
had been, and now is, Commissioner of the General Land
Office of the United States, that the petitioner, on that day,
demanded of him, as such Commissioner, that he issue to her,
for her own benefit and that of her minor children named in
the act, certificates of new location for 75,840 acres, m eightyacre lots, locatable at any land office m the United States,
upon any public lands subject to private entry at a price not
exceeding 81.25 per acre, that such demand was made in writing, at the office of the said Commissioner, in Washington,
that he, on the 12th of April, 1888, refused to grant that
request, that on the 13th of April, 1888, she duly appealed
from the decision and refusal of the Commissioner to the
Secretary of the Interior; that the said Secretary, on the 3d
of May, 1888, approved the decision of the Commissioner, and
that she had theretofore repeatedly made application to the
Commissioners of the General Land Office to issue said certificates of new location, and always met with a refusal to issue
them.
The petition prayed that a writ of mandamus might issue to
the said Commissioner, directing him to execute and deliver
such certificates to her.
On an order to show cause, returnable in the general term
of the court, the respondent put in an answer, setting forth
that no action had been taken by the General Land Office, for
the purpose of carrying out and giving effect to the provisions
of the act of March 2, 1867, prior to the passage of the joint
resolution of March 30, 1861, that, by the passage of such
joint resolution, the power of the respondent to issue the certificates was suspended until the further order of Congress, that
Congress had made no further order, that the act of March 2,
1867, did not give to the relator or to the heirs of John E.
Bouligny a vested right to the certificates, that, as the act of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opimon of the Court.

March 2, 1867, directed the Commissioner to issue the certificates "in accordance with existing regulations in such cases,"
it would have imposed upon the respondent the exercise of an
official duty, within his discretion, and not reviewable by the
court, that such official duty is not a ministerial duty, that,
if the relator had acquired a vested right to the certificates
under the act, a.remedy was afforded in the Court of Claims,
under ยง 1059, to recover their -value, provided the petition setting forth the claim had been presented to the court within six
years after the claim first accrued, and that the petition ought
to be dismissed.
The relator put in a demurrer to the answer, on the ground
that it did not set up any legal defence, that the remedy in
the Court of Claims, suggested by the answer, did not exist in
law, that the right in the certificates, given by the act of Congress, was a vested right, which could not be and was not
taken away by the joint resolution, and that the joint resolution was unconstitutional and void.
The court in general term overruled the demurrer, and, the
relator electing to stand upon it, a judgment was entered, discharging the rule to show cause and dismissing the petition.
An opinion was delivered by the court in general term. It
held that the act of March 2, 1867, was not a grant, and nothing passed by it, that the Louisiana lands named in it were
never possessed by the confirmees, and were not to be possessed by them, that under such circumstances there could be
no confirmation in regard to them, that the provision for certificates in lieu of them was not a grant, and nothing passed
by it, because it was wholly executory, that, the certificates
never having been prepared or come into existence, the effect
of the joint resolution could, at most, only be to impair the
obligation of a contract, and was not the taking of private
property, that the contract supposed to exist by virtue of the
act of March 2, 1867, could not be enforced either by the
executive or the courts, until the United States should grant
permission for such enforcement, nor after such permission had
been withdrawn, that the power to perform the contract, and
the right to insist upon its performance, existed only while such

LEVEY v. STOCKSLAGER.
Opinon of the Court.

permission existed, that the relief sought by the relator
amounted to a specific performance of the alleged contract
of the United States, by one of its officers, that this could not
be enforced when the United States had withdrawn its consent, that a writ of mandamus to compel the performance of
an official act by a public officer could not be employed to enforce the specific performance by the United States of a contract, and that the respondent had no official duty or power
in the premises since the passage of the joint resolution.
The principal question argued at the bar was as to the effect
of the joint resolution in suspending the execution of the prior
act. There is nothing in the suggestion of the relator that
the joint resolution intended only a suspension of the execution
of the act during the existence of the Fortieth Congress, and
until that Congress should further order. We do not think
that such is the proper construction of the joint resolution. It
suspends the execution of the act "until the further order of
Congress," that is, until the further order of the legislative body
called, in Section 1, of Article 1, of the Constitution, "a Congress of the United States," consisting of a Senate and House
of Representatives, in which are declared to be vested all legpslative powers granted by the Constitution. The joint resolution was one of the character mentioned in Section 7, of Article
1, of the Constitution, to which the concurrence of the Senate
and House of Representatives was necessary, and which was approved by the President, and took effect only on such approval.
It had all the characteristics and effects of the act of March 2,
1867, which became a law by the approval of the President.
Until Congress should further order, the operation of the
act of March 2, 1867, was by the joint resolution effectually
suspended.
The present case is not at all like the cases of which Wh7ktey v .Morrow, 95 U. S. 551 and 112 U. S. 693 is a type.
The statute involved in that case was the act of February
21, 1823, c. 10, 3 Stat. 724, in reference to land claims in
the Territory of Michigan. The third section of that act
directed that patents should be issued to persons whose
claims to land had been regularly filed with the commis-

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

sioners appointed under the act of May 11, 1820, c. 85, 3
Stat. 572, and whose claims had been favorably reported
on by said commissioners, and the statute confirmed such
persons in their claims. That was a statute confirming to
persons claims to specific lands, and the patents were to
issue for those very lands. The principle established by the
decisions of this court in regard to such cases is one always to
be adhered to. We do not depart from it in the present case,
but only hold that it is not applicable here. The principle
thus applied in -Morrow v TAhdney, supra, is, that an act of
Congress recognizing the validity of the claim of an individual
to specific land, as against the United States, operates to
transfer to him the interest of the Umted States, as effectually
as a grant could have done, and, where such individual has
the possession of the land, or some estate in it, and the United
States still hold the legal title to it, the confirmation is substantially a conveyance of an estate or right in the land by the
United States to such individual, and, where the land has boundaries wnich are clearly defined, or are capable of identification,
such confirmation perfects the claimant's title to the very land,
without the issuing of any patent therefor. But this doctrine
necessarily applies only to a case where the United States
intend, by the statute, to transfer to, and vest in, the beneficiary, a title to specific land. The present is not such a case.
What is stated by the act of March 2, 1867, to be confirmed
is "the one sixth part of the land claim" mentioned, said one
sixth amounting to 75,840 acres, but the statute states that
the land embraced in the claim has "been already appropriated by the United States to other purposes." Therefore, the
beneficiaries could acquire no title to it from the United
States. The act then proceeds to provide for the issuing
of certificates of new location, not covering any part of the
75,840 acres which had been already appropriated by the
United States to other purposes, nor covering any specific
public lands. The new lands were to be "in lieu" of the
lands lost, and were to be selected and located at some land
office, and upon public lands which were subject to private
entry, and were so subject at a price not exceeding $1.25 per

LEVEY v. STOCKSLAGER.
Opimon of the Court.

acre, and the certificates were to be issued by the Commissioner of the General Land Office "in accordance with existing regulations m such cases."
Nor did the act of March 2, 1867, give to the widow and
children of Bouligny a vested right in the certificates of new
location which were to -be issued. No certificates were prepared for issue, no step was taken by the Commissioner of
the General Land Office towards issuing them, no new lands
were selected or located, and the 'whole thing remained sn
ft~ie and subject to the control of Congress.
The cases cited by the counsel for the relator, of Fletcherv
Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, Dartmouth College v Woodward, 4 Wheat.
518, .- EcGee v IMatls, 4 Wall. 143, and United States v
&ohurz,102 U. S. 378, do not apply to the present case. There
was here no contract between the United States and the widow
and children of Bouligny, in the sense of the cases referred to.
In Fletcherv Peck, a tract of land had been sold by the Governor of Georgia. under the authority of an act of the legislature,to persons who had conveyed it to purchasers for a valuable
consideration without notice. It was held that a subsequent
legislature could not afterwards repeal the act on the ground
that it had been passed through bribery In Dartmouth
College v WVoodward, it was held that a charter granted to a
private corporation was a contract. In .re.Gee v .Afathis,
it was held that a direct grant of land -bythe United States to
a State was a contract, and in that case the scrip had been
issued by the State. and was in the hands of the person entitled
to receive it, and for that reason it was held that it represented land, and that the act under which it had been issued
could not be repealed by the State. In United States v
Sj ru'z, a patent for land had been signed, sealed, perfected,
and recorded, and the power of the land department over it
had ceased, so that a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of the
Interior, to deliver it to the person in whose favor it had been
made out, would lie.
It is also contended for the relator, that she acquired, under
the act of March 2, 1867, a right which amounted to property,
and of which she could not be deprived by the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

under the joint resolution, because that was not due process of
law But we are of opinion that the cases cited on that subject by the relator are not applicable. Inasmuch as nothing
had been done by the officers of the land department under the
act of March 2, 1867, and no certificates had been made out,
and the whole matter still remained executory, no vested right
had attached at the time of the approval of the joint resolution. Therefore, that resolution did not deprive the widow
and children of any property, or right of property, in violation
of the Constitution. The transaction was merely the ordinary
one of a direction by statute to a public officer to perform a
certain duty, and a subsequent direction to him by statute,
before he had performed that duty or had entered upon its
performance, not to perform it. TFilliams v County Commsstoners, 35 Maine, 345, B utler v Palmer,1 iill, 324, Hfam2 ton v Commonwealth, 19 Penn. St. 329, Sedgwick on Stat.
and Const. Law, Pomeroy's notes, 2 ed. 112.
But if the contention of the relator, that the provisions of
the act of March 2, 1867, amounted to a contract between the
United States and the widow and children, were correct, that
very fact would show that the relief here sought could not be
granted to the relator. She prays for a writ of mandamus
against the Commissioner of the General Land Office, to issue
and deliver to her the certificates of new location, but, in case
her claim were in fact founded on contract, her demand for
relief would substantially amount to a prayer that the United
States be decreed specifically to perform the contract. No
jurisdiction is given by any statute to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia of a suit against the United States or
a public officer for the specific performance of a contract made
by the United States.
On the whole case, we are of opinion that the judgment of
the court below, in general term, must be
Affirmed.

