NEW ORLEANS v. CONSTRUCTION CO.
Opinion of the Court.

NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISIANA CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 1104. Submitted December 17, 1888.-Decided January 7,1889.
An intervention by third opposition, under §§ 395 to 400 of the Code of
Practice of Louisiana, by a person claiming that property seized on
execution is exempt from seizure and sale, is a proceeding at law and
as such, is reviewable upon writ of error.
The objection that third opposition cannot be availed of by a defendant in
execution in regard to property situated as is the property in contention
cannot be disposed of on a motion to dismiss or affirm.

MOTION TO DISimSS
opinion.

OR AFFmm.

The case is stated in the

.Afr E. Howard Me Caleb for the motion.
.Mr Henry C. Miller and M'
MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE

Carleton Huqnt opposing.

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

By the writ of error in this case a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana is brought up for revision, which was rendered by that
court, after a trial by jury and on the verdict found, against
the city of New Orleans upon its "petition of intervention
and of third opposition," claiming certain property to have
been exempt from seizure and sale on execution, which had
been advertised for sale by the United States marshal under
a writ of -erk fatas issued upon a certain judgment recovered
against said city by the Louisiana Construction Company, one
of the defendants in error, and which, as appeared by an
amended petition, was sold by said marshal to Isidore Newman, who, with Louis E. Lemaire, attorney in fact of said
Construction Company, and R. B. Pleasants, the United States
marshal, were made parties to said petition as amended.

OCTOBER TER-i,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

By articles 395, 396, 397, 398, 399 and 400 of the Code of
Practice of Louisiana, when property not liable is seized on
execution, the remedy of the owner is by an intervention called
a third opposition, on which, by giving security, an injunction
or prohibition may be granted to stop the sale. If no injunction is issued, and the sale takes place, if the opposition is
sustained, the seizure and sale are annulled, and the property
restored. In the case at bar an order of prohibition was
directed to be issued upon the city giving security as prescribed. This it failed to do, and the property was sold to
Newman, as before stated.
The Construction Company now moves that the writ of
error be dismissed, upon the ground that the cause was in
equity, and therefore should have been brought here by appeal, and if that motion is overruled, that the judgment be
affirmed.
The rule is thoroughly settled that remedies in the courts
of the United States are at common law or in equity, according to the essential character of the case, uncontrolled in that
particular by the practice of the state courts. In Van Norden
v lforton, 99 U. S. 378, where a bill addressed to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, sitting
in chancery, alleged that complainant was the owner of a
dredge boat, which had been seized on an execution against
another party, and prayed for an injunction, for the quieting
of title and possession and for damages, it was held that, under
the provisions of the Louisiana Code of Practice pertaining to
the subject, the remedy was at law and not in equity, and the
bill was for that reason dismissed. But it is urged that there
the injunction was sued out by a third person, not originally a
party to the cause, claiming ownership of the property seized,
that the property was personal, and that it was not burdened
with any trust, whereas, it is said that here the city was the
defendant in execution, that the property seized was real,
that the city claims it as trustee because locus publicus, and
that the contention of the city involves the elements of trust,
injunction and prevention oi cloud on title, all exclusively
cognizable in a court of equity

ROSENWASSER v. SPIETH.
Statement of the Case.

The Circuit Court, however, took jurisdiction of the intervention of the city as "third opponent," and the intervention
being answered, proceeded to trial on the merits, and to judgment accordingly
The objection of the Construction Company that third opposition cannot be availed of by a defendant in execution or
in regard to such property, and so situated, as that involved
in this case, should have been made in the Circuit Court, and
cannot be properly disposed of on this motion.
As the judgment stands, it is a judgment in a short and
summary proceeding before the court under whose authority
the marshal was acting, analogous to the statutory remedy
given in many of the States to try the right of property at
the instance of the party whose property is alleged to be
wrongfully seized, and as such, as determined in 'Fan _orden
v Morton, supra, is at law, and properly reviewable upon writ
of error. The motion to dismiss is therefore denied, and as
we do not think there was color for it, the m6tion to affirm
must be denied also.

ROSENWASSER v. SPIETH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MAINE.
No. 22. Argued December 11, 12, 1888.-Decided January i4, 1889.

The improvement in percolators, for which letters patent were granted
April 18, 1882, to Nathan Rosenwasser, was anticipated by an apparatus
described in Geiger's Handbuch der Pharmacie, published at Stuttgart in
1830.

Iw

rQurri

for an alleged infringement of letters patent.

The bill prayed for a discovery, and an accounting, and the
payment of all gains and profits discovered on the accounting,
and for injunctions, both interlocutory and final. The answer
denied that the plaintiffs invented the patented improvement
or that the alleged invention was patentable. The final decree

