WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.
Syllabus.

the plaintiffs by their own agents, were no part of the transaction of shipping the sugar, but were mere reports by the
agents to their principals, and were incompetent, either in
themselves, or in corroboration of the testimony of the agents,
to prove the facts recited in the letters, against third persons.
Freeborn v Smsth, 2 Wall. 160, 176, Dwyer v Dunbar, 5
Wall. 318, United States v Corwmn, ante, 381.
Upon the exceptions to other rulings we give no opinion,
because they may be presented in a different aspect upon
another trial. To avoid misapprehension, it may be added
that, according to the rule heretofore laid down by this court,
objections to copies of documents or memoranda, embodied in
or annexed to the depositions, might perhaps more properly
have been made by motion to suppress them before the trial,
so as to afford opportunity to produce the originals, when
those would be competent evidence. YTork County v Central
Railroad, 3 Wall. 107, Blackburn v Crawfords, 3 Wall. 175,
191.
But the letters to the plaintiffs from their own agents were
absolutely incompetent, and their admission in evidence clearly
tended to prejudice the defendant with the jury Upon this
ground
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded wiat directons to set aside the verdict and
to order a new trzal.

WOODSTOCK IRON COMPANY v. RICHMOND AND
DANVILLE EXTENSION COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALANfA.
No. 180. Argued February 1, 1889.- Decided March 5, 1889.

The Richmond and Danville Extension Company contracted with the Georgia
Pacific Railway Company to construct that company's road by the nearest,
cheapest and most suitable route from Atlanta to Columbus, for a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
sideration of 920,000 a mile. J., who was a director ii and vicepresident of the Extension Company and also a director in the Railway
Company negotiated and concluded on behalf of the Extension Company
a contract with an Iron Company that had a large plant and extensive
mines at Anniston, by which the Railway Company agreed to deflect its
road to Anmston, thereby lengthening it about five miles, and the Iron Company agreed to give a right of way through its property and to convey
to the Extension Company certain tracts of land, valued at .$20,000, and
to pay to it $30,000 in money. Among the motives for making the contract,
urged upon the Iron Company by the Extension Company, was the statement that if it was not entered into, the railroad would be constructed
by way of a rival estaulishment at Oxford, about three miles distant.
The Extension Company fully complied with the terms of its contract.
The Iron Company failed to comply in part with its undertakings, whereupon this suit was brought. H ld,
(1) That the'contract was void as immoral in conception and corrupting
in tendency- it being nothing less than a bribe offered by the Iron
Company to the Extension Company to disregard its agreement
with the Railway Company to construct the road by the shortest,
cheapest and most suitable route;
(2) That the threat to construct the road by the rival town of Oxford
did not excuse, much less justify it.
It is the duty of a railroad company towards the public not to impose a
burden upon it by unnecessarily lengthening its road, and any agreement by which directors, stockholders or other persons may acquire gain
by inducing a company to disregard this duty is illegal, and will not be
enforced by the courts.
Agreements upon pecuniary considerations, or the promise of them, to influence the conduct of officers charged with duties affecting the public
interest, or with duties of a fiduciary capacity to private parties, are
against the policy of the State to secure fidelity m the discharge of all
such duties, and are void.

THE case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as

follows
This case comes from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Alabama. The complaint, which
was filed in June, 1884, is as follows.
"The plaintiff, which is a corporation created by and under
the laws of the State of New Jersey, claims of the defendant,
a corporation created by and under the laws of the State of
Alabama, and located and having its principal place of business in the county of Calhoun, in the State of Alabama, thirty
thousand dollars for the breach of an agreement entered into

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

645

Statement of the Case.
by it on, to wit, the 18th day of November, 1881, whereby and
wherein said defendant agreed and promised that if said plaintiff would locate and construct, or cause to be located and constructed, the railroad of the Georgia Pacific Railroad Company
(or of the new consolidated company then being formed and
to be known as the Georgia Pacific Railway Company) by
way of the town of Anniston, it, the said defendant, woula
donate and pay to the said plaintiff, or as it might direct, the
cash sum of thirty thousand dollars, to be paid in money as to
one half - that is, fifteen thousand dollars - when the said
Georgia Pacific Railroad Company connected its line with
the line of the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company
at or above Birmingham, Alabama, and the other half - that
is, fifteen thousand dollars - when said line was connected with
the line of the Loisville and Nashville Railroad Company (the
North and South Alabama Railroad Company) at or above
said city of Birmingham, provided said connections be made
within three years from date of said contract. And plaintiff
avers that it did cause to be located and constructed the railroad of the said Georgia Pacific Railway Company by way of
the town *ofAnniston, that the said Georgia Pacific Railroad
Company connected its line with the line of the Alabama
Great Southern Railroad Company at or above said Birmingham on, to wit, the 1st day of June, 1883, and with the line of
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company at or above said
city on, to wit, the 1st day of July, 1883, yet although the said
plaintiff has complied with all the provisions of said contract
on its part, the said defendant has failed to comply with the
following provisions thereof, viz. It has failed and refused
and still fails and refuses to pay, though often requested so to
do, any part of said sum of thirty thousand dollars, except the
sum of six thousand three hundred and twenty-five dollars,
whereby it has become and is indebted to said plaintiff as
aforesaid, wherefore this suit.
"The said plaintiff claims of the said defendant the further
sum of thirty thousand dollars for the breach of an agreement
entered into by him on, to wit, the 18th day of November,
1881, in words and figures in substance as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
'ANNISTON,

CA.LHou,'

Co., ALABAMA,

' November 18th, 1881.
The Woodstock Iron Company makes to the Richmond and
Danville Extension Company the proposition following -that
is to say
'First. If the Richmond and Danville Extension Company
will locate and construct, or cause to be located and constructed, the railroad of the Georgia Pacific Railroad Company (or of the new consolidated company now being formed,
to be known as the Georgia Pacific Railway Company) by
way of the town of Anniston, the Woodstock Iron Company
will donate and convey, or cause to be donated and conveyed,
by good and sufficient deeds, to the Richmond and Danville
Extension Company, or as it may direct 1. Strips or parcels
of land each one hundred feet wide - that is to say, fifty feet
on each side of the centre line of the location to be fixed for
said railroad in, over and through all and sundry the tracts
and lots of lands now owned and to be owned by the Woodstock Iron Company, wheresoever situated, on and along the
line of said location outside of the corporate limits of the
town of Anniston, and the Woodstock Iron Company will,
upon request of said Extension Company, at any time, proceed
to clear the said strips or parcels of land from timber thereon,
allowing, however the said Extension Company to have and
take therefrom all that part of timber useful to it for the purpose of construction and for cross-ties.
'2. A strip or parcel of land in, over and through the
entire corporate limits of the town of Anniston, so far as
owned by the Woodstock Iron Company, as follows - that is
to sa:', on the left or west side of the centre line of the location to be fixed for said railroad, from the point of entering to
the point of leaving said corporate limits, a width of fifty feet,
measuring from said centre line, and on the right or east side
of the centre line of the location to be fixed for said railroad a
width of fifty feet, measuring from said centre line from the
point of entering said corporate limits to a point nineteen hundred and six and eight-tenths feet short of a point agreed, at
or about the near foot of a hillock situated in a field in a west-

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

64T

Statement of the Case.

erly direction from the depot of the Selma, Rome and Dalton
Road, thence for a length of thirteen hundred six and eighttenths feet to said point agreed a width of one hundred and
fifty feet, measuring from said centre line, and thence to a
point of leaving said corporate limits a width of fifty feet,
measuring from said centre line. Appended hereto is a tracmg showing said strip or parcel of land.
'3. All such additional strips or parcels of land within and
adjoining the town of Anniston as the experimental location
about to be made may show to be reasonably necessary for
sidings and other tracks for the advantageous and convenient
transaction of the business of the Georgia Pacific Railroad or
Railway Company, and especially for siding or spare track
along and to the right or east of the Selma, Rome and Dalton
line, for convenient approach to the furnaces and for sidings
or spare tracks from the main line, at or above the place of
greatest width, for convenient approach to the cotton factory
and to the presently to be established car-wheel and car works.
' The Woodstock Iron Company will aid the work of construction, and especially so of the sidings or spare tracks for
the furnace, by the judicious wasting of the furnace cinder
and other material, and the said company will in a general
way do all it can to facilitate the work and advance the business of the railroad company whose location it invites, and
the Woodstock Iron Company will donate and pay to the
Richmond and Danville Extension Company, or as it may
direct, the cash sum of thirty thousand dollars, paying the
same m money as to one half - that is, fifteen thousand dollars - when the Georgia Pacific Railroad or Railway Company connects its line with the line of the Alabama Great
Southern Railroad Company at or above Birinigham, Alabama, and as to the other half - that is to say, fifteen thousand dollars -when the Georgia Pacific Railroad or Railway
Company connects its line with the line of [the] Louisville and
NTashville Railroad Company (the North and South Alabama
Railroad Company) at or above Birmingham, Alabama, the
above to be paid only provided the Georgia Pacific Railroad
or Railway Company is so far completed as to make the connections above within three years from this date.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

'In case the Richmond and Danville Extension Company
accepts the terms proposed above, this instrument shall have
the effect of a binding contract upon the Woodstock Iron
Company, but such acceptance must be in writing and addressed to the president and secretary and treasurer of the
Woodstock Iron Company at Anniston, Alabama, within four
months from the date thereof, and, if the Richmond and Danville Extension Company shall desire hereafter to build machine
shops for the Georgia Pacific Railroad or Railway Company
at the town of Anniston, will donate and convey to said Extension Company, or as it may direct, by good and sufficient
deeds for that purpose, at least five acres of land at a convenient distance from the crossing of the Selma, Rome and Dalton
Road. If, however, this land is accepted for shops, the land
shall be appropriated and the shops built within four years
from this date.
' In testimony whereof witness the signature of the president and secretary and treasurer and the corporate seal of the
Woodstock Iron Company, this 18th day of November, 1881.
'[SEAL.]
ALFRED L. TYLER, Presndent.
'SAMUEL NOBLE, e'y and Treas.'
"And the plaintiff avers that it did accept the terms proposed by said instrument above set out, in a writing, addressed
to the president and secretary and treasurer of said Woodstock
Iron Company, at Anniston, within four months from the date
of said agreement and instrument, which said writing was
delivered to said president and secretary and treasurer on, to
wit, the 18th day of January, 1882, and is in words and figures
in substance as follows
'ATLANTA, GA., Jan'y 17th, 1882.
'Messrs. Alfred L. Tyler, President, and Samuel Noble, Secrecary and Treasurer of Woodstock Iron Company, Anmston, Ala.
'GErNLEMEN The Richmond and Danville Extension Company hereby notifies you that it accepts the proposition in
writing made by you on behalf of the Woodstock Iron Com-

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

649

Statement of the Case.

pany to said Extension Company regarding the location and
construction of the Georgia Pacific Railway by the town of
Anniston, the date whereof is Anniston, Calhoun County,
Alabama, November 18th, 1881, and a copy of which is hereto
appended.
Respectfully,
r
'J;oHN

W

JoHNsToN,

'Feice-P'resdentJ'whmond and Danville
Extenrion Company.'
"And plaintiff avers that said defendant was at that time
engaged, among other things, in the business of making pigmetal and other products from iron -ores, and making sales of
the same, that its works were located in said town of Anniston, and that it owned large quantities of valuable property
therein, and that the said railroad referred to in said contract
was a road, then in the process of construction, to be run from
Atlanta, Georgia, through the State of Alabama to Columbus,
in the State of Mississippi, and plaintiff avers that it did locate
and construct the railroad of the said Georgia Pacific Railway
Company by way of the town of Amniston, by, to wit, the 1st
day of January, 1883, that'it did connect the line of said
railway company with the line of the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company, at or above said city of Birmingham.
by, to wit, the 1st day of June, 1883, and that it did connect
the line of said railway company with the line of the Loisville and Nashville Railroad Company, at or above the said
city of Birmingham, by, to wit, the 1st day of July, 1883,
and has in all things fully complied with all the terms and
stipulations of said agreement undertaken upon its part. Plaintiff further avers that said defendant has complied with the
terms and stipulations of said agreement to this extent, and
no further. It has donated and conveyed by good and sufficient deeds to the Georgia Pacific Railway Company, as
directed and requested by the plaintiff, the several strips and
parcels of land for right of way and sidings of the railroad of
said company, as stipulated and agreed in said agreement, and
has paid to the said plaintiff on account of said cash payment
of thirty thousand dollars agreed and undertaken to be made

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

by said agreement the sum of six thousand three hundred and
twenty-five dollars, paid in cars furnished and advanced by
defendant to the Georgia Pacific Railroad Company, on account
of said cash payment, at the request of plaintiff. But plaintiff
further avers that although it has fully complied with all the
terms and stipulations of said agreement to be done and performed on its part, that although it located and constructed
said railroad of the Georgia Pacific Railway Company by the
way of the town of Anniston and connected the line of said
railroad with the respective lines of the Alabama Great Southern Railroad Company and the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company within the time and at the points agreed on,
as is hereinabove fully set out and shown, the defendant has
wholly failed and refused, and still fails and refuses, although
often requested to do so, to pay to said plaintiff said sum of
twenty-three thousand six hundred and seventy-five dollars,
the balance due and unpaid upon said cash sum of thirty thousand dollars donated and agreed to be paid to plaintiff by said
defendant upon the making of said connections as aforesaid,
and by reason of the several matters and things set out and
alleged herein the said defendant became, and is, indebted to
the plaintiff in said sum of twenty-three thousand six hundred
and seventy-five dollars, with interest thereon from date of the
making of such connections, but has failed and refused, and
still fails and refuses, to pay the same wherefore this suit."
To the complaint the defendant filed a denmrrer and also
several pleas. The demurrer was to the effect that the contract set forth as the foundation of the action was without
consideration and was contrary to public policy and void.
The demurrer was overruled, and leave given to the defendant
to file additional pleas. The original pleas were five in number, and to these six more were added. Of the original pleas
one amounted to the general issue, denying the promise and
undertaking in the manner and form alleged in the complaint,
and one amounted to a plea of ultra vm'es, setting forth the
charter of the defendant, showing the object of its incorporation to be the manufacture of pig-metal and other products
of iron ore, and their sale, connecting with that business all

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.
Statement of the Case.

such operations as are usual and incidental thereto, and denying authority, under the charter, to make the agreement mentioned in the complaint. A demurrer to this last plea was
sustained by the court.
Of the additional pleas two only require notice - the 10th
and 11th. The 10th plea is given in full below, and so much
of the 11th plea as is necessary to its comprehension.
"Plea 10. And the said defendant, for further answer to
the complaint, says that at the time of the making of the
alleged agreement stated and set forth m the complaint, plaintiff was engaged in locating and constructing the Georgia
Pacific Railroad under a contract with the Georgia Pacific
Railroad Company, under and by which plaintiff agreed with
said Georgia Pacific Railroad Company to locate and construct
said railroad by the nearest, cheapest and most suitable route,
from Atlanta, Georgia, through Alabama to Columbus, in the
State of Mississippi, for a consideration to wit, twenty thousand
dollars per mile for each and every mile of said road so located
and constructed.
"That John W Johnston, who negotiated and executed said
contract with the defendant for plaintiff as vice-president,
was, at the time said agreement was made, a stockholder and
director of the Richmond and Danville Extension Company,
and was also a stockholder and director and officer of the
Georgia Pacific Railroad Company, that the Georgia Pacific
Raih'oad Company was at said time, and is now, a separate
and distinct company, and in nowise connected with plaintiff,
except that some of the stockholders of said Georgia Pacific
Railway Company, were also stockholalers in said Richmond
and Danville Extension Company, and plaintiff was locating
and constructing said road under its contract with said company as aforesaid.
"That m causing said road to be built ma Anniston it was
necessary to deflect the same from its nearest, cheapest and
most natural route from Atlanta to Columbus a great number
of miles, to wit, five miles, at a great additional cost to said
Georgia Pacific Railroad Gompany, to wit, one hundred thousand dollars, and defendant avers that said alleged agreement

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

on defendant's part to influence the location of said railroad
and to donate and pay to said plaintiff, among other things,
the cash sum of thirty thousand dollars if plaintiff would
locate and construct, or cause to be located and constructed,
the railroad of the Georgia Pacific Railroad Company by way
of the town of Anniston, was and is contrary to public policy
and void, and ought not to be enforced against defendant or in
favor of plaintiff."
Plea No. 11, after repeating the first paragraph of plea No.
10, alleges "that John W Johnston, who negotiated and
executed said contract with defendant for plaintiff as vicepresident, was, at the time a stockholder, director and officer
of the Georgia Pacific Railway Company, and that he went
to Anniston where defendant resided and did business, and
represented to defendant that lie was a director and officer of
the Georgia Pacific Railway Company, and also a stockholder,
director and officer of the Richmond and Danville Extension
Company, and could control and induce the location and construction of said Georgia Pacific Railroad via the town of
Anniston, and would do so if the defendant would donate and
pay to plaintiff the said sum of thirty thousand dollars in cash,
and deed to plaintiff, or as it.might direct, the large quantity
of real estate described in the complaint, which defendant
avers was of value, to wit, twenty thousand dollars, and that
said Johnston then and there informed the defendant that
unless defendant acceded to his said demand to pay plaintiff
said sum of money, and convey to plaintiff, or as it might
direct, the large quantity of valuable real estate aforesaid,
said road would not b constructed by the town of Anniston,
but would be constructed by way of the town of Oxford,
which said town is within three miles of the town of Anniston,
and is a rival market to said town of Anniston, and thence
direct to Birmingham, along the line of a preliminary survey
already made, and to secure the location and construction of
said road vza the said town of Anniston, and to prevent the
locating and building of said road by way of the rival town
of Oxford, to the exclusion of the town of Anniston, defendant was forced to agree, and did agree, to pay the said sum

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

653

Citations for Defendant in Error.

of thirty thousand dollars in cash, and to convey to plaintiff,
or as it might direct, the large quantity of valuable lands
described in the complaint, as aforesaid."
To these pleas a demurrer was filed by the plaintiff and sustained by the court. The case was then tried upon the general
issue by a jury, which rendered a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, assessing its damages at $27,067.42, upon which judgment
was entered with costs, to review which the case is brought
here on writ of error.
.Ar John B. KHnox, for plaintiff in error, on the point on
which the opinion turns, cited Fuller v Dame, 18 Pick. 472,
ilolladay v Patterson,5 Oregon, 177, Pacfc Railroad Company v Seely, 45 Missouri, 212, 5. C. 100 Am. Dec. 369, Bestor
v WVathen, 60- Illinois, 138, -Linder v Carpenter, 62 Illinois,
309, Marsh v Faqrburg&c. Railroad Co., 61 Illinois, 414, St.
Louis &c.Railroad Co. v .Alathers, 71 Illinois, 592, Dudley
v Cilley, 5 N. E. 558, Dudley v Butler, 10 N. H. 281,
Davmson v Seymour, 1 Bosworth, 88, Cook v Sherman, 4
McOrary, 20, Western Union Tel. Co. v Unon Pacfic Rail-road,3 Fed. Rep. 1, .Elkhart County v Crary,98 Indiana, 238,
.N~oeZ v Drake, 28 Kansas, 265, Byrd v Hughes, 84 Illinois,
174, Smith v -Applegate, 23 N. J Law (3 Zabr.) 352, Callagan
v. H7allett, 1 Cames, 103, Provdence Tool Co. v Norms, 2
Wall. 45, Wardell v Union Pa d-tRailroad, 103 U. S. 651,
Hoehler v Hubby, 2 Black, 715.
-Ur EI. C. Tompkins, for defendant in error, cited. Rzves
v JAissourb &o.Railroad,30 Alabama, 92, Wilks v Georgia
Pacific Railway, 79 Alabama, 180, Cedar Rapids and St.
PaulRailroad v Spaford, 41 Iowa, 292, -McClure v .Aissour?, River &o.Railroad, 9 Kansas, 373, Chicago and Atlantic Railway v Derkes, 103 Indiana, 520, Spartanburg &c.
Railroadv DeGrafenried,12 Richardson (Law) 675, 5. C.78
Am. Dec. 476, .Mc.Millan v .Maysville &o.Railroad,15 B.
Mon. 218, 5. C. 61 Am. Dec. 181, Rhey v Ebensburg &o.
Plank Road Co., 27 Penn. St. 261, Jewett v -Lawrenceburg
&o. Railroad, 10 Indiana, 539, .Mfartin v Pensacola &c.
Railroad, 8 Florida, 370, 5' C. '13 Am. Dec. 713, Taggart v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Ifestern Jlaryland Railroad, 24 Maryland, 563, 581, 582,
S. . 89 Am. Dec. 760 Des Mones Valley Railroadv Graf,
27 Iowa, 99, First Natwnal Bank v Rurford, 29 Iowa, 579,
Detroit &c. Railroad v Starnes. 38 Michigan, 698, Bucksport
&c. Railroad v Brewer, 67 Maine, 295, International &c.
Railroadv Dawson. 62 Texas, 260, Chapman v Mud River
&c. Railroad,6 Ohio St. 119, Pixley v Gould, 13 Bradwell
(Il.) 565, Twin-Lwk Oil Co. v Mfarbury, 91 U S. 587,
Thomas v Brownsville Railroad, 109 U S. 522, Pneumatic
Gas Co. v Berry, 113 U S. 322, Union Pac?c Railroadv
Credit X,obilier, 135 Mass. 367, Kitchen v St. Lou2s &c.
Railroad, 69 Missouri, 224, Ashurst's Appeal, 60 Penn. St.
290; European dc. Railway v Poor,59 Maine, 277.
MR.

JUSTICE

FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As appears from the pleadings, which are set forth in the
above statement, some time previous to November, 1881, the
plaintiff below, the Richmond and Danville Extension Company, a corporation created under the laws of New Jersey,
entered into a contract with the Georgia Pacific Railway Company, a corporation created under the laws of Georgia, to locate
and construct for the latter company, by the nearest, cheapest
and most suitable route, a railroad from Atlanta in Georgia
through Alabama to Columbus in Mississippi, at the rate of
$20,000 a mile, to be paid in whole or part in the bonds of the
railroad company, and in November, 1881, it was engaged
in locating and constructing the road under the contract. At
that time the defendant below, the Woodstock Iron Company,
a corporation created under the laws of Alabama for the manufacture and sale of products of iron ore, was doing business at
the town of Anniston in that State, and it then made a formal proposition in writing to the Extension Company that if
it would locate and construct, or cause to be located and constructed, the railroad by way of the town of Anniston, then
the Iron Company would donate and convey, or cause to be
donated and conveyed, to the Extension Company sundry parcels of land both within and without the corporate limits of

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

655

Opinion of the Court.

the town, for the location of the road, and which might be
necessary for sidings or spaxe tracks, and would also donate
and pay to the Extension Company $30,000, one half when
the road made a connection with the line of the Alabama
Great Southern Railroad Company at Birmingham, Alabama,
and the other half when the road made a connection with the
line of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company at that
place, the payments to be made provided the road should be
so far completed as to make the connections designated within
three years. The proposition was formally accepted in writing
by the Extension Company, through its vice-president, John
W Johnston.
Pursuant to this contract the Extension Company located
and constructed the railroad by way of the town of Anniston
by the first of January, 1883, and made the connections specified, within the period designated, and complied m every
respect with its terms.
The Woodstock Iron Company complied with the contract
only in part. At the request of the Extension Company it
conveyed to the railroad company the several parcels of land
mentioned, and also upon like request furnished it with cars
to the value of $6325. For the balance, amountilig to $23,675,
the present suit was brought, and the principal question presented to the court below, and to this court, is whether the
contract is obligatory upon the defendant, or whether it is
void as being against public policy
In determining this question, it must be borne in mind that
the contract of the Extension Company with the Georgia
Pacific Railway Company was to locate and construct the
road "by the nearest, cheapest and most suitable route from
Atlanta, Georgia, through Alabama to Columbus in Mississippl," for the consideration of $20,000 a mile, and that it is
averred in the pleadings and admitted by the demurrer, that
m causing the road to be located by way of Anniston, it was
necessary to deflect the same from the nearest and cheapest
and most natural route between the designated termini, a distance of five miles, at an additional cost of $100,000. In the
light of these facts there can be but one answer given to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

question presented respecting the contract between the Iron
Company and the Extension Company, namely, that it was a
void contract, immoral in its conception and corrupting in its
tendency It was a contract by an employe of a railroad
company with a third party, for a consideration to be received
from that third party, to violate its engagement with its employer in the important business of locating and constructing
a railroad, and instead of selecting the shortest, cheapest and
most suitable route, to locate the road by a longer route, and
thus impose an unnecessary and heavy burden upon its employer. The proposition of the Iron Company, which was
accepted, was to pay the Extension Company for a breach of
its duty In plain language, it was nothing less than the offer
of a bribe to the latter company to be faithless to its engagements, and to do with reference to tne business in which it
was engaged what would amount to little less than robbery
of its employer. The transaction on the part of the Iron
Company was none the less offensive, because of the threats
of the Extension Company, made by its vice-president, who
was also a director and stockholder of the railroad company,
that, if the land and money mentioned were not donated, it
would cause the road to be located away from Anniston by
the rival town of Oxford. ,The threats did not excuse, much
less justify, the offer.
We have thus far considered the case as one only between
private parties, where an employe has agreed, for a money
consideration, to violate his obligation to his employer, but
there are other circumstances which add to the offensiveness
of the transaction. The business of the Extension Company
was one in which the public was interested. IRailroads are
for many purposes public highways. They are constructed
for the convenience of the public in the transportation of persons and property In their construction without unnecessary
length between designated points, in their having proper accommodations, and in their charges for transportation, the
public is directly interested. Corporations, it is true, formed
for their construction are private corporations, but whilst their
directors are required to look to the interests of their stock-

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

657

Opinion of the Court.

holders, they must do so in subordination to and in connection
with the public interests, which they are equally bound to
respect and subserve. All arrangements, therefore, by which
directors or stockholders or other persons may acquire gain,
by inducing those corporations to disregard their duties to the
public are illegal and lead to unfair dealing, and thus being
against public policy will not be enforced by the courts. In
this case the Extension Company, to which the duty of locating and constructing the railroad between its termini was entrusted, m agreeing, for a consideration offered by a third
party, to disregard that duty and locate and construct the
road by a longer route than was required, not only committed
a wrong upon the railroad company by thus imposing unnecessary burdens upon it, to meet which larger charges for transportation might be called for, but also a wrong upon the
public.
The case of Fullerv Dame, 18 Pick. 472, 483, is instructive
on this head. It there appeared that Dame, the defendant,
was the owner of a large tract, of land and flats situated on
Sea Street, and between it and Front Street, on the south side
of Boston, which would be greatly enhanced in value if the
Boston and Worcester Railroad Company would locate one of
its depots between those streets and easterly of Front Street.
To induce the company to make such location it was supposed
to be necessary to form an association, which would pay to it
a large sum of money and furnish a large tract of land for
the depot, besides making other donations, and to provide the
money and land, also to form a company to purchase the flats
and land between the streets named, to be held as joint stock
and laid out in due form and shape for sale. Fuller agreed to
aid Dame in getting up such company, and in inducing the
railroad company to fix its termination and principal depot
between those streets, Fuller being himself of opinion that the
railroad ought, from a view of the public good and the good
of its stockholders, to enter the city on the southerly side and
have its principal depot there. In consideration of such agreement Dame gave his note for $9600, payable to Fuller in three
years, the note being deposited with third parties, to be deVOL. cxxix-42

OCTOBER TERM1, 1888.

Opinion of the Court.

livered to him when the principal depot of the railroad cornpany for merchandise was constructed between the streets
mentioned. Fuller was at the time of the agreement a stockholder in the railroad company The road having been completed, and the principal depot located between the streets
mentioned, and the note not being paid, suit was brought
upon it. It was adjudged that the contract was contrary to
public policy, and that the note given in consideration of it
was therefore void. In coming to this conclusion the court
considered somewhat at large the ground upon which contracts
of this character were avoided, and held that it was because
they tended to place one under wrong influences, by offering
him a temptation to do that which might injuriously affect
the rights and interests of third persons, and that the case
before it was within the operation of this principle, the contract tending injuriously to affect the public interest in establishing the fittest and most suitable location for the termination
of the Boston and Worcester Railroad for the accommodation
of the public travel. It is true the road was constructed and
located by the corporation at the expense of private parties
under the sanction of the legislature, incorporated for that

purpose, who were to be remunerated by a toll levied and
regulated by law, and it was left to its directors to fix the

termination and place of deposit.

But the court added

"In

doing this a confidence was reposed in them, acting as agents

for the public, a confidence which, it seems, could be safely so
reposed, when it is considered that the interests of the corporation as a company of passenger and freight carriers for profit
was identical with the interests of those who were to be carried,
and had goods to be carried, that is with the public interest.
This confidence, however, could only be safely so reposed under
the belief that all the directors and members of the company
should exercise their best and their unbiased judgment upon
the question of such fitness, without being influenced by distinct and extraneous interests, having no connection with the
accommodation of the public or the interests of the company
Any attempt, therefore, to create and bring into efficient
operation such undue influence has all the injurious effects of

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

659

Opimon of the Court.

a fraud upon the public, by causing a question which ought
to be decided with a sole and single regard to public interests,
to be affected and controlled by considerations having no
regard to such interests. It is no answer to say that, by the
act of incorporation, the executive authority was vested in a
board of directors, and Mr. Fuller was not a director. He
was a member of the company and might be chosen a director.
Hte was an elector of the directors, and they were directly
responsible to the stockholders. The immediate act of location
was with directors, but the efficient authority was with the
members and stockholders of the corporation, who elect the
directors. The election may depend upon the known views
and opinions of candidates upon this very question of location.
They had a right to his disinterested judgment and advice
upon the question of location, and this could not be exercised
whilst he held and relied on a promise for a large sum of
money, the payment of which depended upon this decision of
the question by the directors."
The case before us is much stronger than the one thus decided by the Supreme Judicial Oourt of Massachusetts. There
the contract was held invalid because made with a stockholder
of the company, by which he promised, for a pecuniary consideration, to endeavor to procure the company to locate one of
its depots at a particular place in the city Hlere the contract
was with an employe of the company to induce it to disregard
its obligations, and the principal person making that contract
on the part of the employe was a director and stockholder of
the company which was to be thus seriously affected.
The principle, which is so clearly and forcibly stated in Fuller v .Dane,has been applied in -numerous instances by the
highest courts of different States, to avoid contracts made to
influence railroad companies in selecting their routes and locating their depots and stations, by donations of land and money
to some of its directors or stockholders or agents. Thus, in
Restor v WVathen, 60 Illinois, 138, it appeared that in 184-9 the
legislature of Illinois incorporated a company to build a railroad from a point on the Mississippi River to Peoria, and that
in 1852 the charter was amended so as to authorize the extension

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the road from Peoria eastward to the state line. In 1855
the company made a contract with the firm of Cruger, Secor
& Company, by which the latter undertook the construction
and equipment of the road. In 1856, whilst engaged upon
this work, the members of the firm, together with Bestor, the
president of the railroad company, Sweat, one of its directors,
and Smith, its construction agent, entered into a contract with
Wathen and Gibson, the defendants, by which the latter, being
the owners of 160 acres of land, agreed, in consideration that
the road then in process of construction should cross the Illinois Central Railroad where their land was situated, the land
would be laid out into town lots and sold, and after proceeds
amounting to $4800 had been received, which were to be retained by Wathen and Gibson, a conveyance of an undivided
half of the residue should be made to the other parties. The
only consideration for this agreement, aside from the location
of the road, was that the other parties should assist and contribute to the building up of the town on the land. The road
was constructed across the Illinois Central, and Wathen and
Gibson laid out the land into lots and proceeded to sell the
same, and the town of El Paso was built on the land and an
adjoining tract. In 1863 the plaintiffs filed their bill against
Wathen and Gibson for an account of the sales and a convey
ance of the undivided half of the lots unsold. The court held
the contract void as against public policy, and dismissed the
suit, and the decree in this respect was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, that court observing that when the
people through their legislature grants to a company the right
of eminent domain for the purpose of constructing a railroad
it is upon the supposition that the road will bring certain benefits to the public, and that when subscriptions are made to its
stock, the money is subscribed upon the understanding that
the officers, entrusted with the construction of the road, will
so locate its line and establish its depots as to bring the highest pecuniary profit to the stockholders compatible with a
proper regard for public convenience, that these alone are the
considerations which should control officers of the road, and
so far as they permit their official action to be swayed by

WOODSTOCK IRON CO. v. EXTENSION CO.

661

Oplnlon of the Court.

their private interests they are guilty of a breach of trust
towards the stockholders, and a breach of duty to the public
at large, and it added "A court of equity will not enforce a
contract resting upon such official delinquency or even tending
to produce it. Such is the character of the contract before us.
If we enforce it we lend the sanction of the court to a class of
contracts, the inevitable tendency of which is to make the officers of these powerful corporations pervert their trust to their
private gain, at the price of injury at once to the stockholders
and to the public. Rendered into plain English, the contract
in this case was a bribe on the part of Wathen and Gibson to
the president and other officers of the railway company, and
to the contractors who were building the road, of an undivided
half of one hundred and sixty acres of land, in consideration
of which the road was to be constructed on a certain line and
a depot built at a certain point. Now if this was the best line
for crossing the Illinois Central considered with reference to
the interest of the stockholders and of the public, then it was
the duty of the officers of the company to establish it there,
and if they intended so to do because it was the proper line, but
professed to be hesitating between this and another line in
order to secure to themselves the contract under consideration,
as is somewhat indicated by the evidence, then they were
practising a species of fraud upon the defendants, and using a
false pretext in order to acquire defendants' property without
consideration. If on the other hand this line was not the best,
but was adopted because of this contract, the case is still
stronger against the complainants. If such was the fact they
are asking the court to enforce the payment of a bribe, the
promise of which induced them to sacrifice their official duty
to their private gain. If, as a third contingency, the choice
lay between this line and another equally good, but not better,
and they were influenced by this contract to adopt this line,
then, although Aeither the company nor the public has been
mjured, yet the defendants have made their official power an
instrument of private emolument in a manner which no court
of equity can sanction. In this particular case no wrong may
have been done, and yet public policy plainly forbids the sanc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court. 1

tion of such contracts because of the great temptation they
would offer to official faithlessness and corruption." The doctrine of this case was approved by the Supreme Court of Illinois in ]Lqnder v Carpenter, 62 Illinois, 309, and in St. -Louns,
Jacksonville and Chzcago Railroad v 3fathers, 71 Illinois,
592.
Holladay v Patterson, decided by the Supreme Court of
Oregon, 5 Oregon, 107, is also in harmony with .Fllerv
Dame and Bestor v Matken, the court following a similar
course of reasoning to that adopted in those cases. That doctrine and reasoning are also often applied where the reward or
money consideration for taking a particular route or establishing a station or depot at a particular place is offered directly
to the railroad company instead of to its directors, stockholders, or agents. But we do not refer to them, because there
are exceptions or qualifications in the application of the doctrine in such cases requiring explanation, as where a subscription is conditioned upon the adoption of a particular route, or
the construction of a station or depot at a particular place.
Pacftc Railroad Co. v Seely, 45 Missouri, 212, Racine County
Bank v Ayers, 12 Wisconsin, 512 (Vilas and Bryant's ed. 570),
Fort -Edwardand Fort .Miller Plank Road Co. v Payne, 15
N. Y 583. There is no exception in any decision called to
our attention as to the character of a contract when for a
pecuniary consideration directors, stockholders, or agents of a
company undertake to influence its conduct in these matters.
Indeed, the law is general that agreements upon pecuniary
considerations, or the promise of them, to influence the conduct of officers charged with duties affecting the public interest, or with duties of a fiduciary character to private parties,
are against the true policy of the State, which is to secure
fidelity in the discharge of all such duties. Agreements of
that character introduce mercenary considerations to control
the conduct of parties, instead of considerations arising from
the nature of their duties and the most efficient way of discharging them. They are, therefore, necessarily corrupt in
their tendencies. As we said in Tool Company v N;Yrrris, 2
Wall. 48, 56, "that all agreements for pecuniary considerations

RALSTON v. TURPIN.
Syllabus.

to control the business operations of the government, or the
regular administration of'justice, or the appointments to public
offices, or the ordinary course of legislation, are void as against
public policy, without reference to the question whether improper means are contemplated or used in their execution,"
so we say of agreements like the one in this case, they are
against public policy because of their corrupt tendency, whether
lawful or unlawful means are contemplated or used in carrying
them into execution. "The law," as said in that case, "looks
to the general tendency of such agreements, and it closes the
door to temptation by refusing them recognition in any of the
courts of the country" Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 IT. S. 261,
27-1.

From the views expressed it follows that the court below
erred m sustaining the demurrers to the special pleas above
mentioned, and it is not necessary, therefore, to. consider the
other pleas. The judgment must be
R eversed and the cause remanded wit instructions to overPrule the demurrer"s to the above pleas, and take further
proceedings not inconsistent with th' opi'ion.
AER. JUSTicE MILLER and MjR. JUSTICE BRATLE

dissented.

RALSTON v. TU-RPINT.
APPEAL FRO31 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
Wo. 98. Argued November 26, 27, 1888.-Decided March 5,1889.

An agent is bound to act with absolute good faith towards is principal, in
respect to every matter entrusted to bis care and management. In accepting a gift from his principal he is under an obligation to withhold no
information m his possession respecting the subject of the gift, or the
condition of the estate in his hands, which good faith requires to be disclosed, or that may reasonably influence the judgment of the principal in
making the gift. All transactions between them whereby the agent derives advantages beyond legitimate compensation for Ins services will be

