NATIONAL SECURITY BANK v. BUTLER.

223

Opinion of the Court.

NATIONAL SECURITY BANK v. BUTLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MIASSACHUSETTS.
No. 166. Argued January14, 1S89.-

Decided January 28, 1889.

From the facts of this case, it was held, that the intent of a national bank,
after it was insolvent, to prefer a creditor, by a transfer of assets, in
violation of § 5242 of the Revised Statutes, was a necessary conclusion,
that, if any other verdict than one for the plaintiff, m a suit at law by
the receiver of the bank to recover the value of the assets from the
creditor, had been rendered by the 3ury, it would have been the duty of
the court to set it aside; and that it was proper to direct a verdict for
the plaintiff.
The meaning of § 5242 is not different from the meaning of § 52 of the act
of June 3, 1864, c. 106, 13 Stat. 115.
It is sufficient, under § 5242, to invalidate such a transfer, that it is made
in contemplation of insolvency, and either with a view on the part of the
bank to prevent the application of its assets in the manner prescribed by
chapter 4 of title 62 of the Revised Statutes, or with a view on its part
to the preference of one creditor to another; and it is not necessary to
such invalidity that there should be such view on the part of the creditor
in receiving the transfer, or any knowledge or suspicion on his part at
the time, that the debtor is insolvent or contemplates insolvency.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M Russell Gray and .3f' J
error.

. Coombs for plaintiff in

.Mr A. A. Ranney for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinon of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts, in November, 1882, by the receiver of the Pacific National Bank, a cor-

poration duly organized under the banking laws of the United
States, against the National Security Bank, another corporation
so organized.
The declaration contains tlhree counts.

The first count

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

alleges that the Pacific National Bank became insolvent and
failed, that the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 22d of
May, 1882, appointed the plaintiff, Linus M. Price, receiver of
the same; that the bank stopped business and closed its doors
on the 20th of May, 1882, being insolvent and unable to pay
its debts, that steps were, on that day, taken to represent it
to said comptroller as insolvent, and to have a receiver appointed to close it up, that it was determined, on the 20th of
May, 1882, not to open its doors or carry on business longer,
that, on that day, the Security Bank was owing to the Pacific
Bank, in account, as balance on book, $40.25, and the former
bank also held against the latter a certificate of deposit for
$10,000, that, on the 22d of May, 1882, the Pacific Bank.
through its cashier, although it was then insolvent and contemplated insolvency, and had then actually failed and stopped
business and taken said steps for the appointment of a receiver, transferred and delivered to the Security Bank certain
checks, drafts, bills, and other property, amounting on their
face to the sum of $10,967.95, which, with the said $40.25,
made the sum of $11,008.20, that -the Security Bank thereupon gave to the cashier of the Pacific Bank a certificate of
deposit, as follows
"No. 6216.
"$l1,008S.

NATIONAL SEcunrrY BA! K,

BosToN, .May 22, 1882.

"E. C. Whitney, cash., has deposited in this bank eleven
thousand and eight 2 dollars, payable to the order of himself on the return of this certificate properly indorsed.
"CHAS. 1.

BATT, Cashter;"

that the Security Bank collected the money upon the said
checks, etc., that the said certificate of deposit came to the
hands of the plaintiff as receiver, among the other assets of
the Pacific Bank, that, on a demand made by him, the Security Bank refused to deliver or pay the said property, or its
avails, claiming a right to set it off or apply it on the said certificate of deposit for $10,000, that, on the 20th of Mav,1882,
the Pacific Bank was insolvent, that it, and its directors and

NATIONAL SECURITY BANK v. BUTLER.

225

Opinion of the Court.

officers, well knew the same, and contemplated insolvency;
that it was in the same condition on the 22d of May, 1882,
that the said transfer of property to the Security Bank was in
fraud of the creditors of the Pacific Bank, with a view of
giving the former bank a preference over other creditors, by
having the same operate as a payment of the debt due to the
Security Bank by the Pacific Bank, by way of set-off or. otherwise, that the said transfer was illegal, and, if allowed to
operate as a set-off or payment, would work an unlawful preference, and that the Pacific Bank, and its officers and cashier,
well knew, when the transfer was made, that the property,
or its proceeds, when collected, would or might. be availed of
for the payment of the debt due the Security Bank, by way
of set-off or otherwise, and contemplated the same, or was
bound and is presumed by law to have contemplated and intended the same.
The second count of the declaration alleges the giving of
the certificate of deposit for $11,008.20, that the plaintiff, as
receiver, presented to the Security Bank said certificate, duly
indorsed, and demanded payment thereof; but that the defendant refused to pay it. The third count alleges that the
defendant owes to the plaintiff, as receiver, 11,008.20, as and
for money had and received by the defendant to the use
of the plaintiff. The declaration demands the recovery of
$11,008.20, with interest.
The defendant filed an answer and a declaration m set-off.
The substance of these papers is, that the defendant has a
claim in set-off against the Pacific Bank for the amount of the
certificate of deposit of the latter bank for $10,000 which was
-as follows
"THE PAciFIc
"$10,000.

TATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON, MASS.

BOSTON, MAfay 13th, 1882.
"This certifies that there has been deposited in this bank
ten thousand dollars, payable to the order .of Nat. Security
Bank on return of this certificate properly indorsed.
"No. 2513.
E. 0. W4rr-NEY, Cashkr
"(Countersigned) G. H. BENYoN, Teller"
,
VOL. CXXIX-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff put in an answer to the defendant's declaration
in set-off, making substantially the same averments which are
contained in the first count of the plaintiff's declaration.
On these issues there was a trial by a jury, which resulted
in a verdict for the plaintiff for $12,232.88, and a judgment
for him for that amount, with costs. The case was taken to
the Circuit Court by the defendant, by a writ of error, and it
affirmed the judgment of the District Court, with costs. The
opinion of the Circuit Court is reported in 22 Fed. Rep. 697.
The plaintiff brought the case to this court by a writ of error,
and afterwards Peter Butler, as successor of Price, as receiver,
became plaintiff in error.
There was a bill of exceptions taken by the defendant in the
District Court. It states that the three counts of the plaintiff's declaration were all for the same cause of action, and
that the right of action contained in the first count was
founded upon § 5242 of the Revised Statutes. That section
provides as follows
"All transfers of the notes, bonds, bills
of exchange, or other evidences of debt owing to any national
bankmng association, or of deposits to its credit, all assignments
of mortgages, sureties on real estate, or of judgments or decrees
in its favor, all deposits of money, bullion, or other valuable
thing for its use, or for the use of any of its shareholders
or creditors, and all payments of money to either, made after
the commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation
thereof, made with a view to prevent the application of its
assets in the manner prescribed by this chapter,,or with a view
to the preference of one creditor to another, except in payment of its circulating notes, shall be utterly null and void."
That section is incorporated in the Revised Statutes from
§ 52 of the act of June 3, 1864, c. 106, 13 Stat. 115. The
two sections differ in these respects the word "transfer"
becomes "transfers," the words "and other" become "or
other;" the words " any association" become "any national
banking association ," the words "with a view to prevent"
become "made with a view to prevent," and the words "this
act" become 1"t is chapter." No change was made in the
meaning of the statute by inserting in § 5242 the word
"made," not foui-.kin § 52 of the act of 1864-.

NATIONAL SECURITY BANK v. BUTLER.

227

Opinion of the Court.

The bill of exceptions states that it was admitted at the
trial that the $40.25 was on deposit in. the Security Bank
before the commission of any act of insolvency by the Pacific
Bank, and that as to so much of the plaintiff's claim the set-off
was a good answer. As to the rest of the claim, the following facts were proved or admitted
"On Saturday, May 20, 1882, the Pacific Bank, which had
previously failed inNovember, 1881, and had afterwards reorganized and done business, being deeply insolvent, its directors
held a meeting in the afternoon, after the regular close of
business for the day, and passed these votes, which votes and
the proposed action the directors purposely kept concealed
until they were carried out, 'Voted, To go into liquidation.
Voted, That the bank be closed to business. Voted, That
Lewis Coleman, president, Micah Dyer, Tr., Andrew F Reed,
.directors, and William J Best, be and hereby are appointed
a committee to proceed to Washington to confer with the
H]on. John T Knox, Comptroller of the Currency, as to the
measures proper to be taken in the present situation, that, if
the comptroller shall deem it necessary to appoint a receiver,
the directors unanimously recommend for that position Mr. E.
C. Whitney, who, since March 18, has discharged the duties
of cashier with great ability, diligence, and energy, and who
is perfectly familiar with the assets, liabilities, and affairs of
the bank and thoroughly understands the steps necessary to be
taken to speedily and profitably realize upon the estate to the
fullest extent, that, if Mr. E. C. Whitney shall be appointed
receiver of the bank, the directors will furnish satisfactory
bonds for the faithful discharge of his duties, to any amount
which the comptroller may require.'
"And the bank never after did any business except so far
as appears in this bill. The committee of the directors went
to Washington on Saturday night, and on Monday, May
22, saw the comptroller, who appointed the plaintiff receiver
about ten o'clock A.M., and the plaintiff left Washington on
Monday and on the following day arrived inBoston and took
possession of the bank.
"For some time before this, and ever since the resuscitation

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the bank after its first failure, the Pacific Bank, not being
a member of the Boston clearing house, had been in the habit
daily, of depositing with the defendant all checks received by
the Pacific Bank, to be collected through the clearing-house
by the defendant, with which the Pacific Bank was credited
as a depositor and against which it drew
"On Monday morning, May 22, Whitney, the cashier of the
Pacific Bank, received by mail, as usual, many letters enclosing drafts and checks, and sent all these checks and drafts,
amounting to $10,967.95, to the defendant bank, where they
were received and forthwith sent to the clearing-house, with
other checks, to be cleared by defendant.
"The messenger who carried the checks to the defendant
took at the same time and presented to the defendant a check
drawn by Whitney for $11,008.20, being the whole amount of
the checks then deposited, and $40.25 already to the credit
of the Pacific Bank on its current deposit account with the
defendant.
"The defendant's paying teller, at the messenger's request,
gave him the defendant's negotiable certificate of deposit,
payable on demand, for the said sum of $11,008.20. The
defendant at that time held the negotiable certificate of
deposit of the Pacific Bank, payable on demand, for $10,000."
The copies of those certificates are hereinbefore set forth.
"These transactions took place as early as half-past nine on
the morning of May 22, and no officer of the defendant bank
then knew or suspected that the Pacific Bank was insolvent or
contemplating insolvency, or was not doing business as usual,
or that its directors had voted to close it, or that application
was to be made for a receiver, and no application had, in fact,
at that time been made to the comptroller, it being made
about 10 A.M. of that day" The parties. had duly demanded
of each other payment of their respective claims.
The bill of exceptions also states as follows "There was
other evidence given in the case on both sides, and particularly
on the question whether any, and, if any, what, agreement
was afterwards made between Whitney, the cashier of the
Pacific Bank, and Batt, the cashier of the defendant bank, as

NATIONAL SECURITY BANK v. BUTLER.
Opimon of the Court.

to the terms and conditions on which the deposit made on
May 22d, as above stated, should be held by the defendant,
part of this evidence consisting of a letter from Whitney to
Batt." It then proceeds "The defendant requested the judge
to submit to the jury the three following questions First,
whether or not there was in fact any view or intent on the
part of the Pacific Bank, or any of its officers, to give a
preference to the defendant over other creditors, or to prevent
the application of the assets of the Pacific Bank in the manner prescribed in the bank act, second, whether or not any
subsequent agreement was made varying the relation of the
two banks as they existed at the time the checks were deposited, third, if the jury answer the preceding question in the
affirmative, whether or not such agreement was expressed in
Whitney's letter. The defendant at the same time prayed the
judge to give several rulings on matters of law applicable to
the facts as they might be found by the jury on the above
issues. But the judge refused to submit the above or any
questions whatever to the jury, or to give any of the rulings
prayed for, on the ground that the issues were immaterial, and
that there was no question for the jury, and ruled, as matter
of law, that, on the undisputed facts in the case, the plaintiff
was entitled to recover the amount of the checks and drafts
deposited by the Pacific Bank in defendant's bank on "Monday"
The court direoted a verdict for the plaintiff for $12,232.88,
that being the amount of the checks and drafts, with interest
from the date of the writ, and the defendant excepted to such
rulings and refusals to rule.
The view taken by the Circuit Court was, that, under
5242, the transfer or payment by a bank, to be void, must
be, made after the commission of an act of insolvency, or in
contemplation thereof, and with a view to prevent the application of its assets as provided by law, or with a view to
giving a preference to one creditor over another, that the
undisputed facts of the case showed that the act of the cashier
could, under the circumstances, have no other result, if allowed
to stand, than to operate as a preference in favor of the Secur-

OCTOBER TERMA,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

ity Bank, that the Pacific Bank had decided to close its doors
and go into liquidation, that after that the necessary consequence of the transfer was to create a preference, that it
could not be said that the transfer was made with the intention of going on in business, nor could it be contended that it
was made to save the credit of the bank, and that, after the
vote of the directors to close the bank and go into liquidation,
any transfer of its assets to a creditor, whereby that creditor
secured a preference, must be presumed to be made with an
intent to prefer. We concur in this view of the case.
The directors of the Pacific Bank held a meeting on the
afternoon of Saturday, May, 20, 1882, after the regular close
of business for that day, and passed three votes. (1) to go
into liquidation, (2) that the bank be closed to business, (3)
that the president, two directors, and another person be a
committee to go to Washington and confer with the Comptroller of the Currency as to the measures proper to be taken,
and that, if the comptroller should deem it necessary to appoint a receiver, the directors unanimously recommended for
that position Mr. Whitney, the cashier, and that, if he should
be appointed receiver, the directors would furnish satisfactory
bonds for his faithful discharge of the duties, to any amount
which the comptroller might require. These votes and the
proposed action the directors purposely kept concealed. The
bank never afterward did any business, except so far as appeared in the bill of exceptions. The committee of the
directors went to Washington on Saturday night, and on
Monday, May 22, 1882, saw the comptroller, who appointed
Mr. Price to be the receiver, about 10 o'clock A.M., and he left
Washington on Monday, and on Tuesday arrived m Boston
and took possession of the bank.
Although the Pacific Bank, not being a member of the
Boston clearing-house, had been in the habit of daily depositing the checks received by it with the defendant, to be collected by the latter through the clearing-house, the Pacific
Bank being credited as a depositor and drawing on the Security
Bank against the checks, and although it was in accordance
with that custom that Mr. Whitney, the cashier of the Pacific

NATIONAL SECURITY BANK v. BUTLER.

231

Opinion of the Court.

Bank, sent the checks and drafts, amounting to $10,967.95, to
the Security Bank on Monday, May 22, 1882, to be cleared
by it, drawing for the $11,008.20 at the time, and receiving in
return, on its own request, from the Security Bank, a negotiable certificate of deposit of that bank, payable to the order
of Mr. Whitney on the return of the certificate properly
indorsed, yet Mr. Whitney knew at the time of these transactions that the certificate of deposit for $10,000, given by
him to the Security Bank nine days before, created an indebtedness of the Pacific Bank to the Security Bank for that
amount, and was, though negotiable, presumably still held by
that bank. It was in fact still held by it. The natural presumption was that, if the certificate were still held by the
Security Bank, that bank would, as soon as it should learn
that the Pacific Bank was closed to business, seek to retain
out of the collections the amount of such certificate, and
apply that amount to its payment.
It is sufficient, under § 5242 of the Revised Statutes, to
invalidate such a transfer, that it is made in contemplation
of insolvency, and either with a view to prevent the application of the assets of the bank in the manner prescribed by
chapter 4 of title 62 of the Revised Statutes, or with a view
to the preference of one creditor to another. Certainly, the
transfer in question was made in contemplation of insolvency,
made as it was after the directors had voted that the bank
should go into liquidation, and should be closed to business,
and that a receiver should be appointed, and it was made with
a view, on the part of the Pacific Bank and of its cashier, who
represented it and acted for it in this transfer of its assets; to
prevent the application of its assets in the manner prescribed
by such chapter 4 of title 62, and with a view to prefer the
Security Bank to other creditors. The transaction, if allowed
to stand, could result in nothing else. The statute made it
void, although there was no such view on the part of the
Security Bank in receiving the transfer of the assets, and
although there was no knowledge or suspicion at that time on
the part of the Security Bank that the Pacific Bank was
insolvent or contemplated insolvency, or was not doing busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ness, or that its directors had voted to close it, or that application was to be made for a receiver, and although the transfer
took place before the application was actually made to the
comptroller for the appointment of a receiver.
There was no question of fact to be submitted to a jury
From the facts proved, the intent to prefer, on thepart of the
Pacific Bank, was a necessary conclusion, and it was correct
in the District Court to direct a verdict for the plaintiff. If
any other verdict, on the facts proved, had been rendered, it
would have been the duty of that court to set it aside.
Nor was there any error on the part of the District Court in
refusing to submit to the jury the second and third questions
which the defendant requested the judge to submit to them.
The bill of exceptions does not set forth what the "other
evidence" given in the case was, in regard to any subsequent
agreement between the cashiers of the two banks, as to the
holding of the deposit by the Security Bank. The court ruled
that the issues involved in such second and third questions
were immaterial, and this court cannot hold otherwise, on the
facts set forth in the bill of exceptions. "Any subsequent
agreement" must have been made after the receiver had been
actually appointed, and could not affect his rights.
The defendant objects that the rulings of the District Court
were made, and the verdict and judgment were rendered generally, on the plaintiff's declaration of three counts, and that
the first count, which seeks to recover back the money deposited
as an unlawful payment, is inconsistent with the second count,
which seeks to recover on the certificate of deposit as a valid
instrument.
It is a sufficient answer to this contention to say, that no
objection was made to the declaration by way of demurrer or
otherwise, at the trial or before, and no ruling on the subject
was asked for at the trial, or was made the subject of an exception. No objection or exception was taken to the verdict, nor
did the defendant request at the trial that the plaintiff should
elect on which count he would ask a verdict, nor did the
defendant request the court to ask the jury to state on which
count of the declaration the verdict was rendered.

ROBERTSON v. PERKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

We see no inconsistency between the first and second counts
of the declaration. They were in substance for the same
cause of action, and the first count is clearly sufficient to support the verdict.
J'dgment affirmed.

ROBERTSON v. PERKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 672.

Argued January 15,16, 1889.-Decided January28, 1889.

The crop ends of Bessemer steel rails are liable to a duty of 45 per cent ad
valorem, as "steel" under Schedule C of § 2502 of the Revised Statutes,
as amended by § 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 500,
and are not liable to a duty of only 20 per cent ad valorem, as ",metal
unwrought," under the same schedule.
Where, at the close of the plaintiff's evidence, on a trial before a 3ury, the
defendant moves the court to direct a verdict for him, on the ground
that the plaintiff has not shown sufficient facts to warrant a recovery,
and the motion is denied, and the defendant excepts, the exception fails,
if the defendant afterwards introduces evidence.
Under the practice m New York, allegations in the complaint, that the
plaintiff "duly" protested in writing against the exaction of duty, and
"duly" appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury and that ninety days
had not elapsed, at the commencement of the suit, since the decision of
the secretary, if not denied by the answer are to be taken as true, and
are sufficient to prevent the defendant from taking the ground, at the
trial, that the protest was premature, or that the plaintiff must give
proof of an appeal, or of a decision thereon, or of its date.
THE

case is stated m the opinion.

.Mr &oZieitor GeneraZ for plaintiff in error.
.Ar J -Langdon Ward-for defendant in error.
MRs. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action originally brought in the Superior Court of
the city of New York, and removed by certiora, by the
defendant, into the Circuit Court of the United States for the

