OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

neglect to do so by adopting the most reasonable means for
that purpose, the fencing of its roadway as indicated by the
statute of Iowa, justly subjects it, as already stated, to pumtive damages, where injuries are committed by reason of such
neglect. The imposition of punitive or exemplary damages
in such cases cannot be opposed as in conflict with the prohibition against the.deprivation of property without due process
of law It is only one mode of imposing a penalty for the
violation of duty, and its propriety and legality have been
recognized, as stated in Day v TMoodworth, 13 How 363, 371,
by repeated judicial decisions for more than a century Its
authorization by the law in question to the extent of doubling
the value of the property destroyed, or of the damage caused,
upon refusal of the railway company, for thirty days after
notice of the injury committed, to pay the actual value of the
property or actual damage, cannot therefore be justly assailed
as infringing upon the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Judgment affirmed.

SHREV-EPORT

v. COLE.

E-,nOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN1ITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No.106. Argued and submitted December 4, 188.- Decided January 7, 1889.

Two "residents of Shreveport, Louisiana," sued in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Louisiana on a contract
of that muniipality made in 1871, alleging, as the ground of Federal
jurisdiction, that the constitution of Louisiana of 1879 had impaired the
obligation of their contract. The municipality answered that it had
been held by all the state courts that the provision of the constitution
referred to did " not apply to contracts entered into prior to the adoption of the constitution of 1879." The Supreme Court of Louisiana
prior to the commencement of this suit had in fact so decided Held,
that this suit was an attempt to evade the discrimination between suits
between citizens of the same State and citizens of different States, established by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that
the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction.

SHREVEPORT v. COLE.
Statement of the Case.
A constitution, or a statute, is construed to operate prospectively only,
unless, on its face, the contrary intention is manifest beyond reasonable
question.

JACOBS and Smith filed their petition m the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Louisiana, describing themselves as "residents of Shreveport, Louisiana,"
on the 11th day of February, 1882, against the city of Shreveport, "a mumcipal corporation, established by the State of
Louisiana, situated in the paxish of Caddo, in said State of
Louisiana, and within said Western District," alleging it to be
"justly indebted to petitioner in the sum of forty-seven thousand four hundred and sixty-six T%'I dollars, with five per cent
per annum interest from Nov 19th, 1871, as shown by itemized statement hereto annexed as part hereof," upon a written
contract annexed and made -partof the petition, for -themacadamizing of Commerce Street in said city, whereby the city
agreed to pay five J-4dollars for each square yard of macadamizing, aiid sixty-five cents per cubic yard for grading, which
amounted, upon completion of the work, to ninety-eight thousand one hundred and ninety-two - dollars, in which amount
the city became indebted to petitioners, and that the sum of
thirteen thousand folir hundred and seventy-six -l dollars was
paid thereon by property owners, and a warrant for three
thousand two hundred and thirty-five -f2A dollars unpaid tax
was also received by petitioners, leaving the indebtedness
dollars.
eighty-one thousand four hundred and eighty-six That by the terms of the contract the city obligated itself "to
pay the amount of its indebtedness arising thereunto out of
funds realized from the collection of wharfage dues, to be
received by petitioners when paid by or collected from steamboats at the wharves of Shreveport, until the entire amount
of such indebtedness under said contract was fully paid," and
had collected and paid over such wharfage dues up to December 20th, 1878, to the amount of thirty-four thousand and
fourteen -&I, dollars, leaving a balance due of forty-seven
dollars. The petithousand four hundred and sixty-six
tion then proceeded as follows
"Petitioners allege that since the 20th day of December,
-3

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

1878, steamboats have arrived at the port of Shreveport
from time to time up to present date, landed at the wharves
of said city, and became thereby indebted for wharfage dues,
collectible from such steamboats, their masters and owners,
amounting in the aggregate to a large sum, say twelve thousand dollars, which should have been collected and paid over
to petitioners by said city, but your petitioners aver that since
the 20th December, A.D. 1878, said city has failed, neglected,
and refused to collect any wharfage dues from steamboats
landing at its wharves, and has failed to pay petitioners the
amount due them under said contract or any part thereof.
"That on the 15th February, A.D. 1879, and on sundry
days before and since said date, petitioners made amicable
demand on said city to comply with its obligations under said
contract by collecting and paying over to petitioners said
wharfage dues, which said demands were by said city utterly
disregarded.
"1Petitionersallege that m consequence of the neglect and
refusal of said city to collect and pay over to them said
wharfage, and by its default in complying with the terms of
the said contract, the entire balance due thereunder, viz., said
sum of forty-seven thousand four hundred and sixty-six 31-100
dollars, with interest, as hereinbefore claimed, became due by
and exigible from said city
"Petitioners allege amicable demand in vain.
"They allege further that the law of the State of Louisiana,
so far as same had any bearing on or relation to the said contract between them and said city and to the rights and obligations therefrom resulting, was by operation of law impliedly
part of said contract, and there was an implied contract between said city and petitioners that, in event of failure on
part of either of the contracting parties to comply with the
terms of said contract, the obligations resulting from and
under said contract might be judicially enforced, and that
under provisions of the law of Louisiana existing at date of
said contract, petitioners had adequate remedies for the enforcement of their rights thereunder.
"But petitioners allege that Article 208 of the Constitution
A.D.

SHREVEPORT v. COLE.
Statement of the Cise.

of the State of Louisiana., adopted July 23d, A.D. 1879, and
ratified by the people of said State on the first Tuesday of the
month of December, A.D. 1879, has impaired the obligation
of said contract by depriving your petitioners of all remedies
for the enforcement of samo, m this, viz., by limiting municipal
taxation throughout said State for all purposes whatever to
ten mills on the dollar of valuation.
"Petitioners represent that the assessed value of all property subject to tax by said city is one million eight hundred
and fifty-three thousand eight hundred and twenty dollars,
that the tax thereon, at rate of ten mills on the dollar, amounts
to the sum of eighteen thousand five hundred and thirty-eight
and 20-100 dollars, that-the amount which the city is authorized to levy for license tax on trades, professions, and occupations does not exceed for any one.year the sum of seventy-five
hundred dollars.
"That said city has no property which can be seized under
execution, and no revenues, except such as are derived from
taxation, that the entire revenues of said city for any one
year do not exceed the sum of thirty-one thousand dollars, an
amount not more than sufficient for its alimony, and which
must be appropriated for that purpose, and in consequence of
said constitutional limitation, if same be valid and operative,
no means exist under the law of Louisiana by which said city
can raise funds wherewith to pay, or be compelled to pay, its
just debts.
"Petitioners allege that Article 208, so far as the same
limits municipal taxation, is as to them null and void, because
it violates the tenth section of the first Article of the Constitution of the United States, which prohibits the State of Louisiana (with all other States) from passing any law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
"That they are entitled to have said Article 208 of the
constitution of tne State of Louisiana declared null and void,
so that they may have some remedy by means of which to
compel said city to pay its indebtedness to them, that the
case herein presented arises under the Constitution of the
United States, and that your honorable court has jurisdiction
thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"The premises considered, petitioners pray that the city of
Shreveport be cited to answer hereto, that, after all legal
notices and delays, they have judgment against said city,
declaring said Article 208 of the constitution of the State of
Louisiana violative of the Constitution of the United States,
null and void, and condemning said city to pay to petitioners
said sum of forty-seven thousand four hundred and sixty-six
31-100 dollars, with legal interest from November 19, A.D.
1879, and all costs. They pray for all orders and decrees necessary, and for general relief in the premises."
To this petition the city of Shreveport filed on May 2, 1882,
its exceptions and plea to the jurisdiction, stating "that there
is no law, ordinance, or constitutional provision in Louisiana
which would impair the obligation of the alleged contract
between the plaintiffs and defendant, and no probability of
the courts of the State throwing any obstacles in the way of
the execution of a judgment ih their favor if one should be
obtained. On the contrary, all the state courts, from the
highest to the lowest, in numerous decisions have held that
the constitutional limitation of municipal taxation does not
apply to contracts entered into prior to the adoption of the
constitution of 1879, which this is admitted to be," which were
overruled February 26, 1883, and on March 1, 1883, the city
filed its answer upon the merits.
Trial being had, the court charged the jury, among other
things "That if the jury find from the evidence the. income
of the city of Shreveport, which is collected under provision,
Art. 208, is insufficient to pay more than the amount necessary
for alimony, and that the operation of Art. 208 will prevent
city from collecting taxes sufficient to pay its debts, then as to
any debt contracted prior to the adoption of state constitution
of 1879, said Art. 208 violates the Constitution of the United
States, and is null and void."
Verdict was returned March 13th in these words "We, the
jury, find the following judgment, to wit. That the plaintiffs
m this case have judgment against the defendant in the sum
of $13,249.30, that being the amount of wharfage due the city
of Shreveport, as proven on the trial to this date, reserving

SHREVEPORT v. COLE.
Opinion of the Court.

all the rights to the plaintiffs for the balance claimed by
them."
Whereupon this judgment was rendered "In this case, by
reason of the law and evidence, and the verdict of the jury
being in favor of the plaintiffs, Benj. Jacobs and Joseph R.
Smith, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the plaintiffs
do have and recover of the defendant, the city of Shreveport,
the full sum of thirteen thousand two hundred and forty-nine
and 30-100 dollars, with 5 per cent per annum interest thereon
from the 11th day -of February, 1882, and all costs of suit, said
amount being wharfage dues which should have been collected
by the defendant and paid over to plaintiffs up to March 13th,
1883. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said
amount of $13,249.30 when paid is to be a credit on the
amount due by defendant to the plaintiffs as claimed in their
petition, and it is further ordered and decreed that the rights
of plaintiffs for the balance due them as claimed are reserved
to them."
From which judgment the city of Shreveport prosecuted
the writ of error herein.
.Mr C7iarles TF Horno, for plaintiff in error.
.Mr . Alexander and .Mr N C. Blanchard,for defendants
in error, submitted on their brief.
M-n. CnmEF JUsTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Unless this suit was one "arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States," the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, and if it did not really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or some law, upon the determination of which the recovery
depended, then it was not a suit so arising. Starzin v New
York, 115 U. S. 248, 257, Gold Washsng and Water Co. v.
Eeyes, 96 U. S. 199.
The case at bar was in effect an action at law to recover a
balance alleged to be due the petitioners or plaintiffs upon a

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opmon of the Court.

contract with the defendant, and the maintenance of the
cause of action involved no Federal question whatever, nor is
any such indicated in the judgment rendered. But the jurisdiction seems to have been rested upon the averments in plaintiffs' petition, that under article 209 of the state constitution
of 1879, providing that "no parish or municipal tax for all
purposes whatsoever shall exceed ten mills on the dollar of
valuation," the city of Shreveport, being so situated as to
need all the revenue from such a tax, cannot raise funds to
pay its just debts, that, therefore, plaintiffs are deprived by
that article, "if same be valid and operative," of the remedy of
enforcing payment by the levy of taxes, although their contract
was entered into in 1871, and that so said article impairs the
obligation of such contract. This contention, however, required
the Circuit Court to assume that the courts of Louisiana would
hold that the city could lawfully avail itself of the constitutional limitation in question as a defence to the collection by
taxation of the means to liquidate the indebtedness, notwithstanding that would be to apply it retrospectively, to the
destruction of an essential remedy existing when the contract
was entered into, whereas the presumption in all cases is that
the courts of the States will do what the Constitution and laws
of the United States require. Chwago and Alton Railroadv
TMiggmns Ferry Co., 108 U S: 18, Neal v Delaware,103 U. S.
370, 889. And we find in accordance with that presumption
that the Supreme Court of Louisiana holds, and had held
prior to the commencement of this suit, that article 209 "must
have a rigid enforcement with regard to all creditors whose
rights are not protected by the Constitution of the United
States, and with regard to all future operations of the city
government of every kind whatever. But it is perfectly clear
that the rights of antecedent contract creditors are protected
by the Constitution of the United States, and they are entitled
to have them enforced 'in all respects as if' this provision of
the Constitution ' had not been passed.' Von Eofman v City
of Qusncy, 4 Wall. 535. The fact that the act of the State
is a constitutional provision instead of a mere legislative act
does not affect the case. Railroad Co. v. Mclvre, 10 Wall.

SHREVEPORT v. COLE.
Opinon of the Court.

511, 515. It isapparent, therefore, that whatever percentage
of taxation may be required to meet the maturing obligations
m interest or principal of antecedent contract creditors must,
in any and all events, be levied." J3foore v City of -Yew
Orleans, 32 La. Ann. 726, 747.
Constitutions as well as statutes are construed to operate
prospectively only, unless, on the face of the instrument or
enactment, the contrary intention is manifest beyond reasonable question. There is nothing on the face of article 209 evidencing an intention that it should be applied to antecedent
contracts, and the highest tribunal of the State has declaredthat it cannot be so applied. It is impossible, under these
circumstances, to sustain the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
upon the ground, not that the city had been, but that it night
perhaps be, allowed to interpose to defeat the enforcement,
by the appropriate means, of payment of an alleged indebtedness, a constitutional provision inapplicable by the ordinary
rules of law, and so determined to be by the deliberate decision of the state Supreme Court.
Nor can it be held that a dispute or controversy as to the
effect of the Constitution of the United States upon article 209
of the constitution of the State was involved in determining
in this action whether the defendant was indebted to the
plaintiffs, and if so, in what amount.
The prayer of the petition was that judgment might be
rendered for the amount claimed, and also that article 209
might be declared null and void, and some considerations
supposed to bear upon the latter subject were addressed to the
jury by the learned judge who presided upon the trial, to which
the verdict made no response in terms; but it does not appear
that an order for the assessment of taxes to pay the amount
awarded, or for any supplementary proceedings of like nature,
to the entry of which said article might in any view be claimed
to be an obstruction, was authorized by statute to be made
part of the judgment in such a case as this. And the judgment was simply for the recovery of so much money, to be
thereafter collected as provided by law
When, in the instance of a judgment rendered on contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

in a state court, remedies for its collection existing at the time

of the making of the contract, are taken away, in substance,
by state constitution or statute, and the deprivation enforced
by the final judgment of the state courts, a writ of error under
ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes enables this court to vindicate
the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United
States and administer the proper remedy, but had this record
in its present shape come before us in that way even, we
should have had no alternative save to dismiss the writ.
In cases originally brought in the Circuit Court, or by removal from a state court, it is made the duty of the Circuit
Court to dismiss or remand the same whenever it appears that
the suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or
controversy properly within its jurisdiction, or that the parties
to the suit have been improperly or collusively made or joined,
either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a
case cognizable or removable.
As remarked in Bernards Townsh-.p v Stebbzns, 109 U S.
341, 353, it has been the constant effort of Congress and of
this court to prevent the discrnmination in respect to suits
between citizens of the same State and suits between citizens
of different States, established by the Constitution and laws of
the United States, "from being evaded by bringing into Federal courts controversies between citizens of the same State."
We regard this suit as an evasion of that character.
The judgrent of the Circuwt Court w reversed and the cause.
remanded, with directons to dismss the petitzon.

CURRIE, MAYOR, V. UNrED STATES ex rel. JACOBS.

Error to the

Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Louisiana. No. 107
MR. CHiEF JUSTICE FULLER. In this case
a peremptory writ of mandamus was awarded, commanding the levy
of a special tax for the payment of the judgment rendered in favor
of Jacobs and Smith, and against the city of Shreveport, just
reversed in the preceding case, No. 106, for want of jurisdiction.
The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded,
with directions to dismiss the petition.

