LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

397

Syllabus.

LIVERPOOL AND GREAT WESTERN STEAM COMPANY v. PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

STATES

FOR

Argued November 8, 9,1887.-Decided March 5,1889.
A decree of the Circuit Court in admiralty on the instance side, finding
negligence in the stranding of a ship, can be reviewed by tis court so
far only as it involves a question of law.
The owner of a general ship, carrying goods for hire on an ocean voyage, is
a common carrier.
A common carrier by sea cannot, by any stipulation with a shipper of
goods, exempt himself from all responsibility for loss or damage by perils
of the sea, arising froju negligence of the officers or crew.
Upon a question of the effect of a stipulation exempting a common carrier
from responsibility for negligence of his servants, the courts of the
United States are not bound by decisions of the courts of the State in
which the contract is made.
The general maritime law is in force in this country so far only as it has
been adopted by the laws or usages thereof.
The law of Great Britain since the Declaration of Independence is a
foreign law, of which a court of the United States cannot take notice,
unless it is pleaded and proved.
The law of the place where a contract is made governs its nature, obligation
and interpretation, unless it appears that the parties, when entering into
the contract, intended to be bound by the law of some other country.
A contract of affreightment, made in an American port by an American
shipper with an English steamship company doing business there, for the
shipment of goods there and their carriage to and delivery in England,
where the freight is payable in English currency is an American contract, and governed by American law so far as regards the effect of a
stipulation exempting the company from responsibility for the negligence
of its servants in the course qf the voyage.
An insurer of goods, upon paying to the assured the amount of a loss,
total or partial, becomes, without any formal assignment, or any express
stipulation to that effect in the policy, subrogated in a corresponding
amount to the assured's right of action against the carrier, and may
assert that right in his own name in a court of admiralty.
In a through bill of lading for carriage from an inland city in the United
States, by a railroad company and its connections, and a steamship company, to an English port, signed by an agent of the companies, "severally, but not jointly," and containing two separate and distinct sets of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
terms and conditions, the one relating to the land carriage, and the other
to tht ocean transportation, a stipulation, inserted m the first set only
that in case of loss that company alone shall be answerable in whose
actual custody the goods are at the time, "and the carrier so liable
shall have the full benefit of any insurance effected upon the goods," gives
the steamship company no right to the benefit of any insurance.

Tis was a libel in admiralty m personam "in a cause of
action arising from breach of contract," filed January 27, 1881,
in the District Court, against the Liverpool and Great Western
Steam Company (Limited) by the Phenix Insurance Company,
clanming to have been subrogated to the rights of the owners
of goods shipped on board the respondent's steamer, the
Montana, at New York, to be delivered at Liverpool, and
lost or damaged by her stranding in the course of her voyage,
through the negligence of those in charge of her navigation.
The libel contained the following allegations
First. The libellant was a corporation duly organized under
the laws of the State of New York for transacting business
as insurer, among other things, of maritime risks and adventures, and the respondent was a corporation duly organized
under the laws of Great Britain and Ireland for the purpose
of owning and navigating steamships and carrying passengers
and cargo.
Second. The respondent maintained a line of steamers running between New York and Liverpool, and was a common
carrier of passengers and cargo between those ports. The
Iontana was a steamer owned and navigated by the respondent as one of that line, and on March 2, 1880, left the port of
New York with a cargo of merchandise and a large number
of passengers received on board by the respondent as a common
carrier, to be landed and delivered at Liverpool.
Third. Among such cargo were a lot of bales of cotton,
variously marked, all shipped by or on account of Swanson,
Porteous & Co., to their own order, and a lot of bales of cotton,
variously marked, all shipped by or on account of Hobart,
Smith & Co., to their own order, and 22 boxes of bacon and
4 tierces of hams, shipped by or on account of A. Baxter, agent,
to his own order, all of which goods were shipped on board

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

399

Statement of the Case.

the Montana m good order and condition, and the respondent
agreed to deliver the same m like good order and condition at
Liverpool.
Fourth. The Montana failed to deliver her cargo or any
portion of the same as agreed, but, during the prosecution
of her voyage from New York to Liverpool, stranded on the
west coast of Great Britain, at or near Clegyr Point, in Holyhead Bay, and thereby these goods became in large measure
lost or destroyed and the remainder greatly damaged.
Fifth. This article set forth particularly the circumstances
preceding and attending the stranding.
Sixth. The libellant charges that the stranding of the
steamer and the consequent loss and damage of the cargo
were due to the negligence of those navigating the steamer,
in proceeding at too high a rate of speed, in not having a sufficient lookout, in going upon an improper and dangerous course,
in not making due allowance for the influence of the ebb tide,
in not having, or in not using and properly using, the outfit
and appurtenances-among other things, the lead and compass-and in not so heeding the shore lights and signals, as
would have indicated to them her dangerous position, and
would have enabled them to regain and keep in a position of
safety
Seventh. The libellant, before the stranding, had made insurances on the goods in sums equal to or less than their value,
to persons having an interest in them respectively equal to or
greater than the sums insured, and under such insurances had
paid, or become liable to pay, to the assured, for the loss or
damage of the goods, sums amounting to more than $15,000.
The damages of the assured or their assigns for the loss of the
goods were greater than the amount of the insurances. And
the libellant was subrogated to all their rights against the
respondent for its failure to carry and deliver the goods.
The respondent filed an answer, alleging that it had duly
appeared in the cause, admitting the jurisdiction of the court,
as well as that the respondent was a British corporation for
the purpose of owning and navigating steamers, and of carrying passengers and cargo, and since 1866 had been the owner

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

of certain steamers, plying between New York and Liverpool,

and the Montana was a steamer owned and navigated by it, but
denying that it was a common carrier, and alleging that the
home port of the Montana was at Liverpool, where she was
registered, and where the respondent carried on its business,
having an agency, however, in the port of New York.
The answer alleged that the goods were shipped and received
on board the Montana under bills of lading, which constituted
the contracts between the shippers and the respondent, copies of
which were annexed to and made parts of the answer (namely,
one for the bacon and hams, weighing nearly six tons, which
is printed in the margin,' and three for the cotton, amount1 Shipped, in good order and -well conditioned, by Arch'd tiaxter, agent,
in and upon the steamship called Montana, now lying in the port of
New York and bound for Liverpool, via Queenstown, twenty-two boxes
bacon and four tcs. hams, being marked ,and numbered as in the margin,
and are to be delivered from the ship's deck,
GUION LUh E.
where the ship's responsibility shall cease, in
United States Mfail Steamers.
like
good order and condition, at the aforesaid
NxEW YXORK: LIVERPOOL.
potfLveooof Liverpool port
St.
Rumford
29 Broadway. 11
(The act of God, the Queen's enemies, pirates,
224.boxes bacon,
robbers, thieves, vermin, barratry of master or
4 tiees ham.

26 Packages.

mariners, restraint of princes, rulers or people,
loss or damage resulting from insufficiency in

strength of packages, from sweating, leakage,
C8.14.o breakage, or from stowage or contact with other
Primage.
8,9 goods, or from any of the following perils
. 9. 2.9 (whether arising from the negligence, default,
Total
or error in judgment of the masters, mariners,
engineers or others of the crew or otherwise howsoever) excepted, namely
risk of craft, explosion or fire at sea, in craft or on shore, boilers, steam
or machinery or from the consequences of any damage or injury thereto,
howsoever such damage or injury may be caused, collision, stranding, or
other peril of the seas, rivers or navigation, of whatever nature or kind
soever, and howsoever such collision, stranding or other peril may be
caused, with liberty in the event of the said steamer putting back to New
York, or into any port, or otherwise being prevented from any cause from
proceeding in the ordinary course of her voyage, to tranship the goods by
any other steamer and with liberty to sail with or without pilots, and to
tow and assist vessels in all situations) unto order
or to
assigns, freight for the said goods being
paid immediately on landing, without any allowance of credit or discount,
at the rate of thirty shillings sterling per ton of 2240 lbs., gross weight,
T. cwt. 5.16.0.0 at 301
per ton

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. IHENIX INS. CO.

401

Statement of the Case.

ing in all to 550 bales and weighing about 123 tons, of which
bills one is also printed in the margin' and the others were
delivered, with customary primage and general average, if any according
to York-Antwerp rules.
Weight, measure, contents, quality, brand and value unknown. The
goods to be taken from alongside by the consignee, immediately the vessel
is ready to discharge, or otherwise they may be landed and warehoused at
his risk and expense. The collector of the port is hereby authorized to
grant a general order for discharge immediately after the entry of the ship.
The master porterage of the delivery of the cargo to be done by the consignees of the ship, and the expense thereof to be paid by the receivers of
cargo. The owners of the ship will not be responsible for money, documents, gold, silver, bullion, specie, jewelry, precious stones or metals,
paintings and statuary, unless bills'of lading are signed therefor and the
value thereof therein expressed.
In accepting this bill of lading the shipper or other agent of the owner
of the property carried expressly accepts and agrees to all its stipulations,
exceptions, and conditions, whether written or printed.
In witness whereof the agent of the s~d ship bath affirmed to three bills
of lading, all of this tenor and date, one of which being accomplished the
others to stand void.
Dated in New York, March 1st, 1880.
F L. LE SAGE.
I OVERLAND ANJD OCEAN BILL OF LADING.

THROUGH
BILL LADING

LoUIsviLL
Ai

NO. 81.

FREIGHT.

AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD

THE WILLIAMS AND GUION STEAISHIP COMPANY FROM
N ASHVILLE, TENN., To LIVERPOOL, ENG.

SHIPPED in apparent good order, by GILBERT PAEKES & Co.,
the following property, marked and numbered as below (con-

From Nashville, Tenn.

tents of packages unknown, and weight subject to correction).

To Liverpool, Eng.
Quantity, 73,769 pounds.
Amount, 6 ------

MARKS.
H. E. N. 45 bales.
D. U. D. 45 "
H.E.L. 60

ARTICLES.
One hundred and fifty
bales cotton.

To be delivered in like good order and condition, unto order Gilbert
Parkes & Co., or to their. assigns, he or they paying freight, in cash, namediately on landing the goods, without any allowance of credit or discount,
at the rate of fifty-four pence (stg.) per 100 lbs. gross weight, delivered
with average accustomed (at $4.80 to the Found Sterling) under the following terms and conditions, viz.
VOL. cxxx--26

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

substantially similar), that the respondent assumed no greater
risks or responsibilities than were expressed in the bills of ladThat the said LOUISVILLE & NASHVTLLE RAILROADS and their connections
which receive said property shall not be liable
for breakage of packages of Eggs, or for rust
of Iron and of Iron articles, or for loss or
damage by wet, dirt, fire, or loss of weight, or
for condition of baling on Hay, Hemp or Cotton; nor for loss or damage of any kind on
any article whose bulk requires it to be carried on open cars; nor for damage to penshahis property of any kind occasioned by delays
from any cause or by changes of weather - nor
for loss or damage on any article or property
whatever by fire or other casualty while in
transit, or while in deposit or places of transhipment, or at depots or landings at all
points of delivery* nor for loss or damage by
fire, collision, or the dangers of navigation
while on seas, rivers, lakes or canals.
All
goods or property under this Bill of Lading
will be subject to its owner's cost to necessary
cooperace or baling, and is to be transpor~d
to the depots of the Companies or landings of
the Steamboats or Forwarding Lines at the
points receipted to, for delivery.

IT IS FURTHER AGREED, that said
LOUISVILLE
& NASHVILLE RAILROAD and connections shall not be held
accountable for any damage or deficiency in
packages after the same shall have been
receipted for in good order by consignees, or
their agents, at or by the next carrier beyond
the point to which this Bill of Lading contracts. Consignees are to pay freight and
charges upon the goods or merchandise in lots
or parts of lots, as they may be delivered to
them.

To be delivered from the Ship's deck,
where the Ship's responsibility shall cease, in
the like good order and condition at the aforesaid port of Liverpool (the acts of God, the
Queen's enemies, pirates, robbers, thieves,
vermin, Barratry of Master or Mariners, restramints of Princes, Rulers or People, Loss
or Damage resulting from insufficiency in
strength of packages, sweating, leakage,
breakage, stowage, or contact with other
goods, risk of craft, explosion, or fire at sea, in
craft or on shore, before lading or after unlading, accidents from machinery, boilers,
steam, or any other accidents of the seas,
rivers and steam navigation, of whatever
nature or kind soever, excepted; whether any
one or more of all such exceptions arise, occur, or are in any way occasioned from or by
the negligence, default, or error in judgment
of the Master, Mariners, Engineers, or others
of the Crew, or of any of the Servants or Employds of the Ship-owners, or otherwise, however); and with liberty during the voyage to
call at any port or ports, to receive Fuel, to
load or discharge Cargo, or for any other purpose whatever; to sail with or without Pilots,
to tow and assist vessels in all situations, and
in the event of the said steamer putting back
to New York or into any other port, or being
otherwise prevented from proceeding in the
ordinary course of the voyage, to tranship the
goods to any other steamer.

Weight, Length, Contents and Value unknown; and not answerable for Leakage,
Breakage, Rust or Mortality, damage caused
by jeavy weather, or pitching or rolling of the
vessel, heating, mold, inherent deterioration,
or defective package, or wrong delivery,
caused by error, indistinctness, illegibility or
deficiency in the marks, brands or numbers.
Where goods are weighed or measured on
board to ascertain freight, the charges for
IT IS FURTHER STIPULATED AND weighing, etc., to be paid by the consignee,
AGREED, that in case of any loss, detri- and the Ship-owner to have a lien on the
ment, or damage done to or sustained by any goods for such charge. The consignees, or
of the property herein receipted for during the parties applying for the goods, are to see
such transportation, whereby any legal lia- that they get their right marks and numbers,
bility or responsibility shall or may be in- and after the lighterman or wharfinger, or the
curred, that Company alone shall be held party applying for the goods, has signed for
answerable therefor in whose actual custody the same, the ship is to be discharged from
the same may be at the time of the happening all responsibility for misdelivery or nondeof such loss, detriment or damage, and the livery, and from all claims under this Bill of
carrier so liable shall have the full benefit of Lading. The ship to be entitled to commence

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

40

Statement of the Case.

ing, and that the goods were lost or damaged by perils of
the sea and by causes from which the respondent was exempt
by law and by the bills of lading.
The answer denied any negligence on the part of those navigatmg the Montana, as charged in the libel, set forth partieuany insurance that may have been effected
upon or on account of said goods.
AND IT IS FURTHER AGREED, that
the amount of the loss or damage so accruing,
so far as it shall fall upon the carners above
described, shall be computed at the value or
cost of said goods or property at the place
and time of shipment under this Bill of LadIng.
THIS CONTRACT is executed and accomplished and the liability of the LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROADS
and their connections, as common carriers
thereunder, terminates on delivery of the
goods or property to the Steamship Company at New York, when the liability of
the Steamship commences, and not before.

discharging immediately she arrives. The
goods to be taken from the ship by the consignees directly they come to hand in discharging the ship, otherwise the Master or
Ship's Agent to be at liberty to enter and land
the goods or put them into craft at the merchant's risk and expense, and to have a lien
on such goods until the payment of all costs
and charges so incurred. The ship's responsibility to cease immediately the goods are
discharged from the ship's deck.
The owners of these Steamships will not.
be accountable for Gold, Silver, Bullion,
Specie, Jewelry, Precious Stones or Metals,
Statuary or Paintings, unless specified in thu
Bills of Lading signed therefor, and the value
thereof therein expressed.

Z'-Parcels for different consignees collected and made up in single packages, addressed to one party for the purpose of evading payment of parcel freight, will be charged.
AND IT IS FURTHER AGREED, that
with the proper freight on each parcel.

the property shall be transported from the
port of New York to the port of Liverpool by
the said Steamship Company, with liberty to
ship by any other Steamship or Steamship
Line, subject to the following terms and conditions, viz..

NovcE.-In accepting this Bill of Lading, the Shipper or Agent of the owner of the
Property carned expressly accepts and agrees
to all its stipulations and conditions, whether
written or printed.

In Witness Whereof, The Agent signing for the said Transportation and
Steamship Companies hath affirmed to Three Bills of Lading, of tins tenor
and date, one of which being accomplished, the others to stand void.

B. F.

CHA"PE,

Agent Severally, but not JointlyDated in Nashville, Tenn., Feb. 5, 1880.
[Along the left hand margin were printed the following-]
Bonded Goods, Consignee to Furmsh Landing Certificates free of Expenses, and on all Shipments of less than 5 Car Loads Bonding Charges
will be Collected.
ATTENTION OF SHIPPERS IS

CALLED TO THE ACT OF CONGRESS OF 1851-

"Any person or persons shipping Oil of Vitriol, Unslacked Lime, Inflammable Matches,
Gunpowder, in a ship or vessel taking cargo for divers persons on freight, without delivering
AT TiHE rm.E Or suxp r .Ne a note in writing, expressing the nature and character of such
merchandise, to the master, mate, or officer, or person in charge of the loading of the ship or
vesseP,shall forfeit to the UNITED STATES ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

larly the circumstances preceding and attending the strandmg, and alleged that in respect to the employment of a skilled
and licensed master and officers, and the careful observation by
them of the elements and everything which would, in the exercise of ordinary human skill, enable them to determine and
judge the position of the vessel and to navigate her accordingly, and in respect to her seaworthiness and outfit and everything within the reasonable limits of skill and foresight, the
respondent fully complied with its contract of affreightment,
and with all the requirements of law
As to the allegations of the libel concerning insurance and
subrogation, the answer averred that the respondent had no
knowledge, and left them to be proved.
In the District Court, the pleadings and depositions were read
in November, 1882, the cause was argued and submitted May 4,
1883, an opimon in favor of the libellant was delivered June 29,
1883, which is reported in 17 Fed. Rep. 377, and a final decree
for the libellant for the sum of 813,257.64, with interest and
costs, was entered February 19, 1884.
The respondent appealed to the ,Circuit Court, where the
cause was heard and argued July 1 and 2, 1884, upon the testimony taken in the District Court, and on July 31, 1884, the
-court rendered an opinion in favor of the libellant, and filed
its findings of fact and conclusions of law, all of which are
reported in 22 Blatchford, 372. The findings of fact were
as follows
"The respondent, The Liverpool and Great Western Steam
Company (Limited), is a corporation organized under the laws
of Great Britain, and, in the month of March, 1880, and for a
long time prior thereto, was the owner of the steamer Montana. The libellant, The Phenix Insurance Company, has
been for many years, and still is, a corporation duly organized
and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
New York for transacting the business of insurance, including
marine risks. During said time it had an agency in Liverpool,
England, for the adjustment and settlement of losses, and the
losses referred to herein were adjusted by such agency, and were
paid by it in Liverpool. The Montana was an ocean steamer,

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

405

Statement of the Case.

built of iron, and performed regular service as a common carrier of merchandise and passengers between the ports of Liverpool, England, and New York, m the line commonly known as
the Guion Line. By her, and by other ships in that line, the
respondent was such common carrier.
"On March 2, 1880, the Montana left the port of New York,
on one of her regular voyages, bound for Liverpool, England,
with a full cargo, consisting of about twenty-four hundred tons
of merchandise, and with passengers. She stopped at Queenstown in the afternoon of March 12, and thence proceeded on her
voyage. She passed Tuskar rock, on the extreme southeastern
portion of Ireland, at about eight o'clock in the evening of
March 12, and thence took a course up and across the Irish
Channel. The course she took would ordinarily have carried
her outside of the range of the South Arklow light, which is
a light on the east coast of Ireland, but, with the wind, tides
and currents as they were that night, she passed within range
of that light, and about nine miles off, at 9.45 P.M. On passing the South Arldow light, the next light which those in
charge of the navigation of the Montanal expected to make
was the South Stack light, on the coast of Wales, at the
entrance of Holyhead Bay The master of the Montana was
on the bridge and in charge of her navigation.
"The light-house on South Stack carried two lights. One,
the high light, was about 170 feet above high water. It was
white in color, and exhibited in all directions at sea, with a.
range of from twenty to thirty.miles, in clear weather. It was
a revolving light, making one complete revolution in six nnnutes, 'and it showed a white flash light every minute. The
other light was also white. It was about 40 feet above high
water, and was a semi-revolving light, exhibiting every minute
and a half in all directions between east northeast and west by
north. Its range in, clear weather was from three to four
miles, but it was regularly lit only in foggy or thick weather.
Both of these lights were lit and burning all through the night
of March 12. A fog-bell was regularly sounded at South Stack
from ten o'clock in the night of March 12 until six o'clock in
the morning of March 13. The bell weighed two and a quarter

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tons, and was operated upon by a hammer weighing about
ninety-six pounds, which struck the bell on the outside at
intervals of fifteen seconds, and was worked by means of clockwork and a caloric engine. The sound was a powerful one,
and its range was from three to four miles. The high light on
the South Stack was established in 1809, and has ever since
been regularly maintained. The fog-bell has been established
for about twenty years, and has since then been regularly
sounded in foggy weather.
"About east northeast, magnetic, from South Stack, and
distant about one mile therefrom, was a fog-gun station, known
as North Stack. This fog-gun station had been established
about twenty years, and from midnight of March 12 until four
o'clock in the morning of March 13 the fog-gun was fired regularly every ten minutes. The gun was a twenty-four pounder,
and was each time charged with three pounds of powder, and
a large junk wad to give extra sound, the range of the sound
being between five and six miles when the fog was thick, with
the wind, and about seven miles when the fog lifted. The
fog-gun station, since it was established, has been regularly
maintained and the fog-gun fired regularly in foggy weather.
"About two miles east, magnetic, from North Stack, was
the Holyhead Breakwater light-house. This light-house was
at the outer end of Hfolyhead Breakwater, and it carried a
fixed red light at a height of from sixty to seventy feet above
high water, with flashes every seven and one half seconds.
The range of the light in clear weather was from three to four
miles, and the range of the flash was about fourteen miles.
The light was established in 1873, and has since then been
regularly maintained. At the breakwater light-house was a
fog-bell, weighing about five hundred weight, which was operated upon by two hammers, worked by clock-work, and striking the bell on the outside three times in quick succession at
intervals of fifteen seconds. The range of the sound was from
a mile and a half to two miles. The bell was established in
1873, and was regularly rung in foggy weather. It was in
operation from midnight of March 12 until five o'clock in the
morning of March 13.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

"About five miles north northeast, magnetic, from Holyhead Breakwater light-house, and across Holyhead Bay, was
the Skerries light-house. The Skerries light-house was about
northeast, magnetic, from South Stack light-house, and distant
therefrom between seven and eight miles. It was situated on
a small island about two miles off Carmel Head, and about
two or three miles north northwest, magnetic, from Church
Bay It carried a stationary white light between eighty and
ninety feet above low-water mark, exhibiting in all directions
at sea and in Rolyhead Bay, with a range of about sixteen
miles. It was burning all through the night of March 12. It
was established between seventy and eighty years ago, and
has been regularly maintained since. There was at Skerries
light-house a fog-horn or siren, worked by two powerful caloric engines at a pressure of fifty pounds to the square inch.
The sound made was shrill and powerful, and had a range
of eight miles in foggy weather, and the sound was regularly
given from ten o'clock at night of March 12 until half past
four o'clock in the morning of March 13, at intervals of three
minutes. This fog-horn or siren had been established for several years, and it has been regularly -namtained ever since.
"All through the night of March 12, until five o'clock in the
morning of March 13, a fog overspread the land surrounding
Holyhead Bay, and extended, at times, and to some extent, into
the bay and out to sea. The proper course of the Montana
was to keep three or four miles off the land at the South Stack,
and on a course about northeast by east, magnetic, until she
had the Skerries abaft her beam, and then to take a course
about east by south, magnetic, to Liverpool. There was a
westerly variation of about two points between magmetic
courses and true courses in the Irish Channel and adjacent
waters.
"The Montana, on a course about northeast by east, magnetic, passed within a short distance of South Stack light-house
and saw the high light there between one and two o'clock in
the morning of March 13. It came into sight, bearing about
southeast by east and about one point forward of the starboard
beam of the Montana. Her officers expected to see it at a

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

distance of about twenty miles off, bearing from east northeast
to northeast by east. When they saw it first, they thought it
to be fifteen miles off, and they remained of that opinion. It
passed out of sight abaft their beam, they supposing it was
hidden by the horizon. The master of the Montana did not
ascertain by cross bearings (which he might readily have made)
the distance at which he was from the light. He lost the light
because it was shut out from him by a fog which intervened
between it and the Montana, and thence he continued, with
his engines working at full speed, and giving 'the Montana a
speed through the water of about fourteen knots an hour, and
on an east three-quarters south magnetic course, to which he
had changed, which took him directly into Holyhead Bay,
until after half past two o'clock. Before this time a man had
been stationed at the fog whistle of the Montana, who regularly blew it. At about half past two o'clock the master of
the Montana heard the fog-gun on North Stack off his starboard quarter, abaft his starboard beam, and he thereupon
changed the course of the steamer again to northeast by east
magnetic, but he continued his engines at full speed until 2.45
A.m., at which time the engines were put at half speed, which

gave the steamer a speed through the water of between mine
and ten knots per hour. Five minutes later the shore loomed
up through the fog on the starboard bow, and orders were
given to slow and stop the engines and to put them full speed
astern, but before these latest orders could be executed the
Montana ran ashore at Clegyr Point, in Church Bay After
leaving Tuskar, and up to one o'clock in the mormng of March
13, the Montana was running with a flood tide. Then there
was slack water, and she afterward encountered an ebb tide,
which ran from three to four knots an hour.
"At no time that night were any soundings taken on board
of the Montana, though soundings would have indicated to her
master that he was running rapidly on to the shore. The lights
at Holyhead Breakwater and the Skerries were not seen by
those in charge of the navigation of the Montana and her lookouts, and those in charge of her navigation did not hear the
fog-bell at South Stack or that at Holyhead Breakwater or the

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v.PHENIX INS. CO.

409

Statement of the Case.

siren at the Skerries, and they did not hear the fog-gun at
North Stack until it was on their quarter. When they lost
sight of the South Stack light, they were within .range of the
Skerries light, and ought to and would have seen it unless it
was shut out by a fog. The water outside of Holyhead Bay
ranged from twenty to eighty fathoms in depth, while the
water m Holyhead Bay ranged from five to seventeen fathoms
in depth, regularly shoaling as the shore was approached.
"Almost immediately after the Montana ran ashore, she
commenced filling with water, and thereby her cargo was m
large part destroyed or damaged. Portions of it were thereafter taken from the steamer and forwarded to Liverpool, and
there delivered. The Montana was then floated and taken to
Liverpool for repairs.
"Those in charge of the navigation of the Montana were
negligent, in that, without having taken cross bearings of the
light at South Stack, and so determined their distance from
the light, they took an east three-quarters south course before
passing the Skerries, and without seeing the Skerries light; and
in that they continued at full speed after hearing the fog-gun
at North Stack, and m that they took a northeast by east
magnetic course on hearing said fog-gun, instead of stopping
and backing and taking a westerly course out of Holyhead
Bay; and in that they did not ascertain their position in
Holyhead Bay by means of the lights and fog-signals, or by
the use of the lead, or by stopping until they should, by those
means or otherwise, learn where their ship was."
The substance of the rest of the findings of fact and of
the documents made part thereof was as follows
The bacon and hams were owned by Jessie Baxter, of Brooklyn, in the State of New York, and were shipped at New York,
and the insurance obtained, on her account, by Archibald
Baxter, agent. Part of the cotton was owned by Gilbert
Parkes & Co., merchants, of Nashville m the State of Tennessee, shipped by them at Nashville, and at or after the date
of shipment sold by them to Hobart, Smith & Co., merchants,
of the city of New York, who obtained the insurance thereon.
The rest of the cotton was. owned by Swanson, Porteous & Co.,

OCTOBER TERMT, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

merchants, of the city of New York, and was shipped on their
account at Nashville, and the insurance obtained by them.
All the goods were shipped under the bills of lading annexed
to the answer, and were insured at their value by the libellant
against perils of the seas and other usual marine risks, including " barratry of the master and mariners, and all other perils,
losses and misfortunes that have or shall come to the hurt,
detriment or damage of the said goods and merchandises, or
any part thereof;" and were damaged by the stranding. And
the libellant afterwards, upon due adjustment of the general
and particular average, paid to the assured or their assigns, in
settlement of the insurance, various sums of money, amounting in all to £2720. 3s. 3d. m successive instalments, most of
which were paid before the filing of the libel, and the rest
within a year afterwards and before the argument of this case
m the District Court.
The Justice presiding in the Circuit Court stated his conclusions of law as follows
"On the foregoing facts, I find the following conclusions of
law The stranding of the Montana and the consequent damage to her cargo having been the direct result of the negligence
of the master and officers of the steamer, the respondent is
liable therefor. The libellant was duly subrogated to the
rights of the insured against the carrier for the damage to the
cargo insured by the libellant, and is therefore entitled to
recover from the respondent the amount of such damage. The
libellant is entitled to a decree against the respondent for the
following sums " specifying the sums paid by the libellant,
amounting in all to $13,237.64, with interest and costs.
The Circuit Court entered a final decree accordingly on
August 21, as of August 16, 1884, and the respondent appealed
to this court, and on September 2, 1884, the Circuit Court
allowed the appeal, as well as a bill of exceptions tendered
by the respondent to each of the court's conclusions of law, and
to its refusal to make each of the following conclusions of law
proposed by the respondent at the hearing
"First. The respondent was not a common carrier in respect
to the goods in question.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

411

Statement of the Case.

"Second. It was only a ship carrier, having the right to
reject, both by the laws of Great Britain and this country, the
carriage of any goods offered to it.
"Third. The respondent is fully protected by virtue of the
exceptive clauses in the bills of lading. In respect to a part
of the cargo so shipped, the carrier is to have the benefit of
any insurance effected by the shipper. The libellant, having
paid the loss, therefore, can maintain no action against the
carrier. The respondent furnished the carrier with a seaworthy vessel, well equipped and appointed, with most experienced
officers, who were carefully and vigilantly attending to their
duties, together with a double and careful lookout at the time
the ship stranded. No neglect can therefore be charged
against the respondent.
"Fourth. The cause of the action was the capricious fog,
which settled under the South Stack light, and which rising
shut out the light and led the officers to suppose that it was
'dipping' below the horizon and they were not within its
range. This cannot be considered an error of judgment, but,
if an error of judgment, there has been no case of neglect
made out sufficient to charge the respondent.
"Fifth. The mere payment of the loss by the insurance
company will not entitle it to a recovery, unless if subrogated,
or it appears that there was an express agreement or assignment, which does not appear."
The return to a writ of certiorart,granted by this court
upon the appellee's suggestion of a diminution of the record,
contained the following
First. A motion, fied in the Circuit Court, August 6, 1884,
m behalf of the respondent and on the oath of one of its
proctors, stating that it "contends that the question of its
liability is governed by, and should be decided under, the law
of Great Britain," and that by that law it would be exempt
from liability to the libellant, further stating that no proof of
that law had been made, because it was understood that the
same was recognized by the libellant, and formal proof of it
would not be required, and in the District Court the question
was argued and British statutes and reports of decisions re-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

ferred to, without objection on the part of the libellant, yet
the libellant, in the Circuit Court and for the first time, made
the point that the proof had not been made, and that court
in its decision held the point well taken, and praying that
the respondent might be permitted to amend its answer, by
averring the existence of that law and its applicability to this
suit, and by qualifying the appearance, and the admission
of jurisdiction, in this particular, and be also permitted to
prove that law in the Circuit Court.
Second. The new answer, proposed to be filed, amending the
original answer by qualifying both the allegation that the
respondent had duly appeared, and the admission of jurisdiction, by adding "without prejudice to its right to rely upon
the hereinafter mentioned law of Great Britain as a ground
of defence to the said libel," and further amending that
answer by inserting distinct allegations, "that the said steamer
at the time of the said accident was sailing under the flag of
Great Britain," "that the law of Great Britaan, at all the
times mentioned m the said libel, enabled ship-owners by
express contract to exempt themselves from liability for the
consequences of any damages or injury to goods transported or
carred on their ships, howsoever the same might have been
caused, whether arising from negligence, default, or error in
judgment of the master, mariners, engineers, or other of the
crew, or otherwise;" "that, by the contracts for the transportation or carriage of the goods claimed to have been lost or
damaged by the libellant, the respondent had expressly, and
in conformity with the said law, exempted itself from any
liability whatsoever;" and "that the said contracts were subject to and governed by the said law"
Third. The opinion of the Circuit Court against the motion,
delivered August 91, 1884, and reported in 22 Blatchford,
399-404.
Fourth. The order of the Circuit Court, denying the motion,
entered September 1, 1884.
_f-' F_,anklin A.
appellant.

Wilcox and Afr Stephen P

Naf"

for

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Argument for Appellant.

I. Upon the facts found, the loss was due to error in judgment, not to negligence on the part of those navigating the
steamer.
It is quite clear that if the vessel had been where *the officers supposed she was,when the light was first seen, fifteen
miles off shore, the casualty would not have happened. The
negligence imputed is based upon the notion that the officers
ought to have distrusted their convictions when they first saw
the South Stack light, and verified them by cross bearings and
soundings, or stopped when the fog set in until they "should,
by these means or otherwise, learn where their skip was."
This was very easy to say after the event. These officers were
navigators of experience, familiar with the channel, their
positions, as servants of the company, and in their calling,
were at stake, possibly their lives, as well as the valuable vessel and cargo in their charge. It is submitted that the evidence was not sufficient to justify the finding of negligence,
with the consequences which such a finding involved. :The
Adrzatic, 17 Blatchford, 194.
II. The owners of the steamer had the right to contract to
limit their liability for loss or damage to cargo caused by error
of judgment or neglect of the master or mariners of the vessel, and their contract in that respect was valid and effectual.
This risk was an insurable risk, and there is no pretence that
the owners were guilty of negligence. Assuming that there
was negligence on the part of the master and officers of the
vessel, the simple question for the court to determine is
whether a carrier on the high seas is responsible to the insurer
for accidents caused by the negligence of the master, and
which come within the risks insured against. Lord Bramwell
in Grill v. General Iron Screw Co., L. R. 1 0. P 476, 480,
says, "There is nothing unreasonable in a ship-owner, having
once put on board a competent captain and crew, stipulating
that he will not be responsible for accidents arising from their
negligence, the owner of the goods having a remedy against
the underwriters." This is the proposition which the appellant maintains.
(1) This is settled law in New York, the place where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

contract was made. Maynard v Syracuse Railway Co., 71
N. Y 180, 184, Synnetth v Atlas Steamshkp Co., 80 N. Y 71.
See also Perkins v N Y Central Railroad,24 N. Y 196,
216, S. C. 82 Am. Dec. 281, Mercantile Mutual Ins. Co. v
Calebs, 20 N. Y 173, Smith v. N Y Central Railroad,24
N. Y 222, Buisell v NV Y Central Railroad,25 N. Y 442,
S. C. 82 Am. Dec. 369, .Dorr v NSew Jersey Steam Navwgation
Co., 11 N. Y 485, S. . 72 Am. Dec. 125, Wells v X 7
Central Railroad, 24 N. Y 181, Grag'tn v N 7 Central
Railroad,51 N. Y 61.
(2) The contract was to be chiefly performed on board of the
vessel, a part of British territory, a floating island of Great Britamn. Lloyd v Guibert, 6 B. & S. 100, S. C. L. R. 1 Q. B. 115.
It was to be finally executed in the British port of Liverpool,
and the place where the breach took place and the loss happened was within the territorial limits of Great Britain. The
law of Great Britain is in harmony with the law of New York.
Lyon v Mells, 1 J P Smith, 478, 484, Nicholson v TFillan, 5
East, 507, Xlaving v Todd, 1 Starkie, 59, Leeson v H1olt, 1
Starle, 148, York, Nfewcastle &c. Railroad v. Crsp, 14 0.
B. 527, Taubman v Pacqdi Co., 26 Law Times (N. S.),
704, The Duero, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec. 393.
(3) The rights of the parties under the bill of lading are to
be governed by the law of Great Britain and the general
maritime law
The leading case in this country is Pope v Nickerson,
3 Story, 465, decided by Judge Story in a very learned and
extensive opinion. There the court holds that the law of
Massachusetts, to wit, the domicil of the owners of the vessel,
would control, in respect to a vessel which was owned in the
State of Massachusetts, but received cargo at a Spanish port
to be carried to Philadelphia, and had put into Bermuda in
distress, where it became necessary to execute bottomry out
of which a suit arose to charge the owners of the vessel on
their general liability The law of Massachusetts limited ther
liability m respect thereto, while the law of Pennsylvania did
not, nor, we believe, the law of Spain.
The leading English case, decided in 1864, Lloyd v Guibert,

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

415

Argument for Appellant.

ubi s.upr, cites with approval Pope v _,ickerson. In that case
a French vessel, having a French register and carrying the
French flag, and owned by persons domiciled in France, was
chartered in St. Thomas, a Danish port, to go to Hayti, and
carry cargo from there to Liverpool. In the progress of her
voyage she was obliged to put into Fayal in distress, where
the vessel, freight and cargo were bottomried. The vessel was
thereby enabled to complete the voyage and to discharge her
cargo m Liverpool, where the vessel, freight and cargo were
libelled, and the owners of the cargo were obliged to pay on
account of the bottomry to release their cargo. The vessel
and freight were sold by decree in admiralty and thus abandoned by the owners. By the law of Great Britain, the owner's liability was not limited. The owners of the cargo brought
a suit against the French owners of the vessel, but the court
held that the law of the domicil of the owners of the vessel
controlled. The case went up on appeal and was decided in
N'ovember, 1865, before the Exchequer Chamber, L. ZR. 1 Q.
B. 115, the judgment below being affirmed. The opinion of
the court is most interesting, and is exhaustive of the subject.
The .MoAam, English L. ZR. 1 P D. 43, S. C. on appeal,
Id. 131. An English joint stock company possessed a pier at
Malaga, Spain, and instituted a cause of damage against an
English steamship which, by the negligence of those in charge,
had come into collision with and damaged the pier. The
owners of the steamship filed an answer, and alleged, inter
alia, that the pier formed part of the land of Spain, and that
by the law of Spain the master and mariners were alone
answerable for the damage. On motion to reject this portion
of the answer, it was held that the law of Spain was not
applicable, and that by the statutory law of Great Britain
a vessel was liable for any damage.
The present case, if considered as an action of tort, would,
under this doctrine, be governed by the law of Great Britain.
Prztewad v -orton, 106 U S. 124.
ientucky v Bassford, 6 Hill, 526, was an action upon a
bond, conditioned for the faithful performance of duties enjoined by the law of Kentucky, which authorized the obligees

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

to sell lottery tickets for the benefit of a college in that State;
it was held that the stipulations of the bond were to be performed in Kentucky, and that, as it was valid by the laws of
that State, the courts of New York would enforce it, notwithstanding it would be illegal m the State of New York. See
also Tie Avon, 1 Brown's Adm. 190.
In Wayman v Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 48, Chief Justice
Marshall declares the law to be "that in every forum a contract is governed by the law with a view to which it was
made."
supra, it is said that "it is necesIn -loyd v Guibert, "bu1
sary to consider by what general law the parties intended that
the transaction should be governed, or rather by what general
law it is just to presume that they have submitted themselves
in the matter." See also 4 Phillimore, Int. Law, 469; Crapo
v .elly, 16 Wall. 610, 626.
There is such a concurrence of authority sustaining the
validity of these exemptions, that a contrary rule from this
court, especially if applied to ocean transportation, would lead
to confusion. In Ca/rr v Zancashtre &c. Railway, 7 Exch.
707 (1852), Austhn v il'anchester &co. Railway, 10 C. B. 454
(1850), and WFalker v. York &c. Railway, 2 El. & Bl. 750
(1853), the three common law courts of England concurred in
sustaining the validity of such contracts. See, also, Great
EoCawrthy, 12 App. Gas. 218.
Vestern Railway v
In 1854 Parliament enacted a law to regulate such contracts,
when made by railroad companies, but it has not interfered
with the freedom of contract in matters of ocean transportation. The cases of Pemnsular & Oriental Co. v Sand, 3
Moore P C. (N. S.) 272 (1865), The Duero (1867-8), cited
above, and Taubman v Pacifio Co. (1872), cited above, and
Chartered Bank &c.v lAetherlands &c. Co., 10 Q. B. D. 521
(1883), are cases in respect to ocean transportation in which
the validity of such exemptions was sustained. In Taylor v
Great Western Steamship Co., L. R. 9 Q. B. 546, the defendants were held liable because the words of exemption, as construed by the court, did not cover the case, but it was not
hinted by counsel, or by either of the judges, that the exemptions were invalid.

LIVERPOOL STEAM1 CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Argument for Appellant.

(4) The continental authorities also fully support our position as to the right to make this contract to limit liability
The first draft of the Commercial Code of Germany prohibited all contracts limiting the liability of common carriers
as laid down in that code. The second draft expressly stated
that such prohibition should not apply to any common carriers, except railroads. This provision gave rise to a long discussion between the railroads who were opposed to the section,
and the general commercial interests which favored it. As a
compromise, nothing was said in the code, as it finally passed,
about other common carriers, and the prohibition was applied
to railroads, but considerably modified, and in a less stringent
form. (See foot-note to 3 Endemann, Handbuch des Deutschen Handelsrecht, 485, 1884.)
'Under the law as it now stands, it has been expressly decided by the Supreme Imperial Court of Commerce that common carriers, other than railroads, are at liberty to make such
contracts limiting their liability See the case of -Ramburg
Am. Packet Co. v Johns, 25 Entscheidungen des Reichsoberhandelsgerichts, 181.
The same doctrine is held in France. -uclos v .Messageies
.Aaritimes, at the Court of Appeal at Aix, March 16, 1875,
S. C. in the Cour de Cassation, March 14, 187, 1 Dalloz, 449,
450, Le iVormant v Cormlpagnse Generale Trancsatlantigue,in
the Court of Appeal at Rouen, Journal du ralais (1877), 1154,
S. C. in the Cour de Cassation, April 2, 1877, Journal du Palais
(1878), 742, Brstish 1ndia Steam Co. v Stora, in the Cour de
Cassation, July 23, 1878, Journal du Palais (1879), 1092, Tets&ser
v Corpagnte Generale Tansatlantque,in the Court of
Appeal of Algeria, December 26, 1881, Journal du Palais
(1883), 83, Levy v Compagne Generale Tfransatlatigue,in
the Cour de Cassation, January 22, 1881, Journal du Palais

(1884), 534.
[The brief contained translations of the judgments in these
cases at length. The judgment in Le .ormant v. Compagnme
Gendrale Tansatlantique,in the Cour de Cassation, was as
follows, as translated in the brief.]
"WEREAs as a matter of fact, by taking the engagement by
VOL. cxxix-27

OCTOBER TERM, 188S.
Argument for Appellant.

the bill of lading of the 3rd April 1874, to convey from iNew
York to Havre the goods shipped on board the Amerique,
the Compagnie Generale Transatlantique has formally excepted
the acts of God, of the enemies, pirates, fire at sea and on
land, accidents arising from the machinery, the boilers, the
steam, and all other accidents at sea occasioned by the negligence or the mistakes of the captain, of the crew or of the
engineer, whatever may be the nature of these accidents, and
their consequences.
"WHEREAS no law prohibits ship-owners from stipulating
that they do not answer for the fault of the captain or those
of the crew; that such a convention is not contrary to public
order or to morality, that, as a matter of fact, although in
admitting that public order and morality would not allow a
person, in principle, to exonerate himself from the mistakes
committed by his employes. and if it be true that the captain
is the servant or subordinate of the ship-owner, it is equally
true that, in the exercise of his command, the captain escapes,
in fact and in law the authority of his principal and his supervision, and, for that reason, the captain is made answerable
by articles 221 and 222 of the Code of Commerce, and has an
inherent and direct responsibility, and for the same reason
article 353 of the same code, whose general terms make no
distinction, allows ship-owners as well as the simple shippers to
insure against all faults and omissions of the captain or the
crew known under the name of the master's barratry
"Consequently, by declaring valid in this case the clause of
the bill of lading by which the Company defendant declined
any responsibility for the fault or negligence whatever, imputable to the capfain, the crew or the engineers, the contested
decision has not transgressed any law"
Section 416 of the Nuovo Codice di Commercio of Italy is
as follows
"In the contract of carriage by railway stipulations that
exclude or limit the obligations or the responsibilities by
§§ 392, 393, 394, 400, 402, 403, 404, 405, 407, 408, 411 and
415, are null and of no effect, even if permitted by general or

LIVERPOOL STEAM1 CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Argument for Appellant.

special rules except when, in consideration of the limitation
of liability, there should be correspondingly offered by special
rates a diminution in price from the price established in the
ordinary rates."
This code contains two other sections which are also made
by the Court of Cassation the basis of its argument for a decision in favor of our contention. Section 491 relates to that
well-known article of the Continental maritime law, whereby
owners of vessels can relieve themselves of their personal
responsibility for the acts of the master or other agents by
abandoning the vessel to the creditors. The other section is
618, wherein barratry is allowed to be made a subject of insurance. Those sections being as above stated, and the spirit of
the law being as above shown, a case came up directly on the
point, and was decided in favor of the views taken by the
appellants herein, in the first instance and subsequently by
the Court of Appeals of Lucca, on the 16th of October, 1885,
and then by the Court of Cassation on the 14th of June, 1886.
The following is a translation of an extract from the judgment in the Court of Cassation
"All that is to be examined is, if in a contract for maritime
transportation, a stipulation that exempts or limits the responsibility of the owner of the vessel for the default or negligence
of the master or of the crew, is valid and obligatory, in other
words, if the clause inserted in the bill of lading by which it
is agreed that the owner of the vessel is not to be responsible
for the default or negligence of the master or of the crew is
valid and obligatory
"Such question was resolved by the court hearing the merits
in the sense sustaining the validity
"Indeed there is no disposition of law from which there
could be inferred, whether indirectly or by analogy, a prohibition of the stipulation mentioned."
In Holland the liability of common carriers is laid down
in § 91, of the Code of Commerce. "Carriers and masters
of ships are responsible for all damage to the wares and
merchandise transported by them, except what is caused by
the nature of the goods, by the act of God, or by negligence

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Argument for Appellant.

of the sender."

This section is expressly made applicable

only to carriers by land and inland navigation.

No such

strict liability is, by the terms of the statute, imposed on.other
carriers.
Even as to those carriers to whom this section is applicable,
the Court of Appeals m a decision of the 21st June, 1861, held
that parties were entirely at liberty to limit the strict liability imposed by law, and that such contracts were not against
public policy See 2 Cremers Aanteekeningen op de Nederlandische Wetboeken, 111, pl. 977. This decision has been
followed repeatedly by other courts. Utrecht, 24th March,
1874, Weekblad van het Recht, No. 3732. Rotterdam, 29th
January, 1881, Paleis van Justitie, 1881, No. 17.
(5) The point now raised is not controlled by decisions of
this court. The two which bear most directly on the question
are Raiboad Co. v Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, and Hrart v.
.Pennsylvanza Railroad, 112 U. S. 331.
These cases both differ from the case at bar in the fact
(whatever may be its significance) that the carriers were inland carriers, railroad companies exercising their functions
under public authority
They differ from each other in the fact that in the earliest,
a stipulation in the contract of carriage for an exemption from
liability for negligence was held void, in the other, such a
stipulation was held valid.
The two cases appear to be reconciled by the view stated in
both, that the validity of the exemption turns in every case
upon the fact whether it is or is not, in the case presented to
the court, "just and reasonable."
In Railroad Co. v Lockwood, the action was for personal
injuries to a passenger, which were found by the jury to have
been caused by the negligence of the Railroad Company whose
defence was that by the terms of the contract it was exempt
from liability The opinion states the question thus "The
question is, therefore, distinctly raised, whether a railroad
company carrying passengers for hire can lawfully stipulate
not to be answerable for their own or their servants' negligence in reference to such carriage." The question, thus

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PITENIX INS. CO.

421

Argument for Appellant.

stated with precision, was the question involved, and though,
in the discussion of it the argument took a wide range, it is
submitted that the question thus stated was the only one
decided.
There were, indeed, at the close of the elaborate opinion,
several conclusions stated which went beyond the point directly involved, but it has been so often held in this court
that nothing is adjudged by a decision but what is presented by
the case, that it is assumed that the court is free to qualify
some of these conclusions.
The second of these conclusions -which is the one which is
claimed to cover the case at bar - " That it is not just and reasonable in the eye of the law for a common carrier to stipulate
for exemption from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants," cannot certainly be reconciled with the
Hart case without some qualification of its language, for in
this latter case an exemption from liability for negligence was
held just and reasonable, and therefore valid. To be sure it
was not an exemption from all liability, but it was a substantial and important exemption from liability sustained as lawful because, under the circumstances, just and reasonable. To
harmonize the two cases, then, the above second proposition
should read thus "1That it is not just and reasonable, in the
eye of the law, for a common carrier to stipulate for exemption
from responsibility for the negligence of himself or his servants, where the exemption -zs not tn ttselfjust and reasonable."
And this is substantially the decision in the HZart case, that
the exemption, being in a contract fairly made, etc., was "a
proper and lawful mode of securing a due proportion between
the amount for which the carrier may be responsible and the
freight he receives," etc. (p. 343). And in another place, the
opinion, after referring to numerous variant decisions, proceeds thus. "Applying to the case in hand the proper test to
be applied to every lir'tdatiom of the common law liability of a
carrier - 'tsjust and reasonable character- we have reached
the result indicated," which was that the exemption from partial liability for negligence might in that case stand, and then
adds "In Great Britain, a statute directs this test to be ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

plied by the courts. The same rule is the proper one to be
applied in this country, in the absence of any statute" (p. 342).
In the third conclusion stated in Railroad Co. v Lockwood
"That these rules apply both to carriers of goods and carriers
of passengers for hire, and with special force to the latter," it
seems to be implied that it was the latter case only which was
before the court, and that what was said as to carriers of goods
might be considered as said arguendo.
And some color is given to this view by the language of the
learned judge in the case of Railway Co. v Stevens, 95 U S.
655, which was also a case of injury to a passenger. After
referring to the case of Railroad Co. v lockwood, the judge
says '' We have no doubt of the correctness of the conclusion
does not say "all the conclusions,"
reached in that case ,"-he
- and then proceeds as follows "We are aware that respectable tribunals have asserted the right to stipulate for exemption
m such a case and it is often asked, with apparent confidence,
'IMay not men make their own contracts, or, in other words,
may not a man do what he will with his own 2' The question
at first sight seems a simple one. But there is a question lying behind that, 'Can a man call that absolutely his own
which he holds as a great public trust, by the public grant and
for the public use, as well as his own profit 2' The business
of the common carrier, in this country at least, is emphatically
a branch of the public service, and the conditions on which
that public service shall be performed by private enterprise are
not yet entirely settled. We deem it the safest plan not to
anticipate questions until they fairly arise and become necessary for our decision" (p. 660).
It is submitted that znland carrierswere here in mind, and
that the question now presented had not then arisen.
INone of the cases in this court which have arisen in reference to exemptions in contracts for ocean navigation of cargo
need be specially considered, as none of them go further than
to hold, to use the language of Rapallo, J., in a late case, that
"when special perils are expected, such as losses by fire, the
exception is held not to cover the case of a fire caused by the
negligence of the servants of the carrier, unless the intention

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

423

Argument for Appellant.

to cover such a case affirmatively appears."

S.pnetti v Atlas

.Co., 80 N. Y 71, 15.
The remark of Gray, J., in Puxwx Ins. Co. v Ene and

Western Tran&portation Co., 117 U. S. 312, may also be cited
"By the settled doctrine of this court, even an express stipulation in the contract of carriage that a common carrier shall
be exempt from liability for losses caused by himself and his
servants, is unreasonable and contrary to public policy and
therefore void" (p. 322).
The remark was not necessary to the decision. The bill of
lading in that case contained no such exemption from liability
for negligence.
The authority of the Fartcase, which the learned judge did
not refer to, he did not, of course, intend to impugn.
any law of place govcrns, it is the law of New
III. -If
York, where the contracts were entered into, or of England, in
whose waters the disaster occurred, and where the transportation was to be completed. It must be conceded that under the
law, as admnstered in either of those jurisdictions, the libels
should have been dismissed.
That it was not necessary to specially plead that the transaction was governed by the law of England, br some other
law than that of New York, seems expressly decided in Lamar
v .tricou, 112 U. S. 452.
In that case this court reversed a decree in equity upon the
ground that the law of another State than that of New York
governed the case, though that ground was neither pleaded nor
raised by counsel either below or on an appeal. On motion
for a rehearing on this ground, the court said "The questions
so passed upon, though hardly touched by either counsel at
the first argument, were vital to the determination of the
rights of the parties and could not be overlooked by the court."
-Lamarv .Aicou, 114 U S. 218, 220. In the present case the
facts upon which the point of the lex lom is raised are indisputable.
IV - If, as is ably urged by some of the briefs, there is a
maritime law on the subject variant from the common law,
then the matter being one of contract between shipper and

OCTOBER TERM1, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

carrier to be performed on the high seas, the admiralty courts,
at least, should interpret the obligations and validity of the
contract by that law, but it is difficult to see how, if the mar
itime law does so affect the obligations and validity of the contract, any court should refuse to recognize it. It would not be
to the praise of the law as a rational department of affairs that
the rights of parties under a contract, the terms of which are
explicit, should be determined one way in a suit brought in
admiralty, and the other way in a suit brought on the common
law side of the same tribunal.
Congress not having legislated, there is, it is submitted, no
law of the United States on the subject. The Federal courts
are supposed to administer the common law or the general
commercial law, as the courts of England, and of each of the
States having jurisdiction, would administer it, all in the same
way, if they were all infallible.
V The libellants being the underwriters of the cargo, and,
being presumed to have knowledge of the clauses in the bills
of lading exempting the ship carrier from loss for neglect of
the master and mariners, and having with such knowledge
taken upon themselves such risk, including barratry, etc.,
under their policy of insurance, and having received a premium therefor, it would not be just and reasonable that they
should be permitted to recover herein. They are equitably
estopped.
In Pcentx Irns. Co. v Erze & W7estern Transportaton Co.,
117 U S. 312, Mr. Justice Gray delivering the opinion of the
court, is the latest announcement of the views of the court in
respect to this subject. The case, it will be remembered, arose
out of the stranding of a vessel on Lake Erie, by the gross
neglect of the master and mariners, as found by the court.
The bills of lading provided that the ship carrier should have
the benefit of any insurance effected by the shipper or owner
of the property The Phcenix Insurance Company paid the
loss and brought their action against the Erie & Western
Transportation Company, owners of the vessel, claiming to
be subrogated to the rights of their assured, the shipper, and
this court, affirming the decrees below, held that there could

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

425

Argument for Appellant.

be no recovery, and cited with approval numerous cases in the
lower courts to the same effect. See also Copeland v _Yew
England Ins. Co., 2 Met. 432, Parsons Mar. Ins. 14, 18, Don
v _Yew Jersey Steam iYao igatton Co., 4 Sandf. 141.
It being well settled (1st) that the ship-owner could have
insured this very risk with the libellants, (2d) that the shipper
or owner of the cargo could have insured the same risk, and
(3d) that there was an agreement between the ship-owner
and the owner of the cargo, to give the former the benefit
of any insurance effected by the latter, m respect to this
portion of the cargo, it is respectfully submitted that it is
difficult to find any good reason, resting m public policy or
otherwise, why the shipper of goods could not lawfully become his own underwriter, in consideration of a premium
paid, or in other words, why a clause m bills of lading like
the one m question, is not valid in law
The ship-owner might have insured this very risk with the
libellants, or agreed with the shipper for the benefit of msurance to be effected by him. The libellants simply took a risk
which this assured had taken, presumably with full knowledge
on the part of the libellants, and for a consideration which was
sufficient m the estimate of the contracting parties, and the
libellants have therefore been subrogated simply to the rights
and equities of the shipper, to wit, that this particular risk
should fall on the shoulders of the shipper and not the shipowner.
The underwriters' rights rest upon familiar principles of
equity It is the doctrine of subrogation, dependent not at
all upon privity of contract, but worked out through the right
of the creditor or owner. Hall v Railroad Companses, 13
Wall. 367, 370.
VI. It appearing that by the provisions of certain bills of
lading of the cargo in question, the carrier should have the
benefit of any insurance that might have been effected upon
or for account of said goods, the libellants cannot recover for
such loss.
To be sure these bills of lading provide, as between the carrying companies themselves, when their respective duties shall

,OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

end, and enumerate what duties each takes upon itself, but
they in no way do away with the clause that that company
alone shall be held answerable in whose actual custody the
same may be at the time of the happening of the loss, etc.,
and the carrier so liable shall have the full benefit of any
insurance that may have been effected, etc.
This clause was binding between the compames on the one
hand and the shipper on the other, and by it the shipper gave
the benefit of such agreement to that company in whose possession his goods should be at the time of the happening of
such loss. Lamb v Camden and Amboy ]Railroad,46 N. Y
290, Atna In.surance Co. v Wheeler, 49 N. Y 616, Babcock
v Lake Shore Railroad, 49 N. Y 491, Whztzorth v Erne
Railway Co., 87 N. Y 413.
MP .Mort n P Henry, by leave of court, filed an additional
brief on behalf of appellant, m which he maintained.
First. That the contracts contained in the bill of lading
for shipments by the British vessel Montana are governed by
the British law, and not by the law of the forum, and that
the shippers are presumed to have contracted with reference
to the law of Great Britain.
Second. That the contracts in the bills of lading for shipment by the Montana, exempting the owners from liability for
loss occasioned by the negligence of their servants, were valid
under the law of Great Britain as a defence to these actions
on the facts found, and the loss was caused by negligent navigation of the respondent's steamship.
Third. That there was sufficient proof on the trial of the
cause of the law of Great Britain in the authoritative reports of
decisions in the British Courts, which the Circuit Court should
have received as evidence of the law of Great Britain as to the
validity of the exceptions of liability for negligence of the
servants of the owners of British vessels.
Fourth. That the absence of the allegation in the pleadings
that the law of Great Britain differed from that of the forum
was a subject of amendment in any stage of the proceedings,
and that this court can permit such amendment to be made
in the present stage of the proceedings.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Argument for Appellant.

The second and fourth points in Ins brief were as follows
II. Is there anything in the methods of procedure and trial
of causes in the admiralty courts of the United States which,
in a suit against English subjects, forbid such courts in a proper
case from deciding the cause in accordance with the law of
Great Britain, although the pleadings do not allege that the
liability of the respondents is governed by that law, if the facts
show that the question is presented for the decision of the
court2

The proposed amendment to the answer alleged that the
respondents were relieved from liability for the negligence of
their servants under these contracts by the law of Great
Britain. It was an applicationto the court, before final decree,
to decide that the law of the forum did not apply to the case
presented by the finding of the facts.
It is believed that under the decisions of this court, the
absence of any such allegation as to the law applicable to these
contracts, would not prevent the court from deciding the cause
under the foreign law upon the original pleadings, even without amendment, if the facts presented had shown that it was
a proper case to apply such law
And that where justice requires it, this court will give a
proper decree upon the facts appearing in the cause, although
the allegations may not be supported, and the relief granted
differs from that which is asked in the prayer of the libel.
In the case of Dviont v Vance, 19 How 162, a suit was
brought to recover the value of cargo which had been jettisoned. It was an action for non-delivery of cargo. It was
clanned that the evidence showed that the vessel was unseaworthy The Circuit Court on appeal from the District Court
dismssed the libel, holding that it was a case for contribution by action at law or in equity The Supreme Court
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, and entered a decree
awarding to the libellants their contributory proportion, payable by the vessel in general average. There was no amendment of the libel. But as it appeared by the evidence in the
cause that it was a case for general average contribution, such
relief was given although not specially asked.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

In the case of The Syracuse, 12 Wall. 167, it was decided
that there is no doctrine of a mere techncal variance in the
admiralty, and when the allegations of specific negligence are
not supported, the court will decide on such facts as are presented by the evidence, when the omission to state material
facts did not occasion surprise and was not intentional.
The case of The l~rgn, 8 Pet. 538, was a suit on a bottomry bond. The Circuit Court held the bond to be invalid
for want of authority to execute it, and gave a decree sn personam for the amount of the advances to the master included
in the bond.
These cases illustrate the flexibility of the admiralty procedure to give redress where the facts are fairly before the court,
without regard to the allegations when no disadvantage has
arisen to the other side from any omission of the allegations
or pleadings.
The power of amendment is ample in each court in which
the case is heard, at every stage of the proceedings, to permit
such an amendment to be made. This arises from the nature
of the admiralty appeal which is a trial de novo. The Lucille,
19 Wall. 73.
It may be fairly urged, that no rules of court can limit the
right of appeal in admiralty given by statute, so as to confine
the appellant to the facts as alleged in the court below, and
change the nature of an appeal. In the Circuit Court on
appeal, amendments can be made at any stage of the proceedings , of which an instance may be given in Tie Pennsylvauna,
12 Blatchford, 67, where an amendment was allowed permitting the claimant to claim affirmative damages, which had not
been set up in the answer after a mandate from the Supreme
Court reversing the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the
libel, and dividing the damages. As there would have been
a failure of justice to refuse it, the amendment was allowed.
And the Supreme Court may, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, remand the cause to the Circuit Court to
allow new allegations to be made where merits plainly appear,
but the case is defective on the pleadings. The .Marzanna
Flor , 11 Wheat. 1, at p. 38, The -MaryAnn, 8 Wheat. 380,
see also The Adeline, 9 Cranch, 244, at p. 284.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

429

Argument for Appellant.

In the case of rTe Julia Blake, 107 U S. 418, the action
was on a bottomry bond, which was not sustained as to the
cargo for want of communication with the owners. After
hearing m the Supreme Court, the libellant asked to be allowed
to recover for the cargo's proportion of actual advances, but,
as there was evidence to show that the loss was occasioned by
the unseaworthmess of the vessel, this court refused to remand
the cause so as to allow such claim to be set up. It was refused because the evidence did not show merits.
If, therefore, the amendment m this cause should have been
allowed to bring the question before the Circuit Court of the
United States, this court, in the exercise of its appellate jrisdiction, is competent to allow it now, if in the judgment of the
court the facts present a proper case to raise the question.
IV Will the Admiralty Courts of the United States ascertam the law of England in cases affecting the liability of the
owners of English vessels sued in their courts by reference to
the English decisions and authorities, or must the English law
be proved as a fact by the testimony of experts 2
That the laws of England permit ship-owners to stipulate
for exemption for loss occasioned by the negligence of their
servants is authoritatively settled. The Duero, L. R.2 Ad.
& Ec. 393, Chartered .Mereantile.Bankof India v The Netherlandg India SteamlNav. Co., 10 Q. B. D 521, Steel v. State
Ine SteamnhV Co., 3 App. Cas. 72, Carver on Carriage by
Sea, 101, Maud & lPollock on Shipping, 358, Car"negte v
.fornson, 2 Met. 381, 404.
Dr. Lushington in the case of The Peerless,1 Lushington, 30,
at page 40, expresses his views on this subject. The question
was as to a collision which occurred in the river Hooghly
"It is the duty of the court to carry into effect the local laws
of the place where the transaction in question occurred, I
should therefore pay regard to the local laws of India or Canada, as I would to those of Liverpool or Newcastle. And to
ascertain those laws I do not consider that I am bound to require all the strictness of proof which a court of common law
would require in proving a foreign law, and for the following
reasons

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

"Secondly
iMore especially because in matters of evidence
I must look to the practice of my predecessors and the great
distinction which prevails between the description of causes
which come under the cognizance of the Court of Admiralty
and those in other courts. The cases over which the Court of
Admiralty exercises jurisdiction occur in all parts of the world,
on the high seas and in remote places. It is a well-known
principle confirmed by authority that Courts of Admiralty
are to proceed levato velo, that is with the utmost expedition.
In order to carry this principle into effect this court has,
both in foreign matters and civil suits, been accustomed to
receive evidence which would not have been admitted in other
courts."
He subsequently adds "I think the court may be safely
trusted to weigh evidence that night not be so safe to leave to
a jury"
In the case of The J F Spencer, 3 Ben. 337, copies of
official surveys, estimates of repairs and report of sale were
received in evidence, although m a proceeding at law they
would not have been received for any purpose, because "courts
of Admiralty are not bound by all the rules of evidence which
are applied in the courts of common law, and they may, where
justice requires it, take notice of matters not strictly proved."
Also, in The Boskenna Bay, 22 Fed. Rep. 662, the terms of
a charter-party were allowed to be given in evidence, although
it could nob have been read in evidence without more formal
proof in a court of law
Also, in accordance with this view the foreign law has been
recognized as governing transactions without strict proof, and
upon such proofs as are found in the reports of English
decisions.
In the case of The .MaudCarter,29 Fed. Rep. 156, claims
for premiums of insurance and spars used in the construction
of a vessel were allowed as a lien upon a British vessel,
although according to the decisions in the same circuit the lien
would not have been allowed by the law of the United States.
The court says "This is a British vessel and subject to
British law Under the circumstances it is the duty of the

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

431

Argument for Appellant.

court to administer and apply the British law exactly as it
would be applied if the vessel were in an English court. The
court, under the decision in The _?-ga, L. R. 3 Ad. & Ec.
516, must hold that insurance expressly authorized by the
owners is a 'necessary,' within the English act defining the
jurisdiction of the Admiralty Court, and that under that act it
created a maritime lien upon the vessel."
In The F7 eox, 21 Fed. Rep. 479, the admiralty enforced the
priority of lien against a Dutch vessel according to the Code
of the INetherlands: it does not appear that expert testinony
was produced.
In Covert v BTzg Wexford, 3 Fed. Rep. 57, the court construed the British Merchant Shipping Act, and gave the master of a British vessel a lien on the vessel under that Act of
Parliament, which was not given by the law of the forum.
In The Adlph, I Fed. Rep. 501, the Code of Sweden was
applied, giving the crew three months' wages on abandonment
of the voyage. These cases, although not in courts of the last
resort, show that the Courts of Admiralty have relaxed the
rules of evidence as to the proof of the foreign law, as well as
of other facts. If stricter proof were required they would be
hampered m the exercise of their jurisdiction.
In this court the following judgments show a relaxation of
the rule as to the proof of the foreign law In the case of
Snbsthl v. 0ondry, 1 How 28, a suit was brought for a collision between two American ships in the river Mersey The
defence was that The Tasso, the injuring vessel, was in charge
of a licensed pilot of the port of Liverpool, whom the master
was compelled to take or incur a penalty, or be liable for full
piotage, and the defendants gave m evidence the British statutes, and the court decided it under the construction of the
British Pilotage Act m Carruthersv Sydebotham, 4 K. & S.
71, that the master was not responsible for the default of the
pilot. The court accepted the construction of the Liverpool
Pilotage Act without the aid of expert testimony
In The JuliaBlake, 10' -U. S.418, the question was as to
the validity of a bottomry bond on cargo given by the master
of a British vessel at St. Thomas for want of commiumcation

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

with the owners. The court says, at p. 426, "Whether, since
The Julia Blake was a British vessel, the authority of her
master in a Danish port is to be determined by the English
law instead of by the general maritine law or the law of
Denmark, are questions we deemed unnecessary to consider;
for in our opinion even under the most liberal construction of
any recognized rule which can be invoked for the authority of
the master over the cargo, this bond cannot be sustained."
This case is authority because the court did not refuse to
ascertain the law of England if applicable to an Englisb
vessel, because it was not proved as a fact.
In J7e .Maggse Hammond, 9 Wall. 435, this court enforced
a lien against an English vessel for breach of a contract of
affreightment made in Scotland without proof of the law of
England or of Scotland.
.X
Milliam G Choate and _Mr William D. Shipman, by
leave of court, filed a brief for appellant on behalf of the
North German Lloyd Steamship Company The following
are extracts from that brief
The case now presented to this court is not a question of
the common law liability of the common carrier, but a question of the maritime law of the United States. It is unnecessary to point out to the court that the same rule of liability
which governs the question by the common law does not necessarily obtain in the maritime law on a particular point. The
maritime law of the United States is the maritime law of the
world, or the law of the whole commercial world in relation
to maritime contracts and maritime torts, so far as it has been
adopted by or is applicable to the United States. The common law is the law of England and the United States and the
British Colonies. Its rules have no authority or sanction beyond the limits of the countries in which it belongs, except so
far as the judicial or legislative powers of other States may
have enacted or declared similar provisions, and in determining what is the maritime law in a point not yet settled it is
incumbent upon the court to consider what view of the question is taken by the courts or the commercial cddes of all other
maritime nations.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

433

Argument for Appellant.

It is believed that the foreign law, generally, agrees on
this point with that of Great Britain and the State of New
York, and differs from the rule of the common law as declared
by this court. If this be so, then it would seem to follow,
that this court, sitting as a Court of Admiralty, and having
regard to the views which obtain among maritime nations on
this point, will be bound to hold, that whatever may be the
rule of the common law on this subject, the rule of the maritime law permits such a contraQt as a valid contract between
ship and shipper.
It is respectfully submitted, that the dictum of Mr. Justice
Gray m Phant Ins. Co. v Erie and Westen [Transporation Co., 117 U. S. 312, overlooks the important consideraton, that permitting the insurance removes the sanction for
diligence just as certainly and as completely as the stipulation in the bill of lading exempting the ship from liability,
and the consideration of public policy which permits the
insurance cannot forbid the stipulation. In fact, it is obvious that if the common law rule obtains between the ship
and the shipper by the maritime law, and the maritime law
permits insurance by the ship-owner against the peril in question, then the ship-owner is allowed to insure against this peril
with all the world as underwriters, excepting only the owner
of the goods. He alone is forbidden to insure the ship-owner
against this peril, by entering into the stipulation in question.
This, then, is a public policy which allows itself to be outwitted, which introduces into a system of law a merely arbitrary prohibition between two particular parties without reason
to make a certain contract, when it can be made by one of
them with all the rest of the world.
From this admitted rule of the maritime law, therefore,
allowing the ship-owner to insure, it is a logical and proper
inference that the maritime law does not forbid the stipulation
between the ship and shipper, for this is merely an insurance
by the shipper taking upon himself the risk of this peril for a
consideration.
We do not for a moment assume that this court will be
deterred from declaring its own view of the law by any array
voL. c=-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

of the consequences which may follow its decision. Nevertheless, the consequences of a new rule of law, or of extending the operation of an old rule to a new and different field of
commerce, are proper to be considered on the question whether
the new departure is just and reasonable.
In conclusion, we cannot do better than to refer to the
elaborate and luminous opinion of this court in the case of
The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558. delivered by Mr.Justice Bradley, in which, while recognizing the fact, that some inodifications have been introduced into the IYaritime Code by different
nations, he enforces with great vigor the doctrine, that "the
convenience of the commercial world, bound together as it is
by mutual relations of trade and intercourse, demands, that m
all essential things wherein those relations bring them in contact, there should be a uniform law, founded on natural reason
and justice" (p. 572). And, again, "This view of the subject
does not, m the slightest degree, detract from the proper
authority and respect due to that venerable law of the sea,
which has been the subject of such high encomiums from the
ablest jurists of all countries, it merely places it upon the just
and logical grounds upon which it is accepted, and, with
proper qualifications, received with the binding force of law
in all countries" (p. 574).
Xr Everett P Wheeler, by leave of court, filed a brief for
appellant on behalf of the Oceanic Steam Navigating Company, citing, XMiller v Tifany, I Wall. 298, Juncton Railroad Co. v Bank ofAshland, 12 Wall. 226, Bell v Bruen, 1
Row 169, Cox v Un'ted States, 6 Pet. 172, 1e Breton v
Miles, 8 Paige, 261, Burckle v Eckhart, 3 N. Y 132, 1 Voet
ad Pand. (Paris) 315, lib. 4, tit. 1, § 29, Dig. 44, 7, 21,
Andrews v Pond, 13 Pet. 65, Riobinson v Bland, 2 Burrow 1077, llibernta Bank v Lacombe, 84 N. Y 367, Everett
v Yendryes 19 N. Y 436, Rothschild v Curme, 1 Q. B. 43,
Cooper v Waldegrave, 2 Beavan, 282, Boyce v Edwards, 4
Pet. 111, Pope v Nickerson, 3 Story, 465, Barter v Wheeler,
49 N. H. 9, Pomeroy v A'nswortk, 22 Barb. 118, Penobscot
&c.Railroad v Bartlett, 12 Gray, 244, Curtis v Delaware

LIVERPOOL STEAMN

CO. v. PHENEK INS. CO.

435

Opinion of the Court.

&e. Railroad, 74 N. Y 116, Brown v Camden &e. Railroad, 83 Penn. St. 316, Prentiss v Savage, 13 Mass. 20,
Peninsular c Oriental Co. v Shand, 3 Moore P 0. (N. S.)
272, T]ie Harrtsburgh,119 U. S. 199, Insurance Co. v Brame,
95 U. S. 754, .Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 11, The
Scotia, 14 Wall. 170, Woodley v 3i~ckell, 11 Q. B. D. 47, Peelk
v -yorth Staffordshtre.Railway, 10 H. L. Cas. 473, The
Gaetano & Afara, 7 P D. 137, reversing S. C. Id. 1, Lloyd
v Guibert, L. R. 1 Q. B. 115, affg. S. C. 6 B. & S. 100, The
W~oodland, 14 Blatchford, 499, affg. S. C. 7 Ben. 110, Crapo
v Jlelley, 16 Wall. 610, .llarshallv. Jfurgatroyd, L. R. 6
Q.B. 31.
_Mr Tilliam,Allen Butler for appellee.
Mm. JusTioE

Gr.Y delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by a steamship company from a decree
rendered against it upon a libel in admiralty, "in a cause of
action arising from breach of contract," brought by an insurance company, claiming to be subrogated to the rights of the
owners of goods shipped on board the Montana, one of the
appellant's steamships, at New York, to be carried to Liverpool, and lost or damaged by her stranding, because of the
negligence of her master and officers, m Holyhead Bay on the
coast of Wales, before reaching her destination.
In behalf of the appellant, it was contended that the loss
was caused by perils of the sea, without any negligence on
the part of master and officers, that the appellant was not a
common carrier, that it was exempt from liability by the
terms of the bills of lading, and that the libellant had not
been subrogated to the rights of the owners of the goods.
It is to be remembered that the jurisdiction of -this court to
review the decree below is limited to questions of law, and
does not extend to questions of fact. Act of February 16,
1875, c. 77, § 1, 18 Stat. 315, The Gazelle, 128 U. S. 474, 484,
and cases ther6 cited.
In the findings of fact, the Circuit Court, after stating, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

much detail, the course of the ship's voyage, the conduct of
her master and officers, the position and character of the
various lighthouses and other safeguards which she passed,
and other attendant circumstances immediately preceding the
stranding, distinctly finds as facts "Those in charge of the
navigation of the Montana were negligent, in that, without
having taken cross bearings of the light at South Stack, and
so determined their distance from the light, they took an east
three-quarters south course before passing the Skerries, and
without seeing the Skerries light, and in that they continued
at full speed after hearing the fog-gun at North Stack, and
in that they took a northeast by east magnetic course on
hearing said fog-gun, instead of stopping and backing and
taking a westerly course out of Holyhead Bay, and in that
they did not ascertain their position in Holyhead Bay by
means of the lights and fog-signals, or by the use of the lead,
or by stopping until they should, by those means or otherwise.
learn where their ship was."
"On the foregoing facts," the only conclusion of law stated
by the Circuit Court (except those affecting the right of subrogation and the amount to be recovered) is in these words
" The stranding of the Montana and the consequent damage
to her cargo having been the direct result of the negligence
of the master and officers of the steamer, the respondent is
liable therefor." Negligence is not here stated as a conclusion
of law, but assumed as a fact already found. The conclusion
of law is, in effect, that, such being the fact, the respondent is
liable, notwithstanding any clause in the bills of lading.
The question of negligence is fully and satisfactorily dis,cussed in the opinion of the District Court, reported in 17
Fed. Rep. 377, and in that of the Circuit Court, reported in
22 Blatchford, 372. It is largely, if not wholly, a question of
fact, the decision of which by the Circuit Court cannot be
reviewed here, and so far as it can possibly be held to be or
to involve a question of law, it is sufficient to say that the
circumstances of the case, as found by the Circuit Court,
clearly warrant, if they do not require, a court r jury, charged
-with the duty of determining issues of fact, to find that the

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opimon of the Court.

stranding was owing to the negligence of the officers of the
ship.
The contention that the appellant is not a common carrier
0
may also be shortly disposed of.
By the settled law, in the absence of some valid agreement
to the contrary, the owner of a general ship, carrying goods
for hire, whether employed in internal, in coasting or in foreign commerce, is a common carrier, with the liability of an
insurer against all losses, except only such two irresistible
causes as the act of God and public enemies. Molloy, bk. 2,
c. 2, § 2, Bac. Ab. Carrier,, Barclay v Cuoull y Gana, 3
Doug. 389, 2 Kent Com. 598, 599, Story on Bailments, § 501,
The Niagara, 21 How 'T,23, The -LadyPike, 21 Wall. 1, 14.
In the present case, the Circuit Court has found as facts
"The Montana was an ocean steamer, built of iron, and performed regular service as a common carrier of merchandise
and passengers between the ports of Liverpool, England, and
New York, in the line commonly known as the Guion Line.
By her, and by other ships in that line, the respondent was
such common carrier. On March 2, 1880, the Montana left
the port of INew York, on one of her regular voyages, bound
for Liverpool, England, with a full cargo, consisting of about
twenty-four hundred tons of merchandise, and with passengers." The bills of lading, annexed to the answer and to the
findings of fact, show that the four shipments in question
amounted to less than one hundred and thirty tons, or hardly
more than one twentieth part of the whole cargo. It is clear,
therefore, upon this record, that the appellant is a common
carrier, and liable as such, unless exempted by some clause in
the bills of lading.
In each of the bills of lading, the excepted perils, for loss or
damage from which it is stipulated that the appellant shall
not be responsible, include "barratry of master or mariners,"
and all perils of the seas, rivers or navigation, described more
particularly in one of the bills of lading as "collision, stranding or other peril of the seas, rivers or navigation, of whatever
nature or kind soever, and howsoever such collision, stranding
or other peril may be caused," and in the other three bills of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

lading described more generally as any "accidents of the
seas, rivers and steam navigation, of whatever nature or kind
soever;" and each bill of lading adds, in the following words
in the one, and in equivalent words in the others, "whether
arising from the negligence, default, or error in judgment of
the master, mariners, engineers or others of the crew, or otherwise howsoever."
If the bills of lading had not contained the clause last
quoted, it is quite clear that the other clauses would not have
relieved the appellant from liability for the damage to the
goods from the stranding of the ship through the negligence
of her officers. Collision or stranding is, doubtless, a peril of
the seas, and a policy of insurance against perils of the seas
covers a loss by stranding or collision, although arising from
the negligence of the master or crew, because the insurer
assumes to indemnify the assured against losses from particular
perils, and the assured does not warrant that his servants shall
use due care to avoid them. General Ins. Co. v Sh/erwood, 14
How 351, 364, 365, Orzent Ins. Co. v Adams, 123 U S. 67,
7, Copeland v Few England Ins. Co., 2 Met. 432, 448-450.
But the ordinary contract of a carrier does involve an obligation on his part to use due care and skill in navigating the
vessel and carrying the goods, and, as is everywhere held, an
exception, in the bill of lading, of perils of the sea or other
specified perils does not excuse him from that obligation, or
exempt him from liability for loss or damage from one of
those perils, to which the negligence of himself or his servants
has contributed. New Jersey Steami Navtgation Co. v. -fMerchants' Bank, 6 How 344, E press Co. v ]ountze, 8 Wall.
841,
ransportatton Co. v -Downer, 11 Wall. 129, Grill v
General Iron Screw Co., L. R. 1 C. P 600, and L. R. 3 C. P
476, T]he Xantho, 12 App. Cas. 503, 510, 515.
We are then brought to the consideration of the principal
question in the case, namely, the validity and effect of that
clause in each bill of lading by which the appellant undertook
to exempt itself from all responsibility for loss or damage by
perils of the sea, arising from negligence of the master and
crew of the ship.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The question appears to us to be substantially determined
by the judgment of this court in Railroad Co. v Lockwood,
17 Wall. 357.
That case, indeed, differed in its facts from the case at bar.
It was an action brought against a railroad corporation by a
drover who, while being carried with his cattle on one of its
trains under an agreement which it had required him to sign,
and by which he was to pay certain rates for the carriage of
the cattle, to pass free himself, and to take the risks of all
injuries to himself or to them, was injured by the negligence
of the defendant or its servants.
The judgment for the plaintiff, however, was not rested upon
the form of the agreement, or upon any difference between
railroad corporations and other carriers, or between carriers
by land and carriers by sea, or between carriers of passengers
and carriers o' goods, but upon the broad ground that no public carrier is permitted by law to stipulate for an exemption
from the consequences of the negligence of himself or his
servants.
The very question there at issue, defined at the beginning
of the opimon as "whether a railroad company, carrying passengers for hire, can lawfully stipulate not to be answerable
for their own or their servants' negligence in reference to such
carriage," was stated a little further on in more general terms
as "the question before propounded, namely, whether common
carriers may excuse themselves from liability for negligence,"
and a negative answer to the question thus stated was a necessary link in the logical chain of conclusions announced at the
end of the opinion as constituting the rratio decidendi. 17 Wall.
359, 363, 384.
The course of reasoning, supported by elaborate argument
and illustration, and by copious references to authorities, by
which those conclusions were reached, may be summed up as
follows
By the common law of England and America before the
Declaration of Independence, recognized by the weight of
English authority for half a century afterwards, and upheld
by decisions of the highest courts of many States of the Union,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

common carriers could not stipulate for ninmunity for their
own or their servants' negligence. The English Railway and
Canal Traffic Act of 1854, declaring void all notices and conditions made by those classes of common carriers, except such
as should be held by the court or judge before whom the case
should be tried to be just and reasonable, was substantially a,
return to the rule of the common law
The only important modification by the Congress of the
United States of the previously existing law on this subject is
the act of 1851, to limit the liability of ship-owners, (Act of
March 3, 1851, c. 43, 9 Stat. 635, Rev Stat. §§ 4282-4289,)
and that act leaves them liable without limit for their own
negligence, and liable to the extent of the ship and freight for
the negligence or misconduct of their master and crew
The employment of a common carrier is a public one,
charging him with the duty of accommodating the public in
the line of his employment. A common carrier is such by
virtue of his occupation, not by virtue of the responsibilities
under which he rests. Even if the extent of these responsibilities is restricted by law or by contract, the nature of his
occupation makes him a common carrier still. A common
carrier may become a private carrier, or a bailee for hire,
when, as a matter of accommodation or special engagement,
he undertakes to carry something which it is not his business
to carry But when a carrier has a regularly established business for carrying all or certain articles, and especially if that
carrier is a corporation created for the purpose of the carrying
trade, and the carriage of the articles is embraced within the
scope of its chartered powers, it is a common carrier, and a.
special contract about its responsibility does not divest it of
that character.
The fundamental principle, upon which the law of common
carriers was established, was to secure the utmost care and
diligence in the performance of their duties. That end was
effected m regard to goods, by charging the common carrier
as an insurer, and in regard to passengers, by exacting the
highesb degree of carefulness and diligence. A carrier who
stipulates not to be bound to the exercise of care and diligence
seeks to put off the essential duties of his employment.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

441

Opinion of the Court.

Nor can those duties be waived in respect to his agents or
servants, especially where the carrier is an artificial being, icapable of acting except by agents and servants. The law
demands of the carrier carefulness and diligence m performing
the service, not merely an abstract carefulness and diligence
m proprietors and stockholders who take no active part m the
business. To admit such a distinction in the law of common
carriers, as the business is now carried on, would be subversive
of the very object of the law
The carrier and his customer do not stand upon a footing of
equality The mdividuil customer has no real freedom of
choice. He cannot afford to higgle or stand out, and seek redress in the courts. He prefers rather to accept any bill of
lading, or to sign any paper, that the carrier presents, and in
most cases he has no alternative but to do this, or to abandon
his business.
Special contracts between the carrier and the customer, the
terms of which are just and reasonable and not contrary to
public policy, are upheld, such as those exempting the carrier
from responsibility for losses happening from accident, or from
dangers of navigation that no human skill or diligence can
guard against, or for money or other valuable articles, liable
to be stolen or damaged -unless
informed of their character
or value, or for perishable articles or live ammals, when injured without default or negligence of the carrier. But the
law does not allow a public carrier to abandon altogether his
obligations to the public, and to stipulate for exemptions
which are unreasonable and improper, amounting to an abnegation of the essential duties of his employment.
It being against the policy of the law to allow stipulations
which will relieve the railroad company from the exercise of
care or diligence, or which, m other words, will excuse it for
negligence in the performance of its duty, the company remains liable for such negligence.
This analysis of the opinion in Railroad Co. v .ockwood
shows that it affirms and rests upon the doctrine that an express
stipulation by any common carrier for hire, in a contract of
carriage, that he shall be exempt from liability for losses caused

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

by the negligence of himself or his servants, is unreasonable
and contrary to public policy, and consequently void And
such has always been the understanding of this court, expressed in several later cases. Express Co. v Caldwell, 21
Wall. 264, 268, Railroad Co. v Pratt, 22 Wall. 123, 134,
Bank of Kentucky v Adams Express Co., 93 U S. 174, 183,
Railway Co. v Stevens, 95 U. S. 655, !Hartv Pennsylvania
Railroad,112 U S. 331, 338, Phwnix ins. Co. v Erie Transportatzon Co., 117 U S. 312, 322, Inman v South Carolina
Railway, ante, 128.

The general doctrine is nowhere stafed more explicitly than
in -Hart v Pennsylvanta Railroad and Phenx ins. Co.
v Erie Transportation Co., just cited, and there does not

appear to us to be anything in the decision or opinion in
either of those cases which supports the appellant's position.
In the one case, a contract fairly made between a railroad
company and the owner of the goods, and signed by the latter,
by which he was to pay a rate of freight based on the condition that the company assumed liability only to the extent
of an agreed valuation of the goods, even in case of loss or
damage by its negligence, was upheld as just and reasonable,
because a proper and lawful mode of securing a due proportion
between the amount for which the carrier might be responsible and the compensation which he received, and of protecting himself against extravagant or fanciful valuations- which
is quite different from exempting himself from all responsibility whatever for the negligence of himself and his servants.
In the other, the decision was that, as a common carrier
might lawfully obtain from a third person insurance on the
goods carried against loss by the usual perils, though occasioned
by negligence of the carrier's servants, a stipulation in a bill
of lading that the carrier, when liable for the loss, should have
the benefit of any insurance effected on the goods, was valid
as between the carrier and the shipper, even when the negligence of the carrier's servants was the cause of the loss. Upholding an agreement by which the carrier receives the
benefit of any insurance obtained by the shipper from a third
person is quite different from permitting the carrier to compel

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opimon of the Court.

the shipper to obtain insurance, or to stand his own insurer,
against negligence on the part of the carrier.
It was argued for the appellant, that the law of lew York,
the lex loci contractus, was settled by recent decisions of the
Court of Appeals of that state in favor of the right of a carrier of goods or passengers, by land or water, to stipulate for
exemption from all liability for his own negligence. -Mynard
v Syracuse Railroad,71 N. Y 180, pvnetti v Atlas Steamshp Co., 80 N. Y 71.
But on this subject, as on any question depending upon
mercantile law and not upon local statute or usage, it is well
settled that the courts of the United States are not bound by
decisions of the courts of the State, but will exercise their
own judgment, even when their jurisdiction attaches only by
reason of the citizenship of the parties, in an action at law of
which the courts of the State have concurrent jurisdiction,
and upon a contract made and to be performed within the
State. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 351, 368, -Myrsck
v 3fichtgan Central Railroad, 107 U. S. 102, Carpenter v
Provmdence Washington ins. Co., 16 Pet. 495, 511, Swift v
Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, Railroad Co. v 3Tattonal Bank, 102 U. S.
14, Burgess v Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33, 8m'th v Alabama,
124 U. S. 365, 478, Bucher v Ckeshkre Railroad, 125 U. S.
555, 583. The decisions of the State courts certainly cannot
be allowed any greater weight in the Federal courts when
exercising the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction exclusively
vested in them by the Constitution of the United States.
It was also argued in behalf of the appellant, that the
validity and effect of this contract, to be performed principally upon the high seas, should be governed by the general
maritime law, and that by that law such stipulations are
valid. To this argument there are two answers.
First. There is not shown to be any such general maritime
law The industry of the learned counsel for the appellant
has collected articles of codes, decisions of courts and opimons
of commentators m France, Italy, Germany and Holland,
tending to show that, by the law administered in those
countries, such a stipulation would be valid. But those decis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ions and opinions do not appear to have been based on
general maritime law, but largely, if not wholly, upon provisions or omissions in the codes of the particular country, and
it has been said by many jurists that the law of France, at
least, was otherwise. See 2 Pardessus Droit Commercial,
no. 542, 4 Goujet & Meyer Dict. Droit Commercial (2d ed.)
Voiturier, nos. 1, 81, 2 Troplong Droit Civil, nos. 894, 910,
942, and other books cited in Peniinsular & Oriental Co. v.
Shand, 3 Moore P C. (N. S.) 272, 278, 285, 286, 25" Laurent
Droit Civil Frangais, no. 532, Mellish, L. J., in Cohen v
Southeastern,Railway, 2 Ex. D. 253, 257.
Second. The general maritime law is in force in this
country, or in any other, so far only as it has been adopted
by the laws or usages thereof, and no rule of the general
maritime law (if any exists) concerning the validity of such
a stipulation as that now before us has ever been adopted in
the United States or in England, or recognized in the admiralty courts of either. The lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, The
Scotland, 105 U S. 24, 29, 33, T]ie Belgenland, 114 U S. 355,
369, Tne Uarmrsburg, 119 U S. 199, The flamburg, 2 Moore
P C. (N S.) 289, 319, S. C. Brown. & Lush. 253, 272, Lloyd
v Guibert, L. R. 1 Q. B. 115, 123. 124, S. C. 6 13. & S. 100,
134,'136, Tlte Gaetano & _Mfarma, 7 P ID. 137, 143.
It was argued in this court, as it had been below, that as
the contract was to be chiefly performed on board of a British
vessel and to be finally completed in Great Britain, and the
damage occurred in Great Britain, the case should be determined by the British law, and that by that law the clause
exempting the appellant from liability for losses occasioned
by the negligence of its servants was valid.
The Circuit Court declined to yield to this argument, upon
two grounds 1st. That as the answer expressly admitted the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court asserted in the libel, and the
law of Great Britain had not been set up in the answer nor
proved as a fact, the case must be decided according to the law
of the Federal courts, as a question of general commercial law
2d. That there was nothing in the contracts of affreightment to
indicate a contracting in view of any other law than the

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opimon of the Court.

recognized law of such forum in the United States as should
have cognizance of suits on the contracts. 22 Blatchford, 397.
The law of Great Britain since the Declaration of Independence is the law of a foreign country, and, like any other
foreign law, is matter of fact, which the courts of this country
cannot be presumed to be acquainted with, or to have judicial
knowledge of, unless it is pleaded and proved.
The rule that the courts of one country cannot take cognizance of -the law of another without plea and proof has been
constantly maintained, at law and in equity, in England and
America. Church v Htubbart, 2 Cranch, 187, 236, Ennts v.
Smith, 14 Htow 400, 426, 427, Daznese v Eale, 91 U S. 13,
20, 21, Psercev Indseth, 106 U S. 546, Ex _part Cr'Idland,
3 Yes. & B. 94, 99, Lloyd v. Guibert, L. R. 1 Q. B. 115, 129,
S. C. 6 B. & S. 100, 142. In the case last cited, Mr. Justice
Willes, delivering judgment m the Exchequer Chamber, said
"In order to preclude all misapprehension, it may be well to
add, that a party who relies upon a right or an exemption by
foreign law is bound to bring such law properly before the
court, and to establish it in proof. Otherwise the court, not
being entitled to notice such law without judicial proof, must
proceed according to the law of England."
The decision in Iamar v .ficou, 112 U S. 452, and 114
U. S.218, did not in the least qualify this rule, but only applied
the settled doctrine that the Circuit Courts of the United
States, and this court on appeal from their decisions, take
judicial notice of the laws of the several States of the Union
as domestic laws, and it-has since been adjudged, in accordance with the general rule as to foreign law, that this court,
upon writ of error to the highest court of a State, does not
take judicial notice of the law of another State, not proved in
that court and made part of the record sent up, unless by the
local law that court takes judicial notice of it. Hanley v
.DonoghAue, 116 U. S.I, Renaud v Abbott, 116 U S. 277, 285.
The rule is as well established in courts of admiralty as
in courts of common law or courts of equity Chief Justice
Marshall, delivering judgment in the earliest admiralty appeal
in which he took part, said "That the laws of a foreign

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

nation, designed only for the direction of its own affairs, are
not to be noticed by the courts of other countries, unless
proved as facts, and that this court, with respect to facts, is
limited to the statement made in the court below, cannot be
Talbot v Seeman, 1 Cranch, 1, 38. And m a
questioned."
recent case in admiralty, Mr. Justice Bradley said "If a collision should occur in British waters, at least between British
ships, and the injured party should seek relief in our courts,
we would administer justice according to the British law, so
far as the rights and liabilities of the parties were concerned,
provided it were shown what that law was. If not shown, we
would apply our own law to the case. In the French or
Dutch tribunals they would do the same." The Scotland, 105
U S. 24, 29.
So Sir William Scott, in the High Court of Admiralty,
said "Upon all principles of common jurisprudence, foreign
law is always to be proved as a fact." The -Louts, 2 Dodson,
210, 241. To the same effect are the judgments of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in The Prtnce George,
4 Moore P C. 21, and The Peerless, 13 Moore P C. 484.
And in a more recent case, cited by the appellant, Sir Robert
Phillimore, said "I have no doubt whatever that those who
rely upon the difference between the foreign law and the law
of the forum in which the case is brought are bound to establish that difference by competent evidence." The Duero,L. R.
2 Ad. & Ec. 393, 397.
It was, therefore, rightly held by the Circuit Court, upon
the pleadings and proofs upon which the case had been
argued, that the question whether the British law differed
from our own was not open.
But it appears by the supplemental record, certified to this
court in obedience to a writ of certorarz,that after the Circuit Court had delivered its opinion and filed its findings of
fact and conclusions of law, and before the entry of a final
decree, the appellant moved for leave to amend the answer
by averring the existence of the British law and its applicability to this case, and to prove that law, and that the motion
was denied by the Circuit Court, because the proposed allega-

LIVERPOOL STEAMAt CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

447

Opimon of the Court.

tion did not set up any fact unknown to the appellant at the
time of filing the original answer, and could not be allowed
under the rules of that court. 22 Blatchford, 402-404.
On such a question we should be slow to overrule a decision of the Circuit Court. But we are not prepared to say
that if, upon full consideration, justice should appear to reqire
it, we might not do so, and order the case to be remanded to
that court with directions to allow the answer to be amended
and proof of the foreign law to be introduced. Te Adeline,
9 Cranch, 244, 284, The Marzanna Flora, 11 Wheat. 1, 38,
Te Chrles .Morgan, 115 U. S. 69, Nerchants' Ins. Co. v
Allen, 121 U. S. 67, The Gazelle, 128 U. S. 4:74. And the
question of the effect which the law of Great Britain, if duly
alleged and proved, should have upon this case has been fully
and ably argued.
Under these circumstances, we prefer not to rest our judgment upon technical grounds of pleading or evidence, but, taking the same course as m 3ereha,s' Ins. Co. v Allen, just
cited, proceed to consider the question of the effect of the
proof offered, if adntted.
It appears by the cases cited m behalf of the appellant, and
is hardly denied by the appellee, that under the existing law
of Great Britain, as declared by the latest decisions of her
courts, common carriers, by land or sea, except so far as they are
controlled by the provisions of the Railway and Canal Traffic
Act of 1854, are permitted to exempt themselves by express
contract from responsibility for losses occasioned by negligence
of their servants. The Duero, L. R. 2 Ad. & Ec. 393, Taubman v Paczftc Co., 26 Law Times (N. S.) 704, Steel v State
Line Steamshqp Co., 3 App. Cas. 72, -Yanchester&e. Railway
v Brown, 8 App. Cas. 703. It may therefore be assumed that
the stipulation now in question, though invalid by our law,
would be valid according to the law of Great Britain.
The general rule as to what law should prevail, in case of a
conflict of laws concermng a private contract, was concisely
and exactly stated before the Declaration of Independence by
Lord Mansfield (as reported by Sir William Blackstone, who
had been of counsel in the case) as follows "The general rule,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

established ex comstate et sre gentmum, is that the place where
the contract is made, and not where .the action is brought, is to
be considered in expounding and enforcing the contract. But
this rule admits of an exception, when the parties (at the time
of making the contract) had a view to a different kingdom."
]Robmnson v Bland, 1 W B1. 234, 256, 258, S. . 2 Bur. 1077,
1078.
The recent decisions by emment English judges, cited at the
bar, so clearly affirm and so strikingly illustrate the rule, as
applied to cases more or less resembling the case before us,
that a full statement of them will not be inappropriate.
In Penmmnslar & Ortental Co. v Shand, 3 M oore P C. (N. S.)
272, 290, Lord Justice Turner, delivering judgment in the
Privy Council, reversing a decision of the Supreme Court of
Mauritius, said, "The general rule is, that the law of the country where a contract is made governs as to the nature, the obligation and the interpretation of it. The parties to a contract
are either the subjects of the power there ruling, or as temporary residents owe it a temporary allegiance, in either case
equally, they must be understood to submit to the law there
prevailing, and to agree to its action upon their contract. It
is, of course, immaterial that such agreement is not expressed
in terms, it is equally an agreement in fact, presumed dejure,
and a foreign court interpreting or enforcing it on any contrary rule defeats the intention of the parties, as well as
neglects to observe the recognized comity of nations."
It was accordingly held, that the law of England, and not
the French law in force at M auritius, governed the validity
and construction of a contract made in an English port between an English company and an English subject to carry
hun hence by way of Alexandria and Suez to Mauritius, and
containing a stipulation that the company should not be liable
for loss of passengers' baggage, which the court m Mauritius
had held to be invalid by the French law 3 Moore P C. (N.
S.) 278.
Lord Justice Turner observed, that it was a satisfaction to
find that the Court of Cassation in France had pronounced a
judgment to the same effect, under precisely similar circum-

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.

stances, in the case of a French officer taking passage at Hong
Kong, an English possession, for Marseilles in France, under
a like contract, on a ship of the same company, which was
wrecked in the :Red Sea, owing to the negligence of her master
and crew Julien v Penznsular & Orwintal Co., imperfectly
stated m 3 Moore P C. (N. S.) 282, notei and fully reported in
'[5 Journal du Palais (1864) 225.
The case of Lloyd v Guibert, 6 B. & S. 100, . C. L. ZR. 1
Q. B. 115, decided in the Queen's Bench before, and in the
Exchequer Chamber after, the decision in the Privy Council
just referred to, presented this peculiar state of facts A
French ship owned by Frenchmen was chartered by the
master, in pursuance of his general authority as such, in a
Danish West India island, to a British subject, who knew her
to be French; for a voyage from St. Marc in Hayti to Havre,
London or Liverpool at the charterer's option, and he shipped
a cargo from St. Marc to Liverpool. On the voyage, the ship
sustained damage from a storm which compelled her to put
into a Portuguese port. There the master lawfully borrowed
money on bottomry, and repaired the ship, and she carried her
cargo safe to Liverpool. The bondholder proceeded in an
English court of admiralty against the ship, freight and cargo,
which being msufficient to satisfy the bond, he brought an
action at law to recover the deficiency against the owners of
the ship, and they abandoned the ship and freight in such a
manner as by the French law absolved them from liability It
was held, that the French law governed the case, and therefore the plaintiff could not recover.
It thus appears that in that case the question of the intent
of the parties was complicated with that of the lawful authority of the master; and the decision in the Queen's Bench was
put wholly upon the ground that the extent of his authority
to bind the ship, the freight or the owners was limited by the
law of the home port of the ship, of which ner flag was sufficient notice. 6 B. & S. 100. That decision was in accordance
with an earlier one of Mr. Justice Story, in Poe v Nickerson,
3 Story, 465, as well as with later ones in the Privy Council,
on appeal from the High Court of Admiralty, in which the
VOL. cxx-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

validity of a bottomry bond has been determined by the law
prevailing at the home port of the ship, and not by the law of
the port where the bond was given. The EYarnak, L. R. 2 P C.
505, 512, The G6tano & ifarza, 7 P D. 137.

See also The

Woodland, 7 Benedict, 110, 118, 14 Blatchford, 499, 503, and
104 U. S. 180.
The judgment in the Exchequer Chamber in Iloyd v Gutbert was put upon somewhat broader ground. Mr. Justice
Willes, m delivering that judgment, said. "It is generally
agreed that the law of the place where the contract is made
is _prvma facte that which the parties intended, or ought to be
presumed to have adopted as the footing upon which they
dealt, and that such law ought therefore to prevail in the
absence of circumstances indicating a different intention, as,
for instance, that the contract is to be entirely performed elsewhere, or that the subject matter is immovable property situated m another country, and so forth, which latter, though
sometimes treated as distinct rules, appear more properly to be
classed as exceptions to the more general one, by reason of the
circumstances indicating an intention to be bound by a law
different from that of the place where the contract is made,
which intention is inferred from the subject matter and from
the surrounding circumstances, so far as they axe relevant to
construe and determine the chaxacter of the contract." L. IR.
1 Q. B. 122, 123, 6 B. & S. 133.
It was accordingly held, conformably to the judgment in
Peninsular & Orzental Co. v 8hand, above cited, that the

law of England, as the law of the place of final performance
or port of discharge, did not govern the case, because it was
"manifest that what was to be done at Liverpool was but a
small portion of the entire service to be rendered, and that
the character of the contract cannot be determined thereby,"
although as to the mode of delivery the usages of Liverpool
would govern. L. R. 1 Q. B. 125, 126, 6 B. & S. 137. It
was then observed that the law of Portugal, in force where
the bottomry bond was given, could not affect the case, that
the law of IHayti had not been mentioned or relied upon in
argument, and that "in favor of the law of Denmark, there

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

451

t

Oplmon of the Court.

is the cardinal fact that the contract was made in Danish
territory, and further, that the first act done towards performance was weighing anchor in a Danish port," and it
was finally, upon a view of all the circumstances of the case,
decided that the law of France, to which the ship and her
owners belonged, must govern the question at issue.
The decision -was, in substance, that the presumption that
the contract should be governed by the law of Denmark, m
force where it was made, was not. overcome in favor of the
law of England, by the fact that the voyage was to an English
port and the charterer an Englishman, nor in favor of the law
of Portugal by the fact that the bottomry bond was given in
a Portuguese port, but that the ordinary presumption was
overcome by the consideration that French owners and an
English charterer, making a charter party in the French language of a French ship, in a port where both were foreigners,
to be performed partly there by. weighing anchor for the port
of loading, (a place where both parties would also be foreigners,) partly at that port by taking the cargo on board, principally on the high seas, and partly by final delivery in the
port of discharge, must have intended to look to the law of
France as governing the question of the liability of the owner
beyond the value of the ship and freight.
In two later cases, in each of which the judgment of the
Queen's Bench Division was affirmed by the Court of Appeal,
the law of the place where the contract was made was held
to govern, notwithstanding.some of the facts strongly pointed
towards the application of another law, in the one case, to the
law of the ship's flag, and in the other, to the law of the port
where that part of the contract was to be performed, for the
nonperformance of which the suit was brought.
In the first case, a bill of lading, issued in England m the
English language to an English subject, by a company described therein as an English company and in fact registered
both in England and in Holland, for goods shipped at Singapore, an English port, to be carried to a port m Java, a Dutch
possession, in a vessel with a Dutch name, registered m
Holland, commanded by a Dutch master and carrying the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Dutch flag, m order to obtain the privilege of trading with
Java, was held to be governed by the law of England, and not
by that of Holland, in determining the validity and construction of a clause exempting the company from liability for
negligence of master and crew, and Lords Justices Brett and
Lindley both considered it immaterial whether the ship was
regarded as English or Dutch. Chartered Bank of -Idiav
_NTetherlando Steam NYavgation Co., 9 Q. B. D. 118, and 10
Q. B. D. 521, 529, 536, 540, 544.
As Lord Justice Lindley observed. "This conclusion is not
at all at variance with Lloyd v Guibert, but rather in accordance with it. It is true that in that case the law of the flag prevailed, but the intention of the parties was admitted to be the
crucial test, and the law of the ship's flag was considered as the
law intended by the parties to govern their contract, as there
really was no other law which they could reasonably be supposed to have contemplated. The plaintiff there was English,
the defendant French, the leax locz contractus was Danish,
the ship was French, her master was French, and the contract was in the French language. The voyage was from
Hayti to Liverpool. The facts here are entirely different, and
so is the inference to be deduced from them. The lex loc, contractus was here English, and ought to prevail unless there is
some good ground to the contrary So far from there being
such ground, the inference is very strong that the parties really
intended to contract with reference to English law" 10 Q.
1B. D. 540.
In the remaining English case, a contract made in London
between two English mercantile houses, by which one agreed
to sell to the other 20,000 tons of Algerian esparto, to be
shipped by a French company at an Algerian port on board
vessels furnished by the purchasers at London, and to be paid
for by them in London on arrival, was held to be an English
contract, governed by English law, notwithstanding that the
shipment of the goods in Algiers had been prevented by vzs
major, which, by the law of France m force there, excused the
seller from performing the contract. Jaobs v Credit _Lyonnats, 12 Q. B. D. 589.

LIVERPOOL STEAM5

CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

453:

Opinion of the Court.

That result was reached by applying the general rule, expressed by Denman, J., in these words. "The general rule is,
that where a contract is made m England between merchants
carrying on business here, as tis is, but to be performed elsewhere, the construction of the contract, and all its incidents,
are to be governed by the law of the country where the contract is made, unless there is something to show that the intention of the parties was that the law of the country where
the contract is to be performed should prevail," and summed
up by the Court of Appeal, consisting of Brett, MYI.
ER., and
Bowen, L. J., as follows "The broad rule is that the law of
a country where a contract is made presumably governs the
nature, the obligation and the interpretation of it, ujiless the
contrary appears to be the express intention of the parties."
12 Q. B. D. 596, 597, 600.
Tins court has not heretofore had occasion to consider by
what law contracts like those now before us should be expounded. But it has often affirmed and acted on the general
rule, that contracts are to be governed, as to their nature,
their validity and their interpretation, by the law of the place
where they were made, unless the contracting parties clearly
appear to have had some other law in view Cox v United
States, 6 Pet. 172, Scudder v Unson Bank, 91 U. S. 406,
Pritchardv .Yorton, 106 U. S. 124, Zamar v _Jficou, 114:
U. S. 218, Watts v Oanors115 U S. 353, 362.
The opinion in Watts v Camors, just cited, may require a
word or two of explanation. It was there contested whether,
in a charter party made at New Orleans between an English
owner and an American charterer of an English ship for a voyage from New Orleans to a port on the continent of Europe,
a clause regulating the amount payable in case of any breach
of the contract was to be considered as liquidating the damages, or as a penalty only Such was the question of which
the court said that if it depended upon the intent of the
parties, and consequently upon the law which they must be
presumed to have had in view, they "must be presumed to
look to the general maritime law of the two countries, and not
to the local law of the State in which the contract is signed."

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The choice there was not between the American law and the
English law, but between the statutes and decisions of the
State of Louisiana, and a rule of the maritime law common
to the United States and England.
Some reliance was placed by the appellant upon the following observations of Mr. Justice Story, sitting in the Circuit
Court
"If a contract is to be performed, partly in one country and
partly in another country, it admits of a double aspect, nay,
it has a double operation, and is, as to the particular parts, to
be interpreted distinctively, that is, according to the laws of
the country where the particular parts are to be performed
or execited. This would be clearly seen in the case of a bill
of lading of goods, deliverable in portions or parts at ports in
different countries. Indeed, in cases of contracts of affreightment and shipment, it must often happen that the contract
looks to different portions of it to be performed in different
countries; some portions at the home port, some at the foreign
port, and some at the return port." "The goods here were
deliverable in Philadelphia, and what would be an effectual
delivery thereof, in the sense of the law, (which is sometimes
a nice question,) would, beyond question, be settled by the law
of Pennsylvania. But to what extent the owners of the
schooner are liable to the shippers for a non-fulfilment of a
contract of shipment of the master - whether they incur an
absolute or a limited liability, must depend upon the nature
and extent of the authority which the owners gave him, and
this is to be measured by the law of Massachusetts," where
the ship and her owners belonged. Pope v 2ickerson, 3
Story, 465, 484, 485.
But in that case the last point stated was the only one in
judgment, and the previous remarks evidently had regard to
such distinct obligations included in the contract of affreightment as are to be performed in a particular port - for instance,
what would be an effectual delivery, so as to terminate the
liability of the carrier, which, in the absence of express stipulation on that subject, is ordinarily governed by the law or
usage of the port of discharge. Robertson v .Jackson, 2 C. B.

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Oplnion of the Court.

412, Lloyd v. Guibert, L. R. 1 Q. B. 115,126, 8. C. 6 B. &
S. 100, 137.
In -Morgan v -Yew Orleans &c. Railroad,2 Woods, 244, a
contract made in New York, by a person residing there, with
a railroad corporation having its principal office there but
deriving its powers from the laws of other states, for the
conveyance of interests in railroads and steamboat lines,
the delivery of property and the building of a railroad in
those states, and which, therefore, might be performed partly
in New York, and must be performed partly m the other
states, was held by Mr. Justice Bradley, so far as concerned
the right of one party to have the contract rescinded on account of nonperformance by the other party, to be governed
by the law of New York, and not by either of the diverse
laws of the other states in which parts of the contract were
to be performed.
In Hale v _ew Jersey Steam amvgatton Co., 15 Conn. 538,
546, goods were shipped at New York for Providence in
Rhode Island or Boston in Massachusetts, on a steamboat employed in the business of transportation between New York
and Providence, and an exemption, claimed by the carrier
under a public notice, was disallowed by the Supreme Court
of Connecticut, because by the then law of New York the
liability of a common carrier could not be limited by such a
notice. Chief Justice Williams, delivering judgment, said
"The question is, by what law is this contract to be governed.
The rule upon that subject is well settled, and has been often
recognized by this court, that contracts are to be construed
according to the laws of the state where made, unless it is presumed from their tenor that they were entered into with a
view to the laws of some other state. There is nothing m this
case, either from the location of the parties or the nature of
the contract, which shows that they could have had any other
law m view than that of the place where it was made. Indeed, as the goods were shipped to be transported to Boston
or Providence, there would be the most entire uncertainty
what was to be the law of the case if any other rule was to
prevail. We have, therefore, no doubt that the law of New

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

York, as to the duties and obligations of common carriers, is
to be the law of the case."
In Dyke v BEre Railway, 45 N. Y 113, 117, a passenger
travelling upon a ticket by which a railroad corporation, established in New York, and whose road extended from one place
to another in that state, passing through the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey by their permission, agreed to carry
him from one to another place in New York, was injured in
Pennsylvania, by the law of which the damages in actions
against railroads for personal injury were limited to $3000.
The Court of Appeals of New York held that the law of
Pennsylvania had no application to the case, and Mr. Justice
Allen, delivering the opinion, referred to the case of Penmolar & Oriental Co. v Shand, before cited, as analogous in
principle, and said. "The contract was single and the performance one continuous act. The defendant did not undertake for one specific act, in part performance, in one state, and
another specific and distinct act in another of the states named,
as to which the parties could be presumed to have had m view
the laws and usages of distinct places. Whatever was done in
Pennsylvania was a part of the single act of transportation
from Attica or Waverly, in the State of New York, to the
city of New York, and in performance of an obligation assumed and undertaken in this state, and which was indivisible.
The obligation was created here, and by force of the laws of
this state, and force and effect must be given to it in conformity to the laws of New York. The performance was to commence in New York, and to be fully completed in the same
state, but liable to breach, partial or entire, in the States of
Pennsylvania and New Jersey, through which the road of the
defendant passed, but whether the contract was broken, and
if broken the consequences of the breach, should be determined
by the laws of this state. It cannot be assumed that the
parties intended to subject the contract to the laws of the
other states, or that their rights and liabilities should be qualified or varied by any diversities that might exist between the
laws of those states and the lex loc contratus."
In 2MoJDanmel v Chwago & 3zort/western Railway, 24 Iowa,

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

412, 417, cattle transported by a railroad company from a
place in Iowa to a place m Illinois, under a special contract
made in Iowa, containing a stipulation that the company
should be exempt from liability for any damage, unless resulting from collision or derailing of trams, were injkired m Illinois
by the negligence of the company's servants, and the Supreme
Court of Iowa, Chief Justice Dillon presiding, held the case to
be governed by the law of Iowa, which permitted no common
carrier to exempt himself from the liability which would exist
m the absence of the contract. The court said "The contract
being entire and indivisible, made in Iowa, and to be partly
performed here, it must, as to its validity, nature, obligation
and interpretation, be governed by our law "Andby our law,
so far as it seeks to change the common law, it is wholly nugatory and inoperative. The rights of the parties, then, are to
be determined under the common law, the same as if no such
contract had been made."
So in Pennsylvanait Co. v Fazrchild,69 Illinois, 260, where
a railroad company received in Indiana goods consigned to
Leavenworth, in Kansas, and carried them to Chicago in
Illinois, and there delivered them to another railroad company,
in whose custody they were destroyed by fire, the Supreme
Court of Illinois held that the case must be governed by the
law of Indiana, by which the first company was not liable for
the loss of the goods after they passed into the custody of the
next carrier m the line of transit.
The other cases in the courts of the several states, cited at
the bar, afford no certain or satisfactory guide. Two cases,
held not to be governed by a statute of Pennsylvania providing that no railroad corporation should be liable for a loss of
passenger's baggage beyond $300, unless the excess m value
was disclosed and paid for, were decided (whether rightly or
not we need not consider) without much reference to authority,
and upon their peculiar circumstances-the one case, on the
ground that a contract by a New Jersey corporation to carry
a passenger and his baggage from a wharf in Philadelphia
across the Delaware River, in which the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey had equal rights of navigation and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

passage, and thence through the State of New Jersey to Atlantic City, was a contract to be performed in New Jersey and
governed by the law of that state, Brown v Camden & Atlantic Railroad,83 Penn. St. 316, and the other case, on the
ground that the baggage, received at a town in Pennsylvania
to be carried to New York city, having been lost after its
arrival by negligence on the part of the railroad company, the
contract, so far as concerned the delivery, was to be governed
by the law of New York. Curtis v Delaware & -Lackawanna
Railroad,'[4 N. Y 116. The suggestion in Barter v Wheeler,
49 N. H. 9, 29, that the question, whether the liability of a
railroad corporation for goods transported through parts of
two states was that of a common carrier or of a forwarder
only, should be governed by the law of the state in which the
loss happened, was not necessary to the decision, and appears
to be based on a strained inference from the observations of
Mr. Justice Story in PoTe v l~ickerson, above cited. In a
later case, the Supreme Court of New Hampshire reserved any
expression of opinion upon a like question. Gray v Jackson,
51 N. H. 9, 39.
This review of the principal cases demonstrates that according to the great preponderance. if not the uniform concurrence,
of authority, the general rule, that the nature, the obligation
and the interpretation of a contract are to be governed by the
law of the place where it is made, unless the parties at the
time of making it have some other law in view, requires a contract of affreightment, made in one country between citizens
or residents thereof, and the performance of which begins there,
to be governed by the law of that country, unless the parties,
when entering into the contract, clearly manifest a mutual
intention that it shall be governed by the law of some other
country
There does not appear to us to be anything in either of the
bills of lading in the present case, tending to show that the
contracting parties looked to the law of England, or to any
other law than that of the place where the contract was made.
The bill of lading for the bacon and hams was made and
dated at New York, and signed by the ship's agent there. It

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

459

Opilon of the Court.

acknowledges that the goods have been shipped "in and upon
the steamship called Montana, now lying in the port of New
York and bound for the port of Liverpool," and are to be
delivered at Liverpool. It contains no indication that the
owners of the steamship are English, or that their principal
place of business is in England, rather than in this country
On the contrary, the only description of the line of steamships,
or of the place of business of their owners, is in a memorandum
in the margin, as follows "Gmon Line. United States Mail
Steamers. New York: 29 Broadway Liverpool 11 Rumford St." No distinction is made between the places of business at New York and at Liverpool, except that the former
is named first. The reservation of liberty, in case of an interruption of the voyagp, "to tranship the goods by any other
steamer," would permit transhipment into a vessel of any other
line, English or American. And general average is to be computed, not by any local law or usage, but "according to YorkAntwerp rules," which are the rules drawn up in 1864 at York
in England, and adopted in 187 at Antwerp in Belgium, at
international conferences of representatives of the more important mercantile associations of the United States, as well as of
the maritime countries of Europe. Lowndes on General Average (3d ed.) Appendix Q.
The contract being made at New York, the ship-owner
having a place of business there, and the shipper being an
American, both parties must be presumed to have submitted
themselves to the law there prevailing, and to have agreed to
its action upon their contract. The contract is a single one,
and its principal object, the transportation of the goods, is one
continuous act, to begin in the port of New York, to be chiefly
performed on the high seas, and to end at the port of Liverpool. The facts that the goods are to be delivered at Liverpool,
and the freight and primage, therefore, payable there in sterling currency, do not make the contract an English contract,
or refer to the .English law the question of the liability of
the carrier for the negligence of the master and crew in the
course of the voyage. Peninsular & Orzental Co. v Shand,
Lloyd v Guibert, and CharteredBank of India v Netherlands
Steam _Navigation Co., before cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

There is even less ground for holding the three bills of lading
of the cotton to be English contracts. Each of them is made
and dated at Nashville, an inland city, and is a through bill of
lading, over the Louisville and Nashville Railroad and its connections, and by the Williams and Guion Steamship Company,
from Nashville to Liverpool, and the whole freight from Nashville to Liverpool is to be "at the rate of fifty-four pence sterling per 100 lbs. gross weight." It is stipulated that the liability
of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad and its connections
as common carriers "terminates on delivery of the goods or
property to the steamship company at New York, when the liability of the steamship commences, and not before," and that
"the property shall be transported from the port of New York
to the port of Liverpool by the said steamship company, with
liberty to ship by any other steamship or steamship line." And
in the margin is this significant reference to a provision of the
statutes of the United States, applicable to the ocean transpor-

tation only

"ATrENTION OF SHIPPERS IS CALLED TO THE ACT OF

CONGRESS OF

1851

'Any person or persons shipping oil of

vitriol, unslacked lime, inflammable matches [or] gunpowder,
m a ship or vessel taking cargo for divers persons on freight,
without delivering at the tzme of shipment a note in writing,
expressing the nature and character of such merchandise, to
the master, mate or officer, or person in charge of the loading
of the ship or vessel, shall forfeit to the United States One
Yhousand Dollars.'" Act of March 3, 1851, c. 43, § 7, 9
Stat. 636, Rev Stat. § 4288.
It was argued that as each bill of lading, drawn up and
signed by the carrier and assented to by the shipper, contained
a stipulation that the carrier should not be liable for losses by
perils of the sea arising from the negligence of its servants,
both parties must be presumed to have intended to be bound
by that stipulation, and must therefore, the stipulation being
void by our law and valid by the law of England, have
intended that their contract should be governed by the English law, and one passage in the judgment in Penznsular
& Onental Co. v Shand gives some color to the argument.
3 Moore P C. (N. S.) 291. But the facts of the two cases are

LIVERPOOL STEAM CO. v. PHENIX INS. CO.

461

Opinion of the Court.

quite different in this respect. In that case, effect was given
to the law of England, where the contract was made, and
both parties were English, and must be held to have known the
law of their own country In this case, the contract was made
m this country, between parties one residing and the other
doing business here, and the law of England is a foreign law,
which the American shipper is not presumed to know Both
parties or either of them may have supposed the stipulation
to be valid, or both or either may have known that by our
law, as declared by this court, it was void. In either aspect,
there is no ground for inferring that the shipper, at least, had
any intention, for the purpose of securing its validity, to be
governed by a foreign law, which he is not shown, and cannot be presumed, to have had any knowledge of.
Our conclusion on the principal question in the case may be
summed up thus. Each of the bills of lading is an American
and not an English contract, and, so far as concerns the obligation to carry the goods in safety, is to be governed by the
American law, and not by the law, municipal or maritime,
of any other country By our law, as declared by this court,
the stipulation, by which the appellant undertook to exempt
itself from liability for the negligence of its servants is contrary
to public policy and therefore void, and the loss of the goods
was a breach of the contract, for which the shipper might
maintain a suit against the carrier. This being so, the fact
that the place where the vessel went ashore, in consequence of
the negligence of the master and officers in the prosecution
of the voyage, was upon the coast of Great Britain, is quite
immaterial.
This conclusion is in accordance with the decision of Judge
Brown in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of NVew York in IThe Bran ford City, 29
Fed. Rep. 373, which appears to us to proceed upon more
satisfactory grounds than the opposing decision of Mr. Justice
Chitty, sitting alone m the Chancery Division, made since this
case was argued, and, so far as we are informed, not reported
in the Law Reports, nor affirmed or cousidered by any of the
higher courts of Great Britain. In 'e .Missouqi Seamsh-kp
Co., 58 Law Times (N. S.) 377.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The present case does not require us to determine what
effect the courts of the United States should give to this contract, if it had expressly provided that any question arising
under it should be governed by the law of England.
The question of the subrogation of the libellant to the rights
of the shippers against the carrier presents no serious difficulty
From the very nature of the contract of insurance as a contract of indemnity, the insurer, upon paying to the assured
the amount of a loss, total or partial, of the goods insured,
becomes, without any formal assignment, or any express stipulation to that effect in the policy, subrogated in a corresponding amount to the assured's right of action against the carrier
or other person responsible for the loss, and m a court of admlralty may assert in his own name that right of the shipper.
lnie Potomac, 105 U. S. 630, 634, Pun-zi hIs. Co. v Erwe
raniportahon Co., 117 U S. 312, 321.
In the present case, the libellant, before the filing of the
libel, paid to each of the shippers the greater part of his insurance, and thereby became entitled to recover so much, at least,
from the carrier. The rest of the insurance money was paid
by the libellant before the argument in the District Court,
and that amount might have been claimed by amendment, if
not under the original libel. T]he Charles Morgan, 115 U. S.
69, 75, The Gazelle, 128 U. S. 474. The question of the right
of the libellant to recover to the whole extent of the insurance
so paid was litigated and included m the decree in the District
Court, and in the Circuit Court on appeal, and no objection
was made in either of those courts, or at the argument in this
court, to any insufficiency of the libel m this particular.
The appellant does, however, object that the decree should
not include the amount of the loss on the cotton shipped under
through bills of lading from Nashville to Liverpool. This
objection is grounded on a clause in those bills of lading, which
is not found in the bill of lading of the bacon and hams shipped
at New York, and on the adjudication in Phenx Ins. Co. v
Erte Transportatton Co., 117 U S. 312, that a stipulation in
a bill of lading, that a carrier, when liable for a loss of the
goods, shall have the benefit of any insurance that may have

LIVERPOOL STEA-M CO. '. PHENIX INS. CO.
Opnion of the Court.

been effected upon them, as valid as between the carrier and
the shipper, and therefore limits the right of an insurer of the
goods, upon paying to the shipper the amount of a loss by
stranding, occasioned by the negligence of the carrier's servants, to recover over against the carrier.
Bat it behooves a carrier setting up such a defence to show
clearly that the insurance on the goods is one which by the
terms of his contract he is entitled to the benefit of. Inman
v South Carolina Railway, ante, 128. The through bills of
lading of the cotton are signed by an agent of the railroad
compames and the steamship company, "severally, but not
jointly," and contain, in separate columns, two entirely distinct
sets of "terms and conditions," the first relating exclusively to
the land carriage by the railroads and their connections, and
the second to the ocean transportation by the steamship. The
clause relied on, providing that in case of any loss or damage
of the goods, whereby any legal liability shall be incurred, that
company only shall be held answerable m whose actual custody the goods are at the time, "and the carrier so liable shall
have the full benefit of any insurance that may have been
effected upon or on account of said goods," is inserted in the
midst of the terms and conditions defining the liability of the
railroad companies, and is omitted in those defining the liability of the steamship company, plainly signifying an intention
that this clause should not apply to the latter. It is quite
clear, therefore, that the appellant has no right to claim the
benefit of any insurance on the goods. See Railroad Co. v
Androscoggin -Mills,22 Wall 594, 602.
The result of these considerations is that the decree of the
Circuit Oourt is in all respects correct and must be
Mr. Chief Justice Fuim and Mvr. Justice LAR were not
members of the court when this case was argued, and took no
part in its decision.

