CASES ADJUDGED
WN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.

McCORMICK v. GRAHAMv'S ADMINISTRATOR.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
to. 108. Argued December 5, 6, 1888. -Decided

January 7, 1889.

Claims 1 and 2 of letters patent No. 74,342, granted to Alvaro B. Graham,
February 11, 1868, for an improvement in harvesters, namely "1. The
combination, as set forth, m a harvester, of the finger-beam with the
gearing-carriage, by means of the vibratable link, the draft-rod, and the
two swivel-joints, Al and M'1 so that the finger-beam may both rise and
fall at either end, and rock forward and backward. 2. The combination, as set forth, in a harvester, of the finger-beam, gearing-carriage,
vibratable link, draft-rod, swivel-joints, and arm, by which the rocking
of the finger-beam is controlled," are not infringed by a machine constructed under letters patent No. 193,770, granted July 31, 1877 to
Leander J. McCormick, William R. Baker, and Lambert Erpelding, assignors to C. H. & L. J. McCormick.
It is apparent from the proceedings in the Patent Office on the application
for Graham's patent, and from the terms of his specification and of
claims 1 and 2 as granted, that the intention was to limit the modification
which Graham made, to the particular location of the swivel-joint, Mf
on which the crosswise rocking movement takes place, and to the rigid
arm by which the positive rocking of the finger-beam in both directionis affected and controlled.
i

The docket title of this case is McCormick and others v Whitmer, Ad-

ninstrator of Graham.
VOL. cxLx-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
In the defendants' machine there is no such rocking of the finger-beam as
in Graham's patent, but only a swinging movement, as in prior patents,
on a pivot in the rear of the finger-beam, and there is no arm which can
depress the finger-beam, but only a loose connection to it, the same as
existed before; and there is no swivel-joint, All located and operating
as in the Graham patent; and it does not infringe claun I or claim 2.

Ix EQUITY, for an accounting for infringement of letters
patent. Decree awarding damages to the complainant.
Respondents appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.

_lr Robert H. Parkznson, with whom was Mr Joseph G
Par ienson on the brief, for appellants.
2ft Tlwmas A. Banvng, with whom was Xr Ehravm
Bammnng on the brief, for appellee.
-MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, by Hugh
Graham against Cyrus H. McCormick, Leander J McCormick, and Robert H. McCormick, on the 8th of June, 1877,
founded on the alleged infringement of letters patent No.
74,342, granted to Alvaro B. Graham, February 11, 1868, for
an "improvement in harvesters." In the course of the suit the
defendant Cyrus H. McCormick having died, his executor,
Cyrus H. McCormick, and his executrix, Nettie Fowler MeCormick, were substituted as defendants in his stead.
The defences set up in the answer were want of novelty and
non-infringement. After issue joined, proofs were taken on
both sides, and on the 24th of April, 1882, the court made an
interlocutory decree, holding the patent to be valid as regarded its first and second claims, decreeing that the defendants had infringed those claims, awarding a recovery of profits
to the plaintiff from the 12th of August, 1870, the date of the
assignment of the entire patent by the patentee to the plaintiff, and referring it to a master to take an account of profits
and damages. On the 21st of July, 1884, the master made a
report awarding a sum of money in favor of the plaintiff, to

McCORMICK v. GRAHA-M.
Opinion of the Court.

which both parties filed exceptions. On a hearing, the court
sustained some of the defendants' exceptions and overruled all
others, and rendered a money decree in favor of the plaintiff.
Both parties prayed appeals to this court, but the plaintiff did
not perfect his appeal. Since the record was filed in this
court, the plaintiff has died, and his administrator, Peter
Whitmer, has been substituted in his place as appellee.
Only claims 1 and 2 of the patent are involved. The specification states, among other things, that one object of the improvements which constitute the invention set forth in the patent, is to obtain a greater capacity of movement in a floating
finger-beam, while retaimng its connection with a gearmgcarriage that is drawn forward by a stiff tongue, that, to that
end, the first of the improvements of the patentee "consists of
the combination of the finger-beam with the gearing-carriage
by means of a vibratable link extending crosswise to the line
of draft, a draft-rod extending parallel with the line of draft,
and two swivel-joints, the one for the vibratable link, and the
other for the draft-rod, so that the finger-beam can rise and
fall at either end, and rock forward or backward independently of the gearing-carriage, while maintaining its connection
with it," and that his "next improvement consists of the
combination of the finger-beam, gearing-carriage, vibratable
link, draft-rod, and swivel-joints, with an arm connected with
the finger-beam, to enable it to be rocked for the purpose of
setting its guard-fingers at any desirable inclination to a horizontal line."
The specification further says "My improvements may be
embodied in a machine having the finger-beam arranged in
advance of the axial line of the shaft or arbor of the drivingwheel, or arranged in the rear of that axial line. In the former case, the vibratable link that connects the finger-beam
with the gearing carriage will be arranged in advance of the
driving-wheel, and in the latter case in the rear of the drivingwheel. In the former case, also, the rod, herembefore called
a ' draft-rod' (because the strain to which it is subjected is a
pulling-strain) becomes a pushing or thrust rod, and connects
the inner end of the finger-beam with the rear of the gearing-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

carriage. In the former case, the radius-bar for the reel and
raking-platformn connects with the rear end of the gearing-carriage, and in the latter case with its front end. I prefer to
construct a harvesting-machine with the finger-beam in the
rear of the line of the axle of the driving-wheel, and, as a description of such a machine, perfected by my improvements,
will enable them to be fully understood, all of my improvements are embodied in the harvesting-machine of that description which is represented in the accompanying drawings, and
which is an illustration of the best mode which I have thus
far devised of embodying them in a working-machine."
There are twelve figures of drawings. The specification
states that the machine is what is commonly called a "combined machine," and is adapted to reaping and mowing, that,
when used for the former purpose, it is arranged as represented in figures 1 to 6, that, when used for the latter purpose,
certain of its parts are removed, as thereinafter stated, and a
grass-divider is substituted for the grain-divider, at the outer
end of the finger-beam, and that the gearing which imparts
motion to the siclde and reel is mounted upon a carriage, A,
which is supported by two running or ground wheels, and is
provided with a tongue to which the horses are hitched.
The parts of the specification which relate particularlv to the
subject-matter of claims 1 and 2 are as follows "The fingerbeam G of the machine projects at one side of the rear end of
the gearing-carriage A, and is fitted with guard-fingers, H.
through the slots of which a scalloped cutter, I, is arranged to
reciprocate endwise. The end of this cutter that is nearest
the gearing-carriage is connected with the crank-wrist g of the
crank-shaft D2 , by means of a connecting-rod, J The fingerbeam is connected with the rear end of the gearing-carriage
in the following manner The end of the beam nearer the
carriage is provided with a shoe, K, from which lugs a a project upward. These lugs are perforated to admit a joint-bolt,
a', which connects the shoe with one end of a vibratable forked
link, L, whose other end is connected by a swivel-joint, M,
with a bracket, N, secured to the rear of the gearing-carriage.
This swivel-joint is formed by a cross-head (m, Fig. 11), the

McCORMICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

centre of which is bored transversely, to permit a journal
formed on the end of the forked link L to turn in it. The
ends of the cross-head ra are formed into journals, which turn
in bearings upon the bracket N. Hence the finger-beam can
both rise and fall freely at either end, and rock forward and
backward, without twisting the link that forms its connection
with the gearing-carriage. Moreover, the axis of the crosshead m of the swivel-joint is arranged in line, or thereabout,
with the axis of the crank-shaft D2 , that imparts motion to
the cutter, so that such rising or falling, or rocking, does not
materially change the distance between the crank-shaft and
the cutter. The shoe K of the finger-beam is connected also
with the front end of the gearing-carriage by a draft-rod, 0,
and the connection between the rear end of this draft-rod
and the said shoe is a swivel-joint, M', of which the joint-pmn
ai of the vibratable link L is the longitudinal axis, and its
T-head m 1 the horizontal axis. This swivel-joint, therefore,
while maintaining a firm connection with the draft-rod, gives
free play for both the longitudinal and rocking. movements of
the finger-beam. Hence, when the machine is used for cutting
grass, the said finger-beam may be left free, not only to rise
and fall at either end, but also to rock or to be rocked forward
and backward, so that the points of its guard-fingers incline
toward or from a horizontal plane. In order that the fingerbeam may be rocked by the conductor of the machine, the
vibratable link L is fitted with an arm, 1, whose upper end is
connected by a rod with the lower end of a lever, P, that is
pivoted to the gearing-carriage near its forward end. The
upper elid of this lever P extends within the reach of the
driver, who sits upon the driver's seat, Q, so that he may
rock the finger-beam by moving the said lever to and fro.
This rocking lever P is fitted with a spring-bolt, whose end
can engage in any one of a number of notches formed in a
segment, R, which is attached to the gearing-carriage concentrically with the pivot of the rocking lever, so that the
finger-beam may be fastened in the desired position by the
engagement of the spring-bolt in the appropriate notch. The
rocking lever is fitted with a lever-handle,_p, and rod connect-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

lug with the spring-bolt, by which the spring-bolt may be
withdrawn from the notched segment and held disengaged
therefrom during the movement of the lever. In order that
the connection between the cutter on the finger-beam and the
crank-shaft on the gearing-carriage may not obstruct the free
rocking of the finger-beam, the connecting-rod J is connected
with the cutter I by means of a swivel-joint, S, consisting
(see Fig. 1b) of a head, s, that is pivoted to the cutter-stock
(by a shank that extends lengthwise therewith, and turns in
an ear, s1, secured to the end of the cutter-stock), and of a
cross-pivot, s2, that passes through the said head and through
two ears formed upon the connecting-rod J"
There are ten claims in the patent, claims 1 and 2 being as
follows. "1. The combination, as set forth, in a harvester, of
the finger-beam with the gearing-carriage, by means of the
vibratable link, the draft-rod, and the two swivel-joints Al and
M1, so that the finger-beam may both rise and fall at either
end, and rock forward and backward. 2. The combination,
as set forth, in a harvester, of the finger-beam, gearing-carriage, vibratable link, draft-rod, swivel-joints, and arm, by
which the rocking of the finger-beam is controlled."
It will conduce to a solution of the questions involved in the
case, to give a history of the progress of the application for the
patent through the Patent Office, as gathered from certified
copies of those proceedings found in the record. On the 4th of
December, 1865, the patentee, Alvaro B. Graham, as assignor
to himself, William B. Werden, and Cyrus A. Werden, filed in
the Patent Office an application for a patent, which was sworn
to by him on the 25th of February, 1864. The specification of
this application stated that one object of the invention was the
free passage of the finger-bar over the ground, and the perfect
moving of it to adjust itself to the inequalities of surface over
which it might pass, and that another object of the invention
was the cutting in a proper manner of lodged grass or grain.
It also stated that the machine had a finger-bar, I, the inner
end of which was attached, by a joint, A,to a bar, J, which
was at the rear of the main frame, A, and was connected
thereto, at its left-hand side, by a swivel or universal joint,

McCORMICK v. GRAHAI.
Opmion of the Court.

K, such joint being composed of a rod, s, which was allowed
to turn in a bearing, y, attached to the main frame, the end of
the'bar J being cylindrical and allowed to turn in the rod z,
that the joint K admitted of the bar J and finger-bar I being
raised vertically, and also admitted of those bars being turned
in a more or less inclined position, in their transverse section,
to admit of the fingers and sickle being turned more or less
down towards the ground, as might be required, that this
adjustment of the fingers and sickle was effected through the
medium of a lever, X, which was connected by a rod, 1, with
an upright, m, on the bar J, that this lever X nght be retamed in any desired position, within the scope of its movement, by means of a perforated bar, n, into the holes of
which a pin on the lever caught, that the finger-bar I might
be raised separately from the joint 7t, as a centre, through the
medium of a lever, N, which, like the lever -M, was attached
to the main frame A, and had a chain or cord attached to its
lower end, said chain or cord passing around a pulley, q, on the
bar J,and being attached to the upper end of an upright, P,
attached to the finger-bar at the joint h, that both bars, I and
IT,might be elevated simultaneously by a lever, 0, which was
also attached to the main frame A, and bore at its lower end
on another lever, P,the outer end of which was connected by a
chain, s, with the bar 5, that the lever 0 nght be retained at
any desired point, within the scope of its movement, by means
of a rack-bar, P', that, in case an obstruction presented itself
to the inner end of the finger-bar I, the lever 0 was actuated in
order to raise such end of the finger-bar, and, if an obstruction
presented itself to the outer end of the finger-bar, the lever N
was actuated, and that the applicant did not claim the connecting of the finger-bar I to the bar 5, by a joint h,for that had
been previously done.
1 There were five claims in the specification, the first two of
which were as follows 1. "The attaching of the bar J to the
main frame A by means of the swivel or universal joint K,
when used in combination with the finger-bar I, attached to it
by a joint, h,and this I claim irrespective of any peculiar position of the parts or particular application of the same to the

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

frame of the machine, so long as the desired result is obtained."
2. "The arrangement of the lever N, chain or cord p, and upright P', substantially as shown, for raising the outer end of the
finger-bar I, as set forth." On the 30th of December, 1865,
the Patent Office rejected claims 1 and 2 on a reference to
prior patents. On the 24th of March, 1866, the applicant
erased claims 1, 2 and 3, and substituted for claim 1 the following 1. "The combination of the finger-bar I and bar 5
attached to the frame A by means of the universal joint or
swivel K, in the manner and for the purpose herein specified."
On the 4th of April, 1866, the Patent Office rejected this substituted clan 1, by a reference to a prior rejected application
and to a prior patent. On the 1st of October, 1866, it allowed
the two remaining claims applied for, which had been numbered 4 and 5 originally On the 18th of June, 1867, the
applicant filed a withdrawal of the amendments filed March
24, 1866, the effect being to limit the invention claimed under
the patent to the two claims allowed October 1, 1866, and the
patent was granted July 23, 1867, as No. 67,041, with those
two claims, which in no manner relate to any question involved
in the present suit.
Prior to such withdrawal of June 18, 1867, and on the 11th
of February, 1867, Mr. Graham filed an application which
resulted in the patent in suit, No. 74,342, issued February 11,
1868. Claims 1 and 2 of the specification of that application
originally read as follows 1. "The combination, m a harvester, of the finger-beam with the gearing-carriage, by means
of a vibratable link, draught-rod, and two swivel-joints, so
that the finger-beam may both rise and fall at either end, and
rock forward and backward, substantially as set forth." 2.
"The combination, in a harvester, of the finger-beam, gearingcarriage, link, draught-rod, swivel-joints, and arm, by which
the rocking of the finger-beam is controlled, substantially as
set forth." There were fifteen claims in all made in the specification. On the 29th of July, 1867, the Patent Office rejected
claims 1 and 2, by a reference to prior patents. On the 31st
of December. 1867, the applicant amended claims 1 and 2 so
as to read as they are in the patent as granted. The changes

McCORMICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

thus made in those two claims, and which, under the circumstances, were made to secure the issuing of the patent, the
claims having been rejected in the shape in which they were
first proposed, were these In claim 1, "the combination as
set forth," was substituted for "the combination," "the
vibratable link," for "a vibratable link," "the draught-rod,"
for "draught-rod ," "the two swivel-joints, I[ and M',", for
"two swivel-joints;" and the words "substantially as set forth"
were erased. In claim 2, "the combination as set forth," was
substituted for "the combination," "vibratable link," for
"link," and the words "substantially as set forth" were
erased. In the second claim the word "the '"was always prefixed to the enumerated elements composing the combination
claimed.
The principal question for determination, in the view we
take of the case, is that of infringement. The Circuit Court,
in its opinion, delivered on the making of the interlocutory
decree, (10 Bissell, 39, and 11 Fed. Rep. 859,) considered especially two prior patents, one granted to David Zug, October 4,
1859, No. 25,697, and the other granted to F Ball, October
18, 1859, No. 25,797. In considering those patents, on the
question of infringement as well as on the question of novelty,
the Circuit Court said "The two claims of the Graham
patent, which are alone in controversy here, are the first and
second. The first claim is for a combination of the finger-beam
with the gearing-carriage by means of the vibratable link, the
draft-rod, and the two swivel-joints, Mt and All, so that the
finger-beam may both rise and fall at either end and rock
backward and forward, and the second claim is the same as
the first with this only added, that an arm is attached to the
vibratable link by which the rocking of the finger-beam is
controlled by the driver. The object of this invention, as set
forth in these two claims, seems to be mainly to prodice the
rocking motion of the finger-beam as described and by the
method described. In the Ball patent, while there may be
said to be something equivalent to the swivel-joint Mt of the
plaintiff's machine, where it is attached to the frame, and also
something similar to the draft-rod and the arm, there is noth-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to produce the rocking motion, which is the essential object in the first two claims of the plaintiff's machine, and
consequently there is no swivel-joint M', as in the plaintiff's
machine, so that there is nothing in the Ball machine to
prevent the validity of the combination in the first two claims
of the plaintiff's patent. The Zug machine has, if not a
swivel-joint like that of the plaintiff's at M, where connected
with the frame, something which seems substantially similar. It has a vibratable link and it has something which is
equivalent to the draft-rod, the main difference being that it is
attached beneath the shoe instead of above, but there is no
swivel-joint MI
There is an arm which is attached to the
draft-rod and shoe by which it can be raised and lowered, but
Zug claims in his patent that when the machine is in progress
over the field, and when the finger-bar strikes any obstacle,
there is a device in a box in which the forward part of the
draft-rod is fastened, by which the finger-bar yields to the
obstacle, and that there is also a mode by which the vibratable rod is attached to the frame, called ' joint 16,' in his patent,
and what has been termed an open clevis where the vibratable
link is connected with the draft-rod, by which a motion is
given to the finger-bar, and thus the finger-bar is relieved
from the obstacle. Zug does not claim that the finger-bar in
his machine has a rocking motion, but only that the mode by
which the draft-rod is fastened and the motion given to the
finger-bar, prevents the obstacle which the machine may meet
from doing damage to it. These seem to be the main differences between the two machines, and the question is, whether
there is anything in the Zug machine to prevent the combination named in the first two claims of the plaintiff's patent
from being valid. The defendants' machine has the swiveljoint attached to the frame, the vibratable link in the same
form as the plaintiff's, and the draft-rod attached forward in
substantially the same way as the plaintiff's, but instead of
having a swivel-joint at TME', as stated in plaintiff's machine,
forward of the shoe, the draft-rod has a swivel-joint at the
rear end of the shoe, and there is an arm attached to a part
of the vibratable link substantially like that of the plaintiff's,

McCORMICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

and-the substantial difference, as it seems, between the plaintiff's device as described in the first and second claims, and
that of defendants', is, that the draft-rod is attached to the
rear part of the shoe, and not to the forward part, as in the
plaintiff's patent. There are also other devices in the defendants' machine which may make it different from the plaintiff's.
But as to the swivel-joint, the vibratable link, and the mode
in which the motion is produced in the finger-bar, there does
not seem to be much difference in substance, and in both
machines, and by substantially the same means, there is produced a rocking motion. In this connection it is noticeable
that the defendants, in the claim set forth in the specification
of their patent, make a rocking motion of the shoe and cutter
a feature of their combination. In their second claim they
say that they claim the combination of the 'shoe, and the
drag-bar extending over and in rear of the shoe, and its
swiveled pin connecting it with the rear end of the shoe,
whereby the drag-bar sustains the thrust of the shoe while
leaving it free to rock on its hinges.' Again, in their fifth
claim, they say that they claim the combination ' of the shoe,
the forked coupling-arm, the drag-bar extending over and m
rear of the shoe, the swivel-pin connecting the two, the rocking lever and the detent mounted on the drag-bar, and the
adjustable link connection between the lever and couplingarm, whereby the shoe readily may be rocked or adjusted.'
And again, the motion which seems to be produced in the
operation of plaintiff's machine is more distinctly described in
the seventh claim made by the defendants in their patent, as
follows The combination 'of the shoe, the drag-bar, the
forked coupling-arm,' and the other elements of mechanism
before mentioned, 'whereby the shoe is first rocked, and then
lifted by one continuous movement of the lever.' It must be
confessed that the difference between the Zug machine and
the first two claims of plaintiff's patent is not very marked.
But in view of the description contained in the specifications
of Zug's patent and in those of the plaintiff's patent, we are
inclined to think that the plaintiff's patent may be sustained
on the ground that there is a difference in the manner in

OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

which the draft-rod is attached to the shoe, and the finger-bar
to the shoe and to the vibrating link, and that there is also a
difference in the manner in which the combination of the
various parts are adjusted, and that there is an effect produced in the plaintiff's machine which does not exist in the
Zug machine. In the plaintiff's machine there is a rocking
motion, and not a mere vibratory motion, such as exists in the
Zug machine in consequence of the open clevis, neither is
there in the plaintiff's machine the yielding of the draft-rod,
as described m the Zug patent, and it is obvious, too, from
the manner in which the parts are constructed in the Zug
machine, that there is only a small vibratory action of the
finger-bar, so that, on the whole, we think that the combination as described in plaintiff's patent may be sustained. Then,
from what we have said, we do not see that there can be any
substantial difference between the combination, as described,
in the plaintiff's machine, of the swivel-joints, draft-rod, and
vibratable link, with the frame and shoe and finger-bar, and
that of the defendants' machine. The differences which have
been stated between the two machines in this respect do not
constitute any difference in principle. The one is substantially
the same as the other. The additions which have been made
to defendants' machine, such as the device by which the pressure of the cutting apparatus upon the ground is regulated,
and other devices which have been made, do not affect the
combination as claimed in the plaintiff's machine. The attachment of the draft-rod to the rear part of the shoe instead of
to the front part, which is substantially the only difference
that there seems to be in the mode of construction, cannot
constitute a difference in principle, and cannot prevent the
defendants' machine from being an infringement of the plaintiff's patent. It may be said that there are differences also
between the defendants' machine and that of the plaintiff, in
the manner in which the arm is attached to the vibratable
link, and also as to the mode in which the force applied to the
arm may operate upon the finger-bar, but these are differences of form and not of substance."
The specification referred to in that opinion as the specifica-

McCORMICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the defendants, and quotations from claims 2, 5 and 7
in which are made, is a patent under which the defendants'
machines were constructed, No. 193;770, granted July 31,
1877, to Leander J McCormick, William R. Baker, and Lambert Erpelding, assignors to C. I. and L. J McCormick.
The invention of the patentee is carried back to November
or December, 1863, at which tune he made a model containing
his perfected invention, which he shortly afterwards sent to
his patent solicitors, and which was sent to the Patent Office
with the application sworn to February 25, 1864, and filed
December 4, 1865. The delay seems not to have been attributable to the applicant.
The patents introduced in this case as affecting the questions
of novelty and infringement, and which were prior to the
invention of Graham, and which seem to be relied on by the
appellee, were as follows To George C. Dolph, No. 18,141,
issued September 8, 1857, to W S. Stetson and R. F Maynard, No. 24,063, issued May 17, 1859, the Zug patent, the
Ball patent, and one to Stephen S. Bartlett, No. 34,545, issued
February 25, 1862.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court took an erroneous
view of the question of infringement. The capacity of the
finger-beam to "rise and fall freely at either end," spoken of
in the specification of the plaintiff's patent, was not a new
thing with him, but had been used for many years in mowing
and reaping machines, the finger-beam moving on a -pivot at
its inner end, and the plaintiff, in the specification of his
patent of July 23, 1867, stated that he did not claim the connecting of the finger-bar, I, to the bor, J, by the joint, A, because that had been previously done. It was also old to have
a lever connected by a loose connection, by which the driver
could tip up the front edge of the finger-bar arbitrarily, and
secure it so that it could not fall below the inclination at
which he had set it, although it was left free to tip up further
automatically
The arrangement spoken of in the plaintiff's specification,
whereby the finger-beam can "rock forward and backward
without twisting the link that forms its connection with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

gearing-carriage," was secured by making the pivot on which
the crosswise tilt takes place, at a point m front of the beam,
so that the pivot rises and falls with the guard-fingers, and an
arm is provided by which the movement of the finger-beam
in both directions is controlled by the driver, instead of its
being independent of his control in its downward movement,
as was the case in prior machines. It is apparent, from the
proceedings in the Patent Office on his application, and from
the terms of his specification and of claims 1 and 2 as granted,
that the intention was to limit the modification which he
made, to the particular location of the swivel-joint, Y, on
which the crosswise rocking movement takes place, and to the
rigid arm by which the positive rocking of the finger-beam in
both directions is effected and controlled.
In a mowing machine for cutting grass, where it is desirable
to cut near to the ground in order to cut and use as much of
the grass as possible, the front edge of the finger-beam must
bear closely on the surface of the ground, with a yielding
pressure, so that it will rise freely in order to pass over such
irregularities in the surface of the ground as do not require
that the finger-beam should be bodily lifted. This yielding
pressure is secured by a capacity in it to swing upward on its
heel as a pivot, because, if its front edge were held rigidly
down upon the ground, the guard-fingers would be driven into
every obstruction. This necessity does not exist in machines
for harvesting grain, because in them the finger-beam is set
several inches above the ground, the grain being the desirable
object, rather than the straw, and the carrying of the fingerbeam at an elevation prevents its meeting with obstructions,
and hence there is no such occasion, as in mowing machines,
for its front edge being left free to swing upward.
The capacity, if any, which Graham added to the machines
in general use, was one for raising and lowering the pivot of
oscillation, -which had before been stationary, and a further
capacity for a positive downward tilt or forward rocking,
which enabled the driver to tip up the heel of the finger-beam
and force the fingers under lodged gram or grass. The rocking forward and backward, spoken of in the plaintiff's specifi-

AcCORAIICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

cation, is applied to a tilting backward which rocks the front
of the finger-beam upward, and to a tilting forward which
rocks the heel of that beam upward and its front downward.
In the defendants' machine, there is no such rocking backward
and forward, but there is a swinging motion, the same as in
the prior Ball patent, the pivot on which the tilting takes
place being in the rear of the finger-beam, and there being no
means of positively tipping the front of the beam downward
or of raising its heel to force its front edge and the fingerguards downwards. In the Ball patent, the draft-rod passes
under the finger-beam, and in the defendants' machine the
draft-rod passes over the finger-beam, to reach the pivotal
point, which is in both cases the same. In both of them, the
weight of the finger-beam being in front of the pivot tends
to hold its front edge down upon the ground, but, when the
finger-guards strike any elevation, the front edge of the beam
swings up freely on its rear pivot, the tendency being for its
weight to carry it back to its original position as soon as the
elevation is passed. In the Ball patent, there is a lever connected with a chain which can raise the finger-beam or hold it
up, but cannot affirmatively depress it, its downward movement being dependent solely upon the fact that its weight is
in front of the pivot on which it turns. In the defendants'
machine, there is a substitute for the Ball chain, namely,
a loose sliding link, which permits of the same upward movement that the chain does, and which cannot force or hold the
beam down. In both the Ball machine and the defendants'
machine, the propelling force from the draft-rod is exerted
from the pivot in the rear, and in both the front edge of the
finger-beam, where the guards are situated, is left free for the
swinging movement above mentioned.
In contradistinction to this, the pivotal connection between
the finger-beam and the draft-rod in the plaintiff's machine,
instead of being at the heel of the finger-beam, is placed in

front of it, at the swivel-joint, M1', and a rigid arm, 1, is
mounted on the vibratable link, so that the beam can thereby
be rocked backward and forward by the driver, to tip the
heel of the shoe up and the front down, or the front up and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the heel down, the heel of the finger-beam being lifted by the
forward rocking of the arm 1, and its front being lifted by
the backward rocking of such arm. By the locking of the
lever wlVch works the arm, the finger-beam can be set at any
desired inclination. The movement of the finger-beam in
each direction is positive. In the defendants' machine, it
swings on a pivot at its rear, which is not raised or lowered
by the upward or downward tilt of the guard-fingers, while
in the plaintiff's machine, as the finger-beam rocks on the
swivel-joint A', the heel of the finger-beam is lifted from the
ground as the finger-guards are turned downward.
In the Zug patent, of October, 1859, there is a finger-beam
attached to the rear end of the machine by a vibratable link,
which is itself attached at its rear end loosely to the machine,
and is also fitted loosely within the draft-rod, so that there
is a considerable rising and falling motion to the front end
of the shoe, whereby the guard-fingers can be elevated and
depressed to a considerable extent, and in substantially the
same manner as in the defendants' machine, the raising and
lowering of them being accomplished at a similar point as in
the defendants' machine, the difference in the rising and
falling motion of the finger-beam in the Zug and in the
defendants' machine being a difference only in degree.
In the Ball patent of October, 1859, there is a finger-beam
attached by a hinged, vibratable link, and there is a draft-rod,
which is hinged at its front end. A shoe is attached to the
rear end of the draft-rod, with a free up-and-down hinged
joint. The finger-beam of the machine is attached in front of
this hinge, and such hinged connection admits of the rising
and falling of the front of the shoe and of the finger-beam.
This motion is not a rocking motion, as in the plaintiff's patent,
but is substantially the same rising and falling motion that is
found in the defendants' machine, the only material difference
being that, in the Ball patent. the draft-rod extends under the
shoe and the finger-beam, and prevents them from falling
down lower than a horizontal position, whereas, in the defendants' machine, the draft-rod extends over the shoe and finger
beam to the same point of attachment as in the Ball patent,

McCORMICK v. GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

and thus the finger-beam can fall lower than in the Ball
patent, and even to below a horizontal position, but the fingerbeam m the Ball patent can rise and fall as freely at either
end as m the defendants' or the plaintiff's machine, and the
crosswise rising and falling motion in the Ball patent is of the
same character as in the defendants' machine, but wholly unlike the rocking motion, or the forward and backward motion,
of the finger-beam in the plaintiff's patent.
In the Bartlett patent of February, 1862, there is a fingerbeam attached at its rear by a vibratable link, which has a
swivel-joint at.its outer end and a free joint at its inner end,
in connection with a shoe and with a draft-rod which extends
from the front end of the machine to the rear end of the shoe,
and the finger-beam is attached to the shoe in front of the
vibratable link. There is also a lever which rocks forward
and backward, and is so arranged that the finger-beam and
the draft-rod rise and fall, and the finger-beam rocks forward
and backward, substantially in the same manner as in the
plaintiff's patent, though with a less perfect motion. But
there is considerable forward and backward rocking motion,
and the rocking takes place with substantially rigid lever devices, and there is substantially the same rising and falling
motion of the finger-beam at either end as in the plaintiff's
patent.
In view of this prior state of the art, the question of infringement stands in this way In the defendants' machine,
there is, in combination with the gearing-frame, a vibratable link
connection with the finger-beam, not very materially different
from the vibratable link connection in the plaintiff's patent,
but the draft-rod in the defendants' machine is different from
that of the plaintiff's patent, in that its forward connection is
not substantially a swivel-joint, but is so hinged as to afford
no torsional action, and the draft-rod is connected with the
shoe at nearly the extreme rear end of the shoe, while the
draft-rod in the plaintiff's patent has swivel-joints at both its
forward and rear ends, and such joints have substantially a
free torsional capacity So, too, the draft-rod in the plaintiff's
patent is attached to the shoe in front of the finger-beam,
voL. cxxix-2

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

instead of at the extreme rear end of the shoe, as in the defendants' machine. As a consequence of these several arrangements, the finger-beam in the plaintiff's patent rocks freely both
forward and backward, in such manner that the rear of the
finger-beam may be elevated and the guards be thrown down,
or the front of it may be elevated and the guards be thrown
up, with an equal rocking motion m either direction, whereas,
m the defendants' machine, when the finger-beam is operated
upon by the lever, the front part of it merely rises and falls
with a swinging motion from its pivoted point in the rear.
The defendants' machine differs from the plaintiff's patent, in
that its finger-beam cannot be raised at all at its rear by the
lifting lever, and cannot be positively moved downward by
that lever. Therefore, as the finger-beam in the defendants'
machine does not have the motion which results from the
combination of the elements specified in the first claim of the
plaintiff's patent, and does not "rock forward and backward"
in the sense of that claim, or in the sense described in the
specification of the plaintiff's patent, it does not infringe such
first claim. Nor does it contain the swivel joint M', specified
in the first claim, located and operating as in the plaintiff's
patent. The first claim of that patent must, in view of the
state of the art, and of the special limitations put upon it on
the requirement of the Patent Office, be limited to the special
construction and arrangement set forth in that claim.
The same views apply to the second claim of the patent,
which contains combined all the elements set forth in the first
claim, with the addition of the rigid arm, 1. That arm, in the
plaintiff's patent, has a rigid connection with the vibratable
link to which it is attached, and through such arm the finger
beam is made to rook backward or forward by positive action,
in either direction, while in the defendants' machine there is
no such rigid arm, but only a connection by which the front
of the finger-beam can be lifted, while it falls by its own
weight when released, instead of being positively forced down,
as in the plaintiff's patent. This species of lifting device was
old.
In regard to the extracts set forth in the opinion of the Cir-

SARGENT v. BURGESS.
Statement of the Case.

cuit Court from the defendants' patent of July, 187, we are
of opinion that the second, fifth, and seventh claims of that
patent, in speaking of the shoe as "rocking," can only refer to
its swinging on a hinge at its rear end, and that the term
" rocking" is not used in the sense in which it is used in the
plaintiff's patent, because, neither in the defendants' patent
nor in their machine has their shoe or their finger-beam any
such rocking motion as is described in the plaintiff's patent.
It results from these views that, on a proper construction of
claims 1 and 2 of the plaintiff's patent, the defendants have
not infringed it, and that
The decree of the Circmt Court must. be reversed, and the
cause be remanded wzth a direction to dismmss the bill of
complaimt, with costs.

SARGENT v. BURGESS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TME UNITED STATES FOR THg
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 127. Argued Decemb.er 12, 13, 1888.-

Decided January 1,1889.

Claim 3 of letters patent No. 223,338, granted to John M. Gorham, January
6th, 1880, for an improvement in wash-board frames, namely, "3. In
combination with a wash-board, a protector located below the crownpiece and between the side pieces of the wash-board frame, and constructed to fold down into or upon said wash-board even with or below
the general plane of said wash-board frame, substantially as and for the
purpose shown," cannot, in view of the state of the art, and of the course

of proceeding in the Patent Office on the application for the patent, be
so construed as to cover a protector which does not have the yielding,
elastic or resilient function described in the specification.
The defendant's protector, constructed in accordance with letters patent
No. 255,555, granted to Charles H. Willams, March 28th, 1882, and
having no yielding or resilient function, and not being pivoted, or folding down, after the manner of the Gorham protector, does not infringe
claim 3.

ThN EQurrY for the infringement of letters patent.
is stated in the opinion.

The case

