OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

In the case at bar, the machines of the plaintiff's invention
were not purchased from him by the defendants. But they
were constructed with his knowledge and consent by a partnership of which he and the defendants were the members. It
was strongly argued for the defendants, that a sale or -a license
from the inventor to two or more partners or tenants in common confers upon each a right to use and to sell the subject of
the sale or license, and that the defendants, therefore, come
within the second class of persons defined in the statute. But
it is unnecessary to determine whether that is so or not, because, if it is not, the defendants clearly come within the fourth
class, being persons who use machines which have been constructed with the knowledge and consent of the inventor before
his application for a patent.
The peculiar provisions of the agreement by which the partnership between the plaintiff and the defendants was dissolved
did not, in terms or in legal effect, enlarge or diminish the
rights of either party, independently of that agreement, in the
machines in question.
.Decree afirmed.
THE

FARMERS'

LOAN AND TRUST
PETITIONER.

COMPANY

ORIGINAL.

No. 4. Original. Argued December 17, 18, 15S'..-Decided January 21,',1889.
An order of a Circuit Court of the United States, in a suit in equity for the
foreclosure of a mortgage upon the property of a railroad company
that the receiver of the mortgaged property may borrow money and issue
certificates therefor to be a first lien upon it, made after final decree of
foreclosure, and after appeal therefrom to this court, and after the filing
of a supersedeas bond, establishes, if unreversed, the right of the holders
of the certificates to priorit3 of payment over the mortgage bondholders,
and is a final decree from which an appeal may be taken to this court.

Tis was a petition for a writ of mandamus. The motion
for leave to file the petition was presented October 22, 1888,

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.
Statement of the Case.

and was granted that day and a rule to show cause issued,
returnable on the 3d Monday of the next November. The
return was filed on the 26th of November, and argument was
had on the 17th and 18th December. The case is stated as
follows by the court in its opinion.
At the request of the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, a
rule was granted, in the early part of the present term of this
court, on the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Texas, to show cause why a mandamus should not issue requiring them to allow an appeal, and
to approve a bond upon such appeal, from an order of that
court made in the case of that company against the Texas
Central Railway Company
The litigation to which this matter relates was commenced
in that court by a bill filed by Morgan's Louisiana and Texas
Railroad and Steamship Company, against the Texas Central
Railway Company, for the appointment of a receiver and for
the sale of the property of the railway company, to enforce
an alleged lien. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Company afterwards became a party also, and set up, by cross-bill and otherWise, a mortgage against the railway company prior to the lien
of the Morgan company Receivers were appointed in the
progress of that suit, and a final decree rendered by the court
in 1887, ordering a sale of the proporty and recognizing the
paramount lien of the Trust Company to the extent of four
millions of dollars and over, and holding that the claim of the
original complainant was subordinate to that. Appeals were
taken accompanied by supersedeas, from the decree of foreclosure, both by the original complainant, the Morgan company,
and the railway company, which appeals are now pending in
this court on the docket.
A motion was filed here at the last term to advance the
cause, but it was denied. On February 15, 1888, and after
said decree of foreclosure and sale was made, and after the
appeal in the case from that decree was taken to this court,
and a supersedeas bond filed, the receivers of the railway company presented their petition to the Circuit Court for an order

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against Petitioner.

authorizing them to borrow the sum of $120,000 on certificates,
the same to be a first lien on the property The making of
this order was opposed by the Trust Company The matter
was referred to a master to report, and on the coming2in of
his report, which was in favor of the petition of the receivers,
their request was granted, and an order was made authorizing
them to expend that sum on the railway, and to borrow
money for this purpose, for which they were to issue certificates that should be a first lien on the entire property of the railway company, except as to $20,000 of certificates which had
already been issued under another order.
The Trust Company, believing that this order would work a
great injustice to the bondholders whom they represented, and
who had the first lien on the property of the railway company,
applied successively to the circuit judge and the circuit justice for the allowance of an appeal, and the approval of a bond
to operate as a supersedeas, which they offcred, and the sufficiency of which has not been controverted.
After argument on the subject before both of these judges,
they declined to either allow the appeal or approve the bond.
Application was then made to this court for a rule upon them
to show cause why this appeal should not be allowed and the
bond approved. The rule was granted, and the return thereto
made by the circuit judge is now before us, giving the reasons
why he does not think the appeal should be allowed. The
question now before us is on the sufficiency of this return.
JX) Ierlert B. Turner for the petitioner.
Ir J Ilubley Ashtoni opposing.
I. The burden is upon the petitioner to show that it has a
clear right to an appeal which has been refused by the Circuit
Court.
(1) Power to issue writs of mandamus to the courts appointed under the authority of the United States is conferred
upon this court by the 13th section of the Judiciary Act, now
ยง 688 of the Revised Statutes, "in cases warranted by the

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.
Argument against Petitioner.

principles and usages of law" Ex Tarte Cutting, 94 U. S.
14, 19.
(2) The writ will not be granted in favor of a party, asking
the allowance of an appeal, unless he shows that he took
the steps necessary to entitle him to an appeal, and that
the amount in dispute is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction. fXussma v Cavazos, 20 How 280, Exe parte Baltimore & O]7o Railroad, 106 U. S. 5, Zn re Burdett, 127
U. S. 771.
II. The petitioner is not entitled to a mandamus, in this
case, unless the order of M1ay 26, 1888, standing alone, as it
does, is a final decree, in the suit, within the meaning of
ยง 692 of the Revised Statutes, by which the rights of the petitioner are injuriously affected, and it appears that the amount
in dispute exceeds the sum or value of five thousand dollars,
exclusive of costs.
(1) Congress intended that a case should not be divided up
into a plurality of appeals. The Palmyra, 10 Wheat. 502,
Forgayv Conrad,6 How 201, Beebe v Russell, 19 How 283,
Humszston v Stanthorp, 2 Wall. 106. Interlocutory orders,
made in the progress of a suit, can come here only through,
and upon, an appeal from a final decree. Railroad Co. v
Soutter, 2 Wall. 510, 521, Ex parte Jordan, 94 U S. 248.
Where a matter distinct from the general subject of litigation
arises in the progress of a suit in equity, the jurisdiction of
this court can be invoked only after a final decision and settlement of the right or claim involved, and the proceedings in
relation thereto are ended. Thus, a purchaser at a foreclosure
sale may appeal from a decree affecting his interest, but only
after the proceedings for the sale, under the original decree,
are ended, and from the last decree which the court can make
in the case, and which dismisses the parties from further attendance upon the court for any purpose connected with the
action. Blossom v .7lilwaukee &c. Railroad Co., I Wall.
655. See also Butterjfeld v Usher, 91 U S.246, Trustees v
Greenough,105 U. S.527, 531, Williams v. Morgan, 111 U. S.1
684, Ex parte Jordan, 94 U. S.248. 251, W]allace v Loomss,
97 U. S. 146, -fMiltenberger v Logansport Railway Co., 106
VOL. cCxIx-14

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Argument against Petitioner.

'U. S. 286, Unwn T'ust Co. v Illinos -Midland Railway,
117 U. S. 434, Chi'cago & Vincennes Railroad v -Fosdick,

106 U. S. 47, 84.
(2) The limitation of the right of appeal to cases where
the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $5000,
"draws the boundary line of jurtsditon,and is to be construed with strictness and rigor." .Elgtn v farshall, 106 U
S. 578, Farmers'Loan and Trust Co. v Waterman, 106 U. S.
265.
III. It doth not appear that the order of May 26th, 1888,
affects, or will affect, the rights or interests of the petitioner,
or those whom, in equity, it represents, to an amount sufficient
to give this court jurisdiction, or to any amount, and no
appeal therefrom is, therefore, allowable.
(1) The order is an administrative order for the preservation
of the property as a trust fund for those entitled to it, and the
maintenance of the railroad, and its structures, in a safe and
proper condition to serve the public. Wallace v _Looms, 97
U. S. 146, Unton Trust Go. v Pllino-sJIXidland Co., 117 U. S.

434, 456.
(2) If receivers' certificates had been issued, under the order
in controversy, it would be impossible, we suppose, to tell
whether the mortgage creditors would be injuriously affected,
and, if so, to what sum or amount, by reason of the order, and
the action of the receivers under it, until the fund for distribution should be ascertained, the amount of the claims of the
respective holders df such certificates to priority of lien upon
the fund determined, and the results of a final decree of distribution known.
IV The order of May 26th, 1888, as it stands is an administrative order, relating to a matter within the domain of the
discretion of the Circuit Court, with which this court will not
interfere, and it is not, therefore, the subject of an appeal to
this court.
(1) The question presented is as to the legal nature and
character of the order, standing alone, as it does, and before
and without confirmation by any adjudication of the Circuit
Court, recognizing loans made under it, and giving them

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.
Argument against Petitioner.

priority of lien in the distribution of the trust funds. That
the order, in its present situation and relation, is to be deemed
an administrative order, not involving the exercise of what
this court has called "judiczaljudgment," and not impugnable for what has been termed "judicial error," appears to
follow from the juridical character of the protective powers of
courts of Chancery in the case of trust funds, the nature and
objects of such orders, as well as from what this court has
said, on several occasions, touching the power of courts of
Equity, by such orders, to preserve such property when in its
hands as a trust fund.
The protective and administrative functions of courts of
Chancery are as old as those courts themselves. 1 Spence's
Equitable Jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery, 377-381,
additional note to chapter 6. This order relates only to the
business which the court is obliged to carry on, through its
officers, in the performance of its duty to take care of and
manage the property pending the litigation. The property is
not brought into the Appellate Court by the appeal, and the
Circuit Court must still use its powers to preserve it. Bronson
v La Crosse Railroad,1 Wall. 405. In a foreclosure suit, until the litigation is ended, it does not appear that there must be
a sale. Xountze v. Omaha Hotel Co., 107 U. S. 378, 393, and
meanwhile the court must keep the road in safe condition.
Union Trust Co. v Illinots .Midland Co., ubi supra. See
also Wallace v Zoomzs, ub? supra.
(2) But when the order has been executed, and claims arising
under the receivers' certificates are presented for allowance
against the property, with priority of lien over the mortgage
bonds, the adjudication of the court upon the respective priorities is a judicial decree, and when final, a final decree, the
lawful subject of appeal when a sufficient amount is involved.
Forgay v Conrad,6 How 200.
V The order of May 26th, 1888, is not final in the sense of
that word in its relation to appeals, and is strictly an interlocutory order in the cause, and not a final decree therein,
from which an appeal lies to this court.
INo decree can amount to a "final" decree upon which an

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against Petitioner.

appeal lies to this court, unless it is a final judicial determination of the merits of the case, or of the matter embraced by
the decree, terminating the litigation between the parties, and
leaving nothing to be done but to carry what has been decreed
into execution. This is the principle of the earlier, as well as
the late, decisions of this court upon the subject. Hummstou
v Stainthwrp, 2 Wall. 106, and cases there cited, Barnard v
Gibson, 7 How 650, Railroad Co. v Swasey, 23 Wall. 405,
Butterjfeld v Usher, 91 U. S. 24:6, Blossom v .ilwaukee &e.
RailroadCo., 1 Wall. 655, S. C. 3 Wall. 196, Grantv Phcenzx
ins. Co., 106 U S 429, Bostwzck v Brinkerhojf,106 U. S. 3,
Green v Fisk, 103 U. S. 518, Parsonsv Robnson, 122 U S.
112, Burlington &c. Railway Co. v Simmons, 123 U S. 52.
Where the trustee of the bondholders, in a foreclosure suit,
consents to or acquiesces in an order of the court making the
receivers' certificates a first lien on the property, the bondholders may not be able afterwards to deny the power of the
court to act in making the order, so far as the interests of
third parties acting on the faith of the order might be affected.
Wallace v Loomv?, ubz. supra, Unon Trust Co. v Ill. .Tidland Co., ub supra, I7umphreys v Allen, 101 Illinois, 490,
500.
But where the mortgage trustee has not consented to the
order, and has formally denied, as in this case, the power of
the court to act in making it, we apprehend, the bondholders
are not precluded from afterwards contesting the validity and
effect of the receivers' certificates as a charge upon the property, superior to the lien created by the first mortgages, and
the court must adjudicate those questions, when presented for
determination, before making its final decree of distribution.
It is well settled that receivers' certificates are not negotiable instruments, and that purchasers of such securities are
bound to take notice of the orders under which they were
issued, and the records of the court with regard to them,
which are always accessible to lenders and subsequent holders.
Stanton v Alabama & Olattanooga Railroad Co., 2 Woods,
506, 512, approved, Unzon Trust Co. v Ill. Aidland Co., 117
U S. 456, 461, Swann v TFriglit's Executor, 110 U S. 590,

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

599, Turner v Peona & Sprngfield Railroad Co., 95 ]Jlinois, 134, Beach on Receivers, g 396 et seq.
VI. It would appear to be settled by adjudication and practice that an order, in a foreclosure suit, for the issuing of
receivers' certificates, the same to be a first lien on the property, is an interlocutory order, which can be brought here only
by an appeal from a final decree of distribution. Ex parte
Jordan,ubz svpra Unton. Trust Co. v Illinos3lidlandRailway Co., ub .sra.
p
YM.

JusTicE MILL R

delivered the opinion of the court.

The reasons why the judges declined to allow this appeal
may be substantially divided into two. The first and most
important of these is, that the order from which the appeal is
asked is not a final decree, within the meaning of the act of
Congress on that subject, but is a mere ancillary proceeding
for the protection of the property pending an appeal from the
principal decree now before this court. But the doctrine that,
after a decree which disposes of a principal subject of litigation and settles the rights of the parties in regard to that matter, there may subsequently arise important matters requiring
the judicial action of the court in relation to the same property
and some of the same rights litigated in the main suit, making
necessary substantive and important orders and decrees in
which the most material rights of the parties may be passed
upon by the court, and which, when they partake of the nature
of final decisions of those rights, may be appealed from, is well
established by the decisions of this court. Blossom v Xilwaukee &c. Railroad Co., 1 Wall. 655, Forgay v. Conrad,6
How 201, Fosdicko v S call, 99 U. S. 235, Williams v Morgan, 111 U. S. 684, Burnham v Bowen, 111 U. S. 116.
The question in such cases is not whether the order complained of is of a character decisive of questions that the
parties are entitled to have reviewed in the appellate court,
but whether the order or decree is of that final nature which
alone can be brought to this court on appeal. It is upon tins
ground mainly that the right of appeal is resisted in the pres-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ent case, but we are of opinion that, within the true prmciples which establish the finality of a decree of the Circuit
Court in reference to the allowance of an appeal, this order is
a final decree.
If the order is executed, the first thing to be done under it
will be to borrow money to the extent authorized therein, and
then the receivers will issue the certificates contemplated in
it. It is not necessary to hold here what the position of the
holders of such certificates would be, if the order contained
no provision that they should be the first lien upon the property of the company It might be, but it is not necessary to
decide that question here, that such an order would not be conclusive of the right of the holders of such certificates to priority of payment out of the proceeds of the sale of the railway It is one of the arguments used before us, that upon a
final sale, and an order by the court for the distribution of its
proceeds, such certificates would not necessarily be held to
have such priority, but that, issued under this order, and containing on their face the provision authorized by it, they would
constitute a first lien upon the property of the railway company to be sold under the final decree, is, we think, very clear.
Such order standing unrepealed, we do not think that the
court in a subsequent stage of the same litigation, in the same
case and in regard to the same subject matter, could be permitted to say that the holders of these certificates must establish their right to priority of payment, but we are of opinion
that such holders, under the decree of this court that they
should have priority standing unreversed, would be entitled to
such first lien.
These views we do not propose to elaborate, further than to
say that if this order does not give the lender of the money
such prior lien upon the proceeds of the property of the company it is because the court had no authority to make it, and
as it would be a fraud upon such lender justice could only be
done by enforcing it. If this view of the subject be correct,
of which we entertain no doubt, the order is a final one. It
is a decree fixing upon the property, on which the trust company now has a first lien, another lien of $120,000, and making

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

it paramount to that. It changes the relation of that company
to this property, displaces its rights as settled by a decree now
pending in this court, and if that decree is affirmed, it in effect
modifies it, although this court may say that it should stand
and be enforced. This order comes within all the elements of
finality which we can imagine to belong to a decree of the Circuit Court. It establishes certain rights- of the parties, to the
injury, as petitioners believe, of their interests in the property
We need not refer to cases on the subject of finality, for they
are numerous, and the principles on which they have been
decided apply to widely varying circumstances. But while
we are not aware of any case precisely in point to the one
before us, we are satisfied that it is within the purpose of the
statute and the principles by which it is to be construed.
The other reason given why the appeal should not be
granted is that the action of the Circuit Court in the case is
one within its discretion. All we have to say upon this subject is, that if it be an authority vested in the judges of the
Circuit Court, it must be exercised and governed by the principles of a judicial discretion, and the very point to be decided
upon an appeal here is, whether they had such discretion, and
whether they exercised it in a manner that cannot be reviewed
in this court.
The question is one which In its nature must be a subject of
appeal. Whether the court below can exercise any such power
at all, after the case has been removed from its jurisdiction
into this court by an appeal accompanied by a supersedeas, is
itself a proper matter of review; and still more, whether, in
the exercise of what the court asserts to be its discretionary
power, it has invaded established rights of the petitioners in
this case, contrary to law, in such a manner that they can
have no relief except by an appeal to this court. This is a
matter eminently proper to be inquired into upon an appeal
from such an order. Upon the hearing of that appeal this
court may be of opinion that the order was one proper to be
made, in which case it will be affirmed. If, however, it believes that it was an improper one, and will seriously prejudice
the rights of the petitioners, it will be reversed and set aside,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Concurnng Opmion. Bradley, J.

as it should be. In granting the appeal this court, of course,
does not undertake to decide whether the order was rightfully
made, if the court had the requisite power, but can only do
that upon the hearing of the appeal.
For the same reasons this court cannot consider, on this
motion, the urgent appeals made to it in regard to the necessity of this order for the preservation of the railway from
destruction during the pendency of the appeal on the main
case. That is a matter only fit to be considered on the hearing of the appeal, which we think should be granted.
The wr t of mandamus, direotng the yudges of the Circuit
Court to allow the avpeal and to apjyrove a suffient bond,
ss granted.
Mn . Jusrmio BPiALEY said I concur in the judgment of the
court, but for a different reason from that given in the opinion.
I think that after appeal from a final decree in a foreclosure
suit, and after the case comes here, a supersedeas bond having
been given, the control of the fund in dispute belongs to this
court, subject to the management of the property by the court
below In such management that court is the agent of this
court, and all its acts in that respect are subject to review and
supervision here when properly. brought before us. In the
present case the order complained of being final m the matter
to which it relates, and being made since the final decree in
the cause, and not reviewable on the appeal from that decree,
it may be as well reviewed here by appeal as in any other
way For that reason I concur in the decision made by the
court.

