GOODWIN v. FOX.
Syllabus.

gress declares that United States securities shall not be taxed,
the State has no right to tax him for them. But the legislature
of the State of Ohio undertook to get around that law in this
way, they say that a man shall be exempted from taxation
for United States securities owned by him on the second
Monday in April, only in proportion to the time that he has
held them, so that if he has held them only one day he would
be exempted only one 365th part of the amount, whilst, if
the man of whom the taxpayer bought them, held them 364
days, he would get no exemption at all, he would be taxable
for the consideration which he received for the securities and
which he held on the second Monday in April. Therefore, in
Ohio United States securities are only exempted from taxation
in a limited manner, that is, in proportion to the time they
have been held. All other property is treated differently If
anything is unconstitutional, it seems to me that this is.

GOODWII
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

v. FOX.
OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 168. Argued January 18, 21, 1889. -Decided

March 5, 1889.

By a written agreement between two parties, one acknowledged that he was
indebted to the other in the sum of $70,000, "over.and above all discounts
and set-offs of every name and nature;" and it was stated that the latter
was to take up and satisfy certain other indebtedness of the former, and
that the former had conveyed to the latter a stock of goods, and storefixtures, notes, books and accounts, and a piece of land, "with power
forthwith, at such times and in such manner as" the latter should "deem
best, to convert the said goods," "fixtures, notes, accounts and premises
into money, and apply the proceeds to the payment of said indebtedness,"
with interest, and also a certain farm, and it was agreed that if the former should, within six months from date, pay said indebtedness, the latter would reconvey the farm, but, in default of such payment, ight
foreclose "the certain mortgage comprised in " the conveyance of the farm
and the agreement. The conveyances mentioned in the agreement were
made, and the title to the piece of land and the farm and the right to the
indebtedness, came into the hands of the plaintiff, who sold the land, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.
brought this suit in equity against the original debtor for an account of
the amount due on the secu'rity of the farm, and for a foreclosure of the
debtor's equity of redemption in the farm Held,
(1) The debtor could not go behind the agreement fixing the debt at
$70,000, because there was no sufficient evidence to impeach it, on
the ground that his signature was obtained by fraud or duress,
or without his full knowledge of its provisions and consent to its
terms,
(2) The debtor was entitled to be credited only with the sums realized
by the creditor from the sale of the personal property and piece
of land, and not with sums estimated, by testimony, as their value
at the time of the agreement,
(3) Under the statute of Illinois, where the transaction took place, the
creditor was entitled to interest on the $70,000 from the expiration
of the six months, and on the amount paid by him on the other
indebtedness from the time of paying it;
(4) The amount of a mortgage given by the creditor on the farm was
to be credited to the debtor and paid by the farm.
Section 858 of the Revised Statutes in regard to the exclusion of a party to
a suit as a witness, makes every party a competent witness except in
cases covered by the proviso to the section.

IN EQUrrY.

The case is stated in the opinon of the court.

.ir Carles . Wood for Kate W Goodwin and Charles S.
Goodwin, appellants.
3ib' John N Jewett filed a brief for Sarah E. R. Smith and
Charles A. Smith, appellants.
.Mr Trilliam C. Goudy for appellees.

MR. JusTioE BLATcHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 20th of February, 1869, a written agreement was
executed by Samuel H. Fox and I. Willaxd Fox, to which was
appended a memorandum signed by Samuel H. Fox, the
papers being as follows
"Whereas I. Willard Fox is indebted to Samuel H. Fox and
Henry W Fox, partners doing business under the firm name
and style of Fox & Co., in the sum of seventy thousand dollars,
($70,000,) over and above all discounts and set-offs of every
name and nature, and whereas said Fox & Co., at the request
of said I. Willard Fox, have taken up and satisfied, or [are]

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinon of the Court.

about to take up and satisfy, certain other of the indebtedness
of said I. Willard Fox, some of such indebtedness, and to the
amount of about sixteen thousand dollars, ($16,000,) more or
less, being satisfied by payment thereof, and to the amount of
about thirty thousand dollars, ($30,000,) more or less, being so
satisfied by payment at the rate of fifty cents on the dollar,
whereby the said I. Willard Fox has become further indebted
to said Fox & Co., and whereas the said I. Willard Fox has
sold and conveyed to the said Samuel H. Fox all and singular
the stock of goods, wares and merchandise with the store fixtures, in the city of Chicago, including therewith his notes,
books and accounts of every name, nature and description,
and also the premises known as No. 376 North La Salle Street,
being lot two (2) in block twenty (20), in Bushnell's Addition
to Chicago, Illinois, in said city of Chicago, with power forthwith, at such times and in such manner as he, said Samuel H.
Fox, shall deem best, to sell and collect and convert the said
goods, wares, merchandise, fixtures, notes, accounts and premises into money, and apply the proceeds to the payment of said
indebtedness to said Fox & Co., both said original indebtedness and that so taken up by them, at the rate paid therefor,
with such interest added thereto as the said Samuel H. Fox or
Fox & Co. shall have to pay thereon, or on any portion thereof, and has also conveyed to said Samuel HI. Fox his farm in
Lake County, Illinois, known as the Lake Zu'ich farm Now,
therefore, the said Samuel H. Fox agrees, that if the said I.
Willard Fox shall and will, within six months from the date
hereof, pay the entire amount of each name and kind of said
indebtedness, or such portion thereof as remains at that time
unpaid, then he, said Samuel H. Fox, shall and will reconvey
the said Lake Zurich farm to said I. Willard Fox, but in default of such payment it is hereby agreed by the parties hereto
that the said Samuel H. Fox may immediately foreclose the
certain mortgage comprised in said conveyance of said Lake
Zurich farm and this agreement.
"And the said I. Willard Fox hereby agrees, that, in case
proceedings for such foreclosure be commenced, that he will
interpose no defence thereto, nor attempt, by injunction, bill in
equity, or in any other way, to hinder or defeat the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opnon of the Court.

"Witness the hands and seals of the said Samuel H. Fox
and I. Willard Fox, this twentieth day of February, A.D. 1869.
"S4AMUEL H. Fox. [sEA.]
"I. WILLARD Fox. [sEA-L.]
"And the said Samuel H. Fox hereby agrees to release a
certain mortgage which he has on a portion of said Lake
Zurich farm, the indebtedness secured by said mortgage having become merged m said debt of seventy thousand dollars.
"SA

UEL].

Fox."

By deeds in fee simple, I. Willard Fox and his wife conveyed to Samuel H. Fox the North La Salle Street lot and the
Lake Zurich farm, mentioned in the above agreement, simultaneously with its execution.
On the 17th of February, 1877, Kate W Fox brought a
suit in equity, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois, against I. Willard Fox and
his wife. Kate W Fox was the widow of Henry W Fox,
who, with Samuel H. Fox, composed the firm of Fox & Co.
Henry W Fox had died in 1876, and by his will Kate W Fox
was made his sole executrix and sole devisee. In her bill she
set forth the contents of the above agreement, without stating
that it was in writing. The bill averred that, in pursuance of
the agreement, Fox & Co. paid the $16,000 and the $30,000
of the indebtedness of I. Willard Fox, named in it, that I.
Willard Fox and his wife executed and delivered to Samuel H.
Fox deeds in fee simple of the Lake Zurich farm and the La
Salle Street lot, and that I. Willard Fox assigned to Samuel
H. Fox the goods, wares and merchandise, store fixtures, notes
and accounts, mentioned in the agreement.
The bill also alleged that it was then further agreed between
I. Willard Fox and Fox & Co., that the former should carry
on his business, which was at Chicago, Illinois, in connection
with the said stock of goods, wares and merchandise, notes
and accounts, as though no such assignment thereof had been
made to Samuel H. Fox, that Fox & Co., who were manufacturers of glass, in the State of New York, should advance and

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

furnish to I. Willard Fox goods in the way of his business,
from time to time, as he should need and they should be able,
that the price or value of the goods so furnished should be
added to the indebtedness so due from I. Willard Fox to Fox
& Co., and the former should apply the proceeds and avails of
the business, as he should realize the same, to the payment of
such indebtedness, until such future time as should be agreed
upon by the parties, at which time he should turn over and
deliver to Samuel H. Fox the merchandise which should then
be on hand, the store fixtures, and the notes and accounts then
uncollected, the proceeds and avails of which should then be
applied by Samuel H- Fox towards the payment of the mdebtedness which should then be due from I. Willard Fox to Fox
& Co., and that the original agreement should in all other
respects remain binding.
The bill further averred, that, in pursuance of the last-mentioned agreement, I. Willard Fox continued to carry on his
business until about February 20, 1870, that is, for about one
year, in connection with the said stock of goods, store fixtures,
and notes and accounts, that, during that period, Fox & Co.
furnished to him merchandise, in the way of his business, to
the amount of about $24,000, that, at the expiration of that
period, he, in pursuance of that agreement, turned over and
delivered to Samuel H. Fox the stock of goods, store fixtures,
notes and accounts, then on hand, of the value of $27,343.07,
which amount was then credited to him and applied on his indebtedness then due to Fox & Co., that, after the making of
the last-mentioned agreement, and while I. Willard Fox was so
carrying on business, he paid out of its avails, upon his indebtedness to Fox & Co., the sum of about $10,000, that Samuel
H1. Fox, some time before September 1, 1875, sold the La Salle
Street lot and realized from it about $14,000, which amount
was credited upon the indebtedness of I. Willard Fox to Fox
& Co., that the said sums of $27,343.07, $10,000, and $14,000,
were all that had ever been paid on said indebtedness, and
that there was due to the plaintiff, at the time of filing the
bill, on account of said indebtedness, about $70,657, besides
interest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill further alleged that, on or about September 1, 1875,
Samuel I. Fox and Henry W Fox dissolved their partnership,
and it was agreed that the debt due from I. Willard Fox to
Fox & Co., and all securities therefor, should thereafter belong
to Henry W Fox, that Samuel H. Fox executed and delivered to Henry W Fox a deed in fee simple of the Lake Zurich
farm, a description of which by metes and bounds was given
in the bill, and that there was due to the plaintiff, as such
executrix and devisee, from I. Willard Fox, $103,600, principal and interest.
The bill waived an answer on oath, and prayed for an
account of the amount due to the plaintiff for principal and
interest on the security of the Lake Zurich farm, that the
defendants be decreed to pay that amount, the plaintiff offering to reconvey the premises to them on such payment, and
that, in default of such payment, the defendants be barred and
foreclosed of all equity of redemption in and to such mortgaged premises. The bill contained a prayer for general
relief, although it did not pray specifically for the sale of the
Lake Zurich farm, nor did it treat the La Salle Street lot as
being subject to a like mortgage with the Lake Zurich farm,
but only as being subject to be sold by the grantee under the
power contained in the agreement, the proceeds of sale to be
applied upon the indebtedness.
On the 21st of April, 1877, I. Willard Fox and his wife put
in an answer to the bill. It denies the indebtedness of $70,000,
but admits that a paper drawn up at the instance of Samuel
H. Fox stated the indebtedness at that amount. It also avers,
that, prior to February 20, 1869, I. Willard Fox had been
engaged at Chicago for several years in selling paints, oils and
window glass, that during that time he had sold for Fox &
Co. large quantities of window glass made by them, such sale
being upon commission, that he never regarded himself as
purchasing the glass in the ordinary way, that a short time
prior to February 20, 1869, he became embarrassed, that then
Fox & Co., under the pretence of making a favorable settlement with some of his creditors, forced him to enter into an
agreement, wherein he was apparently made to say that he

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

owed Fox & Co. the $70,000, but which did not state truly
such indebtedness, the amount being made up for a specific

purpose on the part of Fox & Co., without his consent, that,
in making up the $70,000, interest was, without his consent,
calculated for several years back on all pretended balances
apparently due to Fox & Co., every three months during each
year, thereby compounding interest, that the amount of such
interest was $20,000 or $30,000, that after the agreement was
signed, Fox & Co. allowed him to go on in business, using his
own name, for about the period of one year, but the business
was really theirs, and he turned over to them his store and its
contents, and all the debts due to him, on or about February
20, 1869, the contents of the store being then of the value of
over $60,000, that,,in equity, under such arrangement, that
property ought to go to the cancellation of the indebtedness
stated in the agreement, and Fox & Co. ought to be charged
in the accounting with the property so delivered to them, at
its fair value, that Fox & Co. pretend that the business was
conducted by him after February, 1869, and, because there
were losses in it to the amount of $15,000, he ought to suffer
that loss, when the business was really that of Fox & Co., and
the adjustment ought to be made at the time of the turning
over of the store and its contents, and of his property, to Fox
& Co., and he ought to be allowed to set off against any
indebtedness of his to Fox & Co. the amount of property so
turned over to them, that he was the owner m fee simple
absolute of the land described in the bill, that whatever debt
is due to Fox & Co. is a lien upon the same, including the La
Salle Street lot, in the nature of a mortgage, and the land
ought in equity to be subjected to such lien, if any indebtedness is proved to exist in favor of Fox & Co., and that the
plaintiff stands in no different relation to him, in regard to
such indebtedness, from that occupied by Fox & Co., and has
only the same rights and interest in and to such security which
Henry W Fox or Fox & Co. had.
The answer asks that an accounting may be had between
the parties before a master, and avers that all indebtedness
from I. Willard Fox to Fox & Co. has been paid, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

both the Lake Zurich farm and the La Salle Street lot are free
from any lien in favor of Fox & Co. or of the plaintiff. It
avers that the goods furnished by Fox & Co. to I. Willard
Fox, after the 20th of February, 1869, were the goods of Fox
& Co., and he conducted the business for them, that the
indebtedness held against him by other persons, and which
was settled by Fox & Co., amounted to $24,000, and was settled for about $12,000 by Fox & Co., that he also owed the
First National Bank about $15,000, which was paid out of the
proceeds of a loan of $6000 made on the La Salle Street lot.
and the rest of it out of the collections, etc., due to I. Willard
Fox, and that, such indebtedness having been so settled out of
the La Salle Street lot and a portion of the property turned
over by him to Fox & Co., he ought to have the Lake Zurich
farm free from encumbrance, because of the large surplus
which was left in the hands of Fox & Co. after paying such
outstanding debts. The answer also avers that he will rely
upon the statute of Illinois in regard to usury
A replication was filed to this answer.
On the 26th of October, 1877, the plaintiff filed an amended
bill, under an order made on that day, giving her leave to do
so, and requiring the defendants to answer within thirty days.
The amended bill is a full and complete bill in itself. It contains mainly the same averments as the original bill, but has
some variations and additions. One addition is a statement
of the contents of the memorandum signed by Samuel H. Fox,
appended to the agreement, which was not contained in the
original bill. There is also added a statement that Samuel I.
Fox did, on the 5th of October, 1869, release and discharge of
record the mortgage so held by him on a portion of the Lake
Zurich farm. It states the amount of goods furnished by Fox
& Co. to I. Willard Fox, during the time from February 20,
1869, until some time in December, 1869, at $12,999.64, instead
of $24,000, and that the property, amounting to $27,343.07,
was turned over and delivered to Fox & Co. in December,
1869, instead of in February, 1870. It also states that the indebtedness mentioned in the agreement as $16,000 was in fact
only $15,000, and was due to the First National Bank of Chi-

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opmion of the Court.

cago, that, after the making of the agreement and the conveyance of the La Salle Street lot to Samuel H. Fox, he, with the
knowledge of I. Willard Fox, raised, by mortgage on that lot,
about $6000, which was handed over to I. Willard Fox and
paid by him on the indebtedness to the bank, and that afterwards, hnd during the time that he carried on the business
after February 20, 1869, he paid to the bank the remainder of
the debt due to it, out of the avails of the business and of collections of the notes and accounts, that the indebtedness estimated in the agreement at about $30,000, due to other parties,
was only about $24,000 or lss, and Fox & Co. compromised
and paid it in full by paying altogether the sum of about
$10,971.39, that, about the time that Samuel H. Fox mortgaged the La Salle Street lot for $6000, he effected an insurance upon the improvements upon it for the same amount, and
afterwards the improvements were destroyed by fire, and theinsurance was applied in discharge of the mortgage, that, onthe 25th of September, 1875, Samuel H. Fox conveyed the La
Salle Street lot to Henry W Fox for the sum of $8000, which)
amount was then credited upon the indebtedness of I. Willard
Fox to Fox & Co., that the $27,343.07, which was the value
of the stock of goods, store fixtures, notes and accounts,
turned over to Samuel H. Fox in December, 1869, and the
$8000 realized from the sale of the La Salle Street lot, is all
that has ever been received by Fox & Co. on the debt from I.
Willard Fox to them, and that there was due to the plaintiff
at the time of the filing of the amended bill, on account of such
debt, about $60,000, besides interest.
The amended bill states the amount due to the plaintiff, as.
executrix and devisee, from I. Willard Fox, at about $100.000,
principal and interest, instead of $103,600.
It waives an
answer on oath, and its prayer is the same as that of the original bill, and it does not treat the La Salle Street lot as subject
to a lien m favor of the plaintiff.
No answer to such amended bill appears in the record, nor
is there any stipulation that the answer to the original bill
shall stand as the answer to the amended bill.
On the 10th of September, 1878, an order was made referVOL. CXXIX-39

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

ring the cause to Mr. Henry W Bishop as a master, to take
proofs and report the same to the court, together with the
amount due to the plaintiff.
On the 11th of February, 1880, an order was made, modifying such order of reference, by directing the master to
report the testimony taken by him, and not his conalusions
thereon.
Plenary proofs were taken in the cause, in July, 1877, November, 1878, September, 1879, iNovember, 1879, December,
1879, and February, 1880. Samuel H. Fox gave a deposition
an July, 1877, a second in September, 1879, and a third in
December, 1879. . Willard Fox gave a deposition in November, 1878, a second an November, 1879, and a third an February, 1880. Robert B. Merritt, who had been the book-keeper
and cashier of I. Willard Fox from May, 1867, till the summer
of 1869, gave a deposition in September, 1879, and a second
an December, 1879.
In July, 1880, the cause was heard on pleadings and proofs,
but before any decision was made, and on November 13, 1880,
the plaintiff, by leave of the court, amended her bill by insertaug an averment to the effect that the agreement of February
20, 1869, contained a recital that I. Willard Fox had sold and
conveyed to Samuel H. Fox the La Salle Street lot, the proceeds thereof to be applied towards payment of the indebtedness from I. Willard Fox to Fox & Co., that by such agreement that lot was not in any event to be reconveyed to I.
Willard'Fox, that the plaintiff had sold and conveyed the lot,
and that, being willing to do what was just and equitable, she
offered to credit and allow to I. Willard Fox the amount for
which she had sold the lot, or otherwise its value, an reduction
of the sum due to her from I. Willard Fox.
On the 23d of November, 1880, the defendants filed an
answer to the amended bill as amended on November 13, 1880.
This appears to be a full answer, not only to the amendments
of November 13, 1880, but to the amended bill filed October
26, 1877. This answer avers that, on February 20, 1869, I.
Willard Fox and his wife executed to Samuel H. Fox a deed
conveying the Lake Zurich farm, and another deed conveying

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

the La Salle Street lot, and that at the same time the agreement of February 20, 1869, was executed by Samuel H. Fox
and I. Willard Fox, and the memorandum appended was executed by Samuel H. Fox. The answer also avers, that prior
to 1857, Samuel El. Fox and I. Willard Fox were partners in
business in the manufacture of glass, in the State of New
York, that I. Willard Fox sold out his interest in the business
to Henry W Fox and retired, that, thereupon, Samuel H.
Fox and Henry W Fox, who were brothers of I. Willard Fox,
became partners and conducted the business under the name
of Fox & Co., and I. Willard Fox removed to Illinois, that
the affairs of the firm in which I. Willard Fox was such partner, and his business transactions with the new firm, had never
been settled, that in the year 1865, I. Willard Fox, at the
request of Fox & Co., undertook to act as their agent for the
sale of glass in Chicago, and was to receive as compensation
a certain commission, that he received from them large
amounts of glass and remitted the proceeds to them from time
to time, and the business was thus conducted until about the
1st of January, 1869, when he became embarrassed, and, under
a judgment and execution against him in favor of the First
National Bank of Clucago, his goods, and the glass then on
hand, belonging to Fox & Co., for sale on commission, were
seized, and the store was closed, that Samuel H. Fox then
came to Chicago and acted for Fox & Co., that by agreement
with I. Willard Fox, Fox & Co. assumed the payment of the
debt to the First National Bank, and the goods were released,
and Samuel H. Fox, for Fox & Co., took possession of the
goods belonging to L Willard Fox, and of those belonging to
Fox & Co., that Samuel H. Fox also undertook to satisfy the
other creditors of I. Willard Fox, that the latter was unable
to pay more than fifty cents on the dollar, and, for the purpose
of doing so, and also of placing Fox & Co. in a situation
whereby they could make it appear to their creditors that they
had large assets in Illinois, Samuel H. Fox prepared a statement of the account of Fox & Co. against I. Willard Fox,
showing an apparent indebtedness of about $68,000, besides
an apparent mortgage of $15,000 from him to them, and de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

manded of him that he should make an absolute conveyance
of the Lake Zurich farm and the La Salle Street lot, that he
denied the correctness of such account and at first refused to
make the conveyances, but was induced to execute them, provided Samuel IH. Fox would execute the instrument of February 20, 1869, as a condition of defeasance, and upon the
verbal assurance of Samuel H. Fox that Fox & Co. would not
insist upon the payment of the $70,000 named in it, or of any
sum other than that which should be found to be due from I.
Willard Fox to Fox & Co., on a just, fair and equitable settlement, that the defendants asserted at the time that there was
nothing due on the transactions covered by the account, that,
after the deeds and the agreement were made, Samuel H. Fox,
for Fox & Co., retained possession of the goods, store fixtures,
notes and accounts, and conducted the business in the name
of I. Willard Fox until December, 1869, and during that time
received the proceeds arising from the collections of the notes
and accounts, as well as the goods, that at the time of such
transfer to Fox & Co., there was in the store glass belonging
to them, of the value of over $30,000, besides other goods of
over the value of $30,000, and notes and accounts, good and
collectible to the amount of about $15,000, belonging to. I.
Willard Fox, that, during the time the business was so being
conducted by Fox & Co., in 1869, they paid the debt to the
First National Bank, partly from the proceeds arising from the
.conduct of the business and partly from money borrowed upon
the La Salle Street lot, which was afterward refunded to them
by insurance money collected upon the building standing upon
the lot, and which had been destroyed by fire, that they also
paid to the other creditors of I. Willard Fox, in full satisfaction of the debts due to them, $10,971.40, that there had been
no settlement of the matters between Fox & Co. and I. Willard Fox since February 20, 1869, that there is nothing due
from him to Fox & Co.., that the La Salle Street lot was conveyed, like the Lake Zurich farm, as security, that, if such
lot has been sold pending the suit, its purchaser has taken it
with notice of the equitable rights of the defendants, that
they claim a reconveyance of the Lake Zurich farm and the

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opmnon of the Court.

La Salle Street lot upon the payment of the amount, if any,
due to Fox & Co. from I. Willard Fox, and that Samuel H.
Fox is a necessary party to the litigation.
On the 8th of December, 1880, the defendants, by leave of
the court, filed a cross-bill against the plaintiff, who had then
become Kate W Goodwin by her intermarriage with Charles
S. Goodwin, and against her husband, and against Sarah E. R.
Smith, who had become the purchaser of the La Salle Street
lot, and her husband, Charles M. Smith. The cross-bill sets
forth the prior proceedings inthe original suit, and prays that
the original bill and the answer to it, and the amended bill
filed October 26, 1877, and the amendment to it filed November 13, 1880, and the answer filed November 23, 1880, may
be taken as a part of such cross-bill.
The cross-bill contains, in substance, the material averments
of the answers before filed, with the further statement, that,
in December, 1869, the remainder of the stock on hand in the
store of I. Willard Fox was sold for the sum of about $28,000,
and the money received by Fox & Co., that the money
received during the time the store was conducted by Fox &
Co., from the time they took possession to the time it was
closed in December, 1869, amounted to more than $50,000;
that Fox & Co. were liable to I. Willard Fox for the amount
of the glass returned to Fox & Co. at the time they took possession of the store, and also for the money received from the
notes and accounts and the sale of glass during the time the
business was conducted by Fox & Co., that such amounts
would more than pay any charges of Fox & Co. against I.
Willard Fox; that, about the 1st of September, 1875, Samuel
H. Fox and Henry W Fox dissolved partnership, and the
former conveyed to Henry W Fox the said real estate, but
the latter had full notice of the rights and equities of the crossplaintiffs in the premises, and was not a bona fde purchaser
thereof, that Kate W Goodwin and her husband, on the 7th
of April, 1880, conveyed the La Salle Street lot to Sarah E. R.
Smith, and that she received the conveyance of it with notice
of the rights and equities of the cross-plaintiffs to the premises,
and pending the suit.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888
Opinion of the Court.

The cross-bill waives an answer on oath, and prays for an
account of all matters between Fox & Co. and I. Willard Fox,
and between Samuel H. Fox as surviving partner of Fox & Co.
and I. Willard Fox, and for a decree against Samuel H. Fox as
the surviving partner of Fox & Co., for the amount that may
be due from him as such surviving partner to I. Willard Fox,
and also for a decree against Kate W Goodwin, requiring her
and her husband to reconvey the Lake Zurich farm, and for
a decree against Sarah E. R. Smith requiring her and her husband to reconvey the La Salle Street lot, and that, if it shall
appear that there is any sum due from I. Willard Fox to
Samuel H. Fox as surviving partner of Fox & Co., or to Kate
W Goodwin, a decree be entered requiring a reconveyance
of such real estate on the payment of the amounts found to
be due from I. Willard Fox, and for general relief.
On the 20th of December, 1880, Kate W Goodwin and her
husband answered the cross-bill. Their answer contains the
material averments found in the original bill and the amended
bills, and m addition alleges, that the defendants m the crosssuit were not parties to the agreement of February 20, 1869,
or to the transactions out of which the same arose, that it is
incompetent for I. Willard Fox to show either a want of consideration or a failure of the consideration upon which such
agreement was founded, that, as I. Willard Fox wholly failed
to comply with the terms of such agreement, by making payment within the six months therein limited, and the property
was thereafter conveyed to Henry W Fox in consideration of
his interest in the assets of Fox & Co. and the same was thereafter devised to Kate W Goodwin, I. Willard Fox is estopped
from denying that the $70,000 recited in the agreement was
due at its date, that, when I. Willard Fox retired from his
partnership with Samuel H. Fox, in August, 1857, he left the
concern largely in debt, and left Samuel H. Fox to close up
the old business, collecting what he could and paying the
debts, that, in the meantime, the new firm advanced money
to I. Willard Fox, until April, 1862, when the old matters were
settled up, and I. Willard Fox acknowledged in writing an
indebtedness to Fox & Co. of $5584.82, on his personal account,

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

besides between $7000 and $8000, which that firm had then
advanced or were to advance to him, on security to be given
on the Lake Zurich farm, that the glass 8hipped to I. Willard
Fox by Fox & Co., in 1865, and for several years afterward,
was sold to hun, and was not shipped to him on commission,
that, in 1869, I. Willard Fox was indebted to Fox & Co. in
nearly $100,000 for glass sold to him by them, from 1865 to
1869, that there was no dispute about the amount due to Fox
& Co. by I. Willard Fox, which was stated at $70,000 in the
agreement of February 20, 1869, that, in fact, $20,000 more
was due from him to them at that tune, but winch was given
up to him, that he did not then dispute the amount due Fox
& Co., and was not coerced into making the deeds and agreement, that Samuel H. Fox did not give at the time the reasons
for making them alleged in the cross-bill, that the accounts of
Fox & Co. were examined, and the amount agreed upon, and
the deeds and agreement made, and six months allowed for
I. Willard Fox to redeem, because he represented that he could
do thenceforth a prosperous business by regaining his stock
and store that, between January and December, 1869, Fox &
Co. shipped to him more than $12,000 worth of glass, that it
was amicably agreed, in December, 1869, that the business
should be closed, that $50,000 was not received from a sale of
the stock of I. Willard Fox, between January and December,
1869, and whatever sum was received, was received and used
by him, that the stock of goods was turned over to and taken
possession of by Fox & Co., in December, 1869, and not before,
that the best was done with it that could be done, and they
realized from it only $27,343.07, which had been fully accounted for by glass furnished to and debts paid for I. Willard
Fox by Fox & Co. between January and December, 1869,
that such transaction did not materially reduce the amount
due on the agreement, that when the store was finally closed
no part of the glass was returned to Fox & Co., but the whole
was sold and the total amount received is included in the sum
before named, that I. Willard Fox is not entitled to be credited
with any more money than the credit he has already received,
that Sarah E. R. Smith paid full value for the La Salle Street

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

lot, and is entitled to be protected as a bona,fide purchaser
for value, without notice, that as Kate W Goodwin has
offered, by her amended bill, to allow to I. Willard Fox, upon
her claim against him, the amount she received from the sale
of the lot, the title should not be drawn in question in the suit,
and that the lot was not involved in the pleadings at the time
Sarah E. R. Smith purchased it, and therefore she was not a
purchaser of itpendente lite.
On the 23d of December, 1880, a replication was filed to
the answer to the amended bill.
On the 3d of January, 1881, Sarah E. 'R. Smith and her
husband filed their answer to the cross-bill, averring that Sarah
E. R. Smith took the conveyance of the La Salle Street lot, on
her purchase of it from Kate W Goodwin and her husband,
without any notice of any rights or equities of the plaintiffs in
the cross-bill, and paid therefor $6625 in cash, which was its
reasonable value, and paid it before the cross-bill was filed,
and before any notice that any one else than Kate W Goodwin claimed any interest in it, that the title to the lot was in
no way involved in the pleadings in the cause at the time of
such purchase, nor was the agreement of February 20, 1869,
set forth in the cross-bill, nor did she or her husband -have any
notice thereof, and that they cannot be compelled to reconvey
the lot, nor can they be in any manner affected by the state
of accounts between I. Willard Fox and Fox & Co.
Replications to the two answers to the cross-bill were filed
on the 5th of January, 1881.
On the '7th of January, 1881, an order was made m the
original and cross-suits, referring the cause to Mr. Henry W
Bishop, as a master, to take evidence, and. to make and state
an account between Fox & Co. and I. Willard Fox, and to
report the same, with his findings, to the court.
Under this order of reference, the master took proofs in
February, 1881, May, 1881, and July, 1881, a third deposition
of Robert B. Merritt being taken in May, 1881, and a fourth
deposition of I. Willard Fox in July, 1881.
On the 30th of INovember, 1881, the master filed his report,
as follows

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opmion of the Coift.

"This proceeding is brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage executed by I. Willard Fox upon certain real estate
known as the Lake Zurich farm, in the county of Lake and
State of Illinois, and lot two (2), in block twenty (20), in Bushnell's Addition to Chicago, which was given for the purpose
of securing the payment of sums of money therein mentioned,
which it is alleged had become due the firm of Samuel H. Fox
& Co. as tle result of certain business relations between them
extending through a number of years, and which are set forth
in detail in the bill.
"The answer of the defendant admits the execution of the
mortgage and the agreement supplemental to it, but undertakes to explain the circumstances under which they were
made, and demes that at the time of their execution any such
sum as is theretn claimed was due and owing from him, and
that, by reason of what has since occurred, any such indebtedness whatever exists against him, and avers that, upon a
proper settlement of account, there will be shown to be a
balance in his favor.
"It is for the purpose of examining and stating this account
that a reference was made to me by the court.
"It is not necessary for me to review the earlier relations
between the parties, culminating in the establishment of the
separate business of 1.Willard Fox in Chicago, or to examine
their accounts prior to their attempted adjustment m February,
1869, showing the sum of nineteen hundred and twenty-three
and fifty-three hundredths dollars due upon the individual
account of I. Willard Fox, and the sum of sixty-eight thousand
two hundred and seventy-seven and fifty-eight hundredths
dollars due upon the glass account.
"These debit sums are conceded to be correct, as well as
the payment by Fox & Co. to the creditors of I. Willard Fox
of the sum of ten thousand nine hundred and seventy-one
dollars and thirty cents, making at that date a total sum of
eighty-one thousand one hundred and seventy-two and fortyone hundredths dollars ($81,1'[2.41) due from I. Willard Fox
to Fox & Co.
"This was the state of the account in February, 1869, when

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

I. Willard Fox became embarrassed in business. The First
National Bank, his largest creditor, having obtained a judgment against him, levied upon his stock of goods and closed his
store, an arrangement was made between him and Fox & Co.,
resulting in the settlement by them of all the claims against
him, except their own, at a compromise rate, and the business
was resumed, with Ethan Allen Fox, the uncle of the defendant, and I. Willard Fox, in charge. After the settlement
made with the creditors of I. Willard Fox, and the restoration
of the property from the seizure of the First National Bank,
and the resumption of the business, and between March 23d
and November 5th, 1869, additional shipments of glass were
made, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of twelve thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars and sixty-three
cents ($12,999.63), and it is insisted that these consignments
were also made to I. Willard Fox, and that this amount should
be added as a further indebtedness against him.
"Upon the other hand, it is contended that, in February,
1869, and before the receipt of these shipments, all the business
and property was turned over to Fox & Co., and I. Willard
Fox and Ethan Allen Fox placed in its management, under
the direction of Fox & Co. and their control. Samuel H. Fox
swears that these shipments were made to I.Willard Fox and
formed part of his stock, the remnant of which was turned
over to him in December following, at which time he insists
that the final adjustment was made, while Ethan Allen Fox
and I. Willard Fox, who were in charge and remained there
until the stock was all disposed of, swear that the goods received after February were not billed to I.Willard Fox and
not purchased by him, and I can find no entries in the books
of Fox & Co. showing that they were ever charged to him,
but they do show they were consigned to Samuel H. Fox.
"A. St. John Campbell and Robert B. Merritt, book-keepers
and clerks at and after the change of possession, swear that it
occurred in February, Samuel H. Fox assuming general charge
and conduct of the business from that time, and there is no
testimony contradicting it except that of Samuel H. Fox himself, who swears that the change did not take place until
December following.

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

, The fact that an inventory was made of the stock in Tan-

uary preceding, and that none was made afterwards, seems to
me to be a strong circumstance tending to show, in connection
with the conduct of the parties and the testimony of Ethan
Allen Fox and Merritt, that it was in. February and not in
December that the property was turned over.
"I can find nothing in the record, outside of the testimony
of Samuel HI. Fox, to justify any other conclusion, and I
therefore disallow that item of complainant's claim, leaving
due from I. Willard Fox at this date -February 1st, 1869the sum of eighty-one thousand one hundred and seventy-two
and forty-one hundredths dollars ($81,172.41), subject to such
deductions as shall hereafter appear as proper to be made.
"In this amount is included the sum of seven thousand
seven hundred and eighty dollars and eighty cents ($7780.80)
interest, which it is claimed was erroneously charged, and
which I deduct from the amount stated, for the reason that
the testimony does not, in my estimation, justify its allowance.
It does not appear that there was any arrangement by which
interest was to be charged, and the four entries of interest
which appear upon the books of Fox & Co. are shown to have
been made after the accounts were closed, and do not harmonize with the statements of S. H. Fox in respect to this matter.
"This charge seems to me also not to have been in contemplation with the parties, in view of their personal relations
and the history and general character of their business, which,
although not appearing to me to have been strictly of a commission character, seemed to partake somewhat of that nature,
Fox & Co. all along making use of I. Willard Fox to dispose
of the goods sent him, without such regard to the orders sent
them as would prevail with persons dealing together under
different circumstances and relieved of their peculiar relations.
"CThroughout all this time, also, the business of I. Willard
Fox seemed to be limited to the supply furnished him from
this firm, and I can refer to but one or two instances where
he resorted to other sources to enable him to meet the demands
of his trade.
"During the entire period of this account I find no evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

dence of any settlements having been made or anything done
between the parties out of which any claim for interest could
have arisen, and it does appear to me that, in view of the
fact of I. Willard Fox having been limited, in the supply sent
him by Fox & Co., to such kind and sizes of glass as they
chose from time to time to ship, it could not have been expected of hinm to pay interest upon the necessary delay and
vexation to which he is shown to have been subjected in disposing of goods selected to suit the convenience of Fox & Co.,
and not necessarily demanded by this trade, and there is no
evidence tending to show that this was expected of him.
"In addition to this credit I have allowed one of ten per
cent for breakage of glass, and for stained glass, and cutting.
down glass into smaller sizes. While the testimony very
clearly establishes an allowance in favor of this item, the witnesses are not united upon the amount proper to be deducted
under this head. It is, however, clear to me that, the consignors having sent glass to the defendant all along without
reference to the kind ordered, making it necessary for him to
constantly cut down to suit his trade, a credit should be made
to this extent in his favor, and this is the smallest amount
justified by the evidence. Upon this item of account a credit
of seven hundred and fifty-five dollars and eighty-two cents
($755.82) appears upon the books of Fox & Co. to have been
made, leaving the sum of eighty-four hundred and forty-three
dollars and thirty cents ($8443.30) to be deducted from the
amount already reported.
"In addition to this an allowance should be made for the
property turned over to Fox & Co. by I. Willard Fox when the
latter is shown to have entered into possession of the store,
with Ethan Allen Fox and I. Willard Fox in charge.
"This property consisted of glass, evidences of indebtedness,
paints, oils, etc., and fixtures, together with what is known as
the Merritt mortgage, amounting to a complete transfer of
the entire stock and business of I. W Fox.
"Samuel I. Fox conducted the negotiations for Fox & Co.,
and says that it was a 'mutual' arrangement between the
parties, and there is no evidence tending to show that it was

GOODWIN o. FOX.

Opinon of the Court.

not one entirely satisfactory
No inventory, however, was
then taken of the goods and no appraisement of the bills
receivable.
"The fact that none was made incline' me to believe that
the one taken in January previous was relied upon as all that
was necessary for this purpose, and the testimony of the witnesses in charge of the store at that time, and by whom the
only inventory was taken, tends to establish that as the basis
upon which the parties must have proceeded. It is hardly
possible that I. Willard Fox, having at last been relieved from
all the pressing demands upon him aside from the claim of
Fox & Co., should have finally surrendered this large amount
of goods and securities to be credited m return for whatever
it might bring in other hands.
"There is nothing in the testimony of Samuel IT. Fox to
show the value of this property, and all the information which
we have upon this point is the testimony of the defendant
himself, supported by the evidence of Ethan Allen Fox, Robert
B. Merritt, the book-keeper, A. St. John Campbell, and other
witnesses having relations to the business, and to a greater or
less extent of the same import.
"All of these witnesses concur in fixing the amount of the
inventory of goods and accounts at between sixty and seventy
thousand dollars, no one of them placing it less than the
former sum, and it is shown that the accounts were all collectible.
"The division made by the witnesses, taking the lowest
respective amounts, shows the glass to have been worth thirty
thousand dollars ($30,000), the paints, oils, etc., fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000), notes collectible, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000), the fixtures, fifteen hundred dollars ($1500) (at
which they were sold), and the Merritt mortgage, twenty-one
hundred and one and sixty-one hundredths dollars ($2101.61).
"If this testimony is to be relied upon, and assuming that
the stock was taken possession of, as all the defendant's witnesses agree in stating, on the 1st day of February, 1869, then,
in the absence of other preponderating evidence, these figures
must be adopted m estimating these credits, except in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

single item of paints and oils, where I think a reduction from
fifteen to twelve thousand dollars should be made.
"It is contended that the books of I. Willard Fox and the
inventory made by him would exhibit still larger credits than
these even, and their destruction by fire is a misfortune which
must always be felt in determining the exact relations between these parties, but it is a fortunate circumstance that
the witnesses and parties to these transactions still survive,
furnishing, as far as they do, the information upon which this
account must be stated.
" On the other hand there is absolutely no testimony whatever offered as to the value of the property when it is claimed
to have been turned over. Samuel HI. Fox swears that he
had no knowledge whatever as to it, and the only information
coming from the complainant upon this subject is derived
from the account upon the books of Fox & Co., with I. Willard
Fox, showing that from the stock, fixtures and notes and
accounts there was realized the gross sum of twenty-seven
thousand three hundred and forty-three and no hundredths
dollars.
"An examination of this account, however, shows that it is
but a partial one, and does not fully account for all that was
turned over to Fox & Co., and is essentially wanting in the
specific information to which the defendant would be entitled
if he was bound by such independent disposition of the property as Fox & Co. chose to make of it.
"It is contended upon the part of the defendant, that he is
not so bound, and that the complainant must account for all
the property he received, at the prices which they were then
shown to be worth.
"It seems to me that this is peculiarly a case where that
rule should be applied, and the careless and incomplete manner
in which the accounts were kept by Fox & Co., after their receipt of the property, renders such application absolutely nec
essary in stating this account. I can see no other course left
to adopt, and have therefore credited the defendant with those
five items modified in the way stated, which leaves a balance
due the complainant of four thousand three hundred and

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

forty-six and seventy one-hundredths dollars ($4346.70), ending with December, 1869.
"I append hereto a statement, marked Exhibit 'A,' which
shows the account stated.
"Exhibit 'A.'
"L Willard Fox to Fox and Company
"Dr.
"To due on personal account
C " glass account
" " paid in settlement with creditors

81,923 53
68,277 58
10,971 30
$81,172 41

"Cr.
"By interest included m glass account improperly
"Damages from breakage, stained
glass, and cutting down (less
$755.82, already allowed), and
estimated at ten per cent
"Notes shown to have been collectible
"Paints, oils, etc.
"Fixtures sold
"Merritt mortgage
"Glass returned at date of settlement

$7,780 80

8,443 30
15,000
12,000
1,500
2,101
30,000

"Leaving a balance due complainant,

00
00
00
61
00
76,825 71
$4,346 70

"I further find, from the evidence, that, on the fifth day of
November, A.D. 1875, Henry W Fox, his wife joimng, executed
a mortgage upon the 532 acres of the land included in the
mortgage sought to be foreclosed in this proceeding, and
known as the Lake Zurich farm, to secure the payment to
one Loring M[onroe,, of the State of New York, in six years,
with interest semi-annually, and at the rate of seven per cent,
and which is a subsisting lien upon said property
"It is agreed between the counsel that the full amount of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

said loan is due from Henry W Fox, with interest from the
5th day of May last, leaving due at this date, as a charge upon
said property, the sum of twelve thousand dollars for the principal, and four hundred and sixty-nine dollars for interest
thereon, or a total sum of twelve thousand four hundred and
sixty-nine dollars ($12,469)."
That report was made in the original suit.
On the 21st of December, 1881, the plaintiff in the original
suit filed the following exceptions to the report of the master
"First exception. For that the said master refused to suppress the depositions of the defendants, I. Willard Fox and
Eleanor Fox, but, on the contrary, treated their testimony as
competent and relied upon it in making his findings in this case.
"Second exception. For that the said master refused to
allow in favor of complainant, and against I. Willard Fox,
the sum of $12,999.63, being the amount of glass shipped by
Fox & Co. to I. Willard Fox, and received by him, between
March 26th and November 5th, 1869.
"Third exception. For that the said master improperly disallowed the sum of $7780.80 in interest which had accrued
before February, 1869, and failed to allow to complainant
any interest since that time.
"Fourth exception. For that the said master disregarded
the contemporary documentary writings and agreements made
by the parties, and the oral testimony confirmatory thereof,
and upon the mere opinions of witnesses improperly allowed
to defendant, I. Willard Fox, credit for the following amounts,
to wit
"1. The sum of $8443.30, damages from breakage, stained
glass and cutting down, estimated at ten per centum.
"2. The sum of $15,000 for notes shown to have been collectible.
"3. The sum of $12,000 for paints, oils, etc., turned over to
Fox & Co.
"4. The sum of $1500 for fixtures sold.
"5. The sum of $2101.61 for the Merritt mortgage.
"6. For $30,000 for glass returned at the date of settlement.
"Fifth exception. For that the said master, while charging

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

the firm of Fox & Co. with the whole value of the stock in
the store of I. Willard Fox, makes no allowance of any part
of the sum of $23,970.99, being the amount of the account of
Fox & Co. against I. Willard Fox between February and
December, A.D. 1869."
On the 3d of January, 1884, the cause was heard on such
exceptions, and on the pleadings and proofs. Before any
decision was made, and on the 9th of June, 1884, the cause
was referred to the same master, to take proof and ascertain
and report "the present value of the TLa Salle Street lot,"
and also to take evidence as to the amount due on the
mortgage for $12,000, executed by Henry W Fox to Loring
Monroe.
In June, 1884, the master took testimony as to the matters
so referred to him, and on the 11th of July, 1884, he filed Is
report, finding the then value of the La Salle Street lot to be
$250 per front foot, and the value of the entire property, of
fifty feet front, to be $12,500. The report says
"The testimony of the witnesses upon this point varies from
$225 to $300 per foot. The average value as established by
the defendants' witnesses would be $285 per foot, and the
average value as established by all the witnesses would be $230
per foot, but m estimating this value I have taken more into
consideration the opinions of witnesses who have shown a
larger familiarity with this property and that adjacent to it,
and whose dealings in connection with the property have been
more extensive and of a more recent date, and as the result
of this I have come to the conclusion stated."
The report also found that there was due, June 9, 1884, on
the mortgage of May 5, 1881, executed by Henry W Fox and
his wife to Lormg Mvfunroe, on ttie Lake Zurich farm, $15,059,
being for principal $12,000, and for interest $3059.
The plaintiff in the original suit filed exceptions to the last
named report, as follows
"1 st exception. And now comes the said complainant, Kate
W Fox, by Charles H. Wood, her solicitor, and excepts to the
finding of the said master that the said La Salle Street lot is
of the value of $12,500, and for cause of exception showeth
VOL. CXx--40

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

that the said finding is wholly insufficient upon which to found
a decree for the reasons.
"(1) That the agreement between the defendant, I. Willard
Fox, and Fox & Co. of February, 1869, and the deed of this
lot made by the former in pursuance thereof, were absolute
and unconditional, and no right of redemption attached to
that property,
"(2) That I. Willard Fox having conclusively admitted that
he owed at the tune of said agreement the sum of seventy
thousand dollars, as the court has found, the lot was fully
paid for at that time, and to charge the complamant with the
present value of the lot is to cause her to lose the interest on
its value from that time to the present, as well as all taxes that
she has paid.
"2d exception. For that the master should have found the
value of the lot in February, 1869, when the deed to it was
made, or at least in February, 1875, when the complainant
acquired it, for otherwise, although fully paid for, the complainant would have the burden of carrying the property,
while the defendant, I. Willard Fox, would get the whole
benefit of it.
"3d excepton. For that the said master should not have
found the present value of the lot without also having found
the interest on its value since February, 1869, and the taxes
thereon since paid by the complainant, and deducted the same
from its present value.
"4th exception. For that the master erred in finding the
amount due upon the Monroe mortgage, because that mortgage cannot in any form be made a basis of any decree under
the issues in this case, and because it does not appear who is
the owner of said mortgage, lior is the owner a party to this
proceeding, and because, if paid by this decree, the court cannot prevent the owner from foreclosing it in any proper form,
since he is in no manner bound by this decree."
On the 29th of July, 1884, a decree was made, entitled in
the original and cross-suits, and which found as follows (1)
That I. Willard Fox is indebted to Kate W Goodwin, as the
legatee and devisee of Henry W Fox, deceased, in the sum of

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

$15,971.30, (2) that on the 20th of February, 1869, I. Willard
Fox and his wife conveyed to Samuel H. Fox, by deed, the
Lake Zurich farm and the La Salle Street lot, (3) that both of
said deeds were made to secure said indebtedness, and are in the
nature of a mortgage, (4) that on the 25th of September, 1875,
Samuel H. Fox conveyed the farm and the lot to Henry W
Fox, who took the same with full knowledge of all the rights
and equities of L Willard Fox in the premises, and to whom
the debt was at the same time transferred, (5) that, on the
5th of November, 1875, flenry W Fox executed a deed of
trust or mortgage on the Lake Zurich farm, to secure the payment of $12,000 which had been borrowed by him from Loring Monroe, (6) that there is now-due on that loan $15,059,
(7) that on the 1st of June, 1876, Henry W Fox died testate
and by his will bequeathed and devised the indebtedness and
the farm and the lot to his wife, Kate W., who, since the commencement of the suit, has married Charles S. Goodwin, (8)
that on the 7th of April, 1881 [1880], Kate W Goodwin and
her husband conveyed the La Salle Street lot to Sarah E. iR.
Smith, wife of Charles W Smith, who acquired no better title
or right, as against I. Willard Fox, than Kate W Goodwin
had, and (9) that there had been paid on the La Salle Street
lot; for taxes, $565.33, which is chargeable to I. Willard Fox.
The decree then provided as follows (1) That I. Willard
Fox should pay into the registry of the court for Kate W
Goodwin, by the 1st of September, 1884, $16,536.63, with interest thereon at the rate of six per cent per annum, provided
Kate W Goodwin, or some one for her, should procure the
release of the premises described in the deed of trust or mortgage to secure the debt of Loring Monroe, from all incumbrance
created thereby, (2) that, in default of such payment, I. Willard Fox and his wife should be barred and foreclosed of all
right and equity of redemption "in said premises," and the
master should sell the same, that, in case a release of the lands
described in the trust deed or mortgage should not be procured by the 1st of September, 1884, then I. Willard Fox
should pay into the registry of the court, for Kate W Goodwin, $1477.63, by the 1st of November 1884, with interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

thereon, at the rate of 6 per cent per annum, and, in default
of such payment, the master should sell "the said lands," and
I. Willard Fox and his wife should be barred and foreclosed of
all equity of redemption "in said lands and lot," and, in case I.
Willard Fox should pay the 81477.63, he should also save and
keep harmless the estate of Henry W Fox from all liability on
the debt to Loring Monroe, and should assume the payment of
the indebtedness secured by the Monroe mortgage, (3) that,
in case either the $16,536.63 or the $14V.63 should be paid,
Kate W Goodwin and her husband should convey, on or before :November 1, 1884, to I. Willard Fox "the lands first
hereinbefore described," subject to the Loring [Monroe] incumbrance, and Sarah E. R. Smith and her husband should
convey to I. Willard Fox the La Salle Street lot, (4) that, in case
of a failure to make such conveyances or either of them, the
master should make them on behalf of Kate W Goodwin and
her husband, and of Sarah E. R. Smith and her husband,
respectively, (5) that Sarah E. R. Smith might, if she elected,
pay into court or to I. Willard Fox, $11,500, with interest at
the rate of six per cent from July 29, 1884, by or before October 15, 1884, the sum of $11,500 being found by the court
"to be the present cash value" of the La Salle Street lot, and
that, in case of such payment, Sarah E. R. Smith should be
decreed to hold the lot thenceforward discharged from all
equity of redemption of I. Willard Fox and all persons claiming under him. The decree charged I. Willard Fox with the
costs of the cause.
On the 29th of September, 1884, an order was entered
amending the decree by inserting provisions (1) that the first
exception to the master's report be sustained, so far as it relates to the testimony of Eleanor Fox, and be overruled so far
as it relates to the testimony of I. Willard Fox, (2) that the
second exception be overruled, (3) that the third exception be
sustained, (4) that the fourth exception be sustained so far as
it relates to the. item of $8443.30, damages for breakage of
glass, (5) that the finding of the master as to the value of the
glass, paints, oils, store fixtures and notes and accounts, turned
over to Fox & Co. by I. Willard Fox, be modified and changed,

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

so that the value of the same be fixed at the sum of $65,000
instead of $60,601.60, as found by the master, (6) that the
fifth exception be overruled, and (7) that the reports and
findings of the master, except as so overruled or modified, be
confirmed.
It appears by the record, that I. Willard Fox died on the
29th of August, 1884, leaving a widow and six children as his
heirs at law, and a will by which he devised all his real estate
to his widow for life, with remainder to his children, that, on
February 26, 1883, he and his wife conveyed to William 0.
Goudy and Louie P McDaid the La Salle Street lot, that no
release was procured by Kate W Goodwin, or any one for her,
of the Lake Zurich farm from the mortgage to Loring Monroe,
that Sarah E. R. Smith had not paid the $11,500 with-interest,
that there had been paid into court, by and before November
1, 1884, the $1477.63, for Kate W Goodwin, that all the costs
of the suit had been paad on behalf of the estate of I. Willard
Fox, and that deeds had not been made by Kate W Goodwin
and her husband, and by Sarah E. R. Smith and her husband,
as required by this decree.
On these facts, the court, by an order made January 13,
1885, substituted the widow and children of L Willard Fox as
parties in his place, and ordered that the master execute a
deed, on behalf of Kate W Goodwin and her husband, of the
Lake Zurich farm, and also a deed to Goudy and ]dicDaid of
the La Salle Street lot. The master. on the 26th of January,
1885, reported that he had executed those deeds, the deed of
the Lake Zurich farm being a deed to the widow of I. Willard
Fox for her life, and a deed to his children in remainder, and
the court, by orders made the same day, approved and confirmed those deeds. It also appears that, on the 4th of March,
1885, the court made an order granting a writ of assistance
to put Goudy and McDaid in possession of the La Salle Street
lot.
On the 20th of June, 1885, Kate W Goodwin and her husband, and Sarah E. R. Smith and her husband, perfected an
appeal to this court from the decree in the original suit and
the cross-suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinon of the Court.

It is assigned here by the appellants for error, that the Circuit Court erred in overruling the first exception to the report
of the master, of iNovember 26, 1881, in so far as it relates to
the competency of I. Willard Fox as a witness, in overruling
the second exception to that report, in refusing to sustain the

fourth exception to that report, as to the amount of assets of
I. Willard Fox properly chargeable to Fox & Co., and in
increasing the amount of the same as found by the master,
in failing and neglecting to allow interest upon the sum due
to the plaintiff in the original bill, subsequently to February
20, 1869, in overruling the first, second and third exceptions
to the master's report of July 11, 1884, and in confirming that
report, in overruling the fourth exception to that report, and
in deducting by its decree the amount of the Monroe mortgage
from the amount due to the plaintiff in the original bill.
As to the exception that the master refused to suppress the
depositions of I. Willard Fox, and treated his testimony as
competent, and relied upon it in making his findings, it nowhere appears by the record that any objection was made
before the master to that testimony, or that any motion was
made before him to suppress such depositions, or that any
motion was made before the court to suppress them, and, as
the only ruling of the court in regard to them was that the

first exception should be overruled, so far as it related to the
testimony of I. Willard Fox, it may very well be that the court
overruled such exception because, it being an exception that

the master refused to suppress the depositions, the court could
not find as a fact that the master had refused to suppress
them.
Irrespective of this,  858 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States does not apply to the present case. It reads as
follows "In the courts of the United States, no witness shall
be excluded in any action on account of color, or in any civil

action because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried
Povwided, That in actions by or against executors, administra-

tors, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or
against them, neither party shall be allowed to testify against

the other, as to any transaction with, or statement by, the

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opnon of the Court.

testator, intestate, or ward, unless called to testify thereto by
the opposite party, or required to testify thereto by the court.
In all other respects, the laws of the State in which the court
is held shall be the rules of decision as to the competency of
witnesses in the courts of the United States in trials at common law, and in equity and admiralty" This section only
provides that in actions by or against executors, in which judgment may be rendered for or against them, neither party shall
be allowed to testify against the other as to any transaction
with, or statement by,' the testator, unless called to testify
thereto by the opposite party, or required to testify thereto
by the court. Subject to this restriction, the section provides
that, in the courts of the United States, no witness shall be
excluded, in any civil action, because he is a party to, or interested in, the issue tried. I. Willard Fox, although a party to,
and interested in, the issues tried in these suits, cannot be
excluded as a witness on that account, unless the case is one
covered by the proviso. The last clause of the section, wlch
makes the laws of the State the rules of decision as to the
competency of witnesses in the courts of the United States, in
trials in equity, "in all other respects" means "in all other
respects" than those provided for in so much of the section as
precedes the word "Provided," and does not qualify the clause
which forms the proviso. Potter v .HationalBank, 102 U S.
163.
In the present case, although Kate W Goodwin was executrLx of the will of her deceased husband, Henry W Fox, she
did not ask for a decree in her favor as executrix but she
claimed an interest in the Lake Zurich farm and in the La
Salle Street lot only as devisee of that real estate under her
husband's will, and the final decree finds that I. Willard Fox
is indebted to her, "as the legatee and devisee" of her husband, in the sum of $15,971.30. Moreover, the material transactions about which I. Willard Fox testified, namely, those
relating to the instrument of February 20, 1869, and what
took place after that date, were transactions between himself
and Samuel H. Fox, and not between himself and Henry W
Fox.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Before considering any of the other questions raised in the
case, it s proper to determine whether either party can go
behind the statement of existing indebtedness set forth in the
agreement of February 20, 1869. That agreement was made
between I. Willard Fox and Fox & Co., and is signed by
Samuel H. Fox on behalf of Fox & Co. In it both parties
state that I. Willard Fox is indebted to Fox & Co. in the sum
of $70,000, "over and above all discounts and set-offs of every
name and nature." It leaves uncertain the amounts paid or
to be paid by Fox & Co., to cancel the other debts of I. Willard Fox, but it agrees upon the sum of $70,000 as the then
existing indebtedness of I. Willayd Fox to Fox & Co. It goes
on to speak of that indebtedness as "said original indebtedness," and the supplemental paper signed by Samuel H. Fox
speaks of "said debt of seventy thousand dollars." It must be
held, that the parties to the agreement deliberately fixed upon
that sum of $70,000, because the agreement states that, in making it up, the parties took into consideration "all discounts and
set-offs of every name and nature." There is no sufficient or
satisfactory evidence to impeach th6 agreement, as respects I.
Willard Fox, on the ground that his signature to it was obtained
by fraud or duress or without his full knowledge of its provisions and consent to its terms.
There is a great deal of testimony in the record bearing
upon the question of the damages claimed by I. Willard Fox
for the breakage of glass, and for "stained" glass, and for cutting down glass into smaller sizes, prior to February 20, 1869.
The master allowed against Kate W Goodwin the sum of
$8443.30 for such damages, and also added to the credit side
of the account of I. Willard Fox $7780.80, for interest which
he found had been improperly included in the glass account,
as a charge for interest accruing against I. Willard Fox prior
to February 20, 1869. Kate W Goodwin excepted to the
allowance to I. Willard Fox of the $8443.30, and the court
sustained the exception and excluded that item. She also
excepted to the disallowance to herself of the $7780.80, and
the court sustained that exception also. This was, m effect, a
ruling by the court that the parties could not go behind the

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court

settlement of February 20, 1869, as to the $70,000. As the
heirs and representatives of I. Willard Fox have not appealed
from the decree, the action of the court in sustaimng the exceptions as to those two items must, of course, stand. But it is
rendered immaterial by the general view we take of the case.
It is contended by the appellants that the Circuit Court
erred in overruling the second exception to the master's report,
which was, that the master refused to,allow, in favor of Kate
W Goodwin and against I. Willard Fox, the sum of $12,999.63 [$12,999.69], the same being for the amount of glass
shipped to I. Willard Fox by Fox & Co., and received by him,
between M arch 26, 1869, and November 5, 1869. The date
of Mfarch 26, 1869, is stated by the master in his report to be
March 23, 1869. The master disallowed that claim of Kate
W Goodwin, on the view that, in February, 1869, and before
any of such glass was shipped, all fhe business and property
were turned over to Fox & Co., and they afterwards managed
and controlled it, that the glass was not charged by Fox &
Co. to I. Willard Fox as sold to him, but that the books of
Fox & Co. show that it was consigned to Samuel I. Fox.
There is nothing inconsistent with the agreement of February 20, 1869, in the fact that the stock of goods m Chicago was
turned over by I. Willard Fox to Samuel I. Fox, representing
Fox & Co., in February, 1869, and that Fox & Co., from that
time until December, 1869, carried on the business of the store
at Chicago, I. Willard Fox representing them in the" business
as their agent. The agreement of February, 1869, states that
I. Willard Fox " has sold and conveyed" to Samuel H. Fox
the stock of goods and the store fixtures, notes, books and
accounts, "with power forthwith, at such times and m such
manner "1as Samuel H. Fox should deem best, to sell and colledt and convert into money, the goods, fixtures, notes and
accounts, and apply the proceeds to the payment of the indebtedness to Fox & Co. This transfer being then made, and the
business being afterwards carried, on by Fox & Co. for themselves until December, 1869, it would have been entirely
inconsistent with this arrangement that Fox & Co. should sell
to I. Willard Fox the glass they sent him afterwards, prior to

OCTOBER TERMI,. 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

the final discontinuance of the business in December, 1869.
The weight of the evidence is also to the same effect. The
master, therefore, on his view of the case, properly refused to
allow in favor of Kate W Goodwin the $12,999.69, and the
exception to such disallowance, being the second exception to
the master's report, was properly overruled by the court. But
as this $12,999.69 of glass was represented by notes and
accounts finally turned over by I. Willard Fox to Fox & Co.,
and the proceeds of which form part of the $27,343.07 credited
to I. Willard Fox in the account hereinafter contained, it is
proper to put the $12,999.69 on the debit side of that account.
The master disallowed the $7780.80 of interest which accrued
before February, 1869, as having been improperly included in
the glass account, for the reason that, in his judgment, the
testimony did not justify its allowance, it not appearing that
there was any arrangement by which interest was to be
charged, and the four entries of interest which appeared upon
the books of Fox & Co. being shown to have been made after
the accounts were closed, and not harmonizing with the statements of Samuel HI. Fox in respect to the matter, that the
business between I. Willard Fox and Fox & Co., prior to February 20, 1869, partook somewhat of a commission character,
that such business was mainly and substantially limited to the
supply of glass furnished to I. Willard Fox by Fox & Co.,
that during that time no settlements were made, nor was anything done, between the parties, out of which a claim for interest could have arisen, that the glass sent to I. Willard Fox by
Fox & Co. was limited, as to kands and sizes, to such as Fox &
Co. chose from time to time to send, that, under such circumstances, it could not have been expected that he would pay
interest for the time occupied in disposing of the glass, and
that there was no evidence tending to show that Fox & Co.
expected he would pay interest. As Kate W Goodwin, by
her third exception to the master's report, objected to his disallowance of the $7780.80 of interest, and the court sustained
that exception and allowed that item of interest to her, and
the heirs and representatives of I. Willard Fox have not
appealed from the decree, the sustaining of that exception

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opmion of the Court.

must stand, but it is made of no importance by the disposition
we make generally of the case. If interest were properly
chargeable against I. Willard Fox on the items of his account
prior to February 20, 1869, it must be regarded as having been
included in the $70,000.
The third exception also objects that the master failed to
allow to Kate W Goodwin any interest since February, 1869.
The court sustained the third exception as to that branch of it
also, and it is assigned here by Kate W Goodwin for error,
that the Circuit Court erred in failing to allow such interest.
The effect of the ruling of the court, in sustaining the third
exception, was to hold that the master improperly failed to
allow to Kate W Goodwin any interest after February, 1869.
The court, however, in its decree, allowed nothing to her as
interest for the time after February, 1869, or on any amount,
or for any time. The master says nothing m his report about
the question of interest after February, 1869. It is now contended, on the part of Kate W Goodwin, that, as the agreement of February 20, 1869, admitted the sum of $70,000 to be
due, and it was a liquidated demand at that time, it should draw
interest either from that time or from the 20th of August,
1869, the expiration of the six months named in that agreement.
The statute of Illinois,  2, c. 74, Revised Statutes of Illinois of 1874, which has been the law of Illinois since 1845,
provides as follows "Creditors shall be allowed to receive at
the rate of six per centum per annum, for all moneys after they
become due on any bond, bill, promissory note, or other instrument of writing, on money lent or advanced for the use of
another, on money due on the settlement of account from the
day of liquidating accounts between the parties and ascertainmg the balance, on money received to the use of another, and
retained without the owner's knowledge, and on money withheld by an unreasonable and vexatious delay of payment."
We think that, under this statute, Kate W Goodwin is entitled to be allowed the legal Illinois rate of interest from
August 20, 1869, on the $70,000 named in the agreement of
that date, and like interest, from the proper dates, on the

OCTOBER TERMf, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

amounts paid by Fox & Co. to take up and satisfy the other
indebtedness of I. Willard Fox, from the time they paid such
several amounts, and on the other debit items in the skeleton
account hereinafter set forth, and that I. Willard Fox is entitled to be allowed like interest from the proper dates on the
credit items in that account.
It is also assigned by Kate W Goodwin for error, that the
Circuit Court erred in refusing to sustain her fourth exception
to the master's report, as to the amount of assets of I. Willard
Fox, properly chargeable to Fox & Co., and in increasing the
amount of the same as found by the master. The master
found such amount to be $60,601.6f, consisting of the items of
$15,000 for notes shown to have been collectible, $12,000 for
paints, oils, etc., turned over to Fox & Co., $1500 for fixtures
sold, $2101.61 for the Merritt mortgage, and $30,000 for glass
returned at the date of settlement. The court, in disposing of
the fourth exception, modified the finding of the master, and
fixed the value of the above-named five items, amounting
to $60,601.61, at the gross sum of $65,000. It arrived at the
amount of $15,971.30, stated in its decree as the indebtedness
of I. Willard Fox to Kate W Goodwin, by the following calculation
Indebtedness fixed by the agreement of February
$70,000 00
20, 1869
Add the amount found by the master as paid by
10,971 30
Fox & Co. to the creditors of I. Willard Fox
Deduct the value of the assets of I. Willard Fox
Balance

$80,971 30
65,000 00
$15,971 30

To this sum of $15,971.30 the court added the $565.33 found
by the master as having been paid by Kate W Goodwin for
taxes on the La Salle Street lot, making a total of $16,536.63,
with which sum, and interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent
per annum from the date of the decree, July 29, 1884, it
charged I. Willard Fox. The court did not charge to I. Wil-

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinon of the Court.

lard Fox, the $1923.53 found by the master to have been due
on his individual and personal account, nor did it credit him
with the $7780.80 item of interest, or the $8443.30 for damages for breakage of glass, and for "stained" glass,. and cutting down glass into smaller sizes. The debit item against I.
Willard Fox, which the court put at $80,971.30, the master
had put at $81,172.41.
We think it clear that the Circuit Court erred in giving
credit to I. Willard Fox for the value of his assets as having
been turned over to Fox & Co. in February, 1869, at the gross
sum of $65,000. The terms of the agreement of February 20,
1869, were only that the goods, wares, merchandise, Atures,
notes, accounts and La Salle Street lot should be sold, collected and converted into money, and the proceeds be applied
to the payment of the $70,000 and of the amount which Fox
& Co. had paid or should pay to the creditors of I. Willard
Fox. Therefore, I. Willard Fox is entitled to be credited only
with the proceeds of the property mentioned in the agreement
as having been sold and conveyed to Samuel H. Fox. The
business of the store in Chicago, after February 20, 1869, must
be considered as having been carried on by and on behalf of,
and for the benefit of Fox & Co., through I. Willard Fox as
their agent, with the stock of goods turned over to Fox & Co.
at that date, and the goods which thereafter, and prior to December, 1869, they sent to I. Willard Fox for sale on thenr
behalf. The credit by the master to I. Willard Fox of the
$60,601.61, and the credit by the court to him of the $65,000,
both of them proceed upon the erroneous view, that the value
of the collectible notes, paints, oils, etc., fixtures, IMerritt mortgage and glass were to be deducted as of the date of February
20, 1869, the date of the settlement, without regard to the sale
or collection of them, or their conversion into money, or their
proceeds. Fox & Co. were not chargeable with the value of
the property turned over in February, 1869, but its proceeds
were to be credited by Fox & Co. when they should be realized, the property to be disposed of at such times and in such
manner as Samuel H. Fox should deem best. They did not
agree to take the property at a fixed price, in February, 1869,

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or at any other time, aside from its proceeds. Therefore, all
the testimony as to the value of the property in February,
1869, must be rejected. There is no evidence to show that
Fox & Co. received any proceeds which they did not credit.
No specific error is assigned in regard to the overruling of
the fifth exception to the report.
It is also assigned for error, that the Circuit Court erred in
overruling the fourth exception to the report of July 11, 1884,
and in confirming that report. The master, in his report of
July 11, 1884, found that there was due, on the 9th of June,
1884, upon the mortgage made by Henry W Fox and his wife
to Loring Monroe, covering the Lake Zurich farm, for principal and interest, $15,059. The decree of the court was that
the $16,536.63 should be paid by I. Willard Fox, provided Kate
W Goodwin should procure a release of such mortgage, but,
in case the release should not be obtained, then I. Willard Fox
might pay into court, for Kate W Goodwin, $1477.63, being
the difference between $15,059 and $16,536.63. Kate W
Goodwin excepted to such report, as to the finding of the
amount due upon the Monroe mortgage, because that mortgage could not, in any form, be made the basis of any decree
under the issues in the case, and because it did not appear
who owned the mortgage, nor was its owner a party to the
suit, and because, if it were paid under the decree, the court
could not prevent its owner from foreclosing it. It is assigned
by Kate W Goodwin for error that the Circuit Court erred in
overruling such exception, and in deducting, by its decree, the
amount of the Monroe mortgage from the amount due to Kate
W Goodwin. We think this assignment of error is not well
taken, and that the exception to the report in that particular
was properly overruled.
It is further assigned for error, that the Circuit Court erred
in overruling the first, second and third exceptions to the
master's report filed July 11, 1884, and in confirming that
report. Those exceptions relate to the La Salle Street lot, and
to the fixing of its value at $12,500, as of the 9th of June,
1884.
We think that the Circuit Court, in charging Kate W Good-

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

wm and Sarah E. R. Smith, with $11,500, as "the present cash
value" of the La Salle Street lot, committed an error. By the
agreement of February 20, 1869, the conveyance of the lot to
Samuel H. Fox, for Fox & Co., was absolute and unconditional,
with no right of redemption attached to it, and it was in the
same category with the personal property, and not merely
subject to a lien, as was the Lake Zurich farm. It was conveyed to Samuel H. Fox, in February, 1869, by an absolute
deed, and he and his wife conveyed it to Henry W Fox on
the 25th of September, 1875, for $8000. Under the agreement, Fox & Co. were not bound to apply the value of the
lot, or its proceeds, until it was sold. By the amendment made
to the bill November 13, 1880, Kate W Goodwin offered to
credit to I. Willard Fox the amount for which she had sold
the lot. She had sold it on the 27th of April, 1880, to Sarah
E. R. Smith, for $6625. But I. Willard Fox was entitled to
a credit, as of the 25th of September, 1875, of the $8000 for
which it was then sold to Henry W Fox, and which the evidence shows was the full value of the lot at that time, and
that credit must be allowed. That being done, of course Sarah
E. R. Smith will retain the lot, and thus the appeal of herself and her husband in this case is disposed of. The decree
provided that she might pay into the court $11,500, with interest, as "the present cash value " of the lot, and that, in case she
should do so, she should hold the lot free from all equity of
redemption by I. Willard Fox and all persons claiming under
him, but that, otherwise, she and her husband should convey
the lot to I. Willard Fox, or, on their failure to do so, the
master should execute the conveyance instead. All the provisions of the decree in regard to Sarah E. R. Smith and her
husband were erroneous, and her title to the La Salle Street
lot must be confirmed,
On the foregomg views, we are of opinion that the proper
mode of stating the account between the parties is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

I.

WILLARD

Fox in account with Fox & Co.
Dr.

Amount found due by the agreement of February
20, 1869
$70,000 00
Glass furnished by Fox & Co. to I. Willard Fox,
between IMarch 23, 1869, and November 5,
1869, and represented by notes and accounts
turned over to Fox & Co.
12,999 69
Amount paid the First National Bank of Chicago,
out of the proceeds of the property turned
over to Fox & Co.
10,000 00
Amount paid the same bank, raised by a mortgage
given on the La Salle Street lot
6,000 00
Amount paad by Fox & Co. in settlement of other
debts of I. Willard Fox
10,971 30
Cr.

Amount of proceeds received, and debited above as paid to First National Bank of Chicago
$10,000
Amount received as insurance money
on the building on the La Salle
Street lot, which amount was applied to pay off the mortgage,
above mentioned, on the lot
6,000
Proceeds of the sale of the La Salle
Street lot, to Henry W Fox
8,000
Proceeds of sales of goods and other
property by Fox & Co., and collection of notes and accounts
turned over to Fox & Co.
27,343

$109,970 99

00

00
00

07
51,343 07

Balance due by I. Willard Fox to Fox & Co.

$58,627 92

Proper provision must be made to carry out our decision
that the fourth exception to the report of July 11, 1884, was

GOODWIN v. FOX.
Opinion of the Court.

properly overruled. To this end the amount of $12,000, as
the principal of the mortgage to Monroe on the Lake Zurich
farm, with the interest due upon it, must be deducted from the
balance found due to Fox & Co., on the principle of the above
account. In that event the Lake Zurich farm will be charged
with, and will pay, the amount due on such mortgage.
The above items of debit and credit are principal sums, and
interest must be calculated and added, at the proper rate, from
the proper dates, as before stated. It may be, also, that there
will be some items of taxes paid, to be adjusted.
It is manifest, that the Circuit Court credited I. Willard Fox
with the gross sum of $65,000, as representing the collectible
notes, the paints, oils, etc., the fixtures, the Merritt mortgage,
and the glass in the store, February 20, 1869, instead of creditmg him merely with the proceeds of those assets, when realized.
The $10,000 paid to the First National Bank by Fox & Co. was
paid out of such proceeds. The $12,999.69 of glass furnished
by Fox & Co., after February 20, 1869, was represented by
some of the $15,000 of collectible notes credited to I. Willard
Fox by the master, and forming part of the $65,000 credited
to him by the court, and yet no allowance was made to Fox
& Co. for the $12,999.69 of glass so furnished.
It was proper that I. Willard Fox should pay the costs of
the Circuit Court.
The decree of the Circutt Cou'rt ss reversed, and the case s
remanded to that court wzth a directton to take such fur
ther p)roceedings as may be 7n accordance with law, and
not tnconststent wth this opnion.
VOL. cx--41

