RUCKMAN v. CORY.
Opinion of the Court.

R'UOKMAN v. CORY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
No. 1199.

UNITED

STATES FOR

ILLINOIS.

Submitted January 8, 1889.-Decided January 28, 1889.

B executed and delivered to C is bond in 1855 or 1856 to convey to him a
tract of land for a consideration named. C entered into possession, borrowed money of R, paid the consideration money in full, and made valuable improvements on the place. At C's request the conveyance was
made to R, in 1858, to secure him. Four years later R, having in the meanwhile been paid in full by C, conveyed the property to a woman without
consideration, and then married her. After some time the married
couple separated. The wife then brought ejectment to recover possession from C, (who during the whole time had remained in possession,)
and obtained a verdict and judgment on the verdict for possession.
Thereupon C took a new trial as of right, under the laws of Illinois, and,
in 1883 filed his bill in equity against the wife to compel a conveyance of
the land to hun; Held,
(1) That C's remedy was in equity;
(2) That he had not been guilty of such laches as would close the doors
of a court of equity against him,
(3) That the evidence in the record was sufficient to support a decree In
complainant's favor.
Laches cannot be imputed to one in the peaceable possession of land under
an equitable title, for delay in resorting to a court of equity for protection against the legal title; since possession is notice of his equitable
rights and he need assert them only when he finds occasion to do so.
A grantee in a deed is not affected by declarations of a grantor, made after
the execution and delivery of the deed, unless, with full knowledge of
them, he acquiesces in or sanctions them.

IN EQUITY. Decree for complainant.
The case is stated in the opinion.

A[Xr Willia
appellant.

Respondent appealed.

. 1. 8pringer and M rHenry WF WeZls for

M' John -Y. Palmer for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HAHLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

About the year 1855, or 1856, W D. Bowers executed to
the appellee Cory his bond in writing for the conveyance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

certain lands in Mason County, Illinois, the consideration being
the sum of one thousand dollars, payable in two equal instalments on the first day of October, 1857, and 1858, with ten
per cent interest from the date of sale. Cory went into
possession under the purchase on or about May 1, 1856, during
which year he prepared and sowed in wheat about seventy-five
acres. In 1857 he erected a house on the premises, and,
before the wheat crop of that year was cut, he moved into
it with his family During the next year he prepared for
cultivation forty additional acres. He has cultivated, more or
less, these lands ever since he first took possession of them.
All the improvements thereon, including the fencing, as well
as the taxes, (except those for the year 1880,) were regularly
paid by him.
On the first day of October, 1858, Bowers and wife conveyed the land to Elisha Ruckman, of New Jersey, who was
a first cousin of Cory and a man of large means. This was
the first time Bowers had heard of Ruckman. Until the
delivery of the above deed he knew of no one except Cory in
the transaction for the sale of the lands.
On the 24th of April, 1862, Ruckman, by deed executed in
New Jersey, conveyed the lands to Margaret Hopping, a
single woman, to whom, at a subsequent date, January 25,
1864, be was married. Some time after their marriage, but at
what time does not appear, Ruckman and his wife separated,
and they were living apart when she brought in the court
below an action of ejectment against Cory for the recovery 6f
the lands. In that action - the date of the commencement of
which is not shown by the record-she obtained a verdict and
judgment, but Cory elected to take, and did take, as of right,
a new trial, as provided for in the statutes of Illinois. Rev
Stats. Ill. c. 45. Thereupon he instituted the present suit
against Mrs. Ruckman (her husband having died) for the purpose of obtaining a decree requiring her to convey to him,
by sufficient deed, all her right, title and interest in these
lands. The claim for such relief is rested by the plaintiff upon
these grounds That the lands were purchased by him from
Bowers, and paid for, (except as to a small part of the price

RUCKMAN v. CORY.
Opmion of the Court.

stipulated,) with money borrowed for that purpose from Ruckman, that without knowledge or request of lRucklnan, and
solely for the purpose of securing him in the payment of the
amount so loaned, he caused Bowers to make the conveyance
directly to Ruckman, that although such conveyance was
absolute in form, it was intended to be, and was only to operate
as, a security for the debt due from him to Ruckman, that
the latter, without his knowledge or consent, and without a
good or valuable consideration to sustain it, made the deed of
1862 to Margaret Hopping; that only recently, namely, by
said action of ejectment, did she assert any title under the
deed to her, that his debt to Ruckman, on account of the
borrowed money, has long since been discharged m full, and
that, nevertheless, the defendant refused to convey to him,
and was inequitably prosecuting her action of ejectment for
possession.
The court below gave the plaintiff the relief asked by him.
1. The contention that the plaintiff has a plain, adequate,
and complete remedy at law cannot be sustained. It is not
certain that he can successfully defend the action of ejectment.
Besides, only a court of equity can compel the surrender of
the legal title held by the defendant and invest the plaintiff
with it.
2. Kor has the plaintiff been guilty of any such laches as
would close the doors of a court of equity against him. He
was m the peaceful occupancy of the premises for some years
prior to any assertion of title upon the part of the defendant
under the deed of 1872. If he had not been all the time in
the possession of the premises, controlling them as if he were
the absolute owner, the question of laches might be a more
serious one for him than it is. The bringing of the action of
ejectment was, so far as the record shows, the first notice he
had of the necessity of legal proceedings for his protection
against the legal title held by the defendant. As proceedings
to that end were not unreasonably delayed, we do not perceive
that laches can be imputed to him. Laches are rather to be
imputed to the defendant, who, although claiming to have
been the absolute owner of the lands since 1862, took no action

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

against the plaintiff until the ejectment suit was instituted.
"Laches," the
.Mill v -Lockwood, 42 Illinois, 111, 118.
Supreme Court of Illinois has well said, "cannot be imputed
to one in the peaceable possession of land for delay in resorting to a court of equity to correct a mistake in the description
of the premises in one of the conveyances through which the
title must be deduced. The possession is notice to all of the
possessor's equitable rights, and he need to assert them only
when he may find occasion to do so." Wilson v Byers, '7t
Illinois, 76, 84. See also Barbour v Whsttock, 4 T. B. Mon.
180, 195, .Xkay's Hewrs v Fenton, 7 J S Marsh. 306, 309.
3. Reference is made to the depositions of several witnesses,
including the plaintiff, who testified in his own behalf, in
which are detailed statements made by Ruckman, at different
times after 1862, in reference to the title to these lands. This
evidence, it is contended, and properly so, was incompetent
under the well-established rule that "a grantee in a deed is
not affected with the declarations of the grantor made after
the execution and delivery of the deed, unless, with full knowledge of such declarations, he acquiesces m or sanctions them."
iHiggms v TPhte, 118 Illinois, 619, 624, Stembach v Stewart,
11 Wall. 566, 581, Winchester and Partridge .Mfg Co. v
Creary, 116 U S. 161, 165. But the question remains, whether
the decree cannot be sustained by such evidence in the record
as is competent and relevant. We think it can. At any rate,
after a careful sifting of the proof, and giving due weight to
all the facts and circumstances that may properly be considered, we do not see our way clear to disturb the decree.
There are no other questions in the case that we deem it
necessary to notice.
The decree 'ts affirmed.

