506

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 447. Argued December 6, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.
1. A state law as construed by the State Supreme Court to sustain
a tax was found unconstitutional by this Court, and mandate
issued reversing the judgment and remanding the cause for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion. Held that the
state court was not thereby precluded from reassessing the tax
upon a revised construction of the statute eliminating the unconstitutional features. P. 512.
2. Whether state courts in construing a taxing act so as to avoid
conflict with the Federal Constitution in effect exercised legislative
power in violation of the state constitution,-held not a federal
question. P. 512.
3. The tax in respect of trust companies laid. by the Pennsylvania
Act of June 13, 1907, as amended, is a tax upon the shares rather
than upon the corporate assets. P. 512.
4. In taxing shares of a trust company on the basis of their value
as reflected from its paid-in capital stock, surplus and undivided
profits, a State is not obliged to exclude from the valuation obligations of the Federal Government or its instrumentalities belonging
to the company. P. 513.
But shares of national banks already taxed to the company, as
owner pursuant to R. S. § 5219, can not be included in such
valuation.
5. Under Pennsylvania Act of June 13, 1907, as amended, the shares
of a local trust company are valued for taxation on the basis of the
amount of the company's paid-in capital stock, surplus and undivided profits minus its investments in shares of Pennsylvania corporations which are liable to pay, or are exempted from, a capital
stock tax, or which are relieved from a tax on shares. If the trust
company fails to show that such investments represent capital,
surplus and undivided profits rather than purchase with deposits,
they are allowed a partial or "prdportionate" exemption, computed
by use of a formula. Held:
(1) That where obligations of the United States or its instrumentalities, (other than national bank shares) were proportionately

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
506

507

Counsel for Parties.

exempted, in the same way as other investments of a trust company,
there was no ground to claim discrimination against such obligations
in assessing the share tax. P. 514.
(2) The fact that the shareholders of a trust company whose
investments consist of national bank stock would pay no tax, because R. S. § 5219 permits but a single tax thereon which has been
paid by the company as owner, whereas those holding shares in a
trust company which owns only other federal securities would not
be entitled to a similar total exemption but only to a proportionate
deduction unless it could be shown that those securities were purchased from capital, surplus, and undivided profits, does not evidence any illegal discrimination against such securities. P. 514.
(3) The principle of equal protection does not demand that
because one company owns wholly exempt securities, with consequent exemption of its shareholders from the tax on shares, the
State shall abstain from taxing the shareholders of another company whose investments carry no such exemption. P. 514.
6. A state tax on the shares of a domestic corporation, assessed
on the basis of the corporate assets and payable by or collected
through the corporation, may consistently with the Fourteenth
Amendment extend to shares owned by non-residents. Corry v.
Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466. P. 514.
So held where the corporate charter antedated the creation of
the tax liability but was subject to a power to alter, amend or
repeal reserved by the state constitution.
7. Where a State has reserved the right to alter, amend and repeal
the charter of a corporation, every stockholder acquires his shares
with full knowledge that his interest in the corporation is subject
to regulation and taxation by the State. P. 516.
327 Pa. 127; 193 Atl. 638, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment redetermining a tax assessment. Cf. s. c., 296 U. S. 113.
Mr. John Robert Jones for appellant.
Mr. Manuel Kraus, with whom Mr. Charles J. Mar-

giotti, Attorney General Of Pennsylvania, was on the
brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE

ROBERTS

302 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania, 296 U. S. 113,
we held an act of Pennsylvania1 invalid as construed and
applied in the calculation of the amount of the tax thereby imposed. The statute requires every trust company
chartered under the general. corporation law to report
annually to the Department of Revenue the number of
outstanding shares and their actual value at the close
of the preceding calendar year. The department is to
assess the shares for taxation at five mills upon the dollar.
The taxable value of each share is to be ascertained by
adding together so much of the amount of paid-in capital
stock, surplus, and undivided profits as is not invested in
shares of corporations liable to pay or exempted from
payment of the Pennsylvania capital stock tax, or relieved
from the payment of a tax on shares, and dividing this
amount by the number of shares. The company must
pay the tax from its general fund within sixty days after
assessment, or collect it from the shareholders and pay
it over. Provision is made for posting notice of the assessment in the company's office so that. shareholders shall be
advised of the amount of the assessment and for a hearing of any shareholder who objects to the valuation of
the shares.2
Securities owned by a trust company may have been
purchased out of deposits or from the capital, surplus,
and undivided profits. Since securities the value of
which is by the act deductible from the tax base may have
been purchased out of either of the two funds, it is open
to the company to prove that they or any of them were
1

Act of June 13, 1907, P. L. 640, as amended by the Acts of July
11, 1923, P. L. 1071, May 7, 1927, P. L. 853, and April 25, 1929,
P. L. 673.
2
Act of April 9, 1929, § 807, P. L. 393.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
506

509

Opinion of the Court.

purchased out of capital, surplus, or undivided profits.
Upon such a showing these securities are fully exempt
from tax. Where the company has not made this showing the practice in assessing the tax has been to grant a
so-called proportionate deduction in respect of such exempt securities.3 This is accomplished by the use of the
following formula: A fraction, the numerator of which
is the capital, surplus, and undivided profits at book
value less the book value of those investments, if any,
for which a full deduction has been made, and the denominator, the book value of the permanent investments,
less the book value of those investments, if any, for which
a full deduction has been made, is applied to the book
value of the securities which are to be apportioned, after
adjustment for appreciation or depreciation of those securities, and the resulting sum is deducted from the
capital, surplus, and undivided profits. In this manner
a portion of the value of each exempted security reflected
in the capital, surplus, and profits is deducted before the
value per share is determined by dividing the capital
surplus and profits so diminished by the number of shares
outstanding.
Upon the former appeal it was shown that whereas
a proportionate deduction was allowed for shares of
Pennsylvania corporations previouily taxed, or shares of
such corporations exempt from tax, no deduction was
accorded in respect of shares of a national bank and bonds
of the federal government and its instrumentalities
owned by the company. The appellant's position was
that the act, though it purported to tax the shares, in fact
taxed the net assets of the company which included shares
of stock of a national bank and securities of the federal government and its instrumentalities owned by the
"See Commonwealth v. Hazelwood Savings & Trust Co., 271 Pa.
375; 114 At. 368.

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

appellant. An alternative claim was that, if the levy
was upon the shares as such, the application of the act
worked a discrimination against national bank shares and
other federal securities by excluding from the base a proportionate part of the value of shares of certain Pennsylvania corporations while leaving in the base national
bank shares and federal securities; and that, if the tax
was upon the shares it was bad, as the Commonwealth
was without power to tax the shares of nonresident stockholders. The Commonwealth insisted the tax was upon
the shares and not upon assets, that the application of
the statute involved no discrimination against federal
securities and that the State had jurisdiction to tax the
shares of nonresident shareholders.
We found it unnecessary to determine whether the tax
was upon shares or assets. Amongst the assets were shares
of national bank stock which had been taxed to the company a owner, pursuant to R. S. 5219 as amended.
These we held must be excluded from the base upon which
the tax was calculated. We held further that the exclusion from the base of a proportion of the value of tax
exempt shares of Pennsylvania corporations, and the refusal of like treatment of federal securities, operated as an
unconstitutional discrimination against the latter. We
reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and remanded the cause for further proceedings not
inconsistent with our opinion.
After our mandate went down the Commonwealth
moved the trial court to redetermine the tax by disregarding the amendatory statute involved in our decision and
reverting to the basic act of June 13, 1907,' which was
claimed not to be affected by the infirmity of the amendatory act. The appellant insisted that as we had set aside
U. S. C. Title 12, § 548.
5 Supra, Note 1.
4

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
506

511

Opinion of the Court.

the judgment and held the amendatory act of April 25,
1929,6 invalid as construed and applied, the only action
open to the trial court was the entry of a judgment for the
appellant. The court refused to follow either of the suggested courses, holding that the legislature, by the act of
1929, intended to exercise only such power as it lawfully
possessed and did not attempt to impose a tax upon
securities exempted by federal law. It found that the
purpose of the statute could be accomplished by eliminating the national bank shares from the tax base and by
treating the other federal securities in the same manner as tax exempt stock of state corporations. It accordingly recalculated the tax. The appellant took the case
-to the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth which
affirmed the judgment.,
By appropriate exceptions and assignments of error
the appellant challenges the new judgment upon these
grounds: that the courts below have disregarded the mandate of this court and have exceeded their powers in reassessing the tax; that the tax is one upon assets and
not upon shares, and federal securities are left in the tax
base as to at least a portion of their value; that, if the
tax is upon the shares rather than upon the assets, there
is still a discrimination against federal securities because
the stockholders of appellant and other similar corporations are wholly exempted from any tax calculated upon
the value of the shares of national banks whereas at
least a portion of the value of other federal securities
still remains in the tax base; and that, in any event, the
impost is bad so far as it is laid upon the shares of
nonresident shareholders. The Commonwealth argues
that the tax is upon the shares as such and not upon
assets; that in assessing it no discrimination is practiced
6

Supra, Note 1.
1327 Pa. 127; 193,Atl. 638.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

against federal securities and in favor of the exempted
stock of Pennsylvania corporations and that, if the tax is
otherwise valid, the fact that it is laid upon all share-holders, including nonresidents, does not void it as re*spects the latter.
First. When the case was previously heard we held
the, statute invalid as construed and applied and remanded the cause for further proceedings not inconsistent with our opinion. It is clear that the state courts
were not precluded from construing the statute so as to
eliminate the unconstitutional features. It follows that
the appellant was not entitled, as a matter of right, to a
general judgment in its favor exempting it from all tax.
Second. The contention that the state courts really have
not construed the act but have themselves amended it, and
that this is judicial legislation forbidden by the constitution of Pennsylvania, is not open here. As the trial court
pointed out, courts, in applying a statute, general and
sweeping in its terms, may construe it as not intended to
reach subjects which, by reason of constitutional prohibition, the legislature is without power to touch. Whether
the courts of the Commonwealth exceeded their powers
under the state constitution is not a federal question.
We accept their construction of the act.
Third. As the case is now presented, we find it necessary
to determine whether the tax is upon the shares as such
or upon the capital, surplus, and profits of the company.
The statute on its face lays the tax upon the property of
the stockholder, represented by the shares he owns. The
state courts, and the local federal court, have held the
imposition a tax upon the shares.' The history of legislav. Schuylkill Trust Co., 315 Pa. 429; 173 At.
309; Commonwealth v. Mortgage Trust Co., 227 Pa. 163, 174; 76
Atl. 5; Commonwealth v.. Union Trust Co., 237 Pa. 353, 355; 85 Ati.
461; Northern Trust Co. v. McCoach, 215 Fed. 991.
8 Commonwealth

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
506

513

Opinion of the Court.

tion respecting taxation of banks and trust companies in
Pennsylvania leads to the same conclusion.? We are of
opinion that the tax is one upon the shares as such and
not upon the assets of the company.
Fourth.The State need not have made any exemption or
concession in taxing the property in the shares on account
of value therein reflected from the company's ownership
of obligations of the government or its instrumentalities
9 As early as 1867 [Act of April 12, 1867, P. L. 74] Pennsylvania
imposed a tax on the shares of national bank stock in the hands of
the holders. See also Act of April 2, 1868, P. L. 55; Act of May
1, 1868, P. L. 108, § 10. It also taxed the shares of state banks.
Act of December 22, 1869, P. L. [1870] 1373; Act of June 10, 1881,
P. L. 99; Act of June 30, 1885, P. L. 193; Act of June 8, 1891,
P. L. 229, (the last named act was sustained in Commonwealth v.
Merchants & Manufacturers National Bank, 168 Pa. 309; 31 Atl.
58; affirmed 167 U. S. 461); Act of July 15, 1897, P. L. 292, amended
by Act of May 2, 1925, P. L. 497, and Act of April 25, 1929, P. L.
677. Some of the earlier of these acts provided for the taxation
of the shares of trust companies upon the same basis as shares of
banks were taxed, but by the Act of June 1, 1889, P. L. 420, trust
companies were made liable for a so-called capital stock tax which is
in fact -a tax upon assets and no tax was levied upon the -shares
in such companies. The Act of 1907 (supra, note 1) was passed
in order to conform taxation applicable to trust companies with
that then current with respect to banks. As stated in Commonwealth v. Mortgage Trust Co., 227 Pa. 163, 175; 76 Atl. 58: "The
policy of the commonwealth for more than twenty years was totax the capital stock of these companies in the same manner as
other corporations created under the general corporation act of
1874 were taxed. . . . This method of taxing the capital stock of
these institutions continued in force until the act of 1907 was passed.
As the trust company business grew in magnitude . . . the question
of the proper method of'taxing the capital stock of these corporations frequently arose. It was contended in their behalf that banks
were their natural competitors; that their business partook of the
nature of banking; and that they should be taxed in like manner.
As a result of this feeling and the agitation which followed it the
act of 1907 was passed. It is apparent that the legislature intended
to tax trust companies on the same basis as banks."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

other than national bank stock.1" And the discrimination found upon the earlier appeal in failing to accord
proportionate exemption to federal securities similar to
that extended to exempt shares of domestic corporations
has been removed, for all are now accorded like treatment
by way of deduction.
Fifth. The fact that the shareholders of a trust company whose investments consist of national bank stock
would pay no tax, because R. S. 5219 permits but a single
tax thereon which has been paid by the company as owner,
whereas those holding shares in a trust company which
owns only other federal securities would not be entitled to
a similar total exemption but only to a proportionate deduction unless it could be shown that those securities were
purchased from capital, surplus, and undivided profits,
does not evidence an illegal discrimination against such securities. The inability of a state to measure a tax by certain assets exempted by federal law does not preclude it
from reckoning in the tax base all those it can reach.
And the principle of equal protection does not demand
that because one company owns wholly exempt securities,
with consequent exemption of its shareholders from the
exaction, the state shall abstain from taxing the shareholders of another company whose investments carry no
such exemption.
Sixth. The state courts have held that nonresident as
well as resident shareholders are within the scope of the
statute, and we are bound by this construction. The appellant argues that as thus applied the statute would take
their property without due process and deny them equal
protection in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States since the taxing
10 Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573; National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 359; Cleveland Trust Co. v. Lander, 184 U. S.
111; Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103.

SCHUYLKILL TRUST CO. v. PENNA.
506

515

Opinion of the Court.

power of Pennsylvania is limited to persons and property
within her jurisdiction. The contention was overruled by
the State Supreme Court, and we think rightly so, upon
the authority of Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466. There
this court held that under a similar statute Maryland
and its municipal subdivisions could impose a levy for
revenue upon nonresident shareholders measured by the
value of their shares in a domestic corporation. The distinctions between that case and this, to which the appellant points, are not significant. In reliance upon Tappan
v. Merchants' National Bank, 19 Wall. 490, wherein we
held it competent for the United States to provide by a
statute which became part of the charter of'every national
bank that the shares shall be taxable to the shareholders
by the state wherein the bank is located, the court proceeded, in the Corry case, to the proposition that where
a state statute made similar provision for the taxation of
the shares of nonresident stockholders at the home of a
domestic corporation, the legislation did not violate the
Fourteenth Amendment. 1 There the corporation was
made liable for the payment of the tax and given a right
of reimbursement over against the shareholders. Here
the appellant has the option either to pay the tax from
its general fund or to collect it from the shareholder and
pay it over to the State. The distinctions thought by the
appellant to require a different ruling in this case are
that, in the Corry case, the act declaring the liability of
the shares of nonresidents antedated the charter of the
corporation and provided that the situs of shares owned
by nonresidents should, for the purposes of taxation, be
at the domicile of the corporation in the state of Mary" The case has been cited repeatedly with approval. Covington v.
First National Bank, 198 U. S. 100, 112; Hawley v. Malden, 232
U. S. 1, 12; Rogers v. Hennepin County, 240 U. S. 184, 191; Rhode
Island Hospital Trust Co. v. Doughton, 270 U. S. 69, 81.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

land whereas, in the instant case, the statute imposing
the tax on shares, which has been held to include the
shares of nonresidents, was adopted twenty years after
the appellant's incorporation and says nothing about the
situs of the shares. We think these differences are unimportant in respect of the principle involved. The state
constitution for many years prior to the granting of the
charter contained the reserved right to alter, amend, and
repeal corporate charters, and every stockholder acquired
his shares with full knowledge that his interest in the
corporation was subject to regulation and taxation.
Moreover, the shares represent a property interest, an
aliquot proportion of the whole corporate assets. The
shareholders, whether domestic or foreign, depend for the
preservation and protection of this property upon the law
of the state of the corporation's domicile. The property
right so represented is of value, arises where the corporation has its home, and is therefore within the taxing jurisdiction of that state; 12 and this, notwithstanding the
ownership of the stock may also be a taxable subject in
another state.'
The judgment is
Affirmed.
12

Stockholders Bank v. Supervisors, 88 Va. 293; 13 S. E. 407;

Scandinavian-American Bank v. Pierce County, 20 Wash. 155; 55
Pac. 40; State v. Travelers Insurance Co., 70 Conn. 590; 40
AtI. 465; St. Albans v. National Car Co., 57 Vt. 68; Koochiching Co.
v. Mitchell, 186 Iowa 1216; 173 N. W. 151.
1 First Bank Stock Corp. v. Minnesota, 301 U. S. 234.

