OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

302 U. S.

relation of the stockholders to the matter was that of a
mere conduit. The controlling principle will be found
in Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465, 469-470; and applying that principle here, the judgment of the court
below is
.Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
OCEAN BEACH HEIGHTS, INC., ET AL. v. BROWNCRUMMER INVESTMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI

No. 10.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

Argued December 8, 1937.-Decided January 17, 1938.

1. In the absence of a law authorizing the creation of a municipality
de jure there can be none de facto. P. 619.
2. Acting under a Florida statute granting no authority to include
non-contiguous areas, electors residing on the west side of a bay
incorporated a town with boundaries described as embracing also
land on the east side. Holders of bonds thereafter issued by the
town and defaulted, sought, by litigation in the federal court against
the town and east side land owners, to require a tax levy on all
of the lands, to provide payment. Held:
(1) Under the statute the town had acquired no jurisdiction,
de jure or de facto, over the east side lands. P. 619.
(2) Acquiescence by owners of east side land in earlier attempted
exercises of jurisdiction over them upon the part of the town authorities, including taxation, could not invest the town with de facto
jurisdiction. Id.
(3) The bill should be dismissed. P. 620.
87 F. (2d) 978, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 673, to review the affirmance of a
decree granting an injunction to restrain interference with

the levy of a town tax on land for the payment of the

plaintiffs' bonds. See also 69 F. (2d) 105; 11 F. Supp. 73.

OCEAN BEACH HEIGHTS v. INVEST. CO. 615
614

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Henry K. Gibson and J. Julien Southerland,
with whom Messrs. Scott M. Loftin, John P. Stokes and
James E. Calkins were on the brief, for petitioners.
Messrs. Giles J. Patterson and T. J. Blackwell for respondents. Messrs. Dewey Knight and A. Frank Katzentine were with Mr. Blackwell on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The question is whether for the payment of its outstanding bonds the respondent town may tax petitioners'
lands which, without statutory authority, were included
by boundaries defined in proceedings for its incorporation. Petitioners' contention is that the lands never were
within the boundaries of the towns de jure or de facto and
that therefore they are not subject to its taxing power.
The Florida statutes empower the male inhabitants of
any hamlet, village or town "to establish for themselves
a municipal government" (Compiled General Laws, 1927,
§ 2935) to be designated an incorporated town if it
contains less than 300 registered voters, § 2936. They
require notice specifying time and place of meeting and
the proposed corporate limits, § 2937, and direct that "the
qualified electors present, being not less than two-thirds
of those whom it is proposed to incorporate and not
less than twenty-five in number, shall select a corporate
name . . . for the municipality . . . and designate by
definite metes and bounds the territorial limits," §. 2938.
In 1892, in Town of Enterprise v. State, 29 Fla. 128;
10 So. 740, 744; the state supreme court held that the
statute did not permit incorporation of disconnected tracts
of land, found a part of the territory proposed to be incorporated to be disconnected from the other part, and declared (p. 145): "An attempt to incorporate two distinct

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

detached tracts of land, as corporate territory under one
government, is unauthorized and void. .. ."
In 1926, electors residing in Dade County, Florida, on
the west side of Biscayne Bay, incorporated a town,
Miami Shores, now called North Miami. The boundaries
specified by the incorporators included approximately 16
square miles, 14 of which were on the west side of the
bay and had a population of 2,500. Two square miles
were on the east side and had but 12 inhabitants. Though
nearly vacant, these lands were much more valuable than
all the property on the west side. The water separating
the two areas is about a half mile wide. At the time of
incorporation, construction of a causeway had been commenced, but its beginnings having been destroyed by hurricane later in that year, it has not been built. By land
the distance between the settlement on the west side and
the east side area is about ten miles, and to go by land
from one to the other it is necessary to pass through another municipality. Petitioners own lands on the east
side.
Between January 1, 1927 and April 1, 1928, the town
issued bonds, $238,000 of which are outstanding. In,
each bond the town pledged its faith and credit for payment and declared that provision had been made for the
levy and collection, each year that the bond remained
outstanding and unpaid, of sufficient taxes on all taxable
property within its limits to pay principal and interest
as they came due. But none of the bonds contained any
statement indicating the boundaries of the town or in any
manner representing that any part of the area on the
east side of the bay was within its limits. The bonds
were validated by decrees of the circuit court for Dade
County, §§ 5106-5109, Compiled General Laws, 1927. No
owner of east side land was party to the validation suits
and no question as to whether the town included any
part of the lands east of the bay was there involved. Pro-

OCEAN BEACH HEIGHTS v. INVEST. CO. 617
614

Opinion of the Court.

ceeds of the bonds were used for the construction of permanent improvements; the only part spent on the east
side was $6,000 for mosquito eradication, most of which
went for equipment which the town still owns.
In a quo warranto suit brought by the State on the relation of its attorney general in August, 1929, and in a
later suit brought by owners of east side lands to cancel
tax certificates on their lands, the state supreme court
held that the statute relied on for creation of the municipality did not authorize inclusion of non-contiguous
areas. Mahood v. State, 101 Fla. 1254; 133 So. 90.
Leatherman v. Alta Cliff Co., 114 Fla. 305; 153 So. 845.
And in those suits it was finally adjudged that the east
side was not and never had been a part of the incorporated town, and that the town never acquired jurisdiction
de jure or de facto over the land east of the bay. A decree of ouster as to the east side land was entered in December, 1931, and tax certificates on lands on that side
were canceled. No bondholder was a party to either of
these suits.
Prior to the quo warranto suit, the jurisdiction of the
town over the east side was not challenged by the State,
property owners or others. And until prevented by the
decree of ouster, the town exerted municipal authority
on. both sides of the bay within .the boundaries defined
by west side electors acting to incorporate the town. It
laid taxes on east side lands, some of which were paid
by petitioners.
In 1930 respondent sued the town in the United States
District Court for Southern Florida and got judgment on
nine of the bonds. There was involved no question as
to whether the. east side lands ever were within the town
or liable to be taxed to pay the bonds. In 1931 respondent brought in the same court a mandamus suit to compel the town and its officers to levy taxes on all the lands
within the boundaries defined by the incorporators.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

Owners of land on the east side including petitioners
were permitted to intervene. They maintained that the
town had no jurisdiction over their lands or authority
to tax them. The court entered a decree commanding
the town and its officers to tax all the property within the
town limits as originally defined. The town and its officers did not object to the decree nor appeal from it.
The intervening east side owners attempted to have it
reviewed in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The court
held that, as the judgment was not against them, they
had no standing to question it and dismissed their appeal. 69 F. (2d) 105.
Then respondent brought this suit for itself and other
bondholders against the town, its officers, the clerk of the
circuit court of Dade County, and east side land owners,
including the petitioners. It alleged that the town was
unable to pay the bonds unless permitted to levy and
collect taxes on east side property; that the town and its
officers were ready and willing so to do, but were prevented by the decrees in the Mahood and Leatherman
cases, and that the clerk of the circuit court was bound
by the decree in the latter case. It prayed an injunction
to restrain petitioners from interfering, by use of the
ouster decree or otherwise, with the levy or collection of
taxes on east side lands for the payment of respondent's
judgment and the outstanding bonds and to restrain the
town and the clerk of the court from refusing to levy or
to take steps required for collection of such taxes. The
town and its officers answered and in effect joined in
the prayer of the bill. Petitioners moved to dismiss, the
court denied their motion; two of them answered. The
parties introduced their evidence, the court found the
facts and entered its decree substantially as prayed. Petitioners alone appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed on the ground that the town de facto included
the east side lands. 87 F. (2d) 978.

OCEAN BEACH HEIGHTS v. INVEST. CO. 619
614

Opinion of the Court.

That view cannot be sustained. This case differs essentially from those dealing with good faith attempts to
organize municipalities under unconstitutional enactments presumed valid until adjudged repugnant to fundamental law. See, e. g., Clapp v. Otoe County, 104 Fed.
473, 482. Speer v. Board of County Comm'rs, 88 Fed.
749, 765. Ashley v. Board of Supervisors, 60 Fed. 55, 64.
City of Winter Haven v. Gillespie, 84 F. (2d) 285, 287.
State v. City of Cedar Keys, 122 Fla. 454, 462, 463; 165
So. 672. In the absence of a law authorizing the creation
of a municipality de jure there can be none de facto. McQuillan, Municipal Corporations (2nd ed.), § 175. City
of Guthrie v. Wylie, 6 Okla. 61, 66; 55 Pac. 103. Norton
v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425, 444. Shapleigh v. San
Angelo, 167 U. S. 646, 655-656. Tulare Irrigation District v. Shepard, 185 U. S. 1, 13. United States v. Royer,
268 U. S. 394, 397. Evenson v. Ellingson, 67 Wis. 634,
646; 31 N. W. 342. Duke v. Taylor, 37 Fla. 64, 77; 19
So. 172. The town de jure could not be made to include
the east side. Mahood v. State, supra. Leatherman v.
Alta Cliff Co., supra. Mere inspection of the statute and
the defined boundaries unmistakably shows that the 'west
side electors were without authority to incorporate the
east side tract with that in which they resided. Unquestionably, these were detached tracts within the meaning
of the statute. The state supreme court having held that
attempted incorporation of detached areas was unauthorized and void (Town of Enterprise v. State, supra) there
existed no color of authority for the inclusion of the east
side. The east side lands could not be brought within
the taxing power of the town by the owners' acquiescence
in its attempted exertion of jurisdiction over them and
payment of taxes thereon that it in form laid prior to the
ouster decree. The town de facto could not derive from
the consent of the east side owners jurisdiction that it de
jure was without capacity to receive. The consent of
owners of land located beyond permissible limits of the

OCTOBER. TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

municipality cannot be made to serve as would a statutory grant of power. Hayes v. Holly Springs, 114 U. S.
120, 12G-127. Merrill v. Monticello, 138 U. S. 673, 693694. As the east side lands never became liable to be
taxed by the town to pay its bonds, respondents were
not entitled to restrain petitioners from defending against
levy and collection of the taxes or to any relief in this
suit. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be
reversed and the case will be remanded to the district
court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.
THE CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 140.

Argued January 3, 1938.-Decided January 17, 1938.

1. Creek lands, erroneously surveyed as lands of other tribes, were,
because of the error and through misapplication of an Act of
Congress, disposed of by allotment and patent in severalty to
members of the other tribes and by sale and patent to, settlers.
Held that the taking took place not at the date of the Act but
at the times of the several dispositions; and valuations for the
purpose of fixing compensation must be as of those times. Cf. s. c.
295 U. S. 103. P. 620.
2. Rules laid down to govern the valuations. P. 622.
84 Ct. Cls. 12, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 666, to review a jpdgment fixing

compensation to the Creek Nation for lands taken by the
United States.
Mr. W. W. Spalding, with whom Mr. Paul M. Niebell
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. N. A. Townsend, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General McFarland and Mr.
Oscar A. Provost were on the brief, for the United
States:

