PHILLIPS-JONES CORP. v. PARMLEY.

233

Counsel for Parties.

230

We have heard counsel, examined the record and briefs,
"-deither
and are unable to say that the court be 1
uings are
in respect of its findings or conclusion.
we
ached,
and
the
conclusion
adequately supported
think, is proper. For us again to analyze the pleadings,
evidence and decrees and point out the differences and
necessary inferences would serve no useful purpose. This
was adequately done below.
The challenged decree must be
Affirmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE STONE took no
part in the consideration or decision of this cause.

PHILLIPS-JONES CORPORATION

PARMLEY, EXECUTRIX,
CERTIORARI

TO THE

ET AL. V.

ET AL.

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 45.

Argued November 19, 1937.--Decided December 6, 1937.

1. A stockholder who has received his pro rata share of the corporate assets upon dissolution of the corporation and has been compelled by assessment under § 280 (a) (1) of the Revenue Act of
1926 to pay the whole of income and profits taxes owed by the
corporation, is entitled to contribution from his co-stockholders
who have not been assessed for the taxes, and may maintain a
bill therefor. P. 235.
2. The liability of the co-stockholders to contribute arises under
the general law; it is not dependent upon the making of an assessment against them under § 280. P. 236.
88 F. (2d) 958, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

301 U. S. 680, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decree dismissing a bill for contribution.
Mr. Robert T. McCracken, with whom Mr. Milton J.
Levitt was on the brief, for petitioners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Case submitted on brief for Margaret Wilkinson, respondent, by Margaret Wilkinson, pro se.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The sole question for decision is the stockholder's right
to contribution.
In 1919, the Coombs Garment Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, wound up its affairs and distributed its
assets ratably among its eleven stockholders. In 1924
and 1925, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed
against the company additional income and profits taxes
for the years 1918 and 1919. To the extent of $9,306.36
these taxes remained unpaid. I. L. Phillips, a stockholder
resident in New York City, had received in 1919 liquidating dividends in excess of that amount. In 1926, the
Commissioner notified Phillips that it was proposed to
assess against him as transferee of the corporation's
assets this sum of $9,306.36, pursuant to § 280 (a) (1)
of the Revenue Act of 1926 (c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 61). No
notice of the deficiency was sent by the Commissioner
to any of the other stockholders; no assessment was made
against any of them; and no proceeding was instituted by
him against any of them.
Phillips having died, his executors contested the deficiency assessed against the company and both the validity and the amount of the assessment made against him,
insisting, among other things, that in no event could
Phillips' estate be held liable for more than his pro rata
portion of the unpaid tax of the company. The Commissioner adhering to his determination, the executors
sought a review by the Board of Tax Appeals. It held
Phillips' estate liable for the fill amount. 15 B. T. A.
1218. The United States Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit affirmed that judgment, 42 F. (2d)

PHILLIPS-JONES CORP. v. PARMLEY.
233

235

Opinion of the Court.

177. And, in Phillips v. Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, we
affirmed the judgment of that court.
The Phillips-Jones Corporation, which was the real
owner of the stock standing in Phillips' name, paid the
judgment and the expenses of the litigation. Then it
and Phillips' executors brought, in the federal court for
eastern Pennsylvania, this suit in equity for contribution
against the eight stockholders or their representatives, resident in that State. The District Court dismissed the
bill for want of equity, on the ground that liability for
the taxes arose solely from assessment under § 280; and
that since the defendant stockholders had never been assessed they were not liable for contribution. In affirming that judgment the Circuit Court of Appeals said, 88
F. (2d) 958, 959:
"Any stockholder, including the appellees, should be
and in our opinion is, entitled to an assessment by the
Commissioner prior to imposition of tax liability upon
him. The appellants would by implication add another
method of imposing an assessment upon the stockholder,
namely, by an action for contribution. It is not for the
courts to extend the methods prescribed by Congress for
imposing tax liability. In the absence of assessment
against the several appellees by the Commissioner, or, a
decree or judgment of a court of record imposing tax liability upon them at the instance of the Commissioner,
the liability to contribution in relief of the appellant is
not established."
We granted certiorari. The injustice of allowing the
other stockholders to escape contribution is obvious. And
there is nothing in the applicable statutes, or the unwritten law, which compels our doing so.
First. The liability of the stockholders for the taxes
was not created by § 280. It does not originate in an
assessment made thereunder. Long before the enactment it had been settled under the trust fund doctrine

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

(see Pierce v. United States, 255 U. S. 398, 402-403) that
if the assets of a corporation are distributed among the
stockholders before all its debts are paid, each stockholder
is liable severally to creditors, to the extent of the amount
received by him; and that as between all stockholders
similarly situated the burden of paying the debts shall be
borne ratably. But because the Commissioner was free
to pursue Phillips alone for the entire amount of the unpaid taxes, Phillips could not compel him to join other
stockholders in the proceeding, as was said in Phillips v.
Commissioner, supra, p. 604:
"Whatever the petitioners' right to contribution may
be against other stockholders who have also received
shares of the distributed assets, the Government is not
required, in collecting its revenue, to iharshal the assets
of a dissolved corporation so as to adjust the rights of
the various stockholders."
Second. The right of a stockholder transferee to contribution arises under the general law and does not differ
from that of any other person who has paid more than
his fair share of a common burden. The right to sue for
contribution does not depend upon a prior determination
that the defendants are liable. Whether they are liable
is the matter to be decided in the suit. To recover, a
plaintiff must prove both that there was a common burden of debt and that he has, as between himself and the
defend, nts, paid more than his fair share of the common
obligations.' Every defendant may, of course, set up
any defense personal to him.
'Compare Lidderdale v. Robinson, 12 Wheat. 594; Wright v.
Rumph, 238 Fed. 138 (C. C. A. 5); U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.
v. Naylor, 237 Fed. 314 (C. C. A. 8); Carter v. Lechty, 72 F. (2d)
320 (C. C. A. 8); Allen v. Fairbanks, 45 Fed. 445 (C. C. D. Vt.);
see M'Donald v. Magruder, 3 Pet. 470, 477; Southern Surety Co. v.
Commercial Casualty Ins. Co., 31 F. (2d) 817, 819 (C. C. A. 3).

PHILLIPS-JONES CORP. v. PARMLEY.
233

237

Opinion of the Court.

Since the enactment of § 280, as before, a bill in equity
against a stockholder transferee is a remedy available
to the Commissioner to enforce the tax liability of the
corporation. Leighton v. United States, 289 U. S.506;
Hulburd v. Commissioner, 296 U. S.300, 303. If he had
resorted to that remedy he could have sued Phillips alone
(see Phillips v. Commissioner, supra, pp. 603-604); and
if thereupon Phillips had paid the entire tax, obviously
he could have brought a bill in equity against the other
stockholders for contribution.2 The right is no less where
the Commissioner proceeds under § 280. This statute
does not affect the duty of other stockholder transferees
to contribute; it merely provides the Commissioner with
a summary remedy for enforcing existing tax liability.
Phillips v. Commissioner, supra, pp. 592, 594. As an incident of this summary remedy, the Commissioner must
make an assessment against the stockholder or stockholders whom he elects to pursue. But, as each stockholder
transferee is severally liable to the extent of the assets received by him, the Commissioner may pursue only one
and "need not make an assessment against other transferees. He elected to proceed only against Phillips; and
as he succeeded in obtaining payment of the whole tax
from Phillips' estate, he had no occasion to make an
assessment against other stockholders, Indeed, after
the corporation's tax, had been paid he had no power
to do so.
Reversed.
2

Compare Richter v. Henningsan, 110 Cal. 530; 42 Pac. 1077.

