WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

573

What we have said is decisive of the second question,
whether any of the amounts not available for credit under
§ 131 may be deducted from gross income for the purpose
of arriving at taxable net income. By § 23 (c) (2) of
the 1928 Act the deductions of "income . . . taxes imposed by the authority of any foreign country" are limited to taxes paid or accrued. Since we have held that
the taxpayer has not paid or become subject to the foreign
tax here in question, the section by its terms is inapplicable.
No. 55, affirmed.
No. 505, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are of opinion that the applicable rule was correctly stated by the lower court in No.
505, Elkins v. Commissioner, 91 F. (2d) 534, and by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in United
Shoe Machinery Corp. v. White, 89 F. (2d) 363, and that
the challenged judgment in No. 55 should be reversed
and that in No. 505 affirmed.
WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 37.

Argued November 16, 1937.-Decided January 17, 1938.

1. In the last clause of Const., Art. I, § 7, par. 2, which provides:
"If any Bill shall not be returncl by the President within ten
Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to
him, the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed
it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return,
in which Case it shall not be a Law," the words "the Congress"
refer to the entire legislative body consisting of both Houses.
P. 587.
2. The Constitution neither defines what shall constitute a return of
a bill by the President, nor denies the use of appropriate agencies
in effecting a return. P. 589.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

3. A bill, passed by both houses of Congress, was presented to the
President of the United States on Friday, April 24. On Monday,
May 4, the Senate took a recess until Thursday noon, May 7. The
House of Representatives remained in session. On May 5, the
President returned the bill with a message setting forth his objections addressed to the Senate, in which the bill had originated;
and bill and message were delivered on that day to the Secretary of the Senate. When the Senate reconvened on May 7, the
Secretary advised the Senate of the return of the bill and the
delivery of the President's message. On the same day the President
of the Senate laid before it the Secretary's letter and the message.
The message was read and with the bill was referred to* the
Senate Committee on Claims. No further action was taken.
Held that the bill did not become a law. Pp. 589, 598.
4. The constitutional provisions involved should not be so construed
as to frustrate either of two fundamental purposes: (1) that the
President shall have suitable opportunity to consider the bills presented to him, and (2) that the Congress shall have suitable opportunity to consider his objections to bills and on such consideration to pass them over his veto' provided there are the requisite
votes. P. 596.
5. Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655, distinguished. General expressions
in an opinion are to be taken in connection with the case in which
they were used. P. 593.
84 Ct. Cls. 630, affirmed.

301 U. S. 681, to review an order of the
Court of Claims (without opinion) overruling an application for the reopening and retrial of a case which had
previously been dismissed in 60 Ct. Cls. 519. The claimant relied upon a new enabling provision, passed by Congress, disapproved of by the President, which the Government claimed had not become a law.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Ashby Williams, with whom Mr. James J. Lenihan
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, with whom Solic-

itor General Reed, and Messrs. Henry A. Julicherand Paul
A. Sweeney were on the brief, for the United States.

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question is whether Senate Bill 713, 74th Congress, 1st session, which was passed by both Houses of
Congress, became a law.
The bill was presented to the President of the United
Stat~s on Friday, April 24, 1936. It had originated in
the Senate. On Monday, May 4, 1936, the Senate took
a recess until noon, Thursday, May 7, 1936. The House
of Representatives remained in session. On May 5, 1936,
the President returned the bill with a message addressed
to the Senate setting forth his objections. The bill and
message were delivered to the Secretary of the Senate.
When the Senate reconvened on May 7, 1936, the Secretary advised the Senate of the return of the bill and the
delivery of the President's message.' On the same day
This communication was as follows:
"United States Senate,
Washington, May 7, 1936.
Hon. John N. Garner,
President of the Senate.
My dear Mr. President:
On Friday, April 24, 1936, the Committee on Enrolled Bills of the
Senate presented to the President of the United States the enrolled
bills (S.713) granting jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to hear
the case of David A. Wright, and (S.929) for the relief of the
Southern Products Co., which had passed both Houses of Congress
and been signed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
the President of the Senate.
The Senate, at 3: 25 p. m. Monday, May 4, 1936, took a recess
until .12noon on Thursday, May 7, 1936.
During the interim the President of the United States sent by
messenger two messages addressed to the Senate, each dated May 5,
1936, giving his reasons for not approving, respectively, Senate bill
713 and Senate bill 929. The Senate not being in session on the
last day which the President had for the return of these bills under
the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, in order to

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the President of the Senate laid before it the Secretary's
letter and the message of the President of the United
States. The message was read and with the bill was
referred to the Senate Committee on Claims. No further
action was taken.
The bill granted jurisdiction to the Court of Claims to
rehear and adjudicate petitioner's claim against the
United States. Accordingly on September 14, 1936, petitioner presented his petition to the Court of Claims.
The Government opposed the petition upon the ground
that the bill had never become a law and the Court of
Claims denied the petition. In view of the importance
of the question certiorari was granted. 301 U. S. 681.
The applicable provisions of the Constitution are found
in Article I, § 7, Paragraph 2, which provides:
"Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law,
be presented to the President of the United States; If
he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it,
with his Objections to that House in which it shall have
originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on
their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such
Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to
pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be
reconsidered, and if, approved by two thirds or that House,
it shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes
of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and Nays,
and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the
protect the interests of the Senate, so that it might have the opportunity to reconsider the bills, I accepted the messages, and I now
present to you the President's veto messages, with the accompanying
papers, for disposition by the Senate.
Sincerely yours,
EDWIN A. HALSEY,
Secretary of the Senate."

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President
within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have
been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law, in like
Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their
Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall
not be a Law."
1. The first question is whether "the Congress by their
adjournment" prevented the return of the bill by the
President within the period of ten days allowed for that
purpose.
"The Congress" did not adjourn. The Senate alone was
in recess. The Constitution creates and defines "the Congress." It consists "of a Senate and House of Representatives." Art. I, § 1. The Senate is not "the
Congress."
The context of the clause itself points the distinction.
It speaks of the "House of Representatives" and of the
"Senate," respectively. It speaks of the return of the
bill, if the President does not approve it, "to that House
in which it shall have originated"; of reconsideration by
"that House," and, in case two thirds of "that House"
agree to pass the bill, of sending it together with the
President's objections to the "other House" and, if approved by two thirds of "that House," the bill is to become a law. Provision is made for the taking of the
votes of "both Houses" and for the recording of the names
of those voting for and against the bill on the Journal "of
each House respectively."
* Then, after this precise use of terms and careful differentiation, the concluding clause describes not an adjournment of either House as a separate body, or an adjournment of the House in which the bill shall have originated,
but the adjournment of "the Congress." It cannot be
supposed that the framers of the Constitution did not
use this expression with deliberation or failed to appre-

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ciate its plain significance. The reference to the Congress is manifestly to the entire legislative body consisting
of both Houses. Nowhere in the Constitution are the
words "the Congress" used to describe a single House.
To disregard such a deliberate choice of words and their
natural meaning would be a departure from the first
principle of constitutional interpretation. "In expounding the Constitution of the United States," said Chief
Justice Taney in Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, 570, 571,
"every word must have its due force, and appropriate
meaning; for it is evident from the whole instrument,
that no word was unnecessarily used, or needlessly added.
The many discussions which have taken place upon the
construction of the Constitution, have proved the correctness of this proposition; and shown the high talent, the
caution, and the foresight of the illustrious men who
framed it. Every word appears to have been weighed
with the utmost deliberation, and its force and effect
to have been fully understood." See, also, Martin v.
Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 333, 334; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 316; Myers v. United States, 272
U. S. 52, 151; Williams v. United States, 289 U. S. 553,
572, 573.
The argument addressed to the word "their" in the
phrase "the Congress by their adjournment," is futile.
The argument is that the use of the plural would not be
unusual or inappropriate if the reference were to a single
House. There is no question that both singular and
plural forms are used in the Constitution with reference
to each House separately. See Article I, § 3, Paragraphs
2, 4, 5, 6; Article I, § 5, Paragraphs 1, 2, 3. The plural
is used in the phrase "their Journal" in the paragraph
under consideration. But the question is not whether
the use of the plural is inappropriate in referring to a
single House or its members. It is sufficient to say that
there is certainly no inappropriateness in the use of the

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

plural in relation to "the Congress" as composed of both
Houses, and that use in no way changes the significance
of that term.
The phrasing of the concluding clause is entirely free
from ambiguity and there is no occasion for construction.
2. The argument to the contrary rests upon the premise
that a bill cannot be returned by the President to the
House in which it originated when that House during the
session of Congress is in recess, and hence that the concluding clause of Paragraph 2 of § 7 of Article I, referring
to an adjournment by the Congress, should be rephrased
by judicial construction in order to deal with that situation. We think th'.t the premise is faulty and the rephrasing inadmissible.
Paragraph 4 of § 5 of Article I provides:
"Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall,
without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than
three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the
two Houses shall be sitting."
It will be observed that this provision is for a short
recess by one House without the consent of the other
"during the Session of Congress." Plainly the taking of
such a recess is not an adjournment by the Congress.
The "Session of Congress" continues.
Here, the recess of the Senate from May 4th to May
7th was during the session of Congress and under that
provision. In returning the bill to the Senate by delivery to its Secretary during the recess there was no violation of any express requirement of the Constitution.
The Constitution does not define what shall constitute
a return of a bill or deny the use of appropriate agencies
in effecting the return.
Nor was there any practical difficulty in making the
return of the bill during the recess. The organization
of the Senate continued and was intact. The Secretary

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

of the Senate was functioning and was able to receive, and
did receive, the bill. Under the constitutional provision the Senate was required to reconvene in not more
than three days and thus would be able to act with reasonable promptitude upon the President's objections.
There is no greater difficulty in returning a bill to one
of the two Houses when it is in recess during the session
of Congress than in presenting a bill to the President by
sending it to the White House in his temporary absence.
Such a presentation is familiar practice. The bill is sent
by a messenger and is received by the President. It is
returned by a messenger, and why may it not be received
by the accredited agent of the legislative body? To say
that the President cannot return a bill when the House in

which it originated is in recess during the session of Congress, and thus afford an opportunity for the passing of
the bill over the President's objections, is to ignore the
plainest practical considerations and by implying a requirement of an artificial formality to erect a barrier to
the exercise of a constitutional right.
These practical considerations were well put by Mr.
Hatton W. Sumners in his argument as amicus curiae on
behalf of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of
Representatives in the Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655.
He said:
"There is no language in the provision governing this
passing of bills between the President and Congress, or
any recognized rule of construction which, while permitting the Congress in the first instance to send bills to the
President by a messenger, as is done without question, and
the President to receive such bills through an appropriate agent even when himself absent from his office; and
the President, though he may be away from the Capital,
at the time returning the bill by messenger to the Congress, though the Constitution declares 'he,' the President,
shall return it, which would prevent the House of origin

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

from receiving these same bills through a pruper agent if
that House were engaged in other business or temporarily
absent from their Chambers. It is against all reason and
every recognized rule of construction, when the avoidance of unnecessary delay is so clearly manifest in the
provision sought to be construed, that a construction
should be superimposed which would make for delay regardless of every desire and of every effort of the President and of the Congress in the situation indicated."
And referring to the provision of the Constitution above
quoted as to adjournments by either House for not more
than three days during the session of Congress, he said:
"In such a situation what is to occur? Is the bill to
become a law despite the objections of the President?
The Congress has not adjourned, and yet the President
cannot make return of the bill to the House of its origin
in session because it is not in session. Is the bill to die
with the Congress in existence, possibly the House of
origin only having adjourned earlier than usual on the
last day permitted for the return of the bill? Is there no
rational construction of the Constitution possible which
will make effective all the safeguards with regard to legislation established in the Constitution, and yet make operative under every circumstance, the general plan set up
by the Constitution?"
And, again, with respect to the agencies of the Houses
of Congress, Mr. Sumners observed that "The Houses of
Congress have officers and agents of great power and responsibility who act in their stead, and who are constantly
in their places when the Houses are in session, and when
they are not in session." He found "nothing in the Constitution which denies the right to the use of these agents
in effecting the return of objected-to bills." He added
that
"a rule of construction or of official action which would
require in every instance the persons who constitute the

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

Houses of Congress to be in formal session in order to
receive bills from the President would also require the
person who is President personally to return such
bills ....
"The right of constructive delivery is necessary not
only to facilitate legislative procedure, prevent delay, and
to hold the President's powers within the limits imposed
by the Constitution, but it is also necessary in order to
hold the Congress within proper bounds by preventing
bills to which the President may object from becoming
law without reconsideration by the Congress.
"The adjournment of a House for not more than three
days, without the consent of the other House, is not an
adjournment of Congress.
"If the Senate should be in executive- session, on a
matter of the highest public importance, refusing to be
interrupted, on the last day of the period in which return
may be made, that would not even be an adjournment of
one House of the Congress; and yet return could not be
made if constructive delivery is not permitted.
"It could not be held that Congress was adjourned
when the Senate was in executive session performing its
constitutional duty, and the other House in actual session. The sensible thing to do in such a case, would be
for the messenger of the President, finding himself unable to make delivery to the Senate, to make the delivery
to the Secretary of the Senate. There is nothing in the
Constitution to prohibit that being done."
The absence of any practical obstacle to the return of
a bill when a House is in temporary recess during the
session of the Congress is illustrated by what was done
in this instance. The Senate was in recess from May 4th
to noon of May 7th. The President's time for consideration expired on May 6th. He delivered the bill with his
objections to the Secretary of the Senate on May 5th.
The Secretary presented the bill with the President's ob-

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

jections to the President of the Senate on May 7th and
on that day the bill and the objections were laid before
the Senate and were referred to the appropriate committee. The fact that Mr. Sumners' contention in the Pocket
Veto Case was unavailing with respect to the effect of an
adjournment of the Congress at the close of its first regular session, in no way detracts from the pertinence and
cogency of these observations as addressed to the situation which is now presented.
3. The chief, if not the sole, reliance for the argument
that the bill could not be returned by the President during
the Senate's recess is our decision in the Pocket Veto Case,
supra. We do not regard that decision as applicable for
two reasons: (1) the present question was not involved,
and (2) the reasoning of the decision is inapposite to
the circumstances of this case.
In the Pocket Veto Case, the Congress had adjourned.
The question was whether the concluding clause of Paragraph 2 of § 7 of Article I was limited to a final adjournment of the Congress or embraced an adjournment of
the Congress at the close of the first regular session. The
Court held that the clause was not so limited and applied
to the latter. In interpreting the word "adjournment,"
and in referring to other provisions of the Constitution
using the word "adjourn," the Court was still addressing
itself to a case where there had been an adjournment by
the Congress. The Court did not decide, and there was
no occasion for ruling, that the clause applies where the
Congress has not adjourned and a temporary recess has
been taken by one House during the session of Congress.
Any observations which could be regarded as having a
bearing upon the question now before us would be taken
out of their proper relation. The oft-repeated admonition of Chief Justice Marshall "that general expressions,
in every opinion, are to be taken in connection with the
case in which those expressions are used," and that if

594A

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

they go "beyond the case, they may be respected, but
ought not to control the judgment in a subsequent suit
when the very point is presented for decision," has special
force in this instance. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264,
399,
In the Pocket Veto Case the Court expressed the view
that the House to which the bill is to be returned "is the
House in session," and that no return can be made to the
House when it is not in session as a collective body and
its members are dispersed. But that expression should
not be construed so narrowly as to demand that the President must select a precise moment when the House
is within the walls of its Chambers and that a return is
absolutely impossible during a recess however temporary.
Such a conclusion, as we shall presently endeavor to show,
would frustrate the fundamental purposes of the constitutional provision as to action upon bills. The Court
in the Pocket Veto Case was impressed with the impropriety of a delivery of the bill by the President during
a period of adjournment "to some individual officer or
agent not authorized to make any legislative record of its
delivery, who should hold it in his own hands for days,
weeks or perhaps months,-not only leaving open possible
questions as to the date on which it had been delivered
to him, or whether it had in fact been delivered to him
at all, but keeping the bill in the meantime in a state
of suspended animation until the House resumes its siLttings, with no certain knowledge on the part of the public
as to whether it had or had not been seasonably delivered,
and necessarily causing delay in its reconsideration which
the Constitution evidently intended to avoid." "In
short," said the Court, "it was plainly the object of the
constitutional provision that there should be a timely return of the bill, which should not only be a matter of
official record definitely shown by the journal ofthe House
itself, giving public, certain and prompt knowledge as

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

to the status of the bill, but should enable Congress to
proceed immediately with its reconsideration; and that
the return of the bill should be an actual and public return to the House itself, not a fictitious return by a delivery of the bill to some individual which could be given
a retroactive effect at a later date when the time for the
return to the House had expired." Id., pp. 684, 685.
These statements show clearly the sort of dangers
which the Court envisaged. However real these dangers
may be when Congress has adjourned and the members
of its Houses have dispersed at the end of a session-the
situation with which the Court was dealing-they appear
to be illusory when there is a mere temporary recess.
Each House for its convenience, and during its session
and the session of Congress, may take, and frequently does
take, a brief recess limited, as we have seen, in the absence
of the consent of the other House, to a period of three
days. In such case there is no withholding of the bill
from appropriate legislative record for weeks or perhaps
months, no keeping of the bill in a state of suspended animation with no certain knowledge on the part of the public whether it was seasonably delivered, no causing of any
undue.delay in its reconsideration. When there is nothing but such a temporary recess the organization of the
House and its appropriate officers continue to function
without interruption, the bill is properly safeguarded for
a very limited time and is promptly reported and may be
reconsidered immediately after the short recess is over.
The prospect that in such a case the public may not be
promptly and properly informed of the return of the bill
with the President's objections, or that the bill will not be
properly safeguarded or dluly recorded upon the journal
of the House, or that it will not be subject to reasonably
prompt action by the House, is we think wholly chimerical. If we regard the manifest realities of the situation,
we cannot fail to see that a brief recess by one House, such

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U S.

as is permitted by the Constitution without the consent of
the other House, during the session of Congress, does not
constitute such an interruption of the session of the House
as to give rise to the dangers which, as the Court apprehended, might develop after the Congress has adjourned.
4. The constitutional provisions have two fundamental
purposes; (1) that the President shall have suitable opportunity to consider the bills presented to him, and (2)
that the Congress shall have suitable opportunity to consider his objections to bills and on such consideration to
pass them over his veto provided there are the requisite
votes. Edwards v. United States, 286 U. S. 482, 486.
We should not adopt a construction which would frustrate
either of these purposes.
As to the President's opportunity for consideration, we
have-held that he may still approve bills and that they will
become laws, if he acts within the time allotted for that
purpose, although Congress meanwhile has 'adjourned.
La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 423;
Edwards v. United States, supra. It is to safeguard the
President's opportunity that Paragraph 2 of § 7 of Article
I provides that bills which he, does not approve shall not
become laws if the adjournment of the Congress prevents
their return. Edwards v. United States, supra.
Where the President does not approve a bill, the plan
of the Constitution is to give to the Congress the opportunity to consider his objections and to pass the bill
despite his disapproval. It is for this purpose that the
time limit for return is fixed. This opportunity is as
important as that of the President. But if the return
of a bill is impossible during a temporary recess of a
House while Congress is in session, either the President
may be obliged to cut short the time for his consideration
so as to be sure to get his objections before the House
while it is within the walls of its Chambers, or, if the
President takes the allotted time and attempts to return

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
588

Opinion of the Court.

the bill during the recess, his objections will either be
unavailing or the Congress will be denied opportunity to
pass upon them. If, as we think, the concluding words
of Paragraph 2 of § 7 are inapplicable then, as Congress
has not adjourned, the bill, if not deemed to have been
returned, will become a law despite the President's disapproval. Or, if that clause were deemed applicable and
the return of the bill be considered to have been prevented by the recess, the bill would not become a law
and Congress, although in session, would not be able to
pass the bill over the President's objections.
The extremely technical character of the argument
which would make impossible the return of a bill because
a House has taken a temporary recess is manifest. Suppose the President, who is clearly entitled to his ten*days
for consideration, sends the bill to the House in which it
originated with his objections on the afternoon of the
tenth day, but that House has adjourned at noon on that
day until the following morning. Then, on the argument
now advanced as to the construction of the concluding
clause of Paragraph 2 of § 7, the bill would not become a
law and the objections of the President would operate
practically as an absolute veto although the Congress was
in session and ready to consider his objections. Or if
that result does not follow, in the view that the clause
does not apply because Congress has not adjourned, then,
if the bill is not regarded as returned, it becomes a law
although the President has shown his disapproval within
the ten days. These difficulties disappear if we dispense
with wholly unnecessary technicalities as to the method
of return and give effect to realities.
We agree with the Government that the precedents of
executive action which have been cited are not persuasive.
The question now raised has not been the -subject of
judicial decision and must be resolved not by past uncertatinties, assumptions or arguments, but by -the applica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
PER STONE,

J.

302 U. S.

tion of the controlling principles of constitutional interpretation.
We are not impressed by the argument that while a recess of one House is limited to three days without the
consent of the other House, cases may arise in which the
other House consents to an adjournment and a long period
of adjournment may result. We have no such case before
us and we are not called upon to conjecture as to the
nature of the action which might be taken by the Congress in such a case or what would be its effect.
We hold that where the Congress has not adjourned
and the House in which the bill originated is in recess for
not more-than three days under the constitutional permission while Congress is in session, the bill does not become a law if the President has delivered the bill with
his objections to the appropriate officer of that House
within the prescribed ten days and the Congress does not
pass the bill over -his objections by the requisite votes.
In .this instance the bill was properly returned by the
President, it was open to reconsideration in Congress, and
it did not become a law.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE CARDozo

took no part in the decision of

this case.
MR.JUSTICE STONE.

I agree that the legislation now in question did not become a law, not, as the Court holds, because the. bill
vetoed by the President was returned to the Senate within the ten-day period or to any person authorized to receive the bill in its behalf, but because the Senate by its
adjournment prevented the return and thus called into
operation the provision that the bill "shall not be a Law"
where adjournment prevents its return to the house in

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

PER STONE, J.

which it originated, within the ten days allowed to the
President to sign or disapprove it."
The reasons assigned by the Court for its conclusion
seem to me to have no application to the case now before
us, and leave in confusion and doubt the meaning and effect of the veto provisions of the Constitution, the certainty of whose application is of supreme importance.
Nothwithstanding the cogently reasoned ruling of a
unanimous court in the Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655,
682, that the "House" to which a bill is to be returned by
the President means a house Vn" session, we may assume
for present purposes that each house of Congress, by appropriate action, may constitutionally confer upon its
secretary, clerk, or some other officer, authority to receive a bill returned to it by the President. But it does
not appear that any such authority has ever been conferred on the secretary of the Senate, or that he has
hitherto assumed to act in that capacity. In the Pocket
Veto Case this Court held that in 1926 it had not; and

I Article I, § 7, Cl. 2, Of the Constitution reads as follows:
"Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives
and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the
President of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if
not he ihall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it
shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on
their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall
be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which
it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of
that House, it shall become a law. But in all such Cases the Votes
of both Houses shall be deteripined by Yeas and Nays, and the
Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If any Bill shall
not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a
Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by
their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be
a Law."

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
PER STONE, J.

302 U. S.

the Senate has since taken no step in that direction, perhaps because of our dictum in that case that such action
would be unconstitutional.
The houses of Congress, being collective bodies, transacting their routine business by majority action, are capable of acting only when in session and by formal action
recorded in their respective journals, or by recognition,
through such action, of an established practice. Since
the foundation of the government it has been the settled
usage of both houses of Congress to receive messages from
the President and bills disapproved and returned by him,
when in session. It does not appear that in the past the
secretary of the Senate or any other person has assumed
to act for either house in receiving a bill returned by the
President, and in one recorded instance the secretary of
the Senate and its President declined so to act! There
has been no action and no usage of either house recognizing the existence of such authority in any one. Pocket
Veto Case, supra,682 et seq.
The secretary of the Senate is appointed by that body
to serve at its pleasure, and his duties are prescribed by
the Senate rules. They give no hint that among these
duties is the important function of acting as the Senate
in the receipt of bills returned to it by the President during the ten-day period, or retaining them in custody pending its reassembly when the return is during an adjournment. Not only have both houses of Congress failed to
designate any person to receive bills returned to them by
2 On May 19, 1888, President Cleveland attempted to return a
bill to the Senate during an adjournment, by tendering it to the secretary and to the President of the Senate. Both officers rejected the
tender, "claiming that the return of said bill and the delivery of said
message could only properly be made to the Senate when in actual
session." President Cleveland's message, Senate Journal, 50th Cong.,
1st Sew.

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

PER STONE, J.

the President, but in one instance they explicitly refused
to take such action when it was proposed.'
The conclusion seems inescapable that whatever constitutional power the Senate and House may possess to
designate an officer to receive in their behalf bills returned by the President, they have not exercised it; the
Constitution, which directs that bills shall be returned to
the house in which they originate, has made no such designation, and neither the Constitution nor any statute,
rule or usage has indicated any person who could so act,
or prescribed for anyone duties embracing such a function.
In such circumstances delivery of a bill to the secretary
of the Senate during its adjournment would seem to be
no more a compliance with the constitutional requirement
than would its deposit by the President's messenger with
the sergeant-at-arms, a doorkeeper, or any other person
not clothed with authority or charged with official duty
in the premises, who might be induced to receive the bill
and undertake to bring it to the attention of the Senate
upon reassembly
Doubts as to the scope and effect of the rule now announced by the Court are multiplied by the intimation
that a different rule may be applied in the case of adjourn8 In 1868 a bill reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee and
passed by majority vote of the Senate, provided for a return of a
bill to a house not sitting by delivery of it at the office of the secretary of the Senate or of the clerk of the House, as the case might
be. Strong opposition to the bill developed in Senate debate, the
bill was not reported out of the Judiciary Committee of the House,
and failed of passage. Pocket Veto Case, supra, 686 et seq.
4 The fact that the Senate has taken pains to confer express authority in some instances, by formal resolution, Gilfry, Precedents, 226,
462, by rule, Senate Manual, 1936, 5, 8, 12, 36, or by standing order,
id, at 128 et seq., persuades that the important power to receive a
bill would not be conferred sub silentio.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
PER STONE, J.

302 U. S.

ment of either house of Congress, with the consent of the
other, for more than three days, and that the present decision can, in some way not disclosed, be distinguished
from our ruling in the Pocket Veto Case, where the return
of a bill to the Senate was held to have been prevented
by the adjournment of the Senate, pursuant to concurrent resolution, from July 3rd to November 10th, the
House having at the same time adjourned sine die. But
such an intimation can rest on nothing more substantial
than our unwillingness to face the obvious consequences
of what is now decided. If it be said that an essential
difference between the present case and the Pocket Veto
Case lies in the fact that here the President delivered the
bill with his veto message to the secretary of the Senate,
and that there he retained it. without signing, then the
rule which is now announced will, for all practical purposes, expire with its birth. We can hardly assume that
a President would invite further Congressional action by
a return of a bill with his veto to a secretary or other
officer of the house concerned, during its adjournment, if
by retention of the bill without signing, he could make
the veto absolute.
Again, if it be said that a distinction is to be drawn between adjournment of one house for three days and longer
adjournments taken with the concurrence of the other
house, no plausible reason can be advanced for saying that
the secretary or any other officer of the Senate possesses
authority to receive returned bills during a threeday adjournment which he does not possess during a four-day
or longer adjournment during a session of Congress. In
the Pocket Veto Case the Senate adjourned during a session
of Congress for four months, the House consenting, but
the ten days allowed for consideration of the bill by the
President expired the day after adjournment. If the decision in that case is to stand with this it can only be
because the secretary in the former lost on the day after

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

PER

STONE, J.

adjournment an authority which he retained for a day
after adjournment in the latter. If lost, it was either
because the adjournment was for longer than three days
and was thus one which could not be effected without a
concurrent resolution, or because the other house had not
remained in session. Such distinctions find as little support in Constitution, laws and Congressional practice, and
in reason, as does the proposition that the secretary of the
Senate is, by virtue of his appointment as such, clothed
with authority to receive in its behalf bills returned by
the President.
If in the Pocket Veto Case the secretary of the Senate,
where the bill originated, had authority after adjournment during the session, to receive it in behalf of the
Senate, the adjournment did not prevent the return by
the President, and the bill, upon his failure to sign or
.return it, became law by virtue of the constitutional provision just as did some 173 other bills which, until this
moment, have been regarded as dead letters, as they were
declared to be in the Pocket Veto Case, supra, 691.1 If
A memorandum prepared in the office of the Attorney General
and transmitted by the President to Congress in 1927, H. Doc. No.
493, 70th Cong., 2d Sess., cites more than 400 bills and resolutions
which were passed by Congress and submitted to the President less
than ten days before final or interim adjournment of Congress, which
were not signed by the President or returned with his disapproval.
Of these, 119 were instances in which the adjournment was for a
session of Congress as distinguished from its final adjournment. None
of these bills or resolutions were placed upon the statute books or
treated as having become a law. No attempt appears to have
been made to enforce them in the courts, except the law involved
in the Pocket Veto Case. It does not appear that in any of these
instances either house of Congress has taken any official action indicating that in its judgment any of these bills became laws. See
the Pocket Veto Case, supra, 690, 691. Examination of the House
Calendars shows that in the period since that covered by the Attorney
General's memorandum, 54 bills have been pocketed before the end
of a Congress with no attempt to return them. This was done twice

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
PER STONE,

J

302 U. S.

the Court was wrong on that point, its decision was wrong,
and in the interests of a definite and precise constitutional
procedure in a field where definiteness and precision are
of paramount importance, it should now be frankly overruled.
If I am wrong in my conclusion that the President did
not in this case return the bill to the Senate by returning
it to its secretary during adjournment, then adjournment
did not prevent its return, the President's veto became
effective, and there is no occasion for the Court to indulge
in an academic discussion of what may in other circumstances be the effect of an adjournment alone of the
house in which a bill originates, which actually prevents
such a return. The pronouncement now made that the
President may be so deprived of the veto power ought
to be avoided not only because, in my opinion, it is an
erroneous interpretation of the Constitution which may
have grpve consequences, but because it is unnecessary
to the decision. If the experience of one hundred and
fifty years of constitutional interpretation has taught
any lesson, it is the unwisdom, of making solemn declarations as to the meaning of that instrument which are
unnecessary to decision. They can serve no useful purpose and their only effect may be to embarrass the Court
when decision becomes necessary. O'Donoghue v. United
States, 289 U. S. 516, 550; Humphrey's Executor v.
United States, 295 U. S. 602, 626-627. The declaration
now made, for the first time, that the Constitution has
left an undefined area in which the veto power cannot be
in the Seventy-first Congress, once in the Seventy-second Congress,
twenty-eight times in the Seventy-fourth Congress, and twenty-three
times in the First Session of the Seventy-fifth Congress. See also
Veto Messages: Record of Bills Vetoedand Action Taken Thereon
by the Senate and House of Representatives, Fifty-first Congress to
Seventy-fourth Congress, Inclusive, 1889-1936, compiled under the
direction of Edwin A. Halsey, Secretary of the Senate (1936).

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

PER STONE,

J.

exercised, is the more unfortunate since, in the circumstances, it seems almost certain that the Court will be
called upon to reexamine it.
If, on the other hand, I am right in my view that the*
President was here prevented from returning the bill, we
are brought unavoidably to the decision of the question
presented by the petition for certiorari and argued at the
Bar as the controlling question, whether the President is
deprived of the veto power whenever return of a bill
within the prescribed ten days is prevented by the adjournment alone of the house in which the bill originated.
The framers, in seeking to establish and preserve the
presidential veto, were aware that the originating house,
unlike the President who is without incentive to avoid
receipt of a bill which he is free to veto, might have the
strongest motives to avoid the veto of a bill, if that were
pospible, by preventing its return or by challenging the
fact of its return. They accordingly took care to provide
for the return of a bill to the originating house by an
act of public notoriety-its delivery to the house in session; and recognizing that return might be prevented
by adjournment, they declared that in that case it should
not become a law.
The possibility that a return may be prevented by the
adjournment of a single house during a session of Congress is not removed by deciding that a secretary or some
other officer of the originating house may receive a returned bill during the period of a three-day adjournment.
Either house may and does on occasion adjourn for longer
periods, with the consent of the other.6 An adjournment
coincident with death or absence of the officer may prevent the return. Whatever authority in the premises
the Senate or the House may give to its officer, it may
6 Cannon, Precedents, Vol. 8, p. 816.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
PER STONE, J.

302 U. S.

withhold or withdraw. If the dictum now pronounced
correctly states the fundamental law, the originating
house may shorten the period for the exercise of the veto
power or thwart it altogether by the simple expedient of
adjournment after withdrawing the supposed authority of
any officer to receive the vetoed bill.
This Court has emphasized, as does the language of
the Constitution, the great importance of the veto power
and the dominating purpose expressed in the constitutional provision that the power shall not be curtailed
or the ten days, allowed for its exercise, shortened. Edwards v. United States, 286 U. S. 482, 486, 493-494;
Pocket Veto Case, supra, p. 678. The words make it
certain that the only adjournment which can prevent
return of a bill by the President is that of the house in
which the bill originates and to which, if vetoed, it is to
be returned. Continuance in session of the other house
does not facilitate return. No more can its adjournment
obstruct return. Adjournment by the originating hduse
can alone have the consequence to be guarded against,
prevention of return. Hence, it was adjournment of the
originating house with which the framers were concerned.
There is no reason of which we are aware, and none has
been suggested, for supposing. that in creating and protecting the veto power they regarded the adjournment
vel non of the non-originating house as of any consequence, or that they had any thought of leaving the President stripped of the veto power, either by chance or by
design, whenever the originating house adjourned without the other. The men who created the framework of
our government are not lightly to be charged with such
an omission. The charge now made finds its only support in a punctilio of grammar.
"... we must never forget, that it is a constitution
we are expounding." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 407.
Its provisions are not to be interpreted like
those of a municipal code or of a penal statute, though

WRIGHT v. UNITED STATES.
583

PER STONE, J.

even the latter is to be read so as not to defeat its obvious
purpose, United States v. Raynor, ante, p. 540, or lead to
absurd consequences. United States v. Katz, 271 U. S.
354, 362. In defining their scope something more is involved than consultation of the dictionary and the rules
of English grammar. They are to be read as a vital part
of an organic whole so that the high purpose which illumines every sentence, and phrase of the instrument may
be given effect in a consistent and harmonious framework
of government.
I The Court has hitherto consistently held that a literal
reading of a provision of the Constitution which defeats
a purpose evident when the instrument is read as a whole,
is not to be favored. The phrase "due process" in the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments has long since been
expanded beyond its literal meaning of due procedure.
See Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; cf. Brandeis, J.,
concurring in Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357, 373.
The term "contract" in the contract clause is not confined
literally to the contracts of the law dictionary. Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518. The prohibition against their impairment has never been taken to be
inexorable. Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290
U. S. 398, and cases cited at 430 et seq. The injunction
that no person "shall be compelled in any Criminal Case
to be a witness against himself" is not literally applied.
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 595. "From whatever
source derived," as it is written in the Sixteenth Amendment, does not mean from whatever source derived.
Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245. See, also, Robertson v.
Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281, 282; Gompers v. United
States, 233 U. S. 604, 610; Bain Peanut Co. v. Pinson,
282 U. S. 499, 501; United States v. Lefkowitz, 285 U. S.
452, 467.
But here, regardless of the constitutional purpose and
the larger considerations which have usually guided our
interpretation of the Constitution as an instrument of

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
PXR STONE, J.

302 U. S.

government, it is insisted that the phrase "unless the
Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return" cannot be taken to include the adjournment alone of the
single house whose adjournment is in every case the only
effective means of preventing a return. It is said that
the word "Congress" used to describe the body whose adjournment occasions the pocket veto, followed as it is by
the plural possessive pronoun "their," can refer only to
the two houses comprised in "the Congress" and hence
cannot refer to adjournment of a single house. This subordination of the framers' main objective to a meticulously grammatical interpretation of their words is unwarranted. It would hardly be suggested that the command, "Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to time publish the same, excepting
such Parts as may in their Judgment require Secrecy,"
(Art. I, § 5, cl. 3) calls for the concurrence of the judgment of all the members of a house, in order to ban publication of a journal: 'their Judgment" is obviously that
of the controlling part of the membership-that part
whose opinion, under applicable rules of congressional
procedure, is decisive of the question. A similar analysis
based on the purpose and context of the clause now before
us demands recognition that the draftsmen were concerned with the adjournment only of that part of the
Congress to which return was to be made and whose absence would thus prevent return of -a bill by the President. In the light of these dominant facts it seems plain
that in using the words "their Adjournment" the framers
referred to any action taken by the members of Congress
of either house or both houses, which was effective to prevent return of a bill by the President to the originating
house. The very force of the circumstances to which the
words are applied gives emphasis to "Adjournment" as
that which prevents return, and to "their" as referring
to the action of those members of Congress which effects

MINNESOTA TEA CO. v. HELVERING.

609

Syllabus.

583

the adjournment. This usage parallels that in the clause
requiring the publication of the journals of both houses
"excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require
Secrecy." In both instances the significant action, adjournment or the exercise of judgment as the case may
be, is that of those members whose action is effective to
accomplish the contemplated result-there, prohibition
of publication; here, prevention of return to the originating house. Thus read, no word is without appropriate
meaning and the clause is consistent both with the obvious purpose and with the grammatical usage appearing
elsewhere in the Constitution.
I cannot ignore that purpose and say that for no discernible reason other than our present-day notions of
grammatical construction we are compelled to read the
words as excluding from the operation of the clauses
designed to protect the veto power, every case where
the return of a bill is prevented by adjournment of a
single house.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

MINNESOTA TEA CO. v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 106.

Argued December 16, 1937.-Decided January 17, 1938.

Money received by a corporation by exchange in a reorganization
and turned over to its- stockholders proportionally in pursuance of
the plan of reorganization and subject to their agreement to assume and pay off indebtedness of the corporation of the same
amount, which they thereupon fulfilled, was not distributed,within
the meaning of § 112 (d) (1) and (2) of the Revenue Act of 1928,
and the gain included was therefore taxable to the corporation.
P. 612.

