120

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

The record in this case discloses closely held corporations owned, dominated and managed by these three individual respondents. In this management these three
respondents acted with practically the same freedom as
though no corporation had existed. So far as corporate
action was concerned, these three were the actors. Under
the circumstances of this proceeding, the Commission was
justified in reaching the conclusion that it was necessary
to include respondents Stanford, Ward and Greener in
each part of its order if it was to be fully effective in preventing the unfair competitive practices which the Commission had found to exist. The court below was in error
in excluding these respondents from the operation of the
Commission's order.
The decree below will be reversed except as to modification of clause ten of the Commission's order, and the
cause is remanded with instructions to proceed in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
CHICAGO TITLE AND TRUST CO. v. FORTY-ONE
THIRTY-SIX WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 23 and 24.

Argued October 21, 1937.-Decided November 15,
1937.

1. A corporation, dissolved and put out of existence by the State
which created it, may not invoke the powers of a court of bankruptcy under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 124.
The record does not present a ease where creditors are the
moving parties, or where there has been any act of bankruptcy
committed by the corporation, or where any pertinent law of the
State is in conflict with the federal bankruptcy laws.
2. A private corporation can exist only under the express law of the
State or sovereignty by which it was created. Its dissolution puts

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

121

Opinion of the Court.

an end to its existence; and there must be some statutory authority
for the prolongation of its life, even for litigation purposes. P. 125.
3. Under the Illinois law a corporation is without corporate capacity
to initiate any legal proceedings after two years from the date
of its dissolution, and this includes a proceeding for reorganization under Bankruptcy Act § 77B. P. 126.
4. State laws in conflict with the-laws of Congress on the subject
of bankruptcies are suspended only to the extent of actual conflict.
P. 126.
5. How long and upon what terms a state-created corporation may
continue to exist is a matter exclusively of state power. P. 127.
6. Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act does not enable stockholders
to resuscitate, in any other guise, a corporation the powers and
existence of which, save for the winding up of pending litigation,
have been extinguished by the State that created it. P. 129.
86 F. (2d) 667, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 676, to review the affirmance by
the court below of an order of the District Court entered
in a reorganization proceeding under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. The order confirmed the report of a special
master and commanded a receiver in possession of property in foreclosure proceedings in a state court to turn
over to a temporary trustee, and restrained further prosecution of the foreclosures.
Mr. *FrankH. Towner, with whom Messrs. Silas H.
Strawn and George W. Ott were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George I. Haight, with whom Mr. Lewis E. Pen-

nish was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the

opinion of

the Court.
Respondent was organized as a corporation under the
laws of Illinois; and pursuant to those laws it was dissolved. The only property it ever owned or possessed was
a building, and the land upon which it stood, situated at

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

No. 4136 Wilcox Avenue in the City of Chicago. This
property, when acquired, was subject to the lien of a first
mortgage, securing bonds aggregating $95,000, and, subsequent to the acquisition of the property, to a junior
mortgage to secure the payment of $15,000. The corporation was organized on April 10, 1929. On May 22, 1931,
the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois, in a proceeding regularly before it, and in accordance with a statute
of Illinois, entered a decree dissolving the corporation
and declaring its charter and authority as such to be null
and void. The decree has never been appealed from
or otherwise challenged or assailed. That it became and
is now effective cannot be doubted.
. On July 10th, certain mechanics' liens were
foreclosed,
and a sale of the property was thereafter made pursuant
to the foreclosure decree. Certificate of sale was issued,
entitling the holder thereof to a conveyance of the property upon the expiration of the period of redemption.
The right of redemption expired as to respondent on
August 5, 1932, and as to creditors on November 5, 1932.
No redemption has ever been made or attempted. On
October 24, 1931,. suit was brought in a state court to
foreclose the lien of the first mortgage; and on November
10, 1931, suit was brought in the same court to foreclose
the lien of the junior mortgage. A receiver was appointed, who took possession of the property, and was in
possession thereof at the time this case was heard in the
federal district court. Respondent appeared in both
foreclosure suits, but apparently offered no defense.
By the statutes of Illinois (Smith-Hurd Rev. Stat.,
1929, c. 32) it is provided:
"§ 14. All corporations organized under the laws of this
State, whose powers may have expired by limitation or
otherwise, shall continue their corporate capacity for
two years for the purpose only of- collecting debts due
such corporation and selling and conveying the property

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

123

Opinion of the Court.

and effects thereof. Such corporations shall use their
respective names for such purposes and shall be capable
of prosecuting and defending all suits at law or in equity.
"§ 79. The dissolution, for any cause whatever, of any
corporation, shall not take away or impair any remedy
given against such corporation, its officers, or stockholders, for any liabilities incurred previous to its dissolution,
if suit therefor is brought and service of process had
within
years after such dissolution."
The two
two-year period, within which the corporation
could sue, acquire property, or perform any corporate
function apart from suits then pending, expired May 22,
1933.
Thus matters remained until May, 1935, when three
persons, namely, Mrs. Fay Fischel, her father Hyman
Schulman, and her brother Sam Schulman, acquired all
the shares of the respondent from the then stockholders.
Meetings purporting to be stockholders' and directors'
meetingswere then held, officers and directors elected, and
a resolution was passed authorizing the filing of a petition for the reorganization of respondent under § 77B
of the Bankruptcy Act, 48 Stat. 912; 11 U. S. C. § 207.
On June 13, 1935, respondent filed a petition for reorganization under § 77B; and on June 21st, filed a petition praying for an order directing the receiver in the
state foreclosure suits to turn over property in his possession and restraining the further prosecution of such suits.
Petitioner answered, denying that respondent was a corporation, setting up the corporate dissolution, the foreclosure proceedings and the sale of the corporate property. It also averred that the bankruptcy petition was
not filed in good faith.
The special master, to whom the case was referred,
found and reported that the bankruptcy petition had been
filed in good faith; that respondent had legal capacity to

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

file the petition, and that the petition was sufficient to
confer jurisdiction upon the court over respondent and
the property in question. The master further found that
no deed ever issued under the mechanics' lien foreclosure
certificate; and that such. certificate was purchased and
now is the property of the debtor. However, it appears
from the record that the certificate was purchased in connection with the acquisition of the stock by the three persons already mentioned, more than two years after the
period of redemption had expired.
The federal district court confirmed the report of the
master, appointed a' temporary trustee, required the state
court receiver to turn over the property to the trustee,
and restrain further- prosecution of the foreclosure proceedings. On appeal, the court below affirmed the order
of the district court, Judge Briggle dissenting. 86 F.
(2d) 667.
In the decisions of other circuit courts of appeal, cited
by respondent, support may be found for involuntary proceedings in bankruptcy against a dissolved corporation,
brought by creditors and based upon an act of bankruptcy committed within four months. The question
presented here differs substantially from the questions
presented in those cases; and we put them aside as inapplicable, without either approval or disapproval. The
sole question now for determination is whether under the
facts just detailed, a corporation, dissolved and put out
of existence by the state which created it, may, nevertheless, itself invoke the powers of a court of bankruptcy
under § 77B. 'The record does not present a case where
creditors are the moving parties, or where there has been
any act of bankruptcy committed by the corporation, or
where any pertinent law of the state is in conflict with the
federal bankruptcy laws.
The decisions of this court are all to the effect that a
private corporation in this country can exist only under

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

125

Opinion of the Court.

the express law of the state or sovereignty by which it
was created. Its dissolution puts an end to its existence,
the result of which may be likened to the death of a
natural person. There must be some statutory authority
for the prolongation of its life, even for litigation purposes. Oklahoma Gas Co. v. Oklahoma, 273 U. S. 257;
National Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609, 615; Oregon Ry. &
Nay. Co. v. OregonianRy. Co., 130 U. S. 1, 20. See, also,
Greeley v. Smith, 3 Story 657, 10 Fed. Cas. p. 1075; Board
of Councilmen v. Deposit Bank, 120 Fed. 165, 166 et seq.;
Dundee Mtg. & Tr. Inv. Co. v. Hughes, 77 Fed. 855.
Sections 14 and 79 of the Illinois statute seem plain
enough on their face; but if any doubt as to their meaning and effect would otherwise exist, that doubt has been
set at rest by the decisions of the Illinois appellate courts.
In Life Ass'n of America v. Fassett, 102 Ill. 315, decided
before the sections under consideration were enacted, the
state supreme court held that it was the settled policy of
the state that upon the dissolution of domestic corporations, however effected, they were to be regarded as still
existing for the purpose of settling up their affairs and
having their property applied for the payment of their
just debts. See Singer & Talcott Co. v. Hutchinson, 176
Ill. 48, 51; 51 N. E. 622. In American Exchange Bank v.
Mitchell, 179 Ill. App. 612, 615-616, the general rule was
announced that after a corporation is dissolved, it is incapable of maintaining an action; and that all such
actions pending at the time of dissolution abate, in the
absence of a statute to the contrary. The state decisions
following the enactment of these sections make it clear
that this general rule still remains in force in Illinois
except for the specific modifications in respect of time
and circumstance set forth in :§ § 14 and 79. See
Dukes v. Harrison & Reidy, 270 Ill. App. 372; Consolidated Coal Co. v. Flynn Coal Co., 274 Ill. App. 405. See,
also, A. J. Bates Co. v. United States, 3 F. Supp. 245,

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

248; CharlesA. Zahn Co. v. United States, 6 F. Supp. 317,
where the Court of Claims held that under these sections
of the Illinois statute an Illinois corporation ceased to
exist and became incapable of transacting any business
whatever in its corporate capacity; and that a suit purporting to be brought by a dissolved corporation after
two years to recover internal-revenue taxes paid by the
corporation could not be maintained.
It is plain enough, under the Illinois statute, that after
the expiration of two years from the date of its dissolution, respondent was without corporate capacity to initiate any legal proceeding-including a proceeding under
§ 77B, unless we are able to say that the statute, in its
terms or in its application, is in conflict with § 77B.
While state laws in conflict with the laws of Congress on
the subject of bankruptcies are suspended, they are suspended "only to the extent of actual conflict with the
system provided by the Bankruptcy Act of Congress."
Stellwagen v. Clum, 245 U. S. 605, 613. The dissolution
effected under Illinois law is in no way related to a state
of insolvency or bankruptcy. Insolvency or bankruptcy
as a ground for dissolution is not within the terms or contemplation of the law. Liquidation of a corporation is no
part of the purpose of the dissolution; nor is insolvency
or liquidation involved in the proceedings to enforce the
mechanics' liens or foreclose the mortgages. Quite evidently, the latter were simply ordinary proceedings to
enforce liens against the property subject thereto.
Straton v. New, 283 U. S. 318, 327-330. The..state receivership was purely incidental to the foreclosure suits,
and therefore limited and special. It was not an equity
receivership within the meaning of § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. Duparquet Co. v. Evans, 297 U. S. 216, 219221.
The principle recently announced in Hopkins Savings
Assn. v. Cleary, 296 U. S. 315, 337, is applicable here.

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

Opinion of the Court.

That case dealt with an intrusion by the Federal Government on the powers of the State over state buildingand-loan associations. Speaking of these associations,
this court said: "How they shall be formed, how maintained and supervised, and how and when dissolved, are
matters of governmental policy, which it would be an intrusion for another government to regulate by statute or
decision, except when reasonably necessary for the fair
and effective exercise of some other and cognate power
explicitly conferred." It is not reasonably possible to
find any conflict between § 77B and the Illinois statute
or the dissolution proceedings or the lien-foreclosure
suits.
The court below relied upon its former decision in the
case of In re 211 East Delaware Place Bldg. Corp., 76 F.
(2d) 834. That was a case, however, where the bankruptcy petition had been filed by creditors, not by the
dissolved corporation; and, therefore, the capacity of
the defunct corporation to institute proceedings was' not
involved. We express no opinion as to the correctness of
this decision; but Judge Evans, who wrote the opinion,
apparently regarded the distinction as important. For in
a later proceeding in the case, 14 F. Supp. 96, 100, he
said that the forfeiture of the charter of the corporation
did not prevent such a proceeding by creditors, and then
added, "The only effect which this loss of corporate existence may have upon a bankruptcy proceeding is in respect to the inability of the corporationto admit acts of
bankruptcy or state of insolvency or to file a voluntary
petition." (Italics supplied.)
How long and upon what terms a state-created corporation may continue to exist is a matter exclusively of
state power. Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York, 143
U. S. 305, 312-313; Ashley v. Ryan, 150 U. S. 436, 441,
443; New Jersey v. Anderson, 203 U. S. 483, 493. The
circumstances under which the power shall be exercised

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

and the extent to which it shall be carried are matters
of state policy, to be decided by the state legislature.
There is nothing in the federal Constitution which operates to restrain a state from terminating absolutely and
unconditionally the existence of a state-created corporation, if that be authorized by the statute-under which the
corporation has been organized. And it hardly will be
claimed that the federal government may breathe life
into a corporate entity thus put to death by the state in
the lawful exercise of its sovereign authority.
The power to take the long step of putting an end to
the corporate existence of a state-created corporation
without limitation, connotes the power to take the shorter
one of putting an end to it with such limitations as the
legislature sees fit to annex. Compare Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 145; Davis v. Massachusetts, 167
U. S. 43, 47; Rippey v. Texas, 193 U. S. 504, 509-510.
And sinee the Federal Government is powerless to resurrect a corporation which the state has put out of existence
for all purposes, the conclusion seems inevitable that if
the State attach qualifications to its sentence of extinction, nothing can be added to or taken from these qualifications by federal authority.
It is suggested that the state cannot keep the corporation alive for its own purposes and deny it life for federal purposes. The proposition need not be challenged,
since it is perfectly evident that here the state has reserved nothing for itself which it has denied to the federal authority. The only relevant provisions are those
relating to legal proceedings.* The state law permits such
proceedings to be instituted on behalf of a dissolved corporation within two years; but these proceedings may
be brought either in the state courts, or, when appropriate, in the federal courts. After two years, no proceedings may be initiated on behalf of the corporation in
either state or federal courts, but such proceedings as

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

129

Opinion of the Court.

have been instituted during that period in any of these
courts may be prosecuted to completion. Singer & Talcott Co. v. Hutchinson, supra, pp. 52-53. The right of
resort to the courts of the state, and to those of the
Nation having jurisdiction, both in respect of the initiation of proceedings and the completion of proceedings
already initiated, so far as Illinois law is concerned, stands
upon an exact parity.
The aim of this proceeding under § 77B is to bring
about a reorganization of a corporation which has been
dissolved and shorn of its capacity to initiate any legal
proceeding by the state which possesses, in respect of the
corporation, the power of life and death. It is not a
proceeding on behalf of creditors. It is not a liquidation
proceeding having for its object the distribution of the
corporate assets. The dissolution was adjudged because
the corporation had disobeyed the laws of the state. For
that reason the state prohibited the continuance of the
corporate enterprise. The stockholders, however, now
seek to escape the penalty for this dereliction by resuscitating and continuing the corporation, and, to that end,
invoke the aid of a federal statutte. This is simply an
attempt to thwart a valid state law. Whether the enterprise be continued under the original name and charter
of the corporation, or in some new corporate name or
guise, can make no difference. Either course would contravene the legislatively-declared policy of the state.
Section 77B cannot be regarded as countenancing such a
result.
The only power left to the corporation when this proceeding was brought was to finish pending cases begun
within two years after its dissolution. With that excep*tion, its corporate powers were ended for all time and for
all purposes. It was without authority to purchase the
certificate issued at the mechanic's-lien foreclosure sale,
or to adopt resolutions authorizing proceedings under

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
CADozo, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

§ 77B, or to bring a proceeding to effectuate a reorganization under that section. In respect of these matters the
corporation was nonexistent.
Decree reversed.
*MR. JUSTICi

CARDozo,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the Court.
1. Respondent, though dissolved, was still a corporation in such a sense and to such a degree as to have
capacity to maintain a proceeding in bankruptcy for the
liquidation of its assets.
By Bankruptcy Act § 4, 11 U. S. C. § 22 (a), any corporation, with exceptions not now material, may become
a'voluntary bankrupt.
By Bankruptcy Act § 1 (6), 11 U. S. C. § 1 (6), " 'corporations' shall mean all bodies having any of the powers
and privileges of private corporations not possessed by
individuals or partnerships.
Respondent, when it filed its-petition in the bairkruptcy
court, was still in possession of some of the privileges and
powers of private corporations not possessed by individuals or partnerships. True, a decree of dissolution had
been entered by a court of Illinois, the place of its domicile. True, two years had gone by since the making of
that decree. None the less, the corporation still had the
power, if suits were then pending either in its favor or
against it, to litigate in its corporate name and through
its corporate officials. Life Assn. of America v. Fassett,
102 Ill. 315; Singer & Talcott Stone Co. v. Hutchinson,
176 Ill. 48; 51 N. E. 622. Commercial Loan & Trust Co.
v. Mailers, 242 Ill. 50; 89 N. E. 661; Graham & Morton
Transp. Co. v. Owens, 165 Ill. App. 100; Griggsville State
Bank v. Newman, 275 Ill. App. 11. With the license of
Illinois, respondent was actively defending suits for the
foreclosure of mortgages on its property when it went into
the federal court. A fragment of corporate power was

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

131

CAmDozo, J., dissenting.

thus untouched by dissolution. Within the definition of
the Bankruptcy Act, the bcdy that retained this power,
and indeed exercised it too, was still a corporation. There
are suggestions in the books that even in the absence of
a statute preserving corporate capacities after a decree
of dissolution, the bankruptcy power to distribute the assets of an insolvent debtor is not subject to destruction
by a withdrawal, possibly a precipitate one, of corporate
existence. See, e. g., Hammond v. Lyon Realty Co., 59
F. (2d) 592, 594, 595. Cf. In re Thomas, 78 F. (2d) 602;
In re American & British Mfg. Corp., 300 Fed. 839, 847;
Cresson & Clearfield Coal Co. v. Stauffer, 148 Fed. 981.
The case at hand does not charge us with a duty to decide
whether that is so. Here the State has elected to keep
the corporation in existence, maimed but still alive. In
choosing to create or continue an artificial entity, though
with limited and narrow powers, the state subjects its
creature, to the bankruptcy power of the Congress in so
far as that power is directed at juristic beings of that
order. Congress has said to Illinois: "If an association
with any corporate capacities exists under your laws,
bankruptcy-either voluntary or involuntary-is a proper
form of liquidation." To this the state responds, or is
figured as responding: "An association with corporate
capacities does exist under our laws, but it may not go
into a court of bankruptcy because we will not give it the
capacity to go there. Winding up proceedings for one
in its position are in the state tribunals only." The response, even if taken to be authentic, must be held of no
avail. It is not within the competence of Illinois by any
form of words to preserve the artificial entity for a purpose of her own and destroy it for the purpose of withdrawal from the supremacy of federal law.
2. If respondent has capacity to maintain a bankruptcy proceeding to liquidate its business through the
medium of a sale for cash, it has capacity also to maintain a bankruptcy proceeding under § 77B.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
CAR)oZO, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

A proceeding under § 77B is styled one to give effect to
a corporate reorganization. Whatever its form or label, it
derives its origin and vitality from the bankruptcy power.
Continental Illinois National Bank Co. v. Chicago, R. I.
& P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648; Campbell v. Alleghany Corporation, 75 F. (2d) 947; In re New Rochelle Coal &.
Lumber Co., 77 F. (2d) 881. Only because the remedy
is traceable to that power is it constitutional and valid.
The notion is baseless that reorganization, even when
initiated on the petition of the debtor, is solely or chiefly
for the benefit of shareholders. It is even more distinctively and commonly for the benefit of creditors. Cf.
In re Central Funding Corporation,75 F. (2d) 256, 261.
The old form of bankruptcy had in view a liquidation of
the assets for cash and nothing else, a method of disposing of them that might result in needless sacrifice. The
new form of bankruptcy is more flexible and often more
efficient, permitting as it does, a disposition of the assets
upon credit as well as for cash, and in consideration of
shares of stock or bonds to be issued by the buyer. Whoever, being a corporation, may resort to the old form, is at
liberty, acting in good faith, to resort to the new. This
is so by the express mandate of the statute, which tells
us, § 77B; 11 U. S. C. § 207 (a), that "any corporation
which could become a bankrupt under § 4 (11 U. S: C.
§ 22) of this Act" nay petition in the new proceeding.
By that test a dissolved corporation with capacity requisite to apply to a court of bankruptcy for a liquidation of its assets has the capacity requisite to apply for
a reorganization of its business. As to this, the lower
federal courts are in general accord. Old Fort Improvement Co.v. Lea, 89 F. (2d) 286; In re 4186 Wilcox Bldg.
Corp., 86 F. (2d) 667; Capital Endowment Co.v. Kroeger,
86 F. (2d) 976; In re 211 East Delaware Place Bldg.
Corp., 76 F. (2d) 834, 836. Their opinions vindicating
that conclusion are instructive and convincing.

TITLE CO. v. WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
120

133

CGARozo, J., dissenting.

This is not to say that every method of reorganization
appropriate or permissible for a corporation whose life is
unimpaired is appropriate or permissible for one already
doomed. The plan of reorganization will be unlawful if
it attempts to authorize the debtor, following a decree
of dissolution, to do business thereafter in defiance of
state law. In general there will be little difficulty in so
adapting a decree to the necessities of the particular case
as to attain the needed harmony. The opinions already
cited suggest appropriate expedients. Old Fort Improvement Co. v. Lea, supra, p. 290; CapitalEndowment Co. v.
Kroeger, supra, p. 979-. Instead of continuing the business through the petitioning debtor or its agents, the
decree may permit the formation of another corporation
which will take over the assets, issuing shares of stock or
bonds to creditors or others. There may be new capital,
new shareholders, new directors and officers. Neither in
the record nor in the precedents does one find a basis for
a holding that the formation of such a corporation will
be in conflict with any public policy of the State of Illinois. The old corporation was dissolved for failure to pay
franchise taxes and file an annual report. The new one,
if created, may promote the welfare of the state both
financially and otherwise. Be that as it may, the state
will be amply competent to vindicate her own dignity if
there is a fraud upon her laws. No plan of reorganization is before us at this time. So far as appears, none
has been prepared. Whether the plan to be submitted
later will be worthy of confirmation is a question for the
future.
Cases may indeed arise where a court will be satisfied
upon the filing of the petition that reorganization is not
feasible. In that event the proceeding may be dismissed
as not brought in good faith. Tennessee Pub. Co. v.
American Bank, 299 U. S. 18, 22. At times a decree of
dissolution may be a circumstance along with others point-

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

ing to that conclusion. Here the good faith of the debtor
has been found by the courts below after inquiry by a
Master to whom the cause had been referred. The single
question presented to us by the petition for certiorari is
one of jurisdiction. Did a court of bankruptcy have
power to entertain the proceeding at the instance of such
a suitor? I hold that power did not fail.

MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE BLACK join in this
opinion.
JAMES, STATE TAX COMMISSIONER, v. DRAVO
CONTRACTING CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 3.

Argued April 26, 27, 1937. Reargued October 12, 1937.Decided December 6, 1937.

1. A State can not lay a gross receipts tax on business carried on in
another State. P. 138.
2. A State has no power to tax in a place within the State over
which the United States has acquired exclusive jurisdiction. P. 140.
3. The title to beds of navigable streams within a State is vested in
the State, subject to the right of the United States to use the
land for the improvement of navigation. P. 140.
Occupation of the river bed by the United States for the purpose of improving navigation does not divest the State of its
title.
4. Locks and dams erected by the United States for the improvement of navigation are "needful buildings" within the meaning
of the Const., Art. I, § 8, Cl. 17. P. 141.
Clause 17 provides that Congress shall have power "to exercise
exclusive legislation" over "all places purchased by the consent
of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the
erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings." "Exclusive legislation" is consistent only with
exclusive jurisdiction.

