HONEYMAN v. HANAN.

375

Counsel for Parties.

369

accepted the benefits of the agreement and allowed the
assets to remain with the trustee. All parties assumed
the validity of the arrangement and acted in reliance
upon it. The result was the same as if the assets had
been repossessed by the bank after June 25, 1930, and
again hypothecated under an agreement identical with
the original one.
HONEYMAN v. HANAN, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 583.

Motion to dismiss.-Decided December 20, 1937.

Sections 1083-a and 1083-b of the New York Practice Act, which
provide that an action to recover a money judgment for any
indebtedness secured by mortgage may not be maintainea after
the mortgaged premises have been sold under a judgment of foreclosure and sale, unless the right to a deficiency judgment has been
determined in the foreclosure suit, did not impair the contract
rights (Const. Art. I, § 10) of one who, having foreclosed a mortgage and been denied a deficiency judgment, was prevented by
the statute from enforcing, by separate action, a bond securing
the mortgage debt collaterally, against one who was party to th
foreclosure suit, and against whom a deficiency judgment might
have been awarded in the foreclosure suit, but as to whom it was
discontinued after a motion for deficiency judgment was denied.
The question relates to the distribution of jurisdiction in the state
courts. P. 378.
275 N. Y. 382; 9 N. E. (2d) 970, appeal dismissed.

APPEAL from affirmance of a judgment dismissing an
action on a bond. An earlier phase of the case is reported
in 300 U. S. 14.
Mr. Robert B. Honeyman was on the brief for appellant.
Messrs. Aithony F. Tuozzo and James S. Brown, Jr.
were on the brief for appellee.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court:

302 U. S.

PER CURIAM.

Upon the prior appeal, the cause was remanded for
further proceedings to the end that uncertainty might be
removed and that the precise nature of the federal question, how it was raised and the grounds of its disposition,
might be definitely set forth. 300 U. S. 14, 26. The
Court of Appeals of the State has heard reargument and
has defined the federal question which it has decided.
275 N. Y. 382; 9 N.'E. (2d) 970. The court affirmed a
judgment which dismissed the amended complaint upon
the ground that it did not state fapts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The'case conles here on appeal
which appellee moves to dismiss for the want of jurisdiction.
The bond in suit is a collateral bond "which binds the
obligor indirectly to pay the existing mortgage indebtedness." The amended complaint set forth the obligation
of the bond and the breach of condition. It alleged that
an action, to which defendant was a party, had been
brought to foreclose the mortgage; that pursuant to judgment therein the mortgaged premises were sold and the
proceeds were applied on account of the indebtedness;
and that in the foreclosure action a motion was duly
made for a deficiency judgment which was denied. Section 1083-a of the New York Civil Practice Act forbids
a judgment for any residue of the debt remaining unsatisfied after sale of the mortgaged property except as therein
provided. Section 1083-b governs actions, other than
foreclosure actions, to recover judgment for any indebtedness secured solely by a mortgage upon real property,
"against any person or corporation directly or indirectly
or contingently liable therefor." The state court has
held that § 1083-a is intended to provide "an exclusive
procedure for the entry of a judgment for any residue of
a debt secured by a mortgage after sale of the mortgaged

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.
375

Opinion of the Court.

premises." The state court has also ruled that the defendant was a party to the foreclosure action and upon
proper proof the final judgment therein "might have
awarded payment by him of the residue of the debt remaining unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged property, and 'application of the proceeds, pursuant to the
directions contained therein.' " The foreclosure action
was discontinued as to him only after a motion fQr a
deficiency judgment was denied.
Appellant challenges the validity of § § 1083-a and
1083-b. As to the federal question involved in the present suit the state'court has said:
"We are not advised whether in the foreclosure action
the plaintiff challenged the validity of section 1083-a.
Even if the plaintiff did properly challenge in that action
the validity of section 1083-a, we could not upon this.
appeal consider that challenge, for no order or judgment
in that action is before us for review. On this appeal
we review only the decision that after denial of a deficiency judgment in the foreclosure action upon a motion
made pursuant to section 1083-a, the plaintiff, is not
entitled to maintain an action to recover upon the bond
which the defendant's testator, Herbert W. Hanan, signed
as obligor. The challenge to the constitutional validity
of the statute raises the constitutional question whether
the obligations of the contract are impaired and article
I, section 10, of the Constitution of the United States
violated by the provisions of sections 1083-a and 1083-b,
which provide that during the emergency period an action to recover a money judgment for any indebtedness
secured by mortgage may not be maintained after the
mortgaged premises have been sold under a judgment
of foreclosure and sale, unless the right to a deficiency
judgment has been determined in the foreclosure action.
We decided that question against the appellant after
the original argument. We adhere to that decision now."

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

In view of this ruling as to the exclusive procedure
for which § 1083-a provides, it appears that thl federal
question now raised is simply whether the state legislation which requires that the right to a deficiency judgment
must be determined in the foreclosure action violates the
contract clause .of the Federal Constitution. Article I,
§ 10. That question relates to the distribution of jurisciption in the state courts.. The Federal Constitution does
not undertake to control the power of a State to determine
by what process legal rights may be asserted or legal obligations be enforced, provided the method of procedure
gives reasonable notice and affords fair opportunity to be
heard before the issues are decided. The question of the
validity of the state legislation could have been raised
in the foreclosure action and brought to this Court in
accordance with the applicable rules.
The requirement that the right to a deficiency judgment should be determined in the foreclosure action as
against one who was a party to that action raises no substantial federal question. Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S.
628, 633; Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S., 389,
393; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169 U. S.
557, 569; Cincinnati Street Ry. Co. v, Snell, 193 U. S.
30, 37; Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 369; Gibbes v.
Zimmerman, 290 U. S. 326, 33?; Lansing Drop Forge Co.
v. American State Bank, 297 U. S. 697; Chisholm v. Gilmer, 299 U. S. 99, 102. The appeal is,
Dismissed.

