628

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

When McGovern entered this Home he was aged, without family ties, lonely and physically incapacitated. There
he received care, food, shelter and companionship. He
would have been privileged to remain in the Home even
though, after admittance, he had chosen to make the
members of his family the recipients of the money, by
gift, by will, or by notifying them to claim his property
after his death.
The claim of the Government is based on a contract
between the veteran and the Home. Nothing in the
record indicates that the agreement was not fairly and
voluntarily entered into between the parties, or that it
was inequitable, unjust or not upon valuable consideration. Both parties were competent to make the contract.
This contract is valid and enforceable, and since no claim
was made by heirs or legatees within five years after his
death, the veteran's personal property passed to the Home
for the benefit of its inmates. The decree of the Court
of Appeals is not in harmony with these views and is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part

in the consideration

or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 199.

Argued January 5, 6, 1938.-Decided January 17, 1938.

Sec. 17 of the Economy Act of March 20, 1933, declared that "All
public laws granting medical or hospital treatment, domiciliary
care, compensation and other allowances, pension, disability allowance, or retirement pay to veterans and the dependents of veterans of . . . the World War, . . . are hereby repealed, and all
laws granting or pertaining to yearly renewable term insurance are
hereby repealed . . . " Held that it was not intended thereby to

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
628

Opinion of the Court.

repeal "automatic insurance" granted by ยง 401 of the War Risk
Insurance Act, as amended, in the case of soldiers of the World
War who died or became permanently disabled without having
applied for insurance within 120 days after entrance into or employment in active service. P. 631.
89 F. (2d) 572, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 673, to review the affirmance of a
recovery of "automatic insurar ce" in a suit in behalf of
an infant whose father had been drafted into the military
service in April, 1918 and had. died two weeks later without having applied for War Risk insurance.

Mr. Fendall Marbury, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, and Messrs. Julius C. Martin, Wilbur C. Pickett
and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for the United
States.
Messrs. R.
respondent.

K.

Wise

and

Warren E.

Miller for

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question is whether the F3onomy Act 1 repealed

ยง 401 of the War Risk Insurance Act ' and thereby depriyed. veterans and their beneficiaries of "automatic
insurance."
ISec. 17, Act of March 20, 1933, c. 3, 48 Stat. 11: "All public
laws granting medical or hospital treatment, domiciliary care, compensation, and other allowances, pension, disability allowance, or retirement pay to veterans and the dependents of veterans of ... the
World War, . . . are hereby repealed, and all laws granting or
pertaining to yearly renewable term insurance are hereby repealed,
but payments in accordance with such laws shall continue to the last
day of the third calendar month following the month during which
this Act is enacted. . . ." [Italics added.]
2 Sec. 401 of the War Risk Insurance Act as amended Dec. 24,
1919, c. 16, 41 Stat. 371, 375: ". . . Any person in the active service
on or after the 6th day of April, 1917, and before the 11th day of
November, 1918, who, while in such service, and before the expira-

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

In this suit, brought by the son of a soldier who died in
service, both the district court' and the Court of Appeals 4 were of the opinion that the Economy Act did not
terminate the rights of a beneficiary of automatic insurance. We granted certiorari limiting consideration to the
question of the repeal of the law providing automatic
insurance.'
During the World War, it was the policy of the Government to allow soldiers one hundred and twenty days
after enlistment or drafting within which to apply for
and purchase insurance. For this period, it was intended
that they be protected as though they had bought government insurance. In furtherance of this policy, Congress
provided that all veterans, who died or became totally
and permanently disabled within one hundred and twenty
days after their entrance into active service, should be
automatically "deemed to have applied for and to have
been granted insurance."
It is here contended that the words of the Economy
Act repealing "other allowances" and "laws . . . pertaining to yearly renewable term insurance" are broad
enough to include a repeal of automatic insurance. With
this contention we cannot agree.
tion of one hundred and twenty days after October 15, 1917, or one
hundred and twenty days after entrance into or employment in the
active service, becomes or has become totally and permanently disabled, or dies or has died, without having applied for insurance,
shall be deemed to have applied for and to have been granted insurance, payable to such person during his life in monthly installments
.of $25 each; . .. If he shall die either before he shall have received
any of such monthly installments or before he shall have received two
hundred and forty of such monthly installments, then $25 per month
shall be paid to . . . his child...: Provided, however, That no
more than two hundred and forty of such monthly installments, .
shall be so paid."
8 14 F. Supp. 132.
4 89 F. (2d) 572.
p302 U. S.673.

UNITED STATES v. JACKSON.
628

Opinion of the Court.

Repeals by implication are not favored. A law is not
to be construed as impliedly repealing a prior law unless
no other reasonable construction can be applied.6
While the Economy Act explicitly repealed all laws
which granted ". . . medical or hospital treatment,
domiciliary care, compensation and other allowances, pension, disability allowance, . . .retirement pay . . . and
all laws granting or pertaining to yearly renewable term
insurance . . .," Congress did not include "automatic insurance" in this detailed list of benefits repealed.
The words "other allowances" have a well settled meaning. "Allowances" in veterans' legislation, in the Veterans' Bureau and in Army terminology' has never been
considered synonymous with, or inclusive of, automatic
insurance; this word ordinarily refers to extra and special
items (in addition to regular compensation) such as nurse
hire, training pay, and "travel pay and allowances." '
The words "all laws grantingor pertaining to yearly renewable term insurance" refer only to laws which are
enactments upon the subject of yearly renewable term
insurance. Section 401 did not grant yearly renewable
term insurance nor is it an enactment upon that subject.
It proyided for those soldiers who died in service before
they had an opportunity to purchase yearly renewable
term insurance or any other type of insurance. This law,
therefore, did not pertain to yearly renewable term in6 United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450;

United States v.
Noce, 268 U. S. 613; see, Cope v. Cope, 137 U. S. 682.
7 See, as to meaning of "allowances,"
Jones v. United States, 60
Ct. Cls. 552, 567.; United States v. Landers, 92 U. S.77.
8An illustration of the meaning of "allowances" appears in that
Section (17) of the Economy Act which is relied upon as the repeal,
to wit: "That, subject to such regulations as the' President may
prescribe, allowances may be granted for burial and funeral expenses
and transportationof the bodies (including preparation of the bodies)
of deceased veterans of any war to the places of burial thereof in
a sum not to exceed $107 in any one case."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

surance but to protection for soldiers who never had and
never could obtain yearly renewable term insurance.
It is to be remembered that automatic insurance applied to that particular group of American soldiers who
either were killed, died, or became wholly and permanently incapacitated before they had a reasonable opportunity to obtain insurance of any kind. It may be that
Congress did not believe it proper to economize at the expense of those veterans who came out of the Army with
health completely destroyed or to the detriment of the
beneficiaries of soldiers who lost their lives in service
without a reasonable opportunity to apply for insurance.
Certainly the reason which prompted the passage of the
express provisions of ยง 401 is such that, in the absence of
subsequent legislation equally express, they are not overthrown by mere inference or implication.' Only clear
and unequivocal language would justify a conclusion that
benefits, provided by a grateful government because of
death and permanent incapacity of its soldiers, are to be
wholly withdrawn for reasons of economy. Special provisions benefiting either soldiers who became incurably
helpless in the Army or the dependents of soldiers who died
or were killed in the service of their country cannot justifiably be repealed by implication. 10 There is no irreconcilable conflict between ยง 401 and the Economy Act and
effect can reasonably be given to both." The judgment
of the Court of Appeals is therefore
Aflir'med.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
9 Rosencrans V. United States, 165 U. S. 257.
10 Cf. United States v. Greathouse, 166 U. S. 601.
1 Cf. Washington v. Miller, 235 U. S. 422, 428; see, also, Posadas
v. National City Bank, 296 U. S. 503 et seq.

