OCTOBER. TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

municipality cannot be made to serve as would a statutory grant of power. Hayes v. Holly Springs, 114 U. S.
120, 12G-127. Merrill v. Monticello, 138 U. S. 673, 693694. As the east side lands never became liable to be
taxed by the town to pay its bonds, respondents were
not entitled to restrain petitioners from defending against
levy and collection of the taxes or to any relief in this
suit. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be
reversed and the case will be remanded to the district
court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.
THE CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 140.

Argued January 3, 1938.-Decided January 17, 1938.

1. Creek lands, erroneously surveyed as lands of other tribes, were,
because of the error and through misapplication of an Act of
Congress, disposed of by allotment and patent in severalty to
members of the other tribes and by sale and patent to, settlers.
Held that the taking took place not at the date of the Act but
at the times of the several dispositions; and valuations for the
purpose of fixing compensation must be as of those times. Cf. s. c.
295 U. S. 103. P. 620.
2. Rules laid down to govern the valuations. P. 622.
84 Ct. Cls. 12, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 666, to review a jpdgment fixing

compensation to the Creek Nation for lands taken by the
United States.
Mr. W. W. Spalding, with whom Mr. Paul M. Niebell
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. N. A. Townsend, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General McFarland and Mr.
Oscar A. Provost were on the brief, for the United
States:

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES. 621
620

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTicE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
When this case was here before' petitioner was held
entitled to recover compensation from the respondent
for the taking of lands belonging to the petitioner constituting a portion of a larger tract granted to the Creek
Nation in 1833. The boundary lines of petitioner's lands
had been erroneously run in 1872 and, as a result, an area
set apart for other Indian tribes included over five thousand acres belonging to the petitioner. Those tribes
ceded their lands to the respondent upon an agreement
that allotments should be made to their members in
severalty. The Act of February 13, 1891,2 which ratified
this agreement, provided that any lands not so allotted
should be opened to settlement and sold to settlers, the
proceeds to be covered into the Treasury as public
moneys. Pursuant to this statute lands which in truth
belonged to petitioner were, due to the error in the survey of 1872, allotted and patented to Sac and Fox Indians and sold and patented to settlers in the period from
1893 to 1909. The patentees have since held adversely
to petitioner. As was said in the former opinion, "The
tribe contended for the value in 1926, when the suit was
brought; while the Government stood for the value at
the time of the appropriation, which it insisted was in
1873, when Darling's erroneous survey was approved by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, or, in the
alternative, at the time the lands were disposed of under
the act of 1891." It was held that the alternative contention was correct and, as the Court of Claims had
awarded the petitioner judgment for the 1926 value, the
cause was reversed and remanded. Upon a further hearing that court overruled the claim of petitioner that the
dates of actual disposal were those as of which value
1 United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S. 103.
2 C.

165, 26 Stat. 749.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

should be ascertained and valued the lands taken as of
February 13, 1891, the date of the act pursuant to which
the executive had caused them to be patented.
In the former opinion, after holding that the approval
of the erroneous survey in 1873 did not constitute an
appropriation of petitioner's lands, the court said: "But
not so of the disposals under the act of 1891. They were
intended from their inception to effect a change of ownership and were consummated by the issue of patents,
the most accredited type of conveyance known to our
law. True, they rested on an erroneous application of
the act of 1891 to the Creek lands in the strip; but, as that
application was confirmed by the United States, the matter stands as if the act had distinctly directed the disposals. It was through them that the lands were taken;
so the compensation should be based on the value at that
time, . . ."
The court below has misinterpreted that decision. The
act of 1891 did not dispose of the lands. Its erroneous
application and the consequent disposals of the lands to
adverse holders constituted the taking by the United
States. The petitioner is entitled to the present full
equivalent of the value of the lands, without improvements, as of the date of the patents of the various parcels, if, as we assume, the patent in each instance issued
promptly after the delivery of the final certificate; but
if a substantial interval elapsed between the date of certificate and of patent, then as of the date of the certificate. A fair approximation or average of values may
be adopted to.avoid burdensome detailed computation of
value as of the date of disposal of each separate tract.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

