OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA

302 U. S.

ET AL. V.

PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 804 (October Term, 1936). Argued April 30, 1937. Reargued
November 11, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.
1. Having acquired jurisdiction by virtue of federal questions, the
District Court may determine all questions in the case, local as
well as federal. P. 391.
2. The respondent in this case has not shown that the Commission,
in fixing its rates for gas, denied it the hearing required by the California Public Utilities Act. P. 391.
3. Whether the Commission's findings found support in the evidence
before it, cannot be determined upon a record not containing that
evidence. P. 392.
4. When the rate-making agency of the State gives a fair hearing,
receives and considers the competent evidence that is offered, affords opportunity through evidence and argument to challenge the
result, and makes its determination upon evidence and not arbitrarily, the requirements of procedural due process are met, and
the question that remains for this Court, or a lower federal court,
is not as to the mere correctness of the method and reasoning
adopted by the regulating agency but whether the rates it fixes
will result in confiscation. P. 393.
5. Affidavits used before the court below and the Commission's official opinion disprove the respondent's contention that, in fixing
its rates, the Commission refused to receive evidence of the cost of
reproduction or to consider that or other evidence offered by respondent with respect to the value of its property. P. 395.
6. In fixing rates of a public utility, a, state commission may weigh
the evidence of reproduction cost, etc. and may determine the probative force of estimates of value. P. 397.
7. Historical cost, as well as cost of reproduction, is admissible evidence of the value of a public utility's property. P. 398.
8. The findings of the Commission contained in its official opinion
in this case show that the Commission found what it regarded as
a reasonable value for respondent's property for the purpose of
fixing rates and fixed the rates on that basis. P. 400.

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

Amici Curiae.

9. One who complains in a federal court of the constitutional invalidity of state-made rates, has the burden of showing that
invalidity by convincing proof. P. 401.
10. The Court sees no' sufficient reason for directing that the evidence
be sent up for the purpose of aiding in determining the procedural
points presented on this appeal. The main issue in the case is
whether the rates as fixed are confiscatory-an issue which was not,
but should be, decided, by the District Court. P. 401.
13 F. Supp. 931; 16 id. 884, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, permanently enjoining the enforcement of an

order fixing the rates for gas supplied by the abovenamed respondent. The case was heard at the last term
and the decree affirmed by a divided court, 301 U. S. 669.
Rehearing was granted and reargument was ordered, post,
p. 771.
Mr. Ira H. Rowell for appellants, on the original argument and the reargument.
Mr. Warren Olney, Jr.for appellee, on the original argumnent and the reargument. Messrs. Allen P. Mo'thew and
Robert L. Lipman were with him on the briefs.
Mr. -Oswald Ryan,. General Counsel, (with whom
Messrs. Thomas J. Tingley and William C. Koplovitz
were on a brief submitted by Solicitor General Reed), for
the Federal Power Commission as amicus curiae, by
special leave of Court, on the reargument, in support of
appellants.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Messrs. Hampson Gary, General Counsel, Carl I. Wheat,
.Milford Springer, Robert E. May, Frank B. Warren and
Basil P. Cooper, on behalf of the Federal Communications
Commission; Messrs. John C. Kelley and Charles J.
Margiotti, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, on behalf
of the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission; Messrs.
John E. Benton and Clyde S. Bailey, on behalf of the

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners,-all in support of appellants.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is an appeal from a final decree of the District
Court, composed of three judges (28 U. S. C. 380),
permanently enjoining an order of the Railroad Commission of the State of California.
The Commission by its order on November 13, 1933,
in a proceeding instituted on its own motion, fixed rates
for gas supplied by respondent. In this suit, the validity
of the order was challenged as depriving respondent of
property without due process of law, in-violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States: An interlocutory injunction was granted and the
cause was referred to a special master. The parties stipulated for the submission of the cause upon the record
made before the Commission with certain supplementary
evidence. Following a hearing, the master on the basis of
findings as to value, expenses and revenues, concluded
that the rates prescribed were confiscatory and void.
13 F. Supp. pp. 931, 932. The District Court expressly
stated that it did "not pass upon the factual exceptions to
the master's report" and did "not approve or reject his
findings as to the fair value" of the property "or determine
the net income" which would result from the assailed rates,
"or determine what would be a fair rate of return," but
rested its decision "solely upon the denial of due process
of law by the Commission in fixing the rates in question."
Id., p. 936. Rehearing was denied. 16 F. Supp. 884.
On appeal here the decree was affirmed by an equally
divided court. 301 U. S. 669. Reargument was ordered
(October 11, 1937) and has been had.
The parties have not brought before us the evidence
that was taken before the Commission or that was before

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC OAS CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

the court below, with the exception of certain affidavits by
the president of the respondent and the president of the
Commission, respectively, in relation to the proceedings
before the Commission. Respondent has in effect challenged the action of the Commission as invalid upon the
face of its opinion and order. 39 Cal. R. Com. 49. Appellapnts have accepted that challenge.1. Respondent seeks to sustain the decree upon the
ground that the Commission's order was not authorized by
the state law. Because of the federal question raised by
the bill of complaint, the District Court had jurisdiction
to determine all the questions in the case, local as well
as federal. Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 213
U. S. 175, 191; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Garrett,
231 U. S. 298, 303; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 278 U. S. 300, 307.
The state statute to which our attention is directed
(§ 32 of the California Public Utilities Act, Cal. Stat.,
1923, p. 837, set forth in the margin)' provides that whenever the Commission after a hearing shall find the existing
rates charged by a public utility to be unjust, unreasonable, discriminatory or preferential, the Commission shall
1 "Sec. 32. Power to change unjust rates. Power to fix new rates.
Preservation of adequate service. (a) Whenever the commission,
after a hearing had upon its own motion or upon complaint, shall find
that the rates, fares, tolls, rentals, charges or classifications, or any
of them, demanded, observed, charged or collected by any public
utility for any service or product or commodity, or in connection
therewith, including the rates or fares for excursion or commutation tickets, or that the rules, regulations, practices or contracts, or
any of them, affecting such rates, fares, tolls, rentals, charges or
classifications, or any of them, are unjust, unreasonable, discriminatory
or preferential, or in any wise in violation of any provision of law, or
that such rates, fares, tolls, rentals, charges or classifications are
insufficient, the commission shall determine the just, reasonable or
sufficient rates, fares, tolls, rentals, charges, classifications, rules,
regulations, practices or contracts to be thereafter observed and in
force, and shall fix the same by order as hereinafter provided."

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

determine the just and reasonable rates to be thereafter
in force. In this instance, the Commission's order shows
on its face that the Commission found the existing rates
to be unjust and unreasonable. 39 Cal. R. Com., p. 77.
So far as respondent contends that this finding was
not sustained by evidence, it is sufficient to say that the
evidence is not here and we cannot say that the ruling
lacked s ipport.
Respondent states that it was denied a proper hearing,
but the record shows that the Commission held ex-tended hearings, at which the evidence offered by respondent was received and its arguments were presented. 2
39 Cal. R. Com., p. 51. While these hearings were in
progress, and on June 16, '1933, respondent was cited to
show cause why interim rates should not be put into effect
pending the proceeding. Respondent stipulated that it
would complete the presentation of its evidence before
October 1, 1933, and that the rates which the Commission established in the proceeding might, if lower than
the existing rates, be made retroactive so as to apply to
meter readings made after July. 16, 1933, and before
November 15, 1933. That date was later changed by
stipulation to January 1, 1934. Id., pp. 52, 53.
We have not been referred to any state decisions warranting the conclusion that the Commission did not afford
a hearing in accordance with the state law. We turn" to
the constitutional question.
2. As the District Court did not deal with the issue of
confiscation and the evidence is not before us, we are
concerned only with the question of procedural due proc'The opinion of the Commission states that "In al, 81 exhibits
were introduced presenting in great detail the underlying data of
this proceeding, and 3729 pages of testimony and argument were
transcribed. Many witnesses testified upon various issues pertaining
to a general rate case." The opinion lists the witnesses on both sides.
39 Cal. R. Com., pp. 51, 52.

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

ess, that is, whether the Commission in its procedure, as
distinguished from the effect of its order upon respondent's property rights, failed to satisfy the requirements
of the Federal Constitution. We examine this question in
the light of well settled principles governing the proceedings of rate-making commissions.
The right to a fair and open hearing is one of the
rudiments of fair play assured to every litigant by the
Federal Constitution as a minimal requirement. Ohio
Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 301 U. S.
292, 304, 305. There must be due notice and an opportunity to be heard, the procedure must be consistent with
the essentials of a fair trial, and the Commission must act
upon evidence and not arbitrarily. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88,
91; St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S.
38, 1, 73; Morgan v. United States, 298 U. S. 468, 480481; Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n,
supra. As we have seen, the respondent was heard, the
Commission received the testimony of respondent's witnesses, its exhibits and arguments. There is nothing
whatever to show that the hearing was not conducted
fairly.
The complaint is not of the absence of these rudiments
of fair play but of the method by which the Commission
arrived at its result. As to this a fundamental distinction
must be observed. While a fair and open hearing must
be accorded as an inexorable safeguard, we do not sit as
an appellate board of revision but to enforce constitutional rights. San Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper,
189 U. S. 439, 446. When the rate-making agency of the
State gives a fair hearing, receives and considers the
competent evidence that is offered, affords opportunity
through evidence and argument to challenge the result,
and makes its determination upon evidence and not arbitrarily, the requirements of procedural due process are

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

met, and the question that remains for this Court, or a
lower federal court, is not as to the mere correctness of
the method and reasoning adopted by the regulating
agency but whether the rates it fixes will result in confiscation.
We have recently had occasion -to emphasize this distinction in passing upon an order of the appellant Commission in- the case of Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 304, 305. We said:
"The legislative discretion implied in the rate making
power necessarily extends to the entire legislative process,
embracing the method used in reaching the legislative
determination as well as that determination itself. We
are not concerned with either, so long as constitutional
limitations are not transgressed. When the legislative
method is disclosed, it may have a definite bearing upon
the validity of the result reached, but the judicial function does not go beyond the decision of the constitutional
question. That question is whether the rates as fixed
are confiscatory. And upon that question the complainant has the burden of proof and the Court may not interfere with the exercise of the State's authority unless confiscation is clearly established."
This controlling principle was reiterated, with due
emphasis upon the necessity of a fair hearing, in the case
of West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, (No. 1),
294 U. S. 63, 70, in these words:
"Our inquiry in rate cases coming here from the state
courts is whether the action of the state officials in the
totality of its consequences is consistent with the enjoyment by the regulated utility of a revenue something
higher than the line .of confiscation. If this level is attained, and attained with suitable opportunity through
evidence and argument (Southern Ry. Co. v. Virginia,
290 U. S. 190) to challenge the result, there is no denial of
due process, though the proceeding is shot through with

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

irregularity or error." The statement is equally applicable, as the Los Angeles case shows, when the order
of a state commisison is assailed in a federal court.
3. The gravamen of respondent's complaint is that the
Commission refused to consider the fair value of respondent's property and in fixing the rate base "gave weight
and effect solely to the historical cost."
.Respondent supports its contention by referring
to the
statement of the Commission that during its entire history, "to determine a proper rate base this Commission
has used the actual or estimated historical costs of the
properties undepreciated, with land at the present market
value," and, consistently with that, the Commission has
"used the sinking fund method to determine the allowance
for depreciation to be included in operating expenses."
The Commission gave its reasons why this "historical
method has dominated the Commission's findings." 39
Cal. R. Com., pp. 57, 58.

The text of this portion of the

Commission's statement is given in the margin.'

Refer-

3 "During its entire history in establishing reasonable rates for
utilities similar to this company, to determine a proper rate base
this Commission has used the actual or estimated historical costs of
the properties undepreciated, with land at the present market value.
Consistent with this, it has used the sinking fund method to determine
the allowance for depreciation to be included in operating expenses.
"This historical method has dominated the Commission's findings
for several principal reasons. It is well grounded upon established
facts, is not subject to the vagaries of pet theories, unlimited imagination and abrupt fluctuation of current prices and passing conditions,
and therefore indicates a truer measure of value upon which, through
the application of rates, a return may be allowed to reimburse the
owner for his enterprise and insure the integrity of his capital honestly
and prudently invested. At the same time it prevents unwarranted
demands upon the consumer through the projections of future rates
on ephemeral values and stabilizes rates so that ecofiomic shocks from
such changes are reduced to a minimum.
"It is an economical procedure, where the books of the companies
are reasonably well kept, as obtains in practically all of the major

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ence is also made to statements of the Commission in its
supplemental investigation in the light of the opinion of
the District Court on the motion for an interlocutory injunction. Id., pp. 198, 202; 5 F. Supp. 878.
. But it does not follow from these statements that the
Commission refused to receive evidence of the cost of
reproduction or to consider that or other evidence presented by respondent with respect to the value of its
property. The contrary clearly appears.
Respondent submitted to the District Court affidavits
of its president setting forth its contention that no consideration was given to reproduction cost. This contention was combatted by an affidavit of the president of the
Commission in which it is stated that the Commission
gave careful consideration to all the testimony of record
relative to value and to the testimony offered by respondent respecting reproduction cost. These affidavits are of
slight value as we have the official opinion of the Commission stating the course which it pursued. That opinion
shows precisely vhat the Commission has done in this
instance. The Commission states, 39 Cal. R. Com. p. 64:
"Testimony regarding the cost to reproduce the properties here under consideration was presented by the company's valuition engineer on several price bases, all being
developed through the application of price translation
factors, and not through the application of appropriate
prices to an inventory of the property. In each pricing
period offered the estimate to reproduce was higher than
the historical cost. For the first six months' period of
1933 the reproduction cost was shown as 8 per cent higher
than historical., A perusal of price trend charts introutilities of this State, full compliance with which will prevent unwarranted expenditures of money by the Commission, the public and the
company, which inures to the benefit of both the consumers and the
utility. It is a more rapid procedure insuring quicker compliance
with necessities as they arise."

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

duced by the company elsewhere in the proceedings indicates that the estimate must be in error. It is not conceivable that a property, 80 per cent. of which has been
constructed in the high price period following 1919, could
not be reproduced for a lesser cost under prices prevailing
in the first six months of 1933. Witness for the city of
San Francisco clearly indicated why the estimate was
erroneous when he showed that the method used ignored
certain factors tending in later years to decrease cost,
such as improvement in construction materials and
methods, increased use of mechanical equipment and a
lessening in the width of the excavations and pavement
cut. The estimates of cost to reproduce are not at all
convincing and cannot be of positive value in this proceeding."
The Commission was entitled to weigh the evidence
introduced, whether relating to reproduction cost or to
other matters. The Commission was entitled to determine the probative force of respondent's estimates. That
the Commission did so is apparent from both its statement to that effect and the reasons it gives for considering
these estimates to be without positive value. The Commission compared them with other evidence and found
the estimates to be erroneous. It found that 80 per cent.
of the property had been constructed in the prior "high
price period" and the Commission thought it inconceivable that the property could not be reproduced "for a
lesser cost under prices prevailing in the first six months
of 1933." These statements not only do not suggest but
definitely rebut an inference of arbitrary action.
There is no principle of due process which requires the
rate making, body to base its decision as to value, or anything else, upon conjectural and unsatisfactory estimates.
We have had frequent occasion to reject such estimates.
Minnesota Rate Case, 230 U. S. 352, 452; Los Angeles
Gas Co. v. RailroadCommission, supra, pp. 307, 310, 311;

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 292 U. S. 151,
163, 164. Whether in this instance the Commission was
in error in treating respondent's estimates as without probative force, we have no means of knowing as the evidence is not before us, but its error in that conclusion,
if error there be, was not a denial of due process. Los
Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra; Ohio
Bell Telephone Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra.
Nor did the ruling with respect to the weight of evidence as to reproduction cost leave the Commission without evidence of the value of respondent's property. We
have frequently held that historical cost is admissible evidence of value. For example, in the Los Angeles case we
said that "no one would question that the reasonable cost
of an efficient public utility system 'is good evidence of
its value at the time of construction,'" and that "such
actual cost will continue fairly well to measure the
amount to be attributed to the physical elements of the
property so long as there is no change in the level of
applicable prices," citing McCardle v. IndianapolisWater
Co., 272 U. S. 400, 411. And we added that "when such
a change in the price level has occurred, actual experience
in the construction and development of the property,
especially experienced in a recent period, may be
an important check upon extravagant estimates." Los
Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra, p. 306.
While the Court has frequently declared that "in order to
determine present value, the cost of reproducing the property is a relevant fact which should have appropriate
consideration," we have been careful to point out that
"the Court has not decided that the cost of reproduction
furnishes an exclusive test" and in that relation we have
"emphasized the danger in resting conclusions upon estimates of a conjectural character." Los Angeles Gas Co. v.
Railroad Commission, supra, p. 307. And in the Los
Angeles case, with the evidence before us which had been

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

Opinion of the Court.

taken by the Commission and by the District Court, we
held that on that evidence it did not appear to be "unfair to the Company, in fixing rates for the future, to take
the historical cost as found by the Commission as evidence
of the value of the Company's structural property at the
time of the rate order." Id., p. 309. In the instant case
we cannot say that the Commission in taking historical
cost as the rate base was making a finding without evidence and therefore arbitrary.
The decisions cited by respondent do not require a
different conclusion. In Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
D'partment of Public Works, 268 U. S. 39, 43-45, we
said that the Commission's action in reducing rates by an
order dependent wholly "upon a finding made without
evidence" or "upon a finding made upon evidence which
clearly does not support it" in the face of unchallenged
evidence of probative value showing that the rates were
already confiscatory, was an arbitrary act and a denial of
due process. In so ruling, we fully recognized the principle that "mere error in reasoning upon evidence introduced" does not invalidate an order. In Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 274 U. S. 344,
the Idaho Commission and the state court had refused
"to consider the evidence introduced by the carriers to
show that the rates in question are too low and confiscatory." In West v. Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Co., 295 U. S. 662, upon which the District Court relied,
the Court took the view that the Commission had based
its action upon the application of "general commodity
indices to a conglomerate of assets constituting a utility
plant," and had resorted, on account of the wide variation
of results caused by the use of different indices, to what
the Court described as a "rule of thumb corrective" by
'weighting the several indices upon a principle known
only to itself," and had substituted that sort of calculation "for such factors as historical cost and cost of re-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

production." In that view, the Court thought that the
Commission had acted arbitrarily, and hence that its
order fell within the principle of the Northern Pacific
case. No such procedure appears here. In St. Louis &
O'Fallon Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S. 461, the
Court was not dealing with the order of a state commission, or with a question of due process, but with the command of Congress addressed to the Interstate Commerce
Commission in relation to its valuations of railway property. The Court construed that command and found
that it had not been obeyed.
4. The contention that the Commission failed to find
the fair value of respondent's property presents substantially the same question in another form. What the Commission found appears by its own opinion. The court
below was bound to go to that opinion to ascertain the
Commission's findings. The Commission specifically
found what it considered to be the rate base. 39 Cal.
R. Com., p. 76. The Commission found that rate base
to be reasonable. Id., p. 77, note. The import of its
opinion is that the rate base represented the Commission's
conclusion as to the value which should be placed upon
respondent's property for the purpose of fixing rates. It
was upon that valuation that the Commission distinctly
ruled that the rates it established would "assure the
Company a fair return on its properties." Respondent
was entitled to contest the value thus placed upon its
properties, or any part of them, to insist that the value
taken as the rate base was too low, and that in consequence
-the prescribed rates were confiscatory. That was the
issue upon which the court below should have passed.
But respondent cannot successfully contend that it was
not heard by the Commission, that the evidence respondent offered was not received and considered, and its competency and weight determined by the Commission, or
that the Commission did not place its valuation upon

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BuTLERF,

J., dissenting.

the property and fix the rates upon the basis of that valuation. Respondent utterly fails to show that in the procedure of the Commission it was denied due process of
law.
5. There is a further contention as to the burden of
proof. But the applicable rule is clear. Respondent is
in a federal court complaining of the constitutional invalidity of state-made rates and respondent is held to the
burden of showing that invalidity by convincing proof.
Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra,
p. 305; Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., supra,
p. 169; Dayton Power & Light Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290, 298.
Respondent suggested in the argument at bar that the
Court should direct the evidence to be sent up for the
purpose of determining the points presented on this appeal. We see no sufficient reason for that course. The
parties agreed upon the record to be submitted.
The main issue in this litigation is whether the rates as
fixed by the Commission's order are confiscatory. The
District Court did not determine that issue. The District
Court should determine it. The decree is reversed and
the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurs in the reversal of
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in

the decree.

the consider-

ation and decision of this case.
MR.JusTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.

The district court held that the commission refused to
consider the company's evidence of the cost of reproduction and failed to find the value of the property used to
furnish the gas covered by the challenged rates. On that
basis "of fact, it was bound by our decisions to set aside

.402

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

the order as repugnant to the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.'
This Court holds that the commission did consider the
cost of reproduction and that error, if any, in appreciation
of that item of evidence would not be a denial of due
process. But as to whether the commission found or did
not find value, the opinion is not clear. It states that the
commission "specifically found what it considered to be
the rate base," found "that rate base to be reasonable,"
and that "The import of its opinion is that the rate base
represented the Commission's conclusion as to the value
which should be placed upon respondent's [appellee's],
property for the purpose of fixing rates."'
If the decision goes on the ground that the commission found and
based its order on the value of the company's property, it
rests on a fundamental fact without support in the record
and contrary to the special master's opinion and the district court's finding, which appellants do not here challenge. If the decision goes on the ground that the commission based its determination upon historical cost, then
it is directly contrary to our earlier decisions, and reverses
the lower court for doing what they required it to do-enter a decree setting aside the order as having been made
without procedural due process of law.
As to value.-Since by legislation fixing their charges,
public utilities are compelled to use their properties in
the service of the public, due process of law requires that
1Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dept. Public Works, (1925) 268
U. S. 39; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, (1927)
274 U. S. 344; West v. C. & P. Tel. Co., (1935) 295 U. S. 662.
See also the opinions of the district court in this case, 5 F. Supp. 878,
13 F. Supp. 931 and 16 F. Supp. 884.
2See the Court's opinion, ante, p. 400. It there quotes part of a
sentence near the end of the commission's report: "assure the Company a fair return on its properties." (39 C. R. C. 49, 76.) Taken
with other parts of the report, these words emphasize the commission's purpose not to find value.

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLERI,

J., dissenting.

the rates prescribed shall be sufficient to yield them just
compensation; i. e., reasonable rates of return upon the
value of their properties.3 .The value to be ascertained is
the money equivalent of the property, the amount to
which the owner would be entitled upon expropriation.4
It is elementary that cost is not the measure of value."
In Smyth v. Ames, (1898) 169 U. S. 466, the Court said
(p. 546): "We hold, however, that the basis of all calculations as to the reasonableness of rates to be charged by a
corporation maintaining a highway under legislative sanction must be the fair value of the property being used by
it for the convenience of the public. And in order to
ascertain that value; the original cost of construction, the
amount expended in permanent improvements, the
amount and market value of its bonds and stock, the present as compared with the original cost of construction,
the probable earning capacity of the property under particular rates prescribed by statute, and the sum required
to meet operating expenses, are all matters for consideration, and are to be given such weight as may be just and
right in each case. We do not. say that there may not be
other matters to be regarded in estimating the value of
the property. What the company is entitled to ask is a
3 Railroad Commission Cases, (1886) 116 .U. S. 307, 331; Dow v.'
Beidelman, (1888) 125 U. S. 680, 691; Georgia Railroad & Banking
Co. v. Smith, (1888) 128 U. S. 174, 179; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co.
v. Minnesota, (1890) 134 U. S. 418, 458; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan &
*T. Co., (1894) 154 U. S. 362, 399; Ames v. Union Pacific Ry. Co.,
(1894) 64 F. 165, 176; Smyth v. Ames, (1898) 169 U. S. 466, 526,
541, 542, 544, 546.
4Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, (1893) 148 U. S.
312, 327; Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. United States, (1923) 261 U. S.
299, 304; Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, (1924) 265 U. S.
106, 123; Jacobs v. United States, (1933) 290 U. S. 13, 16-17; Olson
v. United States, (1934) 292 U. S. 246, 255.
5 Smyth v. Ames, (1898) 169 U. S. 466, 546, 547; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., (1909) 212 U. S. 19, 52; Missouri ex rel. S. W. Bell
Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, (1923) 262 U. S. 276, 287.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

fair return upon the value of that which it employs for
the public convenience. On the other hand, what the
public is entitled to demand is that no more be exacted
from it for the use of a public highway than the services
rendered by it are reasonably worth."
In Minnesota Rate Cases, (1913) 230 U. S. 352, the
Court said (p. 434): "The basis of calculation is the 'fair
value of the property' used for the convenience of the
public. . . . The ascertainment of that value is not
controlled by artificial rules. It is not a matter of
formulas, but there must be a reasonable judgment having its basis 'in a proper consideration of all relevant
facts. . . . [p. 454.] It is clear that in ascertaining the
present value we are not limited to the consideration of
the amount of the actual investment. . . . As the company may not be protected in its actual investment, if the
value of its property be- plainly less, so the making of a
just return for the use of the property involves the recognition of its fair value if it be more than its cost. The
property is held in private ownership and it is the property, and not the original cost of it, of which the owner
may not be deprived without due process of law. .. ."
The principle applied in Smyth v. Ames has long governed wherever judicial action has been invoked to enforce the rule of just compensation.' It is binding upon
6For example, see:
San Diego Land Co. v. National City, (1899) 174 U. S. 739, 757;
San Diego Land Co. v. Jasper, (1903) 189 U. S. 439, 442; Stanislaus
County v. San Joaquin C. & I. Co., (1904) 192 U. S. 201, 215;
Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., (1909) 212 U. S. 1, 13, 18; Willcox
v. ConsolidatVd Gas Co., (1909) 212 U. S. 19, 41; Lincoln Gas Co. v.
Lincoln, (1912) 223 U. S. 349, 358; Minnesota Rate Cases, (1913)
230 U. S. 352, 434, 454; Missouri Rate Cases, (1913) 230 U. S.474,
498; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., (1918) 246 U. S. 178, 190;
Missouri ex rel. S. W. Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, (1923)
262 U. S. 276, 287; Bluefield Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, (1923)

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

state courts and commissions. But the California commission refuses to follow the established rule. It does
not ascertain or use present value but in its place takes
historical cost, actual or estimated, as the basis of its
determination in rate judging and rate making.
In Rules, etc., of Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp.,
(1930) 35 C. R. C. 443, 445, the commission said: "This
commission for many years . . . has fixed rates to yield

upon the historical or actual cost of the property, taking
land, however, at current values and depreciation calculated on a sinking fund basis, a return somewhat in excess
of the cost of the money invested in the property. ..

.

So, in the practice of the commission, actual cost of all
items other than land, which is included at its market
value, comes to be called "historical cost," which .when
found to be, or modified to make it "reasonable," is called
262 U. S. 679, 690; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States,
(1924) 263 U. S. 456, 481; Ohio Utilities Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n (1925) 267 U. S. 359, 362; Board of Comm'rs v. N. Y. Tel.
Co., (1926) 271 U. S. 23, 31; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co.,
(1926) 272 U. S. 400, 408, 409; United Railways v. West, (1930)
280 U. S. 234, 253-254; Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm'n,
(1933) 289 U. S. 287, 305, et seq.; West v. C. & P. Tel. Co., (1935)
295 U. S. 662, 671.
Alton Water Co. v. Illinois Commerce Comm'n, (1922) 279 F. 869,
872; Minneapolisv. Rand, (1923) 285 F. 818, 827; Mobile Gas Co. v.
Patterson, (1923) 293 F. 208, 214; New York Telephone Co. -v.
Prendergast, (1924) 300 F. 822, 825; Southern Bell Tel. & Tel. Co. v.
Railroad Comm'n, (1925) 5 F. (2d) 77,.91, 92; Middlesex Water
Co. v. Board of Public Utility Comm'rs, (1926) 10 F. (2d) 519, 533;
Idaho Power Co. v. Thompson, (1927) 19 F. (2d) 547, 552.
7 See, e. g.: Re Coast Valleys Gas & Electric Co., (1917) 14
C. R. C. 460; Southern Sierras Power Co., (1920) 18 C. R. C. 818;
Southern California Edison Co., (1921) 19 C. R. C. 595 and (1923)
23 C. R. C. 981; San Joaquin Light & Power Corp., (1922) 21
C. R. C. 545; Pacific Gas & Electric Co., (1922) 22 C. R. C. 744;
Great Western Power Co., (1923) 22 C. R. C. 814; Pacific Tel. & Tel.
Co., (1929) 33 C. R. C. 737.

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BuTLER,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

"prudent investment" or "rate base."' The commission
takes cost without regard to age of the items, changes in
price levels. present cost- to construct, depreciation, obsolescence or usefulness.
In that case, Commissioner Decoto, dissenting, said
(p. 474): "The California Commission . . . has clung
ostensibly and theoretically to the historical rate base.
In reality it has given effect to the different elements mentioned by the federal courts including fair value including going value by allowing a rate return between 8 per
cent and 81/2 -per cent on historical cost if there be added
to the historical rate base an amount between 10 per
cent and"-121/2 per cent, the rate base so obtained will
approximate fair value including going value. So, also
if there is deducted from 10 per cent to 121/2 per cent
from a rate of return of 8 per cent or 81/2 pey cent on an
historical cost rate base, it is readily seen that there is an
actual return varying from 7 per cent to 7.75 per cent upon
fair value including therein a reasonable amount for going value. . . . During the last two years this commission has shown a tendency to cut the rate return upon
an historical rate base from between 8 per cent and 81/2
per cent to 7 per cent, which reduced the rate of return
upon a fair value base to 6.121/2 per cent and 6.3 per cent."
While the dissenting opinion is not authoritative and
may not be taken to express the views of the commission,
it usefully interprets and discloses the opinions, attitude
and practice of the commission as to ascertainment of the
figure or base on which it tests existing and prescribes
future rates.
8 For convenience these phrases, " istorical cost," "actual cost,"
"prudent investment," and "rate base," will be used to mean the
figure produced by the application' of the formula expressed by the
commission in Rules, etc. of Los- Angeles Gas & Electric Corp.,

(1930) 35 C. R. C. 443, 445, without pausing to point out that land
is included at present value.

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

In the case now before us, the commission used the
formula generally applied by it. Its report states (39 C.
R. C. 49, 57): "During its entire history in establishing
reasonable rates for utilities similar to this company, to
determine a proper rate base this Commission has used
the actual or estimated historical costs of the properties
undepreciated, with land at the present market value.
•. * * This historical method has dominated the Commission's findings for several principal reasons. It is well
grounded upon established facts, is not subject to the
vagaries of pet theories, unlimited imagination and abrupt
fluctuation of current prices and passing conditions, and
therefore indicates a truer measure of value. .

.

. At the

same time it prevents unwarranted demands upon the
consumer through the projections of future rates on
ephemeral values and stabilizes rates so that economic
shocks from such changes are reduced to a minimum."
The commission's figures show that it did not attempt
or intend to find value. Historical cost was not fully disclosed by the company's records. A part was estimated.
The company's total was $104,043,472; the commissioli
found $103,252,004. From historical cost ascertained by
it, the commission deducted "Donations in Aid of Construction, $34,325," added to the remainder "Materials
and Supplies, $638,828," and "Working Cash Capital,
$773,300," making a total of $104,629,807; and took the
round figure, $105,000,000 as rate base. The commission
made no appraisal to ascertain value, as distinguished
from cost incurred for the original plant plus additions
and betterments through all the years of operation. The
exclusion of "Donations in Aid of Construction" is inconsistent with ascertainment of the value, for obviously the
*worth of property is the same whatever the source of the
title or the money with which it was purchased
1San Joaquin Co. v. Stanislaus County, 233 U. S. 454, 459; Board
of Comm'rs v. N. Y. Tel. Co., (1926) 271 U. S. 23, 31; Smith v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

The report states that "In this case a return will be
allowed substantially in excess of the reasonably determined cost of money in order that there be provided a
safety factor in accordance with the principles adopted by
this Commission to protect the financial structure as
well as to allow for intangible values not covered by
business development costs allowed in the operating
expenses." o
The commission included nothing in its rate base to
cover Itangible elements of value. It said (p. 65):
"Even if going value could be found here in a definite
amount there are no proper elements of physical value
found to which it might be related to obtain fair value.
Under the record there is no tenable depreciated reproduction cost figure and it is wholly inconsistent to attempt to relate going value to undepreciated historical
cost." This statement clearly and rightly implies that
properly ascertained reproduction cost--condition and
usefulness considered-indicates only the value attributable to the tangible elements and that to it there must
be added the amount attributable to the intangible elements in order to find the value of both; i. e., the worth
of the plant as a going concern.
Having taken cost of physical elements, the commission deemed it inappropriate to add anything to cover
Illinois Bell Tel. Co., (1930) 282 U. S. 133, 158; Public Service Co.
v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 84 N. J. L. 463, 481; 87 Atl. 651. See
also Minnesota Rate Cases, (1913) 230 U. S. 352, 434, 456. Cf.
dissenting opinion, United Railways v. West, (1930) 280 U. S.
234, 257.
10 Our decisions unquestionably show that cost of development of
the business is not the. measure of the amount to be attributed to
intangible elements of the property, or the measure of going value.
Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines, (1915) 238 U. S. 153, 168-171;
Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., (1918) 246 U. S. 178, 191, 192;
Galveston Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388, 395, et seq.;
Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, (1933) 289 U. S. 287,
314, 315.

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

existing going value. It must have found that in fact a
large amount was justly attributable to going value, for
it declared (p. 65) that it would accredit the company
with "a reasonable recognition of going value through
allowance as an operating expense of over $800,000 a year
for development expense, which is approximately 7 per
cent on the company's claimed going value figure, and
by the additional allowance of return over reasonable
cost of money."
But an allowance in operating expenses adds nothing to
value or to return on value. It is not the equivalent of
and may not be substituted for inclusion of an appropriate amount to cover intangible elements. Inclusion of
an amount for development expenses increases deductions
from gross revenue and so reduces annual net earnings,
if any, by that amount, whereas the addition of $800,000
capitalized at 7 per cent would increase by over $11,000,000 the base on which to calculate return. The commission's treatment of donated property, going value and
rate of return shows that it did not find value, and that it
intended to and did adopt cost figures as the basis on
which it condemned existing rates and ordered the new
schedule.
Immediately after announcement of the report the
company filed a petition for rehearing, in which it directly charged that the commission failed to find value,
"considered solely the historical cost . ... and failed to
consider or give any effect to the cost" of reproduction.
The commission denied rehearing, but without in any
manner suggesting that these allegations were not
true.
In this suit, the complaint alleges that the commission
failed to give any weight or effect to reproduction cost;
"that, in fixing the rate base, the Commission gave weight
and effect solely to the historical cost"; and that it prescribed the rates "without any finding of fair value."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BvTm, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

The answer is a studied denial. The defendants do
deny that the commission failed to give due weight to
competent evidence of reproduction cost and allege that
it gave proper weight to all the evidence, including evidence of reproduction cost; deny that the commission
gave weight solely to the historical cost; "admit that in
fixing and prescribing rates . . . the Commission did so
without any specific finding as to 'fair value' . . . but
• . .allege that in substance and effect the Commission

concluded and found in its said decision that the fair value
of the used and useful properties before allowing for accrued depreciation did not exceed the sum fixed therein as
a reasonable rate base, to wit: $105,000,000."
The district court referred the case to a special master.
There was introduced before him evidence in addition to
that submitted to the commission. The record here does
not contain the evidence, his findings or report." But
the trial court's opinion (13 F. Supp. 931, 932) states
that, "While the master expressed the opinion that it appeared plain to him that the Commission used cost as the
only measure of the rate base, itself offering no evidence
on reproduction cost and rejecting that offered upon the
subject by the company, he preferred not to pass upon the
question of law thus presented, but to examine the whole'
matter on the merits."
In its opinion on temporary injunction (5 F. Supp. 878,
881), the court found that the commission rejected the
company's 'estimates of reproduction cost, did not have
11 It does contain the complaint, to which are attached the opinion and order of the commission; -the company's petition for rehearing and order denying it; appellants' answer; the court's findings of fact, conclusions of law andfinal degree; the commission's petition for rehearing and affidavit in support of it; the company's answer
to that petition, a supporting affidavit and one replying to it; the
opinions of the court on motion for temporary injunction, on permanent injunction, and on petition for rehearing.

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

any detailed estimates of reproduction cost before it, and
did not determine the reproduction cost of the property.
Upon final submission of the case, the court found that
the commission on its own motion instituted the investigation and "caused to be introduced evidence as to the
past or so-called historical cost . . . solely for the purpose of determining such past or historical cost as in and
of itself constituting the rate base by which. to judge the
reasonableness of the plaintiff's existing rates and to prescribe new rates, and . . . neither introduced nor caused
to be introduced any evidence for the purpose of determining the fair value of the plaintiff's property or any
evidence as to its reproduction cost. . . Plaintiff introduced evidence as to the reproduction cost of its said property and as to its fair value." No evidence was introduced to rebut that offered by the plaintiff.
"... On the'conclusion of said hearings . . the Commission made its order . . . finding that the existing rates
of the plaintiff were unjust and unreasonable and prescribing lower rates whereby the plaintiff's income would
be reduced by approximately $2,100,000 annually. In
so finding . . . the Commission declined to give and did
not give consideration or effect to the reproduction cost
. . . or to the fair value of said property, but, except for
lands constituting less than 5% in value of the property,
... took into consideration for the purpose of determining the rate base . . . only the past or historical
cost." The commission applied for rehearing. Its petition indicates no claim that it did find value or that the
court erred in holding that it did not; nor does the petition suggest that historical cost is value or was found or
intended by the commission to be the value of the property. Indeed it sought a rehearing on the ground that
the court failed -to find the value of the property.
There is-nothing in the commission's statement as to
the jurisdiction of this Court, Rule' 12, or in its briefs

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

here to indicate that it ever claimed or now claims that
it found present value or that historical cost was not the
sole basis of its calculations. Reversal is sought, not on
the ground that the court erred in holding that the commission failed to find the value of the property, but upon
the claim that the court is without power to restrain the
enforcement of the prescribed rates "unless it be found
that the enforcement of the order will result in the actual
confiscation of the utility's property."
But that contention is directly contrary to our decisions. It may be taken as certain that if in truth it could
claim that it did base its determination on present value,
the commission would rely on that fact, for then it would
not be necessary to have overruled, distinguished,
explained away, glossed over or disregarded the line of
decisions rightly followed by the lower court.
As to reproduction cost.-It is true that sometimes estimates of present cost of construction are not reasonably
made and are therefore worthless as evidence of value.12
It is also true that, when reasonably made, estimates of
reproduction cost as of the valuation date constitute good
evidence of present value. 13
In Missouri ex rel. S. W. Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 262 U. S. 276, we said (p. 287): "It is impossible
to ascertain what will amount to a fair return upon properties devoted to public service without giving consideration to the cost of labor, supplies, etc., at the time the
investigation is made. An honest and intelligent forecast
12Minnesota Rate Cases, (1913) 230 U. S. 352, 452; Lindheimer v.
Illinois Tel. Co., (1934) 292 U. S. 151, 163, 164.
13 Minnesota Rate Cases, (1913) 230 U. S. 352, 452, 455; Mis-

souri ex rel. S. W. Bell Tel. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, (1923)
262 U. S. 276, 287, 288; Bluefield Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
(1923) 262 U. S. 679, 691, 692; Standard Oil Co. v. Southern Pacific
Co., (1925) 268 U. S. 146, 156; McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co.,
(1926) 272 U. S. 400, 410; Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm'n,
(1933) 289 U. S. 287, 307,

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER,

413

J., dissenting.

of probable future values made upon a view of all the
relevant circumstances, is essential. If the highly important element of present costs is wholly disregarded
such a forecast becomes impossible. Estimates for
to-morrow cannot ignore prices of to-day."
In McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., (1926) 272
U. S.400, the court said (page 410): "It is well established
that values of utility properties fluctuate, and that owners must bear the decline and are entitled to the increase.
The decision of this court in Smyth v, Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 547, declares that to ascertain value 'the present as
compared with the original cost of construction' are,
among other things, matters for consideration. But this
does not mean that the original cost or the present cost
or some figure arbitrarily chosen between these two is to
be taken as the measure. The weight to be given to such
cost figures and other items or classes of evidence is to
be determined in the light of the facts of the case in hand.
By far the greater part of the company's land and plant
was acquired and constructed long before the war. The
present value of the land is much greater than its cost;
and the present cost of construction of those parts of the
plant is much more than their reasonable original cost.
In fact, prices and values have so changed that the
amount paid for land in the early years of the enterprise
and the cost of plant elements constructed prior to the
great rise of prices due to the war do not constitute any
14
real indication of their value at the present time. .... ,,
The passage which includes the statement quoted on
page 398, ante, of this Court's decision just given, follows:
"Undoubtedly, the reasonable cost of a system of water14 The opinion here cites: Standard Oil Co. v. Southern Pacific Co.,
(1925) 268 U. S. 146, 157; Georgia Ry. v. Railroad Conm'n, (1923)
262 U. S. 625, 630, 631; Bluefield Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
(1923) 262 U. S. 679, 691-692; Missouri ex rel. S. W. Bell Tel. Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, (1923) 262 U. S. 276, 287.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

works, well-planned and efficient for the public service,
is good evidence of its value at the time of construction.
And such actual cost will continue fairly well to measure
the amount to be attributed to the physical elements of
the property so long as there is no change in the level
of applicable prices. And, as indicated by the report of
the commission, it is true that, if the tendency or trend of
prices is not definitely upward or downward and it does
not appear probable that there will be a substantial
change of prices, then the present value of lands plus the
present cost of constructing the plant, less depreciation,
if any, is a fair measure of the value of the physical elements of the property. The validity of the rates in question depends on property value January 1, 1924, and for
a reasonable time following. While the values of such
properties do not vary with frequent minor fluctuations
in the prices of material and labor required to produce
them, they are affected by and generally follow the relatively permanent levels and trends of such prices."
The estimate of reproduction cost that the company
submitted to the commission in this case is not before
us. It is referred to in the commission's report, but it
is not disclosed sufficiently to enable this Court to decide
whether it was made reasonably, was admissible in evidence or was entitled to any weight. This Court may
not speculate concerning it. The record in this case and
earlier reports of the commission above referred to compel
the conclusion that no estimate of reproduction cost as of
valuation date would have influenced the commission to
modify or abandon the basis of historical cost.
The commission was bound by our decisions to ascel,tain and consider present cost as compared with original
cost of construction. It refused to do so. The method
it followed conflicts with fundamental principles established here in that it condemned the company's existing
rates as excessive and prescribed lower ones without any

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

basis of fact to warrant that action. When the State,
acting through the commission, set aside existing rates
and ordered lower ones for the future, it exerted power
to take, or to compel use of, private property for service
of the public. Due process required just compensationrates sufficient to yield a reasonable rate of return on the
value of the property used to furnish the gas. Without a finding of value it is impossible to ascertain the
required amount. To take mere cost of physical elements, instead of total value, and to deduct development
expenses from revenue instead of including in value the
amount found properly attributable to intangible elements and going value, and then, because of that error,
to fix a rate of return on historical cost greater than
would be required on value, is to leave the order without known or discoverable foundation. It is to make individual views as to what is just serve in place of the
definite principles. The formula followed by the commission prevents consideration of present value or of the
estimated present cost, in comparison with the original;
i. e., the historical cost of the property. The commission
gave no weight to the company's evidence of present cost
of construction. It made no investigation to ascertain,
did not attempt to find and would not use, present cost
or present value. It seems to me very clear that, save
merely to reject it as inadmissible, the commission refused to pay any attention to the company's evidence of
reproduction cost.
The commission having failed to find value, our decisions required the district court to enter the decree appealed from.
In Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dept. Public Works
(1925), 268 U. S. 39, the superior court and the supreme
court of Waphington upheld an order of the state commission reducing railroad rates for intrastate transportation of logs as against attack by the carriers on the grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

that the order was made without evidence and that the
rates were confiscatory. This Court held the order would
deprive carriers of their property without due process of
law, upon the sole ground that the commission found
cost of service without any evidence, or upon evidence
that did not clearly support the finding. We said (p. 44):
"The mere admission by an administrative tribunal of
matter which under the rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings would be incompetent, United States
v. Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274, 288, or mere
error in reasoning upon evidence introduced, does not
invalidate an order. But where rates found by a regulatory body to be compensatory are attacked as being confiscatory, courts may enquire into the method by which
its conclusion was reached. An order based upon a finding
made without evidence, Chicgo Junction Case, 264 U. S.
258, 263, or upon a finding made upon evidence which
clearly does not support it, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547, is
an arbitrary act against which courts afford relief. The
error under discussion was of this character. It was a
denial of due process." That decision was reached without regard to any question of confiscation.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, (1927) 274 U. S. 344, presented the question
whether an order of the Idaho commission reducing railroad rates for intrastate transportation of logs would deprive carriers of their property without due process of
law. On the carriers' appeal to the state supreme court,
the action of the commission was upheld. Following the
state practice, the case was there heard on the record
made before the commission. The evidence introduced
by the carriers was sufficient to warrant a finding that as
to the lines of all the carriers, the intrastate log rates were
low in comparison with rates on other commodities, and
that as to two of the carriers they were confiscatory. But

R. R. COMM'N v. PACIFIC GAS CO.
388

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

the state court held the commission authorized to reduce
the rates without finding them unjust or unreasonable.
And, as to the carriers' insistence that the prescribed
rates were confiscatory, it ruled that, even if the evidence
showed existing rates insufficient, the prescribed lower
rates would not necessarily be confiscatory, and supported
that view by the suggestion that the intrastate haul from
forest to saw mills was only one step in production and
transportation to markets in other States.
Writ of certiorari brought the case here. We reversed
the judgment of the state court, and in the opinion said
(p. 350): "But, as appears from their opinions, the respondent [commission] and the court refused to consider and give weight to that evidence because, as they
held, the intrastate log rates were not to be dealt with
separately but were to be considered in -connection with
the interstate lumber rates, and because the carriers made
no showing as to the gains or losses resulting from the
interstate transportation. That cannot be sustained
.. . This case is in principle the same as Northern
Pacific v. Dept. of Public Works. . . . It is impossible
to sustain the refusal to consider the evidence introduced by the carriers to show that the rates in question
are too low and confiscatory. The commission and the
court erred in holding that the reasonableness or validity
6f the intrastate log rates depends on the amounts received by petitioners for the interstate transportation of
lumber. It is clear that the methods by which respondent reached its conclusion were arbitrary and constitute
a denial of due process of law."
In West v. C. & P. Tel. Co., (1935) 295 U. S. 662, the
company brought suit in the federal district court for
Maryland to set aside as confiscatory an order of the
Maryland commission reducing telephone rates. The
controversy involved value, depreciation expense, and
return. The commission made no appraisal of the prop-

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

erty, but attempted to determine present value by translating the dollar value of the plant as it was found
in an earlier case, as of December 31, 1923, plus net
additions in dollar value in each subsequent year, into
an equivalent dollar value at December 31, 1932, its
theory being (p. 667): "Value signifies in rate regulation the investment in dollars on which a utility is entitled to earn." After pointing cut fundamental defects in the commission's method of finding value, we
held that the case was controlled by the principle announced and applied in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dept.
Public Works and Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n. No decision here has challenged the
principle established by these cases. - West v. C. & P. Tel.
Co., supra, 675.
I cannot refrain from protesting against the Court's refusal to deal with the case disclosed by the record and
reasonably to adhere to principles that have been settled.
Our decisions ought to be sufficiently definite and permanent to enable counsel usefully to advise clients. Generally speaking, at least, our decisions of yesterday ought
to be the law of today.
I would affirm the decree of the district court.
MR.

JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS joins in this dissent.

