NA2RDONE v. UNITED STATES.

379

Statement of the Case.

NARDONE ET

A.

v.

UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
SECOND CIRCUIT.

HE

No. 190. Argued November 15, 1937.-Decided December 20, 1937.
1. In view of the provisions of § 605 of the Communications Act of
1934, 47 U. S. C. § 605, evidence obtained by federal agents by
tapping telephone wires and intercepting messages is not admissible
in a criminal trial in the federal district court. P. 382.
2. In the provision of § 605 of the Communications Act of 1934,
that "no person not being authorized by the sender shall intercept
any communication and divulge or publish the existence, contents,
substance, purport, effect or meaning of such intercepted communication to any person; . . ." the phrase "no person" embraces
federal agents engaged in the detection of crime; and to "divulge"
an intercepted communication to "any person" embraces testimony
in a court as to the contents of such a cohnmunication. P. 383.
3. Evidence in congressional committee reports indicating that the
major purpose of the Federal Communications Act was the transfer of jurisdiction over wire and radio communication to the newly
constituted Federal Communications Commission, and other circumstances in the legislative history of the Act, held insufficient to
negative the plain mandate of the provisions of § 605 forbidding
wire-tapping. P. 382.
4. Whether wire-tapping as an aid in the detection and punishment
of crime should be permitted to federal agents is a question of
policy for the determination of the Congress. P. 383.
5. The canon that the general words of a statute do not include the
Government or affect its rights, unless that construction be clear
and indisputable from the language of the Act, is inapplicable to
this case; but applicable is the principle that the sovereign is embraced by general words of a statute intended to prevent injury
-and wrong. Pp. 383-384.
90 F. (2d) 630, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 668, to review a judgment affirming a judgment of conviction on an indictment charging
violation of the Anti-Smuggling Act and conspiracy.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

Messrs. Louis Halle and Thomas O'Rourke Gallagher,
with whom Mr. Joseph P. Nolan was on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. William W. Barron, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs.
John T. M. ,Reddan, W. Marvin Smith, and Bates Booth
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE 'ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The importance of the question involved,-whether, in
view of the provisions of § 605 of the Communications
Act of 1934,1 evidence procured by a federal officer's
tapping telephone wires and intercepting messages is admissible in a criminal trial in a United States District
Court,-moved us to grant the writ of certiorari.
The ihdictment under which the petitioners were tried,
convicted, and sentenced, charged, in separate counts,
the smuggling of alcohol, possession and concealment'of
the smuggled alcohol, and conspiracy to smuggle and conceal it. Over the petitioners' objection and exception
federal agents testified to the substance of petitioners' interstate communications overheard by the witnesses who
had intercepted the messages by tapping telephone wires.
The court below, though it found this evidence constituted such a vital part of the prosecution's proof that its
admission, if erroneous, amounted to reversible error, held
it was properly admitted and affirmed the judgment of
conviction.'
Section 605 of the Federal Communications Act provides that no person who, as an employe, has to do with
the sending or receiving of any interstate communication
ICh.

652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1103; U. S. C. Tit. 47, § 605.

'90 F. (2d) 630. See also Smith v. United States, 91 F. (2d) 556.

NARDONE v. UNITED STATES.
379

Opinion of the Court.

by wire shall divulge or publish it or its substance to
anyone other than the addressee or his authorized representative or to authorized fellow employes, save in response to a subpoena issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction or on demand of other lawful authority; and
"no person not being authorized by the sender shall intercept any communication and divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect or meaning
of such intercepted communication to any person; . . ."
Section 501 ' penalizes wilful and knowing violation by
fine and imprisonment.
Taken at face value the phrase "no person" comprehends federal agents, and the ban on communication to
"any person" bars testimony to the content of an intercepted message. Such an application of the section is
supported by comparison of the clause concerning intercepted messages with that relating to those known to employes of the carrier. The former may not be divulged
to any person, the latter may be divulged in answer to
a lawful subpoena.
The government contends that Congress did nbt intend
to prohibit tapping wires to procure evidence. It is
said that this court, in Olmstead v. United States, 277
U. S. 438, held such evidence admissible at common law
despite the fact that a state statute made wire-tapping
a crime; and the argument proceeds that since the Olmstead decision departments of the federal government,
with the knowledge of Congress, have, to a limited extent,
permitted their agents to tap wires in aid of detection
and conviction of criminals. It is shown that, in spite
of its knowledge of the practice, Congress refrained from
adopting legislation outlawing it, although bills, so providing, have been introduced. The Comnunications Act,
so it is claimed, was passed only for the purpose of re~n'Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1100, U. S. C. Tit. 47, § 501.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

acting the provisions of the Radio Act of 1927 " so as
to make it applicable to wire messages and to transfer
jurisdiction over radio and wire communications to the
newly constituted Federal Communications Commission,
and therefore the phraseology of the statute ought not to
be construed as changing the practically identical provision on the subject which was a part of the Radio Act
when the Olmstead case was decided.
We nevertheless face the fact that the plain words of
§ 605 forbid anyone, unless authorized by the sender, to
intercept a telephone message, and direct in equally
clear language that "no person" shall divulge or publish the message or its substance .to, "any person." To
recite the contents of the message in testimony before
a court is to divulge the message. The conclusion that
the act forbids such testimony seems to us unshaken by
the government's arguments.
True it is that after this court's decision in the Olmstead case Congressional committees investigated the
wire-tapping activities of federal agents. Over a period
of several years bills were introduced to prohibit the practice, all of which failed to pass. An Act of 1933 included
a clause forbidding this method of procuring evidence of
violations of the National Prohibition Act.' During
1932, 1933 and 1934, however, there was no discussion of
the matter in Congress, and we are without contemporary
legislative history relevant to the passage of the statute in question. It is also true that the committee reports in connection with the Federal Communications Act
dwell upon the fact that the major purpose of the legislation was the transfer of jurisdiction over wire and radio
communication to the newly constituted Federal Communications Commission. But these circumstances are,
"Act of Feb. 23, 1927, c. 169, 44 Stat. 162.
'Department of Justice Appropriation Act of March 1, 1933, 47

Stat. 1381.

NARDONE v. UNITED STATES.
379

Opinion of the Court.

in our opinion, insufficient to overbear the plain mandate
of the statute.
It is. urged that a construction be given the section
which would exclude federal agents since it is improbable,
Congress intended to hamper and impede the activities
of the government in the detection and punishment of
crime. The answer is that the question is one of policy.
Congress may have thought it less important that some
offenders should go unwhipped of justice than that officers should resort to methods deemed inconsistent with
ethical standards and destructive of personal liberty.
The same considerations may well have moved the Congress to adopt § 605 as evoked the guaranty against practices and procedures violative. of privacy, embodied in the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments of the Constitution.
The canon that the general words of a statute do not
include the government or affect its rights unless the
construction be clear and indisputable upon the text of
the act does not aid the respondent. The cases in which
it has been applied fall into two classes. The first is.
where an act, if not so limited, would deprive the sovereign of a recognized or established prerogative title or
interest.6 A classical instance is the exemption of the
state from the operation of general statutes of limitation.'
The rule ;of exclusion of the sovereign is less stringently
applied where the operation of the law is upon the agents
or servants of the government rather than on the sovereign itself.'
'Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 239; United
States v. Herron, 20 Wall. 251, 263; United States v. American Bell
Telephone Co., 159 U. S. 548, 554; United States v. Stevenson, 215
U. S. 190, 197; Title Guaranty & Surety Co. v. Guarantee Title &
Trust Co., 174 Fed. 385, 388; Maxwell, Interpretation of Statutes
(7th ed.) 117, 121; Black on Interpretation of Laws (2d ed.) 94.
7 United States v. Hoar, 2 Mason 311, 314-315.
' "The prohibitions. [against any form of action except that specified
in the statute] if any, either express or implied . .. are for others,

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

The second class,-that where public officers are impliedly excluded from language embracing all persons,is where a reading which would include such officers would
work obvious absurdity as, for example, the application
of a speed law to a policeman pursuing a criminal or
the driver of a fire engine responding to an alarm.'
For year controversy has raged with respect to the
morality of the practice of wire-tapping by officers to
obtain evidence. It has been the view of many that the
practice involves a grave wrong. In the light of these circumstances we think another well recognized principle
leads to the application of the statute as it is written so
as to include within its sweep federal officers as well as
others. That principle is that the sovereign is embraced
by general words of a statute intended to prevent injury
and wrong.10
not for the government. They may be obligatory on tax collectors.
They may prevent any suit at law by such officers or agents." Dollar
Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 239. "These provisions
unmistakably disclose definite intention on the part of Congress
effectively to safeguard rivers and other navigable waters against the
unauthorized erection therein of dams or other structures for any
purpose whatsoever. The plaintiff maintains that the restrictions so
imposed apply only to work undertaken by private parties. But no
such intention is expressed, and we are of opinion that none is implied.
The measures adopted for the enforcement of the prescribed rule
are in general terms and purport to be applicable to all. No valid
reason has been or can be suggested why they should apply to
private persons and not to federal and state officers. There is no
presumption that regulatory and disciplinary measures do not extend
to such officers. Taken at face value the language indicates the purpose of Congress to govern conduct of its own officers and employees
as well as that of others." United States v. Arizona, 295 U. S. 174,
184. Compare Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508, 515; Donnelley v.
United States, 276 U. S. 505, 511.
SBalthasar v. Pacific Electric Ry. Co., 187 Cal. 302; 202 Pac. 37;
State v. Gorham, 110 Wash. 330; 188 Pac. 457.
' United States v. Knight, 14 Pet. 301, 315; United States v.
Herron, 20 Wall. 251, 263; Black on Interpretation of Laws (2d ed.)
97.

NARDONE v. UNITED STATES.
379

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

.The judgment must be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

dissenting.

I think the word "person" used in this statute does not
include an officer of the federal government, actually engaged in the detection of crime and the enforcement of
the criminal statutes of the United States, who has good
reason to believe that a telephone is being, or is about to
be,-used as an aid to the commission or concealment of a
crime. The decision just made will necessarily have the
effect of enabling the most depraved. criminals to further
their criminal plans over the telephone, in the secure
knowledge that even if these plans involve kidnapping
and murder, their telephone conversations can never be
intercepted by officers of the law and revealed in court.
If Congress thus intended to tie the hands of the government in its effort to protect the people against lawlessness
of the most serious character, it would have said so in a
more definite way than by the use of the ambiguous word
"person." Commonwealth v. Welosky, 276 Mass. 398,
403-404, 406; 177 N. E. 656. For that word has some-

times been construed to include the government and its
officials, and sometimes not. I am not aware of any case
where it has been given that inclusive effect in a situation Such as we have here. Obviously, the situation dealt
with in United States v. Arizona, 295 U. S. 174, was quite
different. There, a federal statute forbade the construction of any bridge, etc., in any port, etc., "until the con-,
sent of Congress . . . shall have been obtained."

The

mere building of the designated structure, in the absence
of congressional consent, violated the statute. There was
no ambiguous term, such as we have here, or anything else
in the language, requiring construction.

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

There is a manifest difference between the case of a
private individual who intercepts a message from motives of curiosity or to further personal ends, and that
of a responsible official engaged in the governmental duty
of uncovering crime and bringing criminals to justice.
It is fair, to conclude that the word "person" as here
used was intended to include the former but not the latter. This accords with the well-settled general rule stated
by Justice Story inUnited States v. Hoar, 2 Mason 311,
314-315; 26 Fed. Cas. 329, 330: "In general, acts of the
legislature are meant to regulate and direct the acts and
rights of citizens; and in most cases the reasoning applicable to them applies with very different, and often
contrary force to the government itself. It appears to
me, therefore, to be a safe rule founded in the principles
of the common law, that the general words of a statute
ought not to include the government, or affect its rights,
unless that construction be clear and indisputable upon
the text of the act." And see In the Matter of Will of
Fox, 52 N. Y. 530, 535. Compare State v. Gorham, 110
Wash. 330; 188 Pac. 457; Balthasarv. Pacific Electric Ry.
Co., 187 Cal. 302, 305-308; 202 Pac. 37. A case in point
is that of People v. Hebberd (Sup. Ct. N. Y.), 96 Misc.
617, 620-621; 162 N. Y. S. 80.
In the investigations of the congressional committees,
referred to in the opinion of the court, it appeared that
the Attorney General had ordered that no tapping of
wires should be permitted without the personal direction
of the chief of the bureau, after consultation with the
Assistant Attorney General in charge of the case; and
that such means were to be adopted only as an emergency
method. The Attorney' General himself apeared before
one of the committees and pointed out that crime had become highly organized, with strong political connections
and illegal methods of procedure; that gangsters and desperate criminals had equipped themselves with every

NARDONE v. UNITED STATES.
379

SUTHERLAND,

J., dissenting.

modern convenience and invention; that modern gangsters have no regard for life, property, decency or anything else; and he had no doubt that they tapped wires
leading to offices of the United States attorneys to find
out what was being done. He cited the case of a Bureau
of Investigation agent who had been found shot to
death under circumstances which indicated that a gang of
narcotic traffickers had murdered him; and he posed
the question whether, if it had appeared that the perpetrators of the crime could be detected and brought to
justice by tapping their telephone wires, nevertheless,
that ought not to be done.
The answer of Congress to the question has been a
refusal to pass any of the bills which comprehensively proposed to forbid the practice.
My abhorrence of the odious practices of the town
gossip, the Peeping Tom, and the private eavesdropper is
quite as strong as that of any of my brethren. But to
put the sworn officers of the law, engaged in the detection and apprehension of organized gangs of criminals,
in the same category, is to lose all sense of proportion. In
view of the safeguards against abuse of power furnished
by the order of the Attorney General, and in the light
of the deadly conflict constantly being waged between the
forces of law and order and the desperate criminals who
infest the land, we well may pause to consider whether
the application of the rule which forbids an invasion of
the privacy of telephone communications is not being
carried in the present case to a point where the necessity
of public protection against crime is being submerged by
an overflow of sentimentality.
I think the judgment below should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS joins in

this opinion.

