112

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. STANDARD
EDUCATION SOCIETY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 14. Argued October 18, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. The fact that a false statement may be obviously false to those
who are trained and experienced does not change its character,
nor take away its power to deceive others less experienced. P. 116.
2. There is no duty resting upon a citizen to suspect the honesty of
those with whom he transacts business. Laws are made to protect
the trusting as well as the suspicious. Id.
3. Findings of the Federal Trade Commission are conclusive if
supported by evidence. P. 117.
4. As part of a scheme for selling an encyclopedia and a loose leaf
extension service, respondents falsely represented to prospective
purchasers that the books would be given to them free anid that they
would pay only for the extension service at a reduced price;
whereas, in truth, the price charged them was the same as the
regular, standard price for both the books and the extension service. Held-vilative of ยง 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
Pp. 115, 117.
"5. An order of the Federal Trade Commission forbade, in the advertising of a revised encyclopedia, the use of the names of persons,
as contributors or editors, who had not consented to such use and
who had neither actually contributed to the publications nor
helped to edit them. Held properly inclusive of contributors to
an earlier work no part of whose contributions had been carried
into the revision. P. 117.
6. The Commission's findings, supported by evidence, sustain its
order forbidding, in advertisements of a publication, the use of
testimonials attributed to persons who did not give them. P. 118.
7. A cease-and-desist order of the Federal Trade Commission directed to a corporation binds those .who are in control of its
affairs and may properly include them as individuals when there
is reason to believe that, if directed to the corporation alone, they
will endeavor to evade it. P. 119.
86 F. (2d) 692, reversed in part.

TRADE COMM'N v. EDUCATION SOCIETY.
112

113

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

301 U. S. 674, to review the judgment of

the court below which modified in part, and reversed in
part, an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
Assistant Attorney General Jackson, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, Robert L.
Stern, W. T. Kelley, Martin A. Morrison, and James W.
Nichol were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry Ward Beer for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Upon application by the Federal Trade Commission
this Court granted certiorari to review that part of a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
which modified in part and reversed in part a "cease and
desist" order of the Commission. 86 F. (2d) 692. The
Commission, after service of a complaint, and extensive
-hearings, made a finding of facts from the testimony and
ordered two corporation respondents, and three individuals controlling these corporations, to desist from certain
practices used by respondents in furthering the sale of
encyclopedias and other books in interstate commerce.
The Commission not only found the practices to be "unfair" but also "false, deceptive and misleading." The
court below modified and weakened the Commission's
order in material aspects, and the questions here are
whether the testimony supported all the findings of the
Commission, and whether these findings justified the
entire order as against all the respondents.
All "unfair" practices found by the Commission related
wholly to methods of sale. The Commission's order
against respondents was based, in part, upon the following
findings:

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

That fictitious testimonials and recommendations had
been used by respondents; that authorized testimonials
and recommendations had been exaggerated and garbled;
that authorized testimonials for a "previous work" were
later used to further the sale of another "work, quite different in form, in material and in purpose." "For the
purpose of selling their publications, Standard Reference
Work and New Standard Encyclopedia," respondents advertised "a list headed 'Contributors -and Reviewers'
and . . . In such list they include many who have not
been either contributors or reviewers to either the Standard Reference Work or the New Standard Encyclopedia."
Respondents sold "their publications at retail to the public by salesmen on the subscription plan" and in carrying
out said plan they represented to prospects that they
were selecting a small list of "well connected representative people" in various localities, in order to present them
with an "artcraft de luxe edition" of the encyclopedia.
Further carrying out respondents' scheme, their agents
represented that "they are giving away a set of books;
that they are not selling anything; that the books are
free; that the books are being given free as an advertising plan . . . that the prospect has been specially selected, and that the only return desired for the gift is permission to use the name of the prospect for advertising
purposes and as a reference"; that the "said prospects
are paying only for the loose leaf extension service; . . .
that the price of $69.50 is a reduced price and that the regular price of the books and the extension service is
$150.00, sometimes even as high as $200:00." The statements that the encyclopedia is being given away; that
payment is only being made "for the loose leaf extension
service"; and that "$69.50 is a reduced price . . . are
false, deceptive and misleading, as $69.50 is the regular,
standard price" for both the encyclopedia and the loose
leaf extension and research privileges.

TRADE COMM'N v. EDUCATION SOCIETY.
112

115

Opinion of the Court.

The Court of Appeals reversed clauses one and three
of the Commission's order. These clauses ordered respondents not to represent falsely to purchasers of their
publications that the publishing company was giving encyclopedias to them as a gift, and that purchasers were
paying only for loose leaf supplements.
The Court of Appeals affirmed clauses two and six of
the Commission's order. These clauses ordered respondents not to represent falsely to purchasers that sets of
books had "been reserved to be given away free of cost
to selected persons" and that the usual price at which
respondents' publications are sold is higher than the price
"at which they are offered to such purchasers."
It is clear, both from the findings of the Commission,
and the testimony upon which they rest, that the practices forbidden in clauses one, two, three and six are all
tied together as parts of the same sales plan. As a first
step under this plan, salesmen obtained an audience with
prospective purchasers by representations made to them
that by reason of their prestige and influence they had
been selected by the Company to receive a set of books
free of costs for advertising purposes., After respondents'
agents thus gained an audience by the promise of a free
set of books, they then moved forward under the same
general sales plan, by falsely representing that the regular price of the loose leaf supplement alone was $69.50,
and that the usual price of both books and loose leaf
supplements was much in excess of $69.50. The Commission ordered respondents not to engage in carrying out
any part of this entire sales plan. However, as the Court
of Appeals reversed clauses one and three of the Commission's order, a part of the sales scheme which the
Commission condemned as unfair, can yet be carried out
by respondents. That is to say-respondents by that
reversal, are left free to continue to obtain audiences with
prospects and to sell encyclopedias and loose leaf supple-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ments to them, by false representations that the Company gives them a set of encyclopedias free, and that
$69.50 paid by them to the Company, is for the loose
leaf supplement alone.
In reaching the conclusion that respondents should be
left free to engage in that part of the sales scheme prohibited by clauses one and three of the Commission's
order, the court below reasoned as follows:
"We cannot take seriously the suggestion that a man
who is buying a set of books and a ten years' 'extension.
service,' will be fatuous enough to be misled by the mere
statement that the first are given away, and that he is
paying only' for the second. . . . Such trivial niceties are
too impalpable for practical affairs, they are will-o'-thewisps, which divert attention from substantial evils."
The fact that a false statement may be obviously false
to those who are trained and experienced does not change
its character, nor take away its power to deceive others
less experienced. There is no duty resting upon a citizen
to suspect the honesty bf those with whom he transacts
business. Laws are made to protect the trusting as well
as the suspicious. The best element of business has long
since decided that honesty should govern competitive
enterprises, and that the rule of caveat emptor should not
be relied upon to reward fraud and deception.
The practice of promising free books where no free
books were intended to be given, and the practice of
deceiving unwary purchasers into the false belief that
loose leaf supplements qlone sell for $69.50, when in reality both books and supplement regularly sell for $69.50,
are practices contrary to decent business standards. To
fail to prohibit such evil practices would be to elevate
deception in business and to give to it the standing and
dignity of truth. It was clearly the practice of respondents through their agents, in accordance with a well matured plan, to mislead customers into the belief that they

TRADE COMM'N v. EDUCATION SOCIETY.
112

117

Opinion of the Court.

were given an encyclopedia, and that they paid only for
the loose leaf supplement. That representations were
made justifying this belief; that the plan was outlined in
letters going directly from the companies; that men and
women were deceived by them-there can be little doubt.
Certainly the Commission was justified from the evidence
in finding that customers were misled. Testimony in the
record from citizens of ten States--teachers, doctors, college professors, club women, business men-proves beyond doubt that the practice was not only the commonly
accepted sales method for respondents' encyclopedias, but
that it successfully deceived and deluded its victims.
The courts do not have a right to ignore the plain
mandate of the statute which makes the findings of the
Commission conclusive as to the facts if supported by
testimony.1 The courts cannot pick and choose bits of
evidence to make findings of fact contrary to the findings
of the Commission. The record in this case is filled with
evidence of witnesses under oath which support the Commission's findings. Clauses one and three of the Commission's order should be sustained and enforced.
The seventh clause of the Commission's order forbade
the use of names of persons as contributors or editors
who had not consented to such use and who had neither
actually contributed to the publications nor helped to edit
them.
The Court of Appeals upheld this clause except as it
might apply to the original contributors to Aiton's encyclopedia saying that "it seems to us not 'unfair' to
announce as contributors to the derived works those who
have been contributors to the original." Aiton's encyclopedia was published about 1909, and respondents'
works represent the result of periodic revisions and expansions of the prior work. The Government concedes in
'Federal Trade Commission Act, Sept. 26, 1914, 38 Stat. 717,
U. S. C. Title 15, ยง 45.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

its brief that this clause of the Commission's order does
not prevent respondents from-representing a person who
contributed to the original, as a contributor to their revised publication, if "some of the material originally in
Aiton's encyclopedia remained in the new Edition of the
revised work." Respondents agree with this interpretation. As between these parties, therefore, this clause
permits respondents to represent any person as a contributor to their present revised encyclopedia, if a part
of his original material has been carried forward to it. If
no part of his contribution to Aiton's encyclopedia has
been brought forward, he is not a contributor and should
not be represented as such. This clause as originally declared by the Commission would, under this interpretation, properly forbid respondents from falsely representing as contributors or editors those who had actually
neither contributed to, nor edited, the publications. The
decree of the court below modifying this clause is not in
accordance with our conclusion, and clause seven of the
Commission's order should be enforced.
The Court of Appeals reversed the eighth clause of the
order of the Commission. The reason given by the court
below for this action was as follows:
"For the eighth, which forbad the use of such testimonials which had not been given by the person whose
name was used, we have been able to find no support in
the evidence; ... "
We are convinced that the Commission's findings of
fact justified this clause of the order and that the testimony supports these findings.
'From paragraphs fourteen and fifteen of the Commission's findings it appears that respondents used the names of various individuals in testimonials and that
"None of these men or this woman ever wrote any testimonial or
recommendation of or concerning the New Standard Encyclopedia.
The representations that these men and this woman wrotb the recommendations for the so-called 'New Standard Encyclopedia' are false,
deceptive and misleading."

TRADE COMM'N v. EDUCATION SOCIETY.
112

119

Opinion of the Court.

The-Court of Appeals entirely excluded respondent
Greener from the operation of the Commission's order,
and partially excluded respondents Stanford and Ward.
The Commission had found from the testimony that
"Respondents H. M. Stanford, W. H. Ward, and A. J.
Greener are the managers and sole stockholders of respondent Standard Education Society and the managers
and sole incorporators of Respondent Standard Encyclopedia Corporation . . . . The Commission concludes
and infers from the record in this case and so finds that
this corporation was organized by the individual respondent for the purpose of evading any order that might be
issued by the Federal Trade Commission against the respondent the Standard Education Society."
There was ample support in the testimony for this
finding of the Commission.
The Federal Trade Commission Act (supra) gives the
Commission power to "prevent persons, partnerships or
corporations, . . from using unfair methods of competition in Commerce."
This Court has held that
"a command to the Corporation is in effect a command to
those who are officially responsible for the conduct of
its affairs. If they, apprised of the writ directed to the
corporation, prevent compliance . . . they, no less than
the corporation itself, are guilty of disobedience and may
be punished for contempt." Wilson v United States, 221
U. S. 361, 376.
Respondents Stanford, Ward aid Greener, whooare in
charge and control of the affairs of respondent corporatipns, would be bound by a cease and desist order rendered against the corporations. Since circumstances,
disclosed by the Commission's findings and the testimony,
are such that further efforts of these individual respondents to evade orders 9f the Commission might be anticipated, it was proper for the Commission to include tbem
in its cease and desist order.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

The record in this case discloses closely held corporations owned, dominated and managed by these three individual respondents. In this management these three
respondents acted with practically the same freedom as
though no corporation had existed. So far as corporate
action was concerned, these three were the actors. Under
the circumstances of this proceeding, the Commission was
justified in reaching the conclusion that it was necessary
to include respondents Stanford, Ward and Greener in
each part of its order if it was to be fully effective in preventing the unfair competitive practices which the Commission had found to exist. The court below was in error
in excluding these respondents from the operation of the
Commission's order.
The decree below will be reversed except as to modification of clause ten of the Commission's order, and the
cause is remanded with instructions to proceed in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
CHICAGO TITLE AND TRUST CO. v. FORTY-ONE
THIRTY-SIX WILCOX BLDG. CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 23 and 24.

Argued October 21, 1937.-Decided November 15,
1937.

1. A corporation, dissolved and put out of existence by the State
which created it, may not invoke the powers of a court of bankruptcy under ยง 77B of the Bankruptcy Act. P. 124.
The record does not present a ease where creditors are the
moving parties, or where there has been any act of bankruptcy
committed by the corporation, or where any pertinent law of the
State is in conflict with the federal bankruptcy laws.
2. A private corporation can exist only under the express law of the
State or sovereignty by which it was created. Its dissolution puts

