329

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
319

Syllabus.

There is argument in his behalf that the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as well
as the due process clause has been flouted by the judgment.
Maxwell v. Dow, supra,p. 584, gives all the answer that
is necessary.

The judgment is
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissents.

SMYTH, EXECUTOR, v. "UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 42. Argued November 18, 19, 1937.-Decided December 13, 1937.
1. Bonds of the United States promising payment of principal and
interest in United States gold coin of the standard of value in force
at the time of their issuance (25.8 grains of gold 9/10ths fine per
dollar) were called by the Secretary of the Treasury for redemption and payment prior to their stated day of maturity, pursuant
to provisions therein which reserved this right to the United States
to be exercised through a published notice, and which declared
that from the date of redemption designated in such notice
interest on the called bonds should cease and all coupons thereon
maturing after that date should be void. Prior to the notices,
the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, providing for the discharge
of "gold clause" obligations upon payment, dollar for dollar, in
any coin or currency which at the time of payment is legal tender
for private debts, had been adopted; and in two of the cases the
notices were later than the decisions of this Court in the Gold
Clause Cases, including Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330.
Held:
(1) That the effect of the published notice was to accelerate
the maturity of the bonds,. the new date specified in the notice
* Together with No. 43, Dixie Terminal Co. v. United States, also
on writ of certiorari to the Court of Claims; and No. 198, United
States v. Machen, on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

supplanting the old one stated in the bonds as if there from the
beginning. P. 353.
(2) Holders of the bonds had no claim against the United States
on interest coupons covering a period subsequent to the new date,
since by the terms of the bonds interest ceased to run on that
date. P. 353.
In the absence of contract or statute. evincing a contrary intention, interest does not run upon claims against the Government
even though there has been default in payment of the principal.
The allowance of interest in eminent domain cases is only an
apparent exception, which has its origin in the Constitution.
(3) The proposition that the notices of call were void, upon the
ground that they must be read with the Joint Resolution of June
5, 1933, and, thus supplemented, promised payment different from
that promised by the bonds, can not be maintained. P. 354.
The notices of call were not promises, and did not commit the
Government, either expressly or by indirection, to a forbidden
medium of payment. Notice that the bonds were called for redemption on the specified date implied that at that acceleratedmaturity the bondholders would be entitled to payment of principal and accrued interest in such form and measure as would
discharge the obligation in accordance with the Constitution, statutes and any controlling decisions.
The contention that the existence of the Joint Resolution, supra,
amounted to an anticipatory breach, is examined and rejected.
The doctrine of anticipatory breach has in general no application
to unilateral contracts, and particularly to contracts for the payment of money only. Moreover, an anticipatory breach, if it were
made out, could have no effect upon the right of the complaining
bondholders to postpone the time of payment to the date of natural maturity. The Government was not subject to a duty to
keep the content of the dollar constant during the period inter~aning between promise and performance. The duty of the Government was to pay the bonds when due. P. 356.
The fact that the statutory provisions for payment in any legal
tender remained unrepealed did not affect the date of maturity
as accelerated by the notices.
(4) No question of constitutional law, nor of fraud, is involved
in the decision of these cases. P. 359.

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Statement of the Case.

(5) The Secretary of the Treasury did not exceed his lawful
powers by issuing the calls without further authority from the
Congress than was conferred by the statutes under which the
bonds were issued. P. 359.
2: The Act of March 18, 1869 (R. S. § 3693; 16 Stat. 1), which in
its day placed restrictions upon the redemption by the Government
of interest-bearing bonds, was for the protection of holders of
United States obligations not bearing interest, the "greenbacks"
of that era. Upon the resumption of specie payments in 1879 the
aim of the statute was achieved, and its restrictions are no longer.
binding. P. 360.
85 Ct. Cls. 318; 83 Ct. Cls. 656, affirmed.
87 F. (2d) 594, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 679, 680; post, p. 672, to review
judgments ii three suits against the United States to
recover on interest coupons attached to Government bonds
containing the gold clause, which had been called for
redemption. In Nos. 42 and 43, the Court of Claims dismissed the claims. In No. 198, the District Court gave
judgment for the United States, which was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals. In the first two cases the
plaintiffs had presented their bonds to- the Treasurer of
the United States and demanded payment in gold dollars
each of 25.8 grains of gold 0/10ths fine, and declined a
tender in coin or currency other than gold or gold certificates. They had then demanded, unsuccessfully, that
coupons for interest periods subsequent to the date fixed
in the calls for redemption of the bonds, be paid either in
gold or in legal tender currency. Their suits were for the
amounts of the coupons in current dollars. In No. 198
the situation was similar. There had been no presentation of the bond or coupon for payment, but it was stipulated that the Treasurer of the United States and other
fiscal agents had not at any time been directed by the
Secretary of the Treasury to redeem the bonds in gold
coin, but had been authorized and directed to redeem
in legal tender currency; also that there was a refusal to

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Bondholders.

302 U. S.

pay similar coupons for interest accruing after the date
of redemption.
Mr. Robert A. Taft for petitioners in Nos. 42 and 43.
1. The provisions of the bond and circular with respect
to payment in gold coin are valid under the Perry decision,
in spite of the legislation adopted by Congress.
In view of this decision, there can be no doubt that the
Government was obligated to pay the petitioner's bond
in gold coin of the former standard of value, and that this
obligation remains binding upon the conscience of the
sovereign.
The lack of remedy is not material, because the' plaintiff is not suing for gold. The plaintiff in the Perry case
failed to recover because he attempted to obtain arbitrarily an amount of currency in excess of the face amount
of his bond, without alleging or proving any direct damages to himself resulting from the Government's repudiation of its obligation. But in this case the plaintiff is not
seeking a remedy; it is the Government which is attempting to exercise a privilege given to it by the terms of the
bond, at the same time that it is repudiating its obligation
contained in that bond. The petitioner contends that he
may hold his bond until maturity, at which time the gold
standard may be restored, or the value of the gold dollar
increased. If not, the petitioner will no doubt be obliged
to accept currency in payment of the bond. Although
the Government is legally and morally obligated to pay
this bond in gold, it is now trying to exercise the power
given to it in the bond to redeem the bond, and to pay that
bond immediately in a depreciated currency. If the Government had to pay the bond in gold, it would never have
called the bond. The plaintiff is seeking to recover only
the currency value of his coupon; he is not seeking damages for failure to pay gold; he is merely insisting that
the Government cannot repudiate its obligations in one

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for Bondholders.

breath, and avail itself of privileges conferred on it at the
same time.
2. The attempt to redeem was void ab initio, because
the notice published was not a notice of intention to redeem in gold in accordance with the terms of the bond.
It is clear that "notice published at least three months
prior to the redemption date" is a condition precedent to
the right to redeem. What kind of a notice does this
refer to? It must obviously be a notice to pay the bond
in accordance with its terms. A notice to pay the bond
in real estate, or by transferring municipal bonds or other
securities, would be exactly as good as no notice at all.
Under the circumstances existing on March 14, 1932, and
the legislation then in effect, this notice was not a notice
to redeem in gold in accordance with the terms of the
bond, but a notice to redeem in currency.
On March 14, 1935, when the notice to redeem First
Liberty Loan Bonds was issued in Treasury Department
Circular No. 535, there was in full effect the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, which provided: "No gold shall hereafter be coined and no gold coin shall hereafter be paiU!
out or delivered by the United States." We respectfully
submit, in the first place, that the Secretary of the Treasury, while that statute was in effect, could not issue a
notice of intention to pay the bond in accordance with its
terms. The Secretary of the Treasury is an administrative officer, subject in all respects to the legislation of
Congress. Except for enactment by Congress, the right
to redeem "at the pleasure of the United States" does not
mean the right to redeem at the pleasure of the Secretary
of the Treasury. As far as he has any power to issue a
notice, it exists by congressional -enactment. Since Congress prohibited him from paying out gold, there can
certainly be no authority implied in any way for him to
give a notice of intention to redeem in gold.
In the second place, no matter what the power of the
Secretary of the Treasury, the notice issued was not a

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Bondholders.

302 U. S.

notice to redeem in gold. It was silent as to the medium
of payment, but in view of the legislation then in effect,
it was clearly a statement of intention to redeem in currency and not in gold. We have already referred to the
Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, and the Gold Reserve
Act of 1934. We have referred to the various other acts
of Congress and the President nationalizing gold and prohibiting the holding of gold by private persons. The
notice issued must be construed in the light of these
enactments as a notice to redeem in currency. It must
be presumed that the Secretary of the Treasury, an administrative officer, was merely carrying out the intention
of Congress.
.This is no imaginary argument. When the call was
issued, everybody in the United States knew exactly what
was intended. Congress had repeatedly declared its
intention of abandoning gold and paying in currency.
No official of the Government, no holder of any bond, had
the slightest idea that the notice of call meant anything
except a call to pay in currency. The Secretary of the
Treasury would never have called the bonds if he had had
the slightest expectation of having to pay in gold.
The President had also devalued the dollar, and established, with the approval of Congress, a dollar having a
different standard of value from that prescribed in the
bond, so that even if gold could have been paid out, it
would have been a'different amount of gold than that
called for by the terms of the bond.
A call for payment in currency is clearly not in accord
with the provisions of the bond and the circular under
which the bond was issued, which provisions this Court
has held to be valid. It seems manifest, therefore,, that
the so-called "call" of March 14, 1935, may be treated by
the bondholder as completely void, and his bond will continue to draw interest until maturity, or until after a bona
fide call for redemption in accordance with the terms of
the bond.

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for Bondholders.

The whole argument that the Government can distinguish itself as contractor and sovereign in the matter
of Government Bonds was destroyed once and for all in
the Perry case. The Government's contention in that
case was that in its capacity as sovereign it could effectually destroy its obligation as contractor on its own
bonds. It was a strong argument, which prevailed with
one of the Justices of this Court, and it drew support
from the very cases which the Government attempts to
rely on here. But the Court found that the Government's
own obligations on its public debt were assumed in the
exercise of its sovereign powers, and that they could not
be changed or abrogated through the exercise of any other
sovereign power.
It is suggested by the Government that because the
Supreme Court of the United States, in Perry v.
United States, treated the call as valid, and considered
Perry's claim for payment of the principal, therefore that
case is an authority, to establish the validity of the Government's call. In the first place, this question was not
considered by this Court at any point. Both the Government and the plaintiff were willing to proceed on the assumption that the bond had been called, so that the point
was not brought to the attention of the Court. In the
second place, it is entirely possible that the bondholder
may have an option to treat the call as valid if he so
desires. If a private corporation issued a call, and then
failed to have funds to pay the bonds, the bondholder
certainly could hold his bonds until maturity, but he
should also in reason have an option to treat the bonds as
called and insist upon their payment. Such a corporation
would be estopped to assert the invalidity of its own call.
The Government in the lower court contended that the
tender to petitioner of currency in payment of his bond
was a compliance with the terms of the bond, on the
ground' that currency is the "equivalent" of gold. To sup-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Bondholders.

302 U. S.

port this position, they quote from the opinion of the
Chief Justice in Perry v. United States, at page 357, in
which he states that the word "equivalent" cannot mean
more than the amount of money which the promised gold
coin would be worth to the bondholder for the purpose for
which it could legally be used. But in that case the plaintiff sued for $10,000 in gold coin, or its equivalent in currency, which the plaintiff claimed to be $16,931.25. The
Chief Justice held that this was not necessarily the equivalent in currency, and that many other circumstances,
such as the price level and the intrinsic worth of the currency, had a bearing on the question. The entire discussion related solely to the question of damages. In this
case, however, the question of damages does not arise,
nor is the petitioner asking for any "equivalent." It is
the Government which is tendering the petitioner something, in redemption of his bond prior to maturity, which
the Government is claiming to be the "equivalent" of
gold.
Certainly currency is not the same as gold coin. This
Court necessarily holds that it is different in holding the
Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, unconstitutional. The
very thing which Congress was attempting to do was
to make legal-tender currency the equivalent pf gold coin.
When this Court stated that "the Joint Resolution of
June 5, 1933, in so far as it attempted to override the
obligation created by the bond in suit, went beyond the
congressional power," it necessarily held that legal-tender
currency was not the equivalent of gold coin.
The right of redemption is based on exact compliance
with the terms of the bond. Petitioner is not obligated
to allow his bond to be redeemed, even though the Government does offer an equivalent or far more than an
equivalent. The right of redemption rests on the words
of the bond and the circular, which say nothing whatever
about an "equivalent."

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for Bondholders.

We respectfully submit, therefore, that the entire procedure by which the Government attempted to call Liberty Bonds in advance of maturity, when it had no intention to pay the bonds in accordance with their terms and
statutes expressly forbade such payment, was void ab
initio, because the notice published was not the notice
provided for by the bond. It follows, therefore, that
interest did not cease to run on the date fixed for redemption, but continued as part of the original contract entered into by the Government in its bond.
3. Even if the purported call were considered valid,
the running of interest on petitioner's bond did not cease
on June 15, 1935, because the United States was not
ready and willing at that time or at any time to redeem
the petitioner's bond in accordance with its terms.
The necessary and logical conclusion from the Government's position is that under the terms of the bond the
Government could call a bond without the slightest
intention of paying it and thereby cause interest to stop
running. In the Perry case, this Court insisted on the
sacredness of the Government's obligations. The construction of the obligation insisted on by the Government would enable it to cancel its sacred obligations.
It is well settled that holders of bonds without a call
provision cannot be made to accept payment in advance
of maturity: Chicago, etc. Riailroad Co. v. Pyne, 30 Fed.
86; Missouri Railroad Co. v. Union Trust Co., 156 N. Y.
592, 51 N. E. 309. A statute providing that payment
must be accepted before maturity is unconstitutional;
Randolph v. Middleton, 26 N. J. Eq. 543. Surely an
effective call cannot be issued unless it is followed by a
tender of the money either to a trustee or paying agent
in the case of a private corporation, or direct to the bondholder in the case of the United States.
While the petitioner's bond provided that from the
date of redemption designated in any notice of call, inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Bondholders.

302U. S.

est on the called bonds should cease, yet the bond also
contained the express provision that "all or any of the
bonds of the series of which this is one, may be redeemed
and paid [italics ours] . . . ." Certainly this provision
for redemption and payment would not have been inserted in the bond, if it were the intention of the parties
that interest should cease upon a date set for redemption,
regardless of the willingness and ability of the United
States to redeem.
The Government relies on the phrase used in the first
sentence of the bond, in which the United States promises
to pay the principal sum "with interest at the rate of
three and one-half percentum per annum payable semiannually on December fifteenth and June fifteenth in
each year until the principal hereof shall be payable."
The Government points out that the United States does
not undertake to pay interest until the principal shall
be "paid." Of course it is clear why the word "payable"
is used. Many holders of such bonds do not turn in their
bonds on the call date, through oversight or otherwise,
and it is proper that interest should cease to run at that
time in the ordinary case when the Government is meeting its obligations. In order to provide for this contingency, the word "payable" is used.
If it had been thought necessary to provide for the
contingency that the Government would repudiate its
bonds, only a very complicated phrase could have expressed the Government's obligation. It would have had
to refer to a repudiation, which nobody thought likely or
desired to refer to. Contracts seldom provide for what
shall occur-in case of default because they are made to
be carried out and not to be broken. It is usual to leave
to the courts the question of the parties' rights when such
a default does occur. This is particularly true in the case
of the Government, for, as stated by Mr. Justice Strong
in United States v. Sherman, 98'(U. S. 565: "But delay

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for Bondholders.

or default cannot be attributed to the Government. It
is presumed to be always ready to pay what it owes."
Furthermore, the word "payable" refers to the maturity of the bond, and not to any date on which it may
be redeemable. Citing: Morgan v. United States, 113
U. S. 476; Sterling v. H. F. Watson Co., 241 Pa. 105, and
Corbett v. McClintic-Marshall Corp., 17 Del. Ch. 165.
Distinguishing Spaulding v. Lord, 19 Wis. 533. See 50
Harv. L. Rev. 986. If there is any ambiguity, the bond
should be construed most strongly against the Government
because drafted by its own officials, and sold to persons
who did not even contemplate the repudiation of its obligations by the United States. Certainly this Court should
not countenance an interpretation of the bond which necessarily means that the Government may at any time call
a bond without the slightest intention of paying it, and
thereby stop the running of interest after the call date,
whether or not the Government is prepared to redeem the
bond on that date. This is not the contract which the
bondholders thought they were getting.
4. The purported call issued on March 14, 1935, was
void, because the Secretary of the Treasury had no authority to issue a call without further action by Congress.
The redemption of bonds is a major financial transaction, requiring the consideration of Congress. The
Secretary of the Treasury, between October 12, 1933, and
August 1, 1935, determined to call nearly nine billion
dollars in bonds payable in gold, at a time when the
terms of the bonds could not be complied with. The
policy followed involved a repudiation by the Government
of its solemn obligations declared to be such by this
Court in the case of Perry v. United States, 294 U. S.330.
Certainly no one would maintain that an individual, holding an appointed office in a government founded on the
theory of popular representation and control, would have

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Bondholders.

302 U. S.

the right to obligate the country for nine billion dollars.
We submit that he has no greater right to exercise the
pleasure of the United States in repudiating obligations
incurred on the authorization of Congress.
5. The purported call issued on March 14, 1935, was
void because forbidden by the Act of March 18, 1869,
16 Stat. 1; 31 U.,S. C. § 731.
The reason for the original passage of this law was obviously to prevent the Government from doing just what
it is attempting to db now-paying off its obligations to
its bondholders in a depreciated currency.. United States
notes, or "greenbacks," were, of course, at a considerable
discount from gold in 1869, and were not redeemable in
gold or silver coin -at that time. In order to protect the
bondholders, Congress provided that none of the interestbearing obligations should be redeemed or paid before
maturity as long as United States notes were not convertible into coin at the option of the holder. Neither on
March 4, 1933, nor at any subsequent date have United
States notes been convertible into coin at the option of
the holder. The Government, and not- the holder, has
the option, and it may pay out currency of any kind for
any United States notes presented.
The proviso at the end of § 731 was intended to permit
the redemption of bonds should the Government be in a
position to sell its bond4 and receive gold for them, even
though they bear a lower rate of interest. If the bonds
bearing a lower rate of interest can only be sold for currency, then no call can be made. It is obvious that government bonds, when this call was issued in 1935, could
not be sold for gold coin. There was no gold coin except
in minor hoards, and if anyone could lawfully have obtained gold, he would not have paid gold for United
States bonds, whether on their face they were payable in
gold or in currency.
It is suggested that United States bonds might have
been sold for silver coin. Obviously the Government has

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

341

Argument for the United States.

never sold bonds and required payment in silver coin,
and it is not a practical operation. An examination of
the testimony and schedule presented by the Treasury
shows that the total amount of silver coin in existence in
1935 was approximately eight hundred fifty-nine million
dollars, considerably less that the amount of the First
Liberty Loan Bonds called. Furthermore, all of the
bullion and nearly all of the standard silver dollars were
in the Treasury already, and of course the subsidiary
silver coin not in the Treasury, amounting to about
$300,000,000, is required for ordinary change throughout
the country. Furthermore, the silver coin has a purely
fictitious value in excess of the value of the silver contained in such coins, and in effect is nothing but subsidiary
currency. In 1869 it might have been possible for the
Government to sell gold bonds and require payment in
gold coin, thus obtaining the gold coin necessary to redeem
the prior issue, but since the validity of the gold clause is
in doubt, such bonds cannot be sold either for gold or
silver coin today. In short § 731 was intended to prevent
exactly what the Government is now trying to do.
Solicitor General Reed, with Whom Attorney General
Cummings, Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, and
Messrs. Harry LeRoy Jones, Edward First, Clarence V.
Opper, and Bernard Bernstein were on the brief, for the
United States.
The bondholders rest their case upon a contractual obligation. By the terms of the agreement- between the
parties the obligation to pay interest upon the bonds was
specifically to cease upon the issuance of a public notice
calling the bonds for redemption and the passage of time
to the date designated in such notice. Since this condition has occurred the contractual obligation of the Government to pay interest has terminated.
The issuance of a notice of call for redemption in the
usual form, operated to create, and was intended to

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for the United States.

302 U. S.

create, the same right to payment assured by .the bonds
themselves. That the call was effective to entitle the
bondholders to demand payment of the principal amounts
of their bonds is established by the decision in Perry v.
United States, 294 U. S. 330. By the same token the
call was effective to terminate the obligation to pay interest. The suggestion that the bondholders may have an
option to demand payment of the principal or to sue for
interest has no basis in the contract and, if accepted, would
introduce confusion in public and private finance. Termination of the obligation to pay interest was not conditioned upon actual performance of the principal obligation. Distinguishing Sterling v. H. F. Watson Co., 241
Pa. 105. Imposition of this additional condition by implication would be unwarranted by judicial authority and
would defeat by indirection the rule that interest is not
allowed on claims against the Government in the absence
of specific statutory authorization.
The terms of the Acts of Congress pursuant to which
the bonds were issued, as well as the bonds themselves,
establish the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury
to issue the notice of call which terminated the obligation
to pay interest. This authority has been recognized and
confirmed by other legislation of the Congress.
The Act of March 18, 1869, R. S. 3693; 16 Stat. 1, does
not affect, the validity of the calls for redemption. Examination of the purposes and circumstances surrounding the enactment of that statute establishes. that it was
intended to apply only to Government bonds then outstanding and that it ceased to have significance when the
Government, in 1879, resumed specie payments on its
United States notes and maintained all coins and currencies at a parity of value. Even if the validity of the
calls for redemption here involved were to be tried by
the requirements of that Act, however, the conclusion
would be compelled that these requirements have been
fully met.

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for the United States.

The contention that the United States has failed to
tender the performance due under the bonds appears to
rest exclusively upon its refusal to make payment in
gold dollars, "each containing twenty-five and eighttenths grains of gold, nine-tenths fine." For a double
reason this contention cannot be supported. The gold
clause in the plaintiffs' bonds is not a promise for payment solely in gold coin, but a promise to pay the value
of gold coin. Perry v. United States, supra; Feist v.
Soci6t6 Intercommunale Belge d'Electriciti,L. R. [1934]
A. C. 161, 172, 173; R. v. International Trustee for the
Protection of Bondholders Akt., [1937] 2 All Eng. L. R.
164; Case of Serbian Loans, P. C. I. J., series A. Nos. 2021, pp. 32-41.. Compare Norman v. Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co., 294 U. S. 240, 296, 302; Holyoke Water Power Co. v.
American Writing Paper Co., 300 U. S. 324 336. Under
the Perry decision, no claim of breach of the ond is maintainable which does not allege and prove also a failure
to pay the equivalent in value of the gold coin. Even
if the gold clause could properly be construed as promising payment in gold coin itself, however, the Perry decision does not warrant an assumption that the failure to
make such payment, under the circumstances there and
here presented, would constitute a breach of obligation.
The power of the Congress to prohibit payment of gold
coin from the Treasury is an essential aspect of its power
"to deal with gold coin as a medium of exchange," and
has received ample recognition in the decisions of this
Court. Compare Ling Su Fan v. United States, 218 U. S.
302; Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S. 317; Holyoke
Water Power Co. v. American Writing Paper Co., supra,
at 336, 337.
Even if the bondholders were in a position here to
urge that the failure of the United States to pay them a
number of dollars in legal tender currency in excess of the
face amount of the bonds constituted a breach of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for the United States.

302 U. S.

tract, no such contention would be tenable. The assertion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in No. 198 that the dollars
stated in the bonds were each "worth" 1.69 dollars in
legal tender currency is in direct conflict with the decision
of this Court in Perry v. United States, supra, which
flatly rejected any method of computing equivalence or
worth mathematically, in accordance with the ratios of the
statutory gold content of. the past and present dollars,
regardless of actual loss. The maintenance of all forms
of money at a parity in the economy of the country, this
Court there held, precluded such a method of
computation.
Nothing short of a position of material and present
d.efault on the part of the United States would in any
event warrant the effort here made to work a forfeiture of
the option of redemption. So long as the bondholders
have been tendered the substantial equivalent of the performance due, no equitable ground can be urged for disregarding the express terms of the bonds and of the calls
for redemption. Nor do intimations that the position of
the United States, which under the circumstances now
existing has been held to be correct, might under different
circumstances be incorrect, afford a ground in these cases
for forfeiture* of its option of redemption. In claiming
such a forfeiture, the bondholders are, in effect, insisting
upon payment of an uncontemplated premium, consisting
of the added capital value of their bonds under present
rates of interest. Acceptance of their contention would
jeopardize huge savings of interest effected by refunding
operations in recent years. In thus interfering with the
sound administration of the public debt, it would tend to
restrict the very power which-in the opinion in the
Perry case upon which the bondholders rely-it was
deemed necessary to protect.
The bondholders misinterpret the statements in the
opinion delivered by the Chief Justice in the Perry case

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for Bondholders.

reflecting upon the constitutionality of the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933. If those statements mean that borrowing contracts of the United States may not in any
fashion be affected by a subsequent exercise by Congress
of the monetary power, they should be reconsidered, since
by the settled doctrines of this Court they were not made
under such circumstances as to constitute a precedent.
Alaska v. Troy, 258 U. S. 101, 111. Compare City of
New York v. Miln, 8 Pet. 120; United States v. Celeste
Macarty et al., Archives, December Term, 1851, p. 199.
See also Myers v. United States, 272 U. S. 52, 142; Liverpool, N. Y. & P. S. S. Co. v. Commissioners of Emigration, 113 U. S. 33, 39; United States v. Hastings, 296
U. S. 188, 192, 193. The principle that governmental
actioni taken in pursuance of sovereign governmental
powers may affect rights arising out of transactions
entered into between the Government and private individuals may justly be considered a postulate of American
public law. It seems clear, however, that the statements
in question were made in answer to a contention, which
the Government was understood as making, importing
that Congress is free to disregard the obligations of the
Goveroment at its discretion. The Government is bound,
under the law, upon its contracts as individuals are bound.
Far from asserting that Government contracts may not be
affected as individual contracts are affected by a subsequent exercise of general legislative power, the opinion
delivered by the Chief Justice recognizes and reaffirms the
principle that they may be so affected.
Mr. H. Vernon Eney for Machen, respondent in No. 198.
I. The respondent in the case at bar is suing on a
coupon and he has not asked for "an amount in legal
tender currency in excess of the face amount of the"
coupon. He is not suing for any damages caused by the
refusal of the Government to pay the bond in gold on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Argument for Bondholders.

302 U. S.

redemption date; nor is he asking for any damages
caused by the refusal to pay the coupon in gold. rather
than in other currency. If the respondent were demanding $29.57 in legal tender currency, the Perry case might
be in .point, but since he is demanding only $17.50, it is
clearly not in point. This Court decided that inasmuch
as Perry had elected to surrender his bond and sue for
damages for breach of contract, but had failed to prove
damage, he could not recover. This Court did not decide that Perry's only remedy was to surrender his bond
and sue for damages for breach of contract. The question Whether the obligation of the United States to pay
interest ceased upon the giving of a notice of redemption
without any intention to pay in gold was not considered
by the Court. The only provision of the bond construed
by the Court was the clause requiring payment in gold.
The clauses as to the payment of interest, the meaning
of which is here presented to the Court for determination, were not even quoted or referred to in the opinion
of the Court in the Perry case, much less construed
by -it.
If payment in gold or an honest intention to pay in
gold, was a condition precedent to redemption, and we
strongly contend that it was, then the, respondent had a
right to refuse to surrender his bond except upon a strict
compliance with that condition and the question as to
whether or not the failure to comply therewith caused
him damage was entirely immaterial.
The Government reserved to itself an option to redeem its Liberty Bonds prior to maturity. It gave notice that it would redeem, not in accordance with its contract, but on its own terms. The plaintiff in the Perry
case elected to treat the Government as having exercised
its option and sued for damages for its failure to do so in
accordance with the terms of its contract. The respondent, on the other hand, as we contend he had every right

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Argument for Bondholders.

to do, elected to treat the Government ashaving failed
to exercise its option. The two cases are manifestly
quite different.
The contract is governed by the ordinary legal principles. The only substantial question in this case arises
out of the interpretation of the contract in suit and for
that reason it is necessary to keep always in mind three
important and fundamental rules of construction.
First, the contract should be so construed as to effectuate its general purpose, 'to give effect to the intention
of the parties, and to give their ordinary, meaning to the
words used.
Second, in cases of ambiguity, a contract should be most
strongly construed against its author.
. Third, when contracts are optional in respect to* one
party, they are strictly construed in favor of the party
bound and against the party who is not bound.
The power of the United States to issue callable bonds
or otherwise manage the public debt is not at issue.
II. The right to redeem depended upon the performance of two conditions, neither of which was in fact performed, although strict performance of each was required.
An exact compliance with the conditions attached to a
right of redemption is necessary.
As said by this Court in the Perry case "the terms of
the bond are explicit" (294 U. S. 348). It provides: "The
principal and interest of this bond shall be payable in
United States gold coin of the present standard of value."
The statute pursuaht to which the bonds were issued (40
Stat. 35) and the general law (U. S. C., Tit. 31, § 768)
likewise required payment of both principal and interest
in gold coin.
The provisions of the bond remain unaltered by the
Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, and the United States
are clearly obligated to pay the respondent $1,000.00 in
gold coin in order to redeem his bond.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

The provision requiring the giving of a notice of
redemption was the condition precedent. The requirement that the principal be paid in gold coin wasthe concurrent condition. Under the rule laid down by the cases
strict compliance with both conditions was required. But
the fact is that there was compliance with neither condition. Consequently, the respondent's bond was not
redeemed on June 15, 1935.
The notice issued on March 14, 1935, was not a valid
and bona fide notice such as was contemplated in the
bond.
The interest coupons did not become void except upon
actual redemption of the bond by payment in gold coin.
The question of whether or not the respondent would
sustain any damage by reason of the refusal of the United
States to pay the bond in gold coin is entirely immaterial.
III. Regardless of whether the respondent's bond be
construed as a "gold coin" contract or as a "gold value"
contract, payment of the principal, dollar for dollar, in
legal tender currency, would not be a fulfillment of the
obligation.
Payment in gold coin is required.
Even if it be assumed that the gold clause is a "gold
value" contract, the burden is upon the Government to
prove that it has tendered the equivalent of the gold coin,
and this it has not done.
IV. The Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, was unconstitutional in so far as it attempted to override the obligation created by Liberty Loan bonds.
Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by the

JUSTICE CARDOZO,

an-

QHIEF JUSTICE.

Three cases present a single question: Was a notice of
call issued by the Secretary of the Treasury for the redemption of Liberty Loan bonds effective to terminate

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Opinion of the Court.

the running of interest on the bonds from the designated
redemption date?
Petitioner in No. 42 is the owner of a $10,000 First
Liberty Loan 3 % bond of 1932-1947, serial number
6670. The bond was issued pursuant to the Act of April
24, 1917 (40 Stat. 35), and Treasury Department Circular
No. 78, dated May 14, 1917, and was purchased by petitioner in December, 1934, for $10,362.50 and accrued
interest. Its provisions, so far as material, read as
follows:
"The United States of America for value received
promises to pay to the bearer the sum of Ten Thousand
Dollars on the 15th day of June, 1947, with interest at
the rate of three and one-half per centum per annum payable semi-annually on December 15 and June 15 in each
year until the principal hereof shall be payable, upon
presentation and surrender of the interest coupons hereto
attached as they severally mature. The principal and
interest of this bond shall be payable in United States
gold coin of the present standard of value, . . . All or
any of the bonds of the series of which this is one may
be redeemed and paid at the pleasure of the United States
on or after June 15, 1932, or on any semi-annual interest
payment date or dates, at the face value thereof and interest accrued at the date of redemption, on notice published at least three months prior to the redemption date,
an. published thereafter from time to time during said
three months period as the Secretary of the Treasury
shall direct. . .
From tf 3 date of redemption designated in any such notice interest on the bonds called for
redemption shall cease, and all coupons thereon maturing
after said date shall be void. ..."
On March 14, 1935, the Secretary of the Treasury published a notice of call for the redemption on June 15, 1935,
of all the bonds so issued. "Public notice is hereby given:
1. All outstanding First Liberty Loan bonds of 1932-47
are hereby called for redemption on June 15, 1935. The

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

various issues of First Liberty Loan bonds (all of which
are included in this call) are as follows:
First Liberty Loan 31/ percent bonds of 1932-47 (First
312's), dated June 15, 1917; . . .
2. Interest on all such outstanding First Liberty Loan
bonds will cease on said redemption date, June 15, 1935."
Thereafter, on April 22, 1935, the Secretary of the
Treasury issued a circular (Departmbnt Circular, No.
535) prescribing rules for the redemption of First Liberty
Loan bonds, and providing, among other things, as follows: "Holders of any outstanding First Liberty Loan
bonds will be entitled to have such bonds redeemed and
paid at par on June 15, 1935, with interest in full to that
date. After June 15, 1935, interest will not accrue on
any First Liberty Loan bonds."
Nearly two years before the publication of the notice
of call Congress had adopted the Joint Resolution of
June 5, 1933 (48 Stat. 112) by which every obligation
purporting to be payable in gold or a particular kind of
coin or currency, or in an amount in money of the United
States measured thereby, was to be discharged upon payment, dollar for dollar, in any coin or currency which at
the time of payment was legal tender for public and
private debts. Nearly four weeks before the publication
of the notice of call, the validity of that Joint Resolution
had been the subject of adjudication by this court in the
Gold Clause Cases, Norman v.Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
294 U. S. 240, Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S. 317, and
Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330, all decided February 18, 1935. We may presume that the call was issued
with knowledge of those rulings.
About six months after the date designated for redemption, petitioner, on December 28, 1935, presented his bond
(with coupons due on and before June 15, 1935, detached)
to the Treasurer of the United States, and demanded the
redemption by the payment of 10,000 gold. dollars each

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Opinion of the Court.

containing 25.8 grains of gold nine-tenths fine, which was
the gold content of a dollar in 1917. The Treasurer refused to comply with that demand, but offered payment
of the face amount of the principal in legal tender coin
or currency other than gold or gold certificates. Petitioner declined to accept 'the tender and retained the
bond. Thereafter, on the-same day, petitioner presented
to the Treasurer of the United States, the interest coupon
for the six months period June 15 to December 15, 1935,
and demanded payment either in gold coin or legal tender
currency. The Treasurer refused payment on the ground
that the bond to which the coupon was attached had been
called for redemption on June 15, 1935.
An action followed in the Court of Claims, petitioner
resting his claim upon the interest coupon only, and limiting his demand to a recovery in current dollars.' The
Court gave judgment for the United States on the ground
that on the designated redemption date, all coupons for
later interest became void. Because of the important
interests, public and private, affected by the judgment,
a writ of certiorari was granted by this court.
Petitioner in No. 43 is the owner of a $50 Fourth
bond of 1933-1938, which it bought
Liberty Loan 4
on March 9, 1935. The bond was issued pursuant to the
Act of September 24, 1917 (40 Stat. 288) as amended,
and Treasury Department Circular, No. 121. It was to
mature on October 15, 1938, subject, however, to re1The Joint Resolution of Aug. 27, 1935 (49 Stat. 938, 939), with-

drawing the consent of the United States to suit where the claimant
asserted against it a right, privilege or power "upon any gold-clause
securities of the United States or for interest thereon" makes an
exception of any suit begun by January 1, 1936, as well as any proceeding "in which no claim, is made for payment or credit in an
amount in excess of the face or nominal value in dollars of the securities, coins or currencies of the United States involved in such proceeding." Petitioner -has brought himself within each branch of the
exception.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

demption on October 15, 1933 or later. The terms of
redemption are stated in Circular No. 121, which is
incorporated by reference into the bond itself. Six
months notice by the Secretary of the Treasury was required, "From the date of redemption designated in any
such notice, interest on bonds called for redemption shall
cease." On October 12, 1933, the Secretary of the Treasury published a notice of call for redemption on April
15, 1934, of certain bonds of this issue. The bond now
owned by petitioner is one of them. There were tenders
and refusals similar to those described already in the
statement of the other case. An action followed in--the
Court of Claims. Petitioner prayed for judgment in the
sum of $1.07, the amount of the interest coupon for the
six months period ending October 15, 1934.' The court
dismissed the claim and the case is here on certiorari.
Respondent in No. 198 is the owner of a $1,000 First
Liberty Loan 31/% bond of 1932-1947, No. 47084, purchased on March 22, 1933, for $1,011.25. This is the
same bond issue involved and described in No. 42. Respondent did not present his bond for payment either on
the redemption date or later. He did not present the
coupon which is the foundation of the suit. However, the
fact is stipulated that the Treasurer of the United States
and other fiscal agents have not at any time been directed
by the Secretary of the Treasury to redeem the bonds in
gold coin, but have been authorized and directed to redeem in legal tender currency. The fact is also stipulated
that there was a refusal to pay similar coupons for interest accruing after the date of redemption. Respondent
brought suit upon his coupon in the United States Dis'The coupon reads as follows: "The United States of America will
pay to bearer on October 15, 1934, at the Treasury Dephrtment,
Washington, or at a designated agency, $1.07, being six months'
interest then due on $50 Fourth Liberty Loan 4 % Gold Bonds of
1933-1938 unless called for previous redemption."

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Opinion of the Court.

trict Court for the District of Maryland. , The District
Court gave judgment in favor of the United States. The
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed and ordered a new trial (87 F. (2d) 594), declining to follow
the ruling which had been made by the Court of Claims.
The case is here on certiorari on the petition- of the Government.
Hereafter, for convenience of reference, the bondholder
in each of the three cases will be spoken of as a "petitioner," without adverting to the fact that in one of'
them (No. 198) he is actually a respondent.
First. The so-called redemption provisions of the bonds
are provisions for the acceleration of maturity at the
pleasure of the Government, and upon publication of the
notice of call for the period stated in the bonds the new
date became substituted for the old one as if there from
the beginning.
The contract is explicit. "From the date of redemption
designated in any such notice, interest on the bonds
called for redemption shall cease, and all coupons thereon
maturing after said date shall be void." The contract is
not to the effect that interest shall cease upon or after
payment. Cf. Sterling v. H. F. Watson Co., 241 Pa. 105,
110; 88 Atl. 297. The contract is that interest shall
cease upon the date "designated" for payment. The rule
is established that in the absence of contract or statute
evincing a contrary intention, interest does not run upon
claims against the Government even though there has
been default in the payment of the principal. U. S. ex rel.
Angarica v. Bayard, 127 U. S. 251; United States v.
North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211; United States v. North
American T. & T. Co., 253 U. S. 330, 336; SeaboardAir
Line Ry. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299, 304. The allowance of interest in eminent domain cases is only an apparent exception,. which has its origin in the Constitution.
Shoshone Tribe v. United States, 299 U. S. 476, 497;

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

United States v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163, 169. If the bonds
in suit had matured at the date of natural expiration, interest would automatically have end~d, whether the bonds
were paid or not. Maturity at a different and accelerated date does not make the obligation greater. In the
one case as in the other the interest obligation ends, and
this for the simple reason that the contract says that it
shall end. Upon non-payment of principal at the original
maturity, the bondholder, if unpaid, has a remedy by suit
to recover principal, with interest then overdue, but not
interest thereafter. Upon non-payment of principal at
the accelerated date, he has a like remedy, but no other.
Default, if there has been any, is as ineffective in one
situation as in the other to keep interest alive.
Petitioners insist, however, that the notices of call were
not adequate to accelerate maturity, with the result that
interest continued as if notice had not been given. This
surely is not so if we look to form alone and put extrinsic
facts aside. "All outstanding First Liberty Loan bonds
of 1932-47 are hereby called for redemption on June 15,
1935." "All outstanding Fourth Liberty Loan 41/4 per
cent bonds of 1933-38, hereinafter referred to as Fourth
41 4's, bearing the serial numbers which have been determined by lot in the manner prescribed by the Secretary
of the Treasury, are called for redemption on April 15,
1934, as follows," (the serial numbers being thereupon
stated). Nothing could be simpler, nothing more clearly
adequate, unless the notices are to be supplemented by
resort to extrinsic facts, the subject of judicial notice,
which neutralize their terms. Petitioners maintain that
such extrinsic facts exist. In their view, each of the two
forms of notice must be read as if it incorporated within
itself the Joint Resolution of June 5, 1933, and promised
payment in the manner called for by that Resolution, and
not in any other way. Thus supplemented, we are told,
the notice is a nullity, for the payment that it promises
is not the payment owing under the letter of the bond.

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Opinion of the Court.

The notice of call for the redemption of the bonds was
a notice, not a promise. The Secretary of the Treasury
was not under a duty to make any promise as to the
medium of payment. He did not undertake to make any.
The obligation devolving upon the United States at the
designated date was measured by the law, and the law
includes the Constitution as well as statutes and resolutions. The medium of payment lawful at the time of
issuing the call might be different from that prevailing
at the accelerated maturity. This might happen as a
consequence of an amendment of the statute. It might
happen through judicial decisions adjudging a statute
valid and equally through judicial decisions adjudging a
statute void. The interval between notice and redemption was three months in the case of the First Liberty
bonds; it was six months for the Fourth. The Secretary
of the Treasury understood these possibilities when he
sent out his notices for the redemption of the bonds in
suit. Indeed, Perry v. United States, supra, had already
been decided when bonds of the First Liberty issue were
made the subject of his call. In each form of notice the
implications of the call are clear. What the bondholders
were told was neither more nor less than this, that at the
accelerated maturity they would be entitled to payment
in such form and in such measure as would discharge the
obligation. The Secretary's beliefs or expectations as,to
what the proper form or measure would be at the appointed time are of no controlling importance, even if
they were shown. The obligation was not his; it was that
of the United States. His own beliefs and expectations
and even those of the Government might be changed or
frustrated by subsequent events. The bondholders had
the assurance that the bonds would be redeemed, and
they were entitled to no other. Whatever medium of payment would discharge the obligation if maturity had been
attained through the natural lapse of time would dis-

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

charge it as completely at an accelerated maturity. The
same money that would "pay" would serve also to "redeem." There is no reason to believe that the one situation was distinguished from the other in the minds of the
contracting parties. The sum total of existing lawConstitution and statutes and even controlling decisions,
if there were any-would say how much was due.
If this analysis is sound, it carries with it the conclusion that the call did not commit the Government either
expressly or by indirection to a forbidden medium of payment. The case for the petitioners, if valid, must rest
upon some other basis. A suggested basis is that the
existence of the Joint Resolution amounted without more
to an anticipatory breach, which made the notice of redemption void from its inception, if there was an election so to treat it, and this though the notice left the
medium of payment open. But the rule of law is settled
that the doctrine of anticipatory breach has in general no
application to unilateral contracts, and particularly to
such contracts for the payment of money only. Roehm
v. Horst, 178 U. S. 1, 17; Nichols.v. Scranton Steel Co.,
137 N. Y. 471, 487; 33 N. E. 561; Kelly v. Security Mutual Life Ins. Co., 186 N. Y. 16; 78 N. E. 584; Williston,
Contracts, rev. ed., vol. 5, § 1328; Restatement, Contracts, §§ 316, 318. Whatever exceptions have been recognized do not touch the case at hand. New York Life Ins.
Co. v. Viglas, 297 U. S. 672, 679, 680. Moreover, an anticipatory breach, if it were made out, could have no effect upon the right of the complaining bondholders to
postpone the time of payment to the date of natural
maturity. The sole effect, if any, would be to clothe them
with a privilege to declare payment overdue, which is
precisely the result that they are seeking to avoid. The
conclusion therefore follows that for the purpose of the
present controversy the breach would be immaterial even
if it were not unreal. But its unreality is the feature we

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Opinion of the Court.

prefer to dwell upon. The Government was not subject
to a duty to keep the content of the dollar constant during the period intervening between promise and performance. The erroneous assumption of the existence of
such a duty vitiates any argument in favor of the petitioners as to an anticipatory breach just as it vitiates
their argument as to the implications of the call. The
duty of the Government and its only one was to pay the
bonds when due. If the statutes had been amended before the date of redemption or if the courts had decided
that payment must be made in gold or in currency proportioned to the earlier content of the dollar, there is
little likelihood that any one would judge the efficacy
of the notice by the test of the law in force at the date
of its announcement.
The petitioners being dislodged from the position that
the notices of call were void in their inception are perforce driven to the stand that they became nullities. thereafter, when the statutes were unrepealed at the designated date. But at the designated date the accelerated
maturity was already an accomplished fact. The duty
of payment did not arise in advance of maturity. In
the very nature of things it presupposes maturity as a
preliminary condition. If there had been any different
intention, the bonds would have provided that interest
should cease upon payment or lawful tender, and not from
the date of redemption stated in the call. This is not
a case of mutual promises or covenants with performance
to be rendered on each side at a given time and place.
The obligees were not under a duty to do anything at
all at the accelerated maturity, though they were privileged, if they pleased, to present the bonds for payment.
Most of the learning as to dependent and independent
promises in the law of bilateral contracts (Loud v. Pomona Land & W. Co., 153 U. S. 564, 576) is thus beside
the mark. This is a case of a unilateral contract where

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1.937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the only act of performance, the payment of the bonds,
was one oWing from the obligor, and arose by hypothesis
upon maturity and not before. Let maturity, whether
normal or accelerated, be accepted as a postulate, and
it must follow that default in payment will not change
the date again. If the Government were to come forward with a tender a day or a week after the designated
date, the obligees would not be sustained in a rejection
of the payment on the theory that the original date
of maturity had been restored by the delay. If the obligees were to sue after the designated date, the Government would not be heard to say that because of the
default in payment, the proposed acceleration was imperfect and inchoate. As pointed out already, the bondholders became entitled, when once the notice had been
published, to a measure and medium of payment sufficient to discharge the debts. If the then existing Acts
of Congress were valid altogether, payment would be
sufficient if made in the then prevailing currency. 'If
the Acts were invalid, either wholly or in some degree,
there might be need of something more, how much being
dependent upon the operation of an implied obligation,
read into the bonds by a process of construction, to render an equivalent. Whatever the form and measure, the
bondholders had a remedy if they had chosen to invoke it.
We do not now determine the effect of a notice given in
bad faith with a preconceived intention to withhold performance later. Fraud vitiates nearly every form of conduct affected by its taint, but fraud has not been proved
and indeed has not been charged. There is no reason to
doubt that a Secretary of the Treasury who was willing
to give notice of redemption after knowledge of the decision in Perry v. United States understood that the obligation of the Government would be measured by the
Constitution and not by any statute, in so far as the two
might be found to be. in conflict. Never for a moment

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

Opinion of the Court.

was there less than complete submission to the supremacy
of law. At the utmost, there was honest mistake as to
rights and liabilities in a situation without precedent.
Fraud being eliminated, the case acquires a new clarity.
When we reach the heart of the matter, putting confusing
verbiage aside and fixing our gaze upon essentials, the obligation of the bonds can be expressed in a simplifying
paraphrase. "This bond shall be payable on June 15,
1947, or (upon three months notice by the Secretary of
the Treasury) on June 15, 1932, or any interest date
thereafter." That is what was meant. That in substance
is what was said. 3
No question of constitutional law is involved in the decision of these cases. No question is here as to the correctness of the decision in Perry v. United States, or as to
the meaning or effect of the opinion there announced.
All such inquiries are put aside as unnecessary to the
solution. of the problem now before us. Irrespective of the
validity or invalidity of the whole or any part of the
legislation of recent years devaluing the dollar, the maturity of the bonds in suit was accelerated by valid notice.
As a consequence of such acceleration the right to interest
has gone.
Second. The Secretary of the Treasury did not act in
excess of his lawful powers by issuing the calls without
further authority from the Congress than was conferred
by the statutes under which the bonds were issued.
'Important differences exist, and are not to be ignored, between the
retirement of shares of stock (Sterling v. H. F. Watson Co., supra;
Corbett v. McClintic-MarshallCorp., 17 Del.-Ch. 165; 151 Ad. 218),
and the accelerated payment of money obligations, and also between
the acceleration of the obligations of the Government and those of
other obligors. In the case of private obligations, a liability for
interest survives the acceleration of the debt and continues until
payment. In the case of Government obligations, interest does not
continue after maturity (in the absence of statute or agreement)
though payment is not made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
STONE, J., concurring.

302 U. S.

The argument to t~.e contrary is inconsistent with the
plain provisions of the statutes and also of the bonds
themselves.
There was also confirmation of his power in subsequent
enactments. Victory Liberty Loan Act, § 6, 40 Stat. 1311,
as amended, March 2, 1923, c. 179, 42 Stat. 1427, and
January 30, 1934, § 14 (b), 48 Stat. 344; Gold Reserve
Act of 1934, § 14, 48 Stat. 343; Act of February 4, 1935,
§§ 2, 4, 49 Stat. 20.
Third. In issuing the calls, the Secretary of the Treasury was not limited by the Act of March 18, 1869 (R. S.
3693; 16 Stat. 1) which in its day placed restrictions upon
the redemption by the Government of interest-bearing
bonds.
The aim of that statute was the protection of holders
of United States obligations not bearing interest, the
"greenbacks" of that era. "The bonds of the United
States are not to be-paid before maturity, while the noteholders are to be kept without their redemption, unless
the note-holders are able at the same time to convert their
notes into coin." Statement of Robert C. Schenck, one
of the House Managers, Congressional Globe, March 3,
1869, p. 1879. Upon the resumption of specie payments
in 1879 the aim of the statute was achieved, and its
restrictions are no longer binding.
The judgments in Nos. 42 and 43 should be affirmed,
and that in No. 198 reversed.
Nos. 42 and 43, affirmed.
No. 198, reversed.

Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER. See post, p. 364.

SUTHERLAND

MR. JUSTICE STONE.
I concur in the result.
I think the court below, in the Machen case, 87 F.
(2d) 594, correctly interpreted the bonds involved in

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

STONE,' J.,

concurring.

these cases as reserving to the government the privilege
of accelerating their maturity by paying them or standing ready to pay them on any interest date according
to their tenor, and upon giving the specified notice fixing
the "date of redemption." The words "redeemed" and
:'redemption" as used in the bonds 1 point the way in
which the privilege was to be exercised as plainly as when
they are written in the bonds of a private lender. Lynch
v. United States, 292 U. S. 571, 579; cf. Perry v. United
States, 294 U. S. 330, 352. If payment, or readiness to
pay the bonds in accordance with their terms was essential to "redemption," the one or the other, equally with
the required notice, was a condition of acceleration.
The obligation of the bonds, read in the light of long
established custom and of our own decision in Holyoke
Water Power Co. v. American Writing Paper Co., 300
U. S.324, 336, decided since the Perrycase, must, I think,
be taken to be a "gold value" undertaking to pay in gold
dollars of the specified weight and fineness or their equivalent in lawful currency. Compare Norman v. B. & 0. R.
Co., 294 U. S. 240, 302. Feist v. Socigtg Intercommunale
Belge, &c., L. R. [1934] A. C. 172, 173. The suppression
of the use of gold as money, and the restriction on its
export and of its use in international exchange, by acts
'The redemption clause is as follows:
"The principal and interest of this bond shall be payable in United
States gold coin of the present standard of value, . . .All or any

of the bonds of the series of which this is one may be redeemed
and paid at the pleasure of the United States on or after June 15,
1932, or on any semi-annual interest payment date or dates, at
the face value thereof and interest accrued at the date of redemption, on notice published at least three months prior to the redemption date, and published thereafter from time to time during said
three months period as the Secretary of the Treasury shall direct. ...
From the date of redemption designated in any sach notice interest
on the bonds called for redemption shall cease, and all coupons
thereon maturing after said date shall be void. ..."

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
SoNE, J., condurring.

302 U. S.

of Congress, 48 Stat. 1, 337, did not-relieve the government of its obligation to pay the stipulated gold value
of the bonds in lawful currency. Hence it has not complied, or ever stood ready to comply, with one of the two
conditions upon performance of which the bonds "may
be redeemed and paid" in advance of their due datethe payment to the bondholder of the currency equivalent
of the stipulated gold value.
It will not do to say that performance of this condition can be avoided or dispensed with by the adoption
of any form of words in the notice. Nor can it be said
that a declaration, in the notice, of intention to pay whatever can be collected in court, see the Perry case, supra,
354, is equivalent to a notice of readiness to pay the currency equivalent of the gold value stipulated to be paid,
or that a statement of purpose to pay what will constitutionally satisfy the debt suffices to accelerate although
no payment of the currency equivalent is made or contemplated or is permitted by the statutes. It follows that
judgment must go for the bondholders unless the Joint
Resolution of Congress of June 5,.1933, 48 Stat. 112, requiring the discharge of all gold obligations "dollar for
dollar" in lawful currency, and declaring void as against
public policy all provisions of such obligations calling for
gold payments, is to be pronounced constitutional.
Decision of the constitutional question being in my
opinion now unavoidable, I am moved to state shortly
my reasons for the view that government bonds do not
stand on any different footing from those of private individuals and that the Joint Resolution in the one case,
as in the other, was a constitutional exercise of the power
to regulate the value of money. Compare Norman v.
B. & O. R. Co., supra, 304, 309. Without elaborating the'
point, it is enough for present purposes to say that the
undertaking of the United States to pay its obligations in
gold, if binding, operates to thwart the exercise of the

SMYTH v. UNITED"STATES.
329

STONE, J., concurring:

constitutional power in the same manner and to the
same degree pro tanto as do bonds issued by private individuals, Norman v. B. & 0. R. Co., supra, 311 et seq.,
except insofar as the government resorts to its sovereign
immunity from suit. Had the undertaking been given
any force in the Gold Clause Cases, or the meaning which
we have since attributed to it when used in private contracts, it would, if valid and but for the immunity from
suit, have defeated the government policy of suspension
of gold payments and devaluation of the dollar. Compare the Norman case, supra, with the concurring memorandum in Perry v. United States, supra, 360-361.
The very fact of the existence of such immunity, which
admits of the creation of only such government obligations as are enforceable at the will of the sovereign, is
persuasive that the power to borrow money "on the credit"
of the United States cannot be taken to be a limitation
of the power to regulate the value of money. Looking
to the purposes for which that power is conferred upon
the national government, its exercise, if justified at all,
is as essential in the case of bonds of the national government as it is in the case of bonds of states, municipalities and private individuals. See Norman v. B. & 0. R.
Co., supra, 313 et seq. Its effect on the bondholders is
the same in every case. Compare Norman v. B. & 0. R.
Co., supra, with Nortz v. United States, 294 U. S. 317.
No reason of public policy or principle of construction
of the instrument itself has ever been suggested, so far
as I am aware, which would explain why the power to
regulate the currency, which is not restricted by the
Fifth Amendment in the case of any obligation, is controlled, in the case of government bonds, by the borrowing clause which imposes no obligation which the government is not free to discard at any time through its
immunity from suit. I cannot say that the borrowing
clause which is without force to compel the sovereign to

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
MCREYNOLmS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

pay nevertheless renders the government powerless to
exercise the specifically granted authority to regulate the
value of money with which payment is to be made.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

concurring.

Agreeing altogether with the opinion of MR. JUSTICE
CARDoZO, which deals only with the construction of the
contract and the rights flowing from the notice, I find
it unnecessary and therefore inappropriate to express
any opinion as to the validity of the Joint Resolution of
1933 or other acts of legislation devaluing the dollar.
MR.

JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,

dissenting.*

and I
cannot acquiesce in the conclusion approved by the majority of the Court. In our view it gives effect to an act
of bad faith and upholds patent repudiation. Its wrongbetokened by the circumlocution presented in
fulness is"
defense.
The suit is to recover in currency of today the face
value of a past due coupon originally attached to a three
and one-half per cent bond of the United States issued in
1917 and payable 1947-nothing else.
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, to which
little can be added, sets out the important facts and adequately supports its judgment.
In 1917, when gold coins contained 25.8 grains to the
dollar, the United States obtained needed funds by selling coupon bonds-among them the one here involved.
They solemnly agreed to pay the holder one thousand
dollars on June 15, 1947, with semi-annual interest, in
"gold coin of the present standard of value" subject to
the following option :-"All or any of the bonds of the
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

This opinion was entitled in only one of the three cases, No. 198.

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

McRtYNOLDs, J., dissenting.

series of which this is one may be redeemed' and paid at
the pleasure of the United States on or after June 15,
1932, on any semi-annual interest payment date or dates,
at the face value thereof and interest accrued at the date
of redemption, on notice published at least three months
prior to the redemption date. . . . From the date of
redemption designated in any such notice, interest on the
bonds called for redemption shall cease, and all coupons
thereon maturing after such date shall be void."
The promise is to pay one thousand dollars in gold
coin, 1917 standard. The face value of the bond is one
thousand gold dollars. The option reserved is to redeem
and pay after notice by giving the holder that number
of such dollars. The notice required is nothing less than
a declaration of bona fide purpose to redeem or pay off
the obligation as written-no other right was reserved.
A notice divorced from that purpose could amount to
nothing more than a dishonest effort to defeat the contract and defraud the creditor. It would not come within
the fair intendment of the contract; would not, in truth,
designate a "date of redemption"; and, therefore, could
not hasten the maturity of the principal or cause interest
to cease. All this seems obvious, if respect is to be accorded to the ordinary rules of construction and principles
of law governing contracts.
The obligation of the bond was declared by this Court
in Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330, 351, 353, 354,
to be a pledge of the credit of the United States and an
assurance of payment as stipulated which Congress had
no power to withdraw or ignore. "The United States
are as much bound by their contracts as are individuals.
If they repudiate their obligations, it is as much repudia'Redeem-5. To buy off, take up or remove the obligation of, by
payment or rendering of (ome consideration; as to redeem bank

notes with coin.
Webster's New International Dictionary.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

tion, with all the wrong and reproach that term implies,
as it would be if the repudiator had been a State or a
municipality or a citizen." "The'powerof the Congress
to alter or repudiate the substance of its own engagements when it has borrowed money under the authority
which the Constitution confers" was there denied. "The
binding quality of the promise of the United States is
of the essence of the credit which is so pledged. Having
this power to authorize the issue of definite obligations
for the payment of money borrowed, the Congress has
not been vested with authority to alter or destroy those
obligations. The fact that the United States may. not be
sued without its consent is a matter of procedure which
does not affect the legal and binding character of its
contracts. While the Congress is under no duty to provide remedies through the courts, the contractual obligation still exists and, despite infirmities of procedure,
remains binding upon the conscience of the sovereign."
The right to redeem and pay the bond at face value
after notice was reserved-nothing else. Did the United
States give notice of a bona fide purpose so to redeem
and pay? If not they cannot properly claim to have
exercised their option to mature the obligation. That
they did not honestly comply with this necessary preliminary becomes obvious upon consideration of the
circumstances and pertinent legislation.
There is no question here concerning the Government
committing itself through notice sent out by the Secretary of the Treasury expressly or indirectly to a forbidden medium of payment. No question of an anticipatory
breach of contract. The Government simply has not in
good faith complied with a condition precedent. It has
never given notice of purpose to pay the obligation according to its terms. Its suggestion was to make payment of another kind.
The-Circuit Court of Appeals well said-

SMYTH v. UNITED STATES.
329

367

MCRYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

"The notice calling the. bond for payment was in the
usual form; and there is no question but that it would
have had the effect of stopping the running of interest
and avoiding the coupons maturing after June 15, 1935,
except for the legislation of Congress affecting the currency, which limited the power of the Secretary of the
Treasury and must be read into the notice. At the time
of the issuance of the bond the gold dollar was the standard of value in our monetary system and was defined by
law as consisting of twenty-five and eight tenths grains
of gold nine-tenths fine. Act of Mar. 14, 1900, c. 41, sec.
1, 31 Stat. 45, 31 U. S. C. A. 314. And the statutes provided for the use of gold coin as a medium of exchange.
R. S. 3511. By Presidential Proclamation of January 31,
1934, issued under the act of May 12, 1933 (38 Stat. 52,
53), as amended by the act of January 30, 1934 (48 Stat.
342), the content of the dollar was reduced to 15-5/21
grains of gold nine-tenths fine; and, at the time of the
publication of the notice calling the bond for payment,
gold coin had been withdrawn from circulation, its possession had been prohibited under penalty, and payment
in gold coin by the United States had been prohibited.
48 Stat. 337, 340. By joint resolution of June 5, 1933
(48 Stat. 112, 113), the payment of gold clause bonds in
any legal tender currency 'dollar for dollar' had been authorized; and it was paper currency based on the 15-5/21
grain dollar, and nothing else, that was offered in payment of gold clause bonds which were called for payment
by the Treasury. The notice of redemption calling the
bond in question for payment was equivalent, therefore,
to a notice that the United States elected to redeem the
bond in paper currency based on a 15-5/21 grain dollar,
notwithstanding that it was payable in gold coin based on
a 25-8/10 grain dollar and might be redeemed only at its
face value. . ..
"It is manifest that when the bonds were. payable in
gold coin of the standard of value at the time of issue,

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

i. e., 25-8/10 grains of gold to, the dollar, a proposal to
redeem them in paper money based upon 15-5/21 grains
of gold to the dollar was not a proposal to redeem them
at face value; and a notice that the government would
redeem them on such basis, which is what the notice in
question means when considered as it must be in connection with the legislation binding upon the Secretary of
the Treasury, was not such a notice as the bonds prescribed for the exercise of the option 'retained by the
government."
We are not now concerned with the power of the
United States to discharge obligations at maturity in depreciated currency or clipped coin. Did they cause respondent's bond to mature before the ultimate due date
by proper exercise of the option reserved when they. sent
out a notice which in effect stated that payment vould
not be made as provided by the bond, but otherwise?
The answer ought not to be difficult where men anxiously
uphold the doctrine that a contractual obligation "remains binding upon the conscience of the sovereign" and
reverently fix their gaze on the Eighth Commandment.
We concur in the views tersely expressed in the following paragraph excerpted from the opinion below"No amount of argument can obscure the real situation.
It is this: the government has promised to pay the bonds
in question in gold coin of the standard of value prevailing in 1917. -By their terms, it is permitted to redeem
them only by paying them at their face value. It is proposing to redeem them, not by paying them at that face
value but in paper money worth only about 59% thereof.
The notice which it has issued means this and nothing
else. Such a notice is not in accordance with the condition of redemption specified in the bond and consequently does not stop the running of interest or avoid
the coupons."
The challenged judgment was correct and should be
affirmed

