300

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllibus.

302 U. S.

the state can act, restraint of their action, which the bill
of complaint prays, is restraint of state action, and the
suit is in substance one against the state which the
Eleventh Amendment forbids. We do not pass on the
construction of the Interpleader Act or its applicability
in other respects.
Unlike that in Ex parte Young, supra,and in the many
cases which have followed it, the present suit is not
founded on the asserted unconstitutionality of any state
statute and the consequent want of lawful authority for
official action taken under it. In City Bank Farmers
Trust Co. v. Schnader, 291 U. S. 24, on which petitioner
relies, it was held that the bill of complaint stated a cause
of action in equity to enjoin a state official from proceeding to assess and collect an inheritance tax upon chattels
alleged to have no tax situs within the state. The objection that the suit was one against the state within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment was not urged or
considered on the appeal to this Court.
Affirmed.

NATURAL GAS PIPELINE CO. v. SLATTERY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 230. Argued November 8, 1937.--Decided December

6, 1937.

1. A Delaware corporation, engaged in piping and selling natural gas

in interstate commerce, sold and delivered gas in Illinois, under a
long term contract, to an Illinois corporation which, in turn, sold
it in that State to distributing companies. All the stock of this
local gas company and many of the outstanding shares of the
pipeline company were owned by a local investment company.
Two of the eight or nine directors of. the pipeline company at all
times since its incorporation had been directors of the investment
company or of corporations wholly controlling it or the local gas
company, through stock ownership. The president of the local gas

NATURAL GAS CO. v. SLATTERY.
300

301

Syllabus.

company was president and director of the investment company
and a director of the pipeline company; and a director of the local
gas company and of the investment company was vice-president
and director of the pipeline company. An Illinois commission, in
a proceeding under the Illinois Public Utility Act to determine
whether the rates of the local gas company should be .reduced,
found, on evidence, that the pipeline company-not a party to the
proceeding-was an "affiliate" of the local gas company, within the
meaning of that Act, and that, in order to fix reasonable rates
for the sale of gas by the local gas company, inquiry was necessary
into operating charges, including the cost of gas purchased from
the pipeline company. Accordingly it made an order directing
the pipeline company to make available for examination by the
commission all of its accounts and records relating to transactions
between it and the local gas company, and to file with the commission a report of the cost of property used in, and a statement
of income and expenses in connection with, supplying gas to that
company; or, in the alternative, that it report to the commission
a statement of the cost of all properties used by it in the business
of transporting and selling natural gas, together with a statement
of the income and expenses of such operations.
Held, that the Illinois statute is not unconstitutional in so far
as it demands access to books and accounts of the pipeline company and requires production of the information which the order
seeks. P. 306.
2. The reasonableness of the price at which a public utility company
buys the product which it sells is an appropriate subject of investigation when the resale rates are under consideration, and any relationship between the buyer and seller which tends to prevent arm's
length dealing may have an important bearing on the reasonableness of the selling price. P. 307.
3. The Constitution does not require that such an inquiry be limited
to cases where common control is secured through ownership of
a majority of voting stock. P. 307.
4. Common management of corporations through officers or directors,
or common ownership of a substantial amount, though less than a
majority, of their stock, gives such indication of unified control as to
call for close scrutiny of a contract between them whenever the
reasonableness of its terms is the subject of inquiry. P. 308.
5. An interstate pipeline company can not be bound by an order
of a state commission, with respect to its own rates, or its contract with a local distributor, in a proceeding concerning the

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

distributor's rates to which the pipeline company is not a party.
P. 308.
6. It is not to be presumed that information sought by a state commission for which there is a probable legitimate use, will be put
to an unconstitutional use. P. 309.
7. Application for preliminary injunction challenging the powers
of a state commission under the state law, the commerce clause,
and the Fourteenth Amendment, to require reports from a corporation necessitating great expense, held premature, since recourse could have been had to the commission itself for a stay
and a modification without subjecting the applicant to statutory
penalties. P. 309.
8. The rule that a suitor must exhaust his administrative remedies
before seeking the extraordinary relief of a court of equity, is of
especial force when resort is had to the federal courts to restrain
the action of state officers, and the objection has been taken by the
trial court. P. 310.
9.. The extent to which a federal court may relax this rule where the
order of the administrative body is assailed in its entirety, resti
in sound discretion; but there are cogent reasons for requiring
resort in the first instance to the administrative tribunal when
the particular method by which it has chosen to exercise authority is also attacked, for there is the possibility of removal of such
issues from the case by modification of its order. P. 311.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three

judges denying a preliminary injunction.
Mr. Douglas F. Smith, with whom Messrs. William P.
Sidley and J. J. Hedrick were on the brief, for appellant.

Mr. Harry R. Booth, with whom Messrs. Otto Kerner,
Attorney General of Illinois, Montgomery S. Winning,

James G. Skinner, W. Robert Ming, Jr., and Abe L. Stein
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal presents the question whether the court
below rightly denied an application for an interlocutory

NATURAL GAS CO. v. SLATTERY.
300

Opinion of the Court.

injunction restraining appellees, members of the Illinois
Commerce Commission, from enforcing an order by which
appellant was directed to open its records and accounts
to inspection by the commission and to furnish certain
statistical data for use in a proceeding pending before it.
The proceeding was brought to fix rates charged for gas
sold in Illinois by the Chicago District Pipe Line Company,, an affiliated corporation.
Appellant, a Delaware corporation, sells in Illinois
natural gas, which it transports through its pipe lines
from Oklahoma to points in Illinois where, pursuant to a
long term contract, it delivers the gas to the District
Company, an Illinois corporation. The latter is engaged
in intrastate commerce in Illinois where it sells the gas,
which it purchases from appellant, to other companies
which in turn distribute the gas to consumers within the
state. The rates of the District Company are subject to
regulation by the commission, as provided by the Illinois
Public Utilities Act. All its shares of stock are owfied
by the Natural Gas Investment Company, an Illinois
corporation, which owns 26.63% of the outstanding shares
of appellant. Of the eight or nine directors of appellant,
at all times since its incorporation, two have been members of the board of directors of either the Investment
Company or of corporations wholly controlling it or the
District Company, through stock ownership. The commission has found that the president of the District Company is president and director of the Investment Company and a director of appellant, and that a director of
the District Company and of the Investment Company
is a vice-president and director of appellant.
Section 8a (2) of the Illinois Public Utilities Act, Ill.
Rev. Stat. 1937, c. 111%, § 8a, gives the commission
jurisdiction over "affiliated interests having transactions,
other than ownership of stock and receipt of dividends

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

thereon, with public utilities under the jurisdiction of
the Commission, to the extent of access to all accounts
and records of such affiliated interests relating to such
transactions . . . and to the extent of authority to require such reports with respect to such transactions to be
submitted by such affiliated interests, as the Commission may prescribe." The subsection defines "affiliated
interests" as meaning:
"(c) Every corporation, ten per centum or more of
whose voting capital stock is owned by any person or
corporation owning ten per centum or more of the voting
capital stock of such public utility, . . .
"(f) Every corporation which has one or more elective
officers or one or more directors in common with such
public utility." 1
In November, 1936, the commission, in the exercise of
its authority under the Act, began a proceeding to which
the District Company was, and appellant was not, a
party, to determine whether the rates charged by the
District Company should be reduced. After hearing evidence, the commission found that appellant was an affiliate of the District Company and that in order to fix reasonable rates for the sale of gas by the latter, inquiry was
'Section 8 (a) (2) also provides that "affiliated interests" mean:
"(g) Every corporation or person which the Commission may determine as a matter of fact after investigation and hearing is actually
exercising any substantial influence over the policies and actions of
such public utility even though such influence is not based upon
stock holding, stockholders, directors or officers to the extent specified in this section.
"(h) Every person or corporation who or which the Commission
may determine as a matter of fact after investigation and hearing
is actually exercising such substantial influence over the policies
and actions of such public utility in conjunction with one or more
other corporations or persons with which or whom they are related
by ownership or blood relationship or by action in concert that
together they are affiliated with such public utility within the meaning
of this section even though no one of them alone is so affiliated."

NATURAL GAS CO. v. SLATTERY.
300

305

Opinion of the Court.

necessary into its operating charges including the cost of
gas purchased from appellant. The commission accordingly made an order, the validity of which is assailed here,
directing that appellant make available for examinatbn
by the commission all of its accounts and records .relating to transactions between it and the District Company. It further ordered that appellant file with the
commission a report of the cost of property used in, and
a statement of income and expenses in connection with,
supplying gas to the District Company; or, in the alternative, that it report to the commission a statement of the
cost of all properties used by it in the business of transporting and selling natural gas, together with a statement of the income and expenses of such operations.
In the present suit in equity, brought in the District
Court for northern Illinois, petitioner prayed that appellees be enjoined from enforcing the order and that
it be set aside as made without authority of state law,
and on the further grounds that the statute and order
are invalid because they violate the commerce, equal
protection and due process clauses of the Federal Constitution. The case comes here on appeal, Judicial Code,
§ 266, from the order of the district court of three judges,
which denied an interlocutory injunction. It held that
appellant had failed to show that the order infringed any
constitutional immunity or that appellant would suffer
irreparable injury by reason of the action of the commission.
The court thought that the commission, in conducting
the pending rate proceeding, and in investigating the
reasonableness of the operating costs of the District
Company, was entitled to the information it sought,
which might be disclosed by an examination of appellant's accounts and records; that for that purpose the
commission would have been entitled to compel their
production by subpoena; and that as appellant had failed

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

to present to the commission any objection to the breadth
of the order, or to the use of an order rather than a
subpoena to secure the information, no case was made
for the interposition of a court of equity.
First. The appellant assails the statute as unconstitutional so far as it authorizes the commission to obtain
from appellant's books and records any information bearing upon the reasonableness of the price of gas sold to
the4 District Company. Appellant recognizes that the
abspce of "arm's length bargaining" between contracting
affiliates is sufficient to support such an inquiry, and
may be an adequate ground, in fixing the reasonable
rates of a public utility company, for disregarding the
price at which it purchases the commodity distributed.
See Western Distributing Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
285 U. S. 119. But it is said that- here the statute infringes the commerce clause and the Fourteenth Amendment because it authorizes the inquiry without proof of
common control or want of arm's length bargaining; that
the Constitution forbids all inquiry as to the relations
between the two companies and the prices at which the
gas is sold by one to the other, in advance of proof of
their common control or other evidence that the bargaining was not at arm's length. Assuming, without deciding, that the breadth of this attack relieves appellant
of the necessity of applying to the commission to vacate
its order before seeking equitable relief in the federal
courts, see Hollis v. Kutz, 255 U. S. 452; cf. United States
v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161, 167, we think that the objection is not substantial.
We can find in the commerce clause and the Fourteenth
Amendment no basis for saying that any person is immune from giving information appropriate to a legiglative or judicial inquiry. A foreign corporation engaged
exclusively in inteistate commerce within the state is
amenable to process there as are citizens and corporations

NATURAL GAS CO. v. SLATTERY.
300

Opinion of the Court.

engaged in local business. International Harvester Co.
v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579. It is similarly subject to
garnishment and writ of attachment. Davis v. Cleveland,
C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 217 U. S. 157. It can be deemed
to be no less subject, on command of a state tribunal, to
the duty to give information appropriate to&an inquiry
pending there. The present investigation is not a regulation of interstate commerce and it burdens the commerce no more than the obligation owed by all, even
those engaged in interstate commerce, to comply with
local laws and ordinances, which do not impede the free
flow of commerce, where Congress has not acted. Smith
v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Red "C" Oil Co. v. Board of
Agriculture, 222 U. S. 380; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 402-412; Clyde Mallory Lines v. Alabama ex
rel. State Docks Comm'n, 296 U. S. 261, and cases cited.
This Court has often recognized that the reasonableness of the price at which a public utility company buys
the product which it sells is an appropriate subject of
investigation when the resale rates are-under consideration, and that any relationship between the buyer and
seller which tends to prevent arm's length dealing may
have an important bearing on the reasonableness of the
selling price. United Fuel & Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 278 U. S. 300, 320; Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co.,
28.2 U. S. 133, 144; Western Distributing Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, supra; 124; Dayton Power & L. Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290. We have not
said, nor do we perceive any ground for saying, that the
Constitution requires such an inquiry to be limited to
those cases where common control of the two corporations
is secured through ownership of a majority of their voting stock. We are not unaware that, as the statute recognizes, 2 there are other methods of control of a corpora'See footnote 1, supra.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

tion than through such ownership. Common management of corporations through officers or directors, or common ownership of a substantial amount, though less than
a majority of their stock, gives such indication of unified
control as to call for close scrutiny of a contract between
them whenever the reasonableness of its terms is the subject of inquiry. In these circumstances appellant can
hardly object to the attempted inquiry into the fairness
of the price. Cf. Corsicana National Bank v. Johnson,
251 U. S. 68, 90, and cases cited; Geddes v. Anaconda Copper Mining Co., 254 U. S. 590, 599; Western Distributing
Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, supra, 124; Globe Woolen
Co. v. Utica Gas & Elec. Co., 224 N. Y. 483; 121 N. E. 78.
The price itself may be found to be so exorbitant as to
persuade that the bargaining was not at arm's length.
Corsicana National Bank v. Johnson, supra. We cannot say that the Illinois statute is subject to any constitutional infirmity in so far as it demands access to the
books and accounts of appellant or requires production
of the information which the order seeks.
Second. Appellant also challenges the order of the
commission as a first step in the direction of unconstitutional action. But appellant is not a party to the pending
proceeding, whose ultimate concern is the rates of the
District Company. In that proceeding the commission
can make no order binding on appellant with respect to
its own rates or its contract. Cf. State Corporation
Comm'n v. Wichita Gas Co., 290 U. S. 561. There is no
contention that the commission threatens to make any
order modifying or cancelling either. The statute does
not prescribe the effect which the commission is to give
to the information sought. Assuming without deciding
that it cannot rightly be made the basis for disregarding
the price at which appellant sells gas to the District
Company, unless as the result of the inquiry there ap-

NATURAL GAS CO. v. SLATTERY.
300

Opinion of the Court.

pears to be in some form an effective single control of
the two companies, we cannot also assume that the commission will arbitrarily make such use of it in fixing the
District Company's rates. It will be time enough to
challenge such action of the commission when it is taken
or at least threatened, First National Bank v. Albright,
208 U. S. 548; DaltonAdding Machine Co. v. State Corporation Comm'n, 236 U. S.699, and to consider whether
appellant has standing to make the challenge. The commission is not to be enjoined from seeking information
whose probable usefulness is established, as it is in this
case, by the statutory prerequisite of partial community
of management or stock ownership.
Third. Appellant urges that, in requiring statistical
reports, the expense of whose preparation is said to be
great, the order transcends statutory authority, or exercises it so arbitrarily as to place an unconstitutional
burden on commerce and infringe the Fourteenth Amendment. It is said that equity alone can afford adequate
relief because of the cumulative penalties for failure to
comply with the order. See §§ 76 and 77 of the Act.
We have no occasion to consider the merits of these objection.s. It suffices to say that the statute itself provides an adequate administrative remedy which appellant
has not sought. By §§ 64 and 65 of the Act the commission was authorized on its own motion or on application
of appellant to order a hearing to ascertain whether the
present order was "improper, unreasonable or contrary to
law." Section 67 authorizes the commission at any time,
upon proper notice and hearing, to "rescind, alter or
amend any . . . order or decision made by it." We see
no reason, and appellant suggests none, for rejecting the
trial court's ruling that the commission, if asked, could
have modified its order, or for concluding that the commission was without authority to suspend or postpone

' 310

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the date of the effective operation of the order so as to
avoid the running of penalties, pending application for its
modification. Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286 U. S.
461, 470; 287 U. S. 346.
As the Act imposes penalties of from $500 to $2,000 a
day for failure to comply with the order, any application of the statute subjecting appellant to the risk of the
cumulative penalties pending an attempt to test the validity of the order in the courts and for, a reasonable time
after decision, would be a denial of due process, Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 147; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Pucker, 230 U. S. 340, 349; see Wadley Southern Ry. Co.
v. Georgia,235 U. S. 651, 659, but no reason appears why
appellant could not have asked the commission to postpone the date of operation of the order pending application to the commission for modification. Refusal of postponement would have be"n the occasion for recourse to
the courts. Compare Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S. 200, 293, with Prentis v. Atlantic Coast
Line, 211 U. S..210; Ex parte Young, supra, 156. But appellant did not ask postponement.
A temporary injunction was not necessary to protect
appellant from penalties pending final determination of
the suit. The commission agreed not to enforce the order
before the decision of the lower court on the application
for interlocutory injunction. In order to give appellant
opportunity to appeal here the district court stayed, for
thirty days, its order denying an injunction, and by an
order of a Justice of this Court the operation of the
commission's order and the running of penalties were enjoined pending the disposition of the cause here.
The rule that a suitor must exhaust his administrative remedies before seeking the extraordinary relief of
a court of equity, Goldsmith v. U. S. Board of Tax Appeals, 270 U. S.117, 123; Porter v. Investors Syndicate,
supra; Petersen Baking Co. v. Brvan. 290 U. S. 570,

NATURAL GAS CO. v. SLATTERY.
300

Opinion of the Court.

575; see United States v. Illinois CentralR. Co., 291 U. S.
457, 463, 464-466, is of especial force when resort is had
to the federal courts to restrain the action of state
officers, Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U. S. 521, 525-526;
Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286 U. S. 461; 287 U. S.
346; cf. Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 290 U. S. 264, 271; Di Giovanni v. Camden
Fire Ins. Assn., 296 U. S. 64, and the objection has been
taken by the trial court. Matthews v. Rodgers, supra.
The extent to which a federal court may rightly relax
the rule where the order of the administrative body is
assailed in its entirety, rests in the sound discretion which
guides exercise of equity jurisdiction. Hollis v. Kutz,
supra; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co.,
265 U. S. 274, 282; cf. United States v. Sing Tuck, supra.
But there are cogent reasons for requiring resort in the
first instance to the administrative tribunal when the
particular method by which it has chosen to exercise authority, a matter peculiarly within its competence, is
also under attack, for there is the possibility of removal of these issues from the case by modification
of its order. Here the commission had authority to
pass upon every question raised by the appellant and
was able to modify the order. In such circumstances
the trial court is free to withhold its aid entirely until
administrative remedies have been exhausted.
Affirmed.

