UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS, EXECUTRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 48.

Argued December 8, 9, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. The taxpayer made timely claim for overpayment of income
tax due to failure in the return to deduct for loss on worthless
shares of certain corporations. After expiration of the two year
limitation (Revenue Act of 1928), he sought to amend by including
another overpayment for the same year which resulted from
returning as dividends payments received from another corporation, which were not dividends and should have been reported
as giving rise to a capital gain, of less amount. Held:
(1) That the second claim was not properly an amendment of
the first, but a separate claim on a new and unrelated ground,
and was barred by the statute. P. 520.
(2) The fact that the first claim, though for a specific transaction, contained also a "general relief" demand for any other
or greater sum which might be found due to the taxpayer, could
not justify the amendment. P. 524.
(3) Neither could it be upheld because the Commissioner,
before the statute ran, had learned from the corporation which
had made the payments that they were not dividends but the
proceeds of a sale of shares owned by the taxpayer, and had so
informed the revenue agent, it not appearing that, prior to the
attempted amendment, the Commissioner knew that the taxpayer
was a shareholder in that company or knew that the reported
receipt of dividends had reference to such payments. P. 526.
2. In deciding whether a tax-refund claim is subject to an amendment, the analogies of pleading are helpful, but they will not be so
followed as to ignore the necessities and realities of administrative
procedure. P. 523.
A claim which demands relief upon one asserted fact situation,
and asks an investigation of the elements appropriate to such
relief, can not be amended to discard that basis and invoke action
requiring examination of matters previously not germane.
84 Ct. Cls. 460; 17 F. Supp. 980, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 664, to review a judgment sustain-

ing a claim based upon an overpayment of income tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

Mr. Norman D. Keller, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Edward J. Ennis were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. Fred R. Seibert for respondent.
By leave of Court, Mr. Percy W. Phillips filed a brief
as amicus curiae, in support of respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case we are called upon to determine whether
a claim for refund of income tax, asking repayment of a
definite sum upon a specific ground, is susceptible of
untimely amendment to recover a greater sum on a new
and unrelated ground.
The respondent, on behalf of the estate she represented,
paid the income tax shown to be due by her return,
which exhibited an item of gross income of $110,891 as
"dividends from domestic corporations." Of this total
$36,750 was erroneously reported as dividends from the
M. A. Hanna Company. This amount was paid her pursuant to a recapitalization of the company in which the
estate owned preferred stock and, instead of being returned as a dividend, should. have been treated as giving
rise to a capital gain of $7,411.50.
In December 1931 the respondent was advised by an
Internal Revenue agent that her return, reporting the
receipt as a dividend, was considered correct, subject to
the approval of the Bureau in Washington, and that if
later information should indicate a material change in
the amount of tax the statutes would require a redetermination of tax liability. October 6, 1932, as a result
of conferences with representatives of the Hanna Company, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue advised the

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
517

Opinion of the Court.

Agent in Charge at Cleveland, Ohio, that the cash received by preferred stockholders in the recapitalization of
the company represented proceeds from a sale and that
gain or loss therefrom should be determined upon the
basis of the cost of the original stock. The respondent
was not notified of the ruling until August 22, 1934.
February 1, 1933, respondent filed a claim for the refund of $995.52, based upon an alleged loss in the taxable year due to the worthlessness of stocks of two corporations. Consideration and action thereon were delayed
pending the outcome of litigation which would affect the
soundness of the claim. In 1936 this claim was rejected
in part but allowed to the extent of $160, which was
refunded.
June 29, 1934, after expiration of the statutory period
for filing refund claims,' the respondent presented a claim
for $6,454.09 in which she stated that it was "filed as
an amendment and amplification of claim for refund filed
February 1, 1933" and asserted that the sum of $36,750
reported as a dividend was not such but represented the
proceeds of sale of stock of the Hanna Company at a
profit of $7,411.50 and that the error in the return resulted
in an overpayment of $6,454.09.
November 2, 1935, the Commissioner advised the respondent that, while an overpayment had been made, a
refund would be denied because the claim of June 1934
was wholly unrelated to that of February 1, 1933, being
an independent demand based upon an entirely different
ground. Pursuant to the Commissioner's holding that
the latter claim was not filed within the period prescribed
by law and, therefore, could not be allowed, official notice
of rejection was mailed December 16, 1935. The respondent brought suit in the Court of Claims which gave judgment for her in the amount of $5,536.97.2
'Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, § 322 (b) (1), 45 Stat. 791, 861.
'84 Ct. Cls. 460; 17 F. Supp. 980.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Upon petitioner's representation that the decision is in
conflict with decisions of this court and of two circuit
courts of appeals we granted the writ of certiorari: We
hold that the so-called amendment was in fact a new
claim and its allowance was barred by the statutory provision limiting the time for presentation of claims for
refund.
Notwithstanding the reliance of each of the parties on
recent decisions of this court none of them rules the
precise question now presented. They point the way,
however, to a correct decision.
In United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288 U. S.
62, the claim merely stated that there had been an erroneous overpayment the amount of which was shown by
stating the taxpayer's true net income, the tax due thereon, and the amount previously paid. The claim asked
repayment of the difference or any greater sum which
might be found to be due. Upon the footing of this general claim a complete audit of the taxpayer's books was
made and an overpayment in excess of the amount claimed
was determined. After notification of this fact, but before rejection, the taxpayer amended the claim by making
it specific and setting forth the supporting facts in detail.
The amendment was held effective.'
In United States v. Factors & Finance Co., 288 U. S.
89, additional assessments were made subsequent to payment of the amount shown to be due by the respondent's
return. After paying part of the sum so assessed the
taxpayer filed a claim for abatement of the unpaid balance. In connection with that claim the Commissioner
ordered a full examination of the taxpayer's affairs, which
was made. While this audit was in progress the taxpayer filed a claim for refund, couched in general terms,
stating that, as there had been no final audit of its return,
the purpose of the claim was to save the taxpayer's
3 See also George Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose, 289 U. S. 373, 384.

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
517

Opinion of the Court.

rights under the statutes and permit the Commissioner
to refund any excess paid beyond the amount found to
be due. No statement of grounds for the claim was included. After the period of limitations had expired an
amended claim was filed setting forth the grounds in
detail and asking special assessment under § 210 of the
Revenue Act of 1917. In the interval between the filing
of the first and the amended claim the Commissioner had
disposed of the claim for abatement but not of the
claim for refund. After the receipt of the amendment
the Commissioner considered the case on the merits and
found that the taxpayer's invested capital could not be
satisfactorily ascertained and that a special assessment
should have been made under § 210 but he rejected the
claim on the ground that the amendment was not timely.
We held the amendment permissible. The opinion points
out that the very generality of the original claim required
that the Commissioner's audit go into the question of
invested capital and that, therefore, the more specific
amendment called attention to no n w matter not covered
by the investigation the Commissioner had to make in
examining the claim as originally filed.
In each of these cases the claim failed to comply with
a Treasury Regulation requiring that the grounds for the
relief demanded should be set forth under oath and in
detail. We held that while the Commissioner might
promptly have rejected the claims for failure to comply
with the regulation such compliance was a matter he
could waive and, if he considered the merits, the claim was
susceptible of any amendment which would not amount,
under the rules of pleading in actions at law, to an alteration of the cause of action and would not require the
Commissioner to make a new and different inquiry than
that which he was called upon to make in order to consider the general grounds asserted in support of the claim
as presented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

In Bemis Bro. Bag Co. v. United States, 289 U. S. 28,
the taxpayer, in its original claim for refund, requested
a special assessment under §§ 327 and 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918 and submitted a supporting statement
as to its affairs wherein it sought relief on three distinct
grounds specified in the sections in question and submitted facts and arguments in support of each of the grounds.
Two of these grounds called the Commissioner's attention
to the fact that the taxpayer's invested capital had been
erroneously computed. After consideration of the claim
the Commissioner notified the taxpayer that there was
no basis for relief under § 327 (b), which furnished one
of the grounds put forward by the taxpayer, but he apparently overlooked the circumstance that relief was also
claimed under subdivisions (a) and (c) of that section.
The taxpayer filed a protest and an amendment, which
made no change of any importance in the facts and arguments already submitted, but asked that computation
of the tax under § 328 be granted or, in the alternative,
certain items the Commissioner had stricken from invested
capital be restored. Since the original notice to the Commissioner was to the effect that valuable assets had been
omitted from invested capital it would have been open
to the taxpayer in the first instance to ask for relief under
§§ 327 and 328 or, in the alternative, for a recomputation of its invested capital in accordance with the facts
set forth in the original claim. The mere addition of the
prayer for alternative relief was not a departure from
the claim and did not amount to a new and untimely
claim but constituted a proper amendment.
In United States v. Henry Prentiss & Co., 288 U. S. 73,
a situation materially differing from those involved in the
foregoing cases was presented. There the taxpayer's
claim for refund asserted that, owing to abnormal conditions affecting invested capital and income, there could
be no fair computation of the tax by the appraisal of the

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
517

Opinion of the Court.

cash value of its property under § 326 of the Revenue
Act of 1918 and it should, therefore, have the benefit of
-a special assessment under § § 327 and 328, which provide
for computation of the tax in such cases without reference to the value of the invested capital and for determination of the tax according to the ratio which the
average tax of representative corporations engaged in a
similar business bears to their average net income.. In response to the claim the Commissioner advised the taxpayer that he could not consider the propriety of a special
assessment until the statutory net income and invested
capital were determined and asked the taxpayer, therefore, to acquiesce in the net income and invested capital
shown in the Revenue Agent's report or submit any
exceptions it might have thereto. The taxpayer filed no
such exceptions but apparently acquiesced in the determination. The Commissioner then proceeded on the
basis of the facts he had ascertained and advised the taxpayer the case was not one for special assessment and the
claim would be rejected. Thereafter, at an oral hearing
accorded by the Commissioner before final rejection of the
claim, the taxpayer presented an amendment in which it
set forth that, in ascertaining its invested capital, real
estate had been undervalued and certain intangibles had
been improperly excluded from the computation. This
court held that such an amendment, filed after the expiration of the period of limitations, could not be considered,
first, because it totally changed the taxpayer's cause of
action, if the analogies of pleading were to be regarded,
and, second, because the original claim did not challenge
the Commissioner's determination of invested capital,
and an amendment which attacked this determination,
fundamental to the taxpayer's contention, was in effect a
new claim based upon a complete reversal of the
taxpayer's former position.
In all these cases the court found the analogies of pleading helpful in deciding whether the claim was in such

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

form as to be subject to the proffered amendment at a
time when a claim wholly new would have been barred;
but the opinions point out that the analogy to pleading
at law is not to be so slavishly followed as to ignore the
necessities and realities of administrative procedure.
Where a claim which the Commissioner could have rejected as too general, and as omitting to specify the matters needing investigation, has not misled him but has
been the basis of an investigation which disclosed facts
necessary to his action in making a refund, an amendment which merely makes more definite the matters already within his knowledge, or which, in the course of his
investigation, he would naturally have ascertained, is permissible. On the other hand, a claim which demands
relief upon one asserted fact situation, and asks an investigation of the elements appropriate to the requested
relief, cannot be amended to discard that basis and invoke action requiring examination of other matters not
germane to the first claim.
With these settled principles in mind we turn to the
circumstances disclosed in the present case. The claim
here was not general but specific. It did not assert generally that income, gross or net, had been overappraised
or, generally, that the taxpayer was entitled to deductions not taken or granted. On the contrary, it pointed
to two specific items of deduction which had not been
taken and to which the taxpayer claimed to be entitled.
It stated that during the taxable year the taxpayer's
holdings of stock in two named corporations had become
worthless, entailing a deductible loss of $995. While the
claim added the phrase that the taxpayer claimed thesum named, or any greater sum which might be ascertained to be due, this did not call upon the Commissioner to make a complete reaudit of the taxpayer's return. The fact that he might have done so is immaterial. He could have acted on the claim, as apparently

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
517

Opinion of the Court.

he did, by investigating the affairs of the two corporations. It was ascertained that litigation was in process
upon the outcome of which would depend a decision as to
the alleged worthlessness of some of the shares in question. He, therefore, naturally postponed action on the
claim until the termination of that litigation. While
matters were in this posture, and after the period of limitation had expired, the respondent presented a so-called
amendment of her claim having no relation whatever to
the items set forth in the original claim, but dealing
with a wholly distinct item of $36,750 reported as dividends received and asking that it be eliminated from that
category and that the transaction be reclassified as capital gain upon a basis which would result in a reduction
of tax by some $6,000. This is not a case where the Commissioner waived the regulation with respect to the particularity with which the grounds of the claim must be
set forth. There was no need for him to do so. The
claim was not general like that in the Memphis Cotton
Oil case and the others following in its train. It was as
specific as it could be made and pointed unerringly to
the items the Commissioner must consider. It called for
no general audit of the taxpayer's affairs and apparently
none was made. An investigation of the items designated could not have the least relation to that attempted
to be opened in the untimely amendment. The respondent urges that these considerations are of no legal significance, since the claim not only called for redress of a
specified grievance but demanded general relief as well.
She insists we have likened a claim for refund to an action for money had and received and have required the
Commissioner to accept and act upon a bill of particulars furnished him before actual rejection of the claim
although the period of limitation has expired. But, as
we said in United States v. Henry Prentiss & Co., supra,
p. 84, "This does not mean that a pleader who abandons

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

the common count and states the particular facts out of
which his grievance has arisen retains unfettered freedom to change the statement at his pleasure."
Were it not for the presence in the original claim of the
demand for refund of any other or greater sum which
might be found due the taxpayer, we think it could not
even be suggested that the claim was a general one for
money had and received. Save for that clause the demand was of a specific amount based upon a specific transact-ion. Whether adjudication in strict analogy to the
rules of pleading would permit the amendment we need
not determine for the necessities and realities of administrative procedure preclude any such result. United
States v. Henry Prentiss & Co., supra, p. 85. The very
specification of the items of complaint would tend to confine the investigation to those items and there is no
evidence that the examination was more extended.
Nor can the respondent gain advantage from the Commissioner's ruling communicated to his agent at Cleveland. There is no finding that, prior to the attempted
amendment, the Commissioner knew the respondent was
a stockholder of the Hanna Company or, if he did, that
his attention was called to the fact that the reported
receipt of dividends had reference to what the taxpayer
received in respect of preferred stock of that company.
These views accord with the decisions of two circuit
courts of appeal.4 The respondent relies upon two decisions of the Court of Claims: Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. United States, 7 F. Supp. 290, and Con. P. Curran
Printing Co. v. United States, 15 F. Supp. 153. In the
first a claim for additional depreciation depletion and
amortization of an investment in mining properties was
'Bryant Paper Co. v. Holden, 63 F. (2d) 370; 65 F. (2d) 1012;
Swedish Iron & Steel Corp. v. Edwards, 1 F. Supp. 335; affirmed 69
F. (2d) 1018; United States v. Richards, 79 F. (2d) 797; New York
Trust Co. v. United States, 87 F. (2d) 889.

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
517

Opinion of the Court.

timely made. As a result of this claim a general audit of
the taxpayer's affairs was had and resulted in the determination of a deficiency much greater than the amount
of refund claimed. Upon appeal to the Board of Tax
Appeals the deficiency was set aside and the Board found
an overassessment due to failure to allow the claimed
deduction and also deductions for depreciation of other
assets. The Commissioner agreed that the overpayment
found by the Board was correct. Thereupon the taxpayer
filed, out of time, an amendment to claim additional
specific deductions in accordance with the findings of the
Board. The Commissioner allowed a refund of the item
originally claimed but refused a refund of the others on
the ground that the amendment sought to introduce new
and distinct matters. In an action for recovery of the
overpayment found by the Board, and claimed in the
original and amended claims, the Court of Claims gave
judgment for the taxpayer. We express no opinion as to
whether the result may be sustained by the fact that while
the original claim was pending the Commissioner was
fully apprised of the items of deduction ultimately
claimed in the amendment by two complete audits of the
taxpayer's affairs and accounts. A similar situation is
disclosed in the second case. The decisions were, however, put by the Court of Claims upon the same ground
as in the instant case,-that a claim limited to a specified
item might be amendec out of time to seek a refund on
account of other and tknrelated items,-a view we hold
untenable.
The judgment is
Reversed.

