134

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

ing to that conclusion. Here the good faith of the debtor
has been found by the courts below after inquiry by a
Master to whom the cause had been referred. The single
question presented to us by the petition for certiorari is
one of jurisdiction. Did a court of bankruptcy have
power to entertain the proceeding at the instance of such
a suitor? I hold that power did not fail.

MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JUSTICE BLACK join in this
opinion.
JAMES, STATE TAX COMMISSIONER, v. DRAVO
CONTRACTING CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 3.

Argued April 26, 27, 1937. Reargued October 12, 1937.Decided December 6, 1937.

1. A State can not lay a gross receipts tax on business carried on in
another State. P. 138.
2. A State has no power to tax in a place within the State over
which the United States has acquired exclusive jurisdiction. P. 140.
3. The title to beds of navigable streams within a State is vested in
the State, subject to the right of the United States to use the
land for the improvement of navigation. P. 140.
Occupation of the river bed by the United States for the purpose of improving navigation does not divest the State of its
title.
4. Locks and dams erected by the United States for the improvement of navigation are "needful buildings" within the meaning
of the Const., Art. I, § 8, Cl. 17. P. 141.
Clause 17 provides that Congress shall have power "to exercise
exclusive legislation" over "all places purchased by the consent
of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for the
erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings." "Exclusive legislation" is consistent only with
exclusive jurisdiction.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

135

Syllabus.

5. West Va. Code of 1931, Art. 1, Ch. 1, § 3, gives the consent of the
State to acquisition by the United States of land within the State
for locks, dams, needful buildings, works for improvement of the
navigation of any water course, or for any other purpose for
which the same may be required by the Government of the
United States; authorizes gifts of land to the United States by
municipalities for such described purposes; cedes to the United
States "concurrent jurisdiction with this State in and over any
lanai so acquired . . . for all purposes"; provides that the jurisdiction so ceded is to continue only during the ownership of the
United States and is to cease if the United States fails for five
consecutive years to use any such land for the purposes of the
grant; and reserves to the State the right to execute process within the limits of the land acquired "and such other jurisdiction and
authority over the same as is not inconsistent with the jurisdiction ceded to the United States by virtue of such acquisition."
Held:
(1) The provision as to concurrent jurisdiction qualifies the
provision giving consent, and applies to lands acquired by purchase or condemnation as well as to lands given by municipalities.
P. 143.
(2) The provision reserving merely the right to execute process, repeated from an earlier statute, does not derogate from the
broader reservation of jurisdiction in the statute as amended.
P. 145.
6. When a State gives the legislative consent as contemplated by
the Const., Art. I, § 8, Cl. 17, to purchase of land by the United
States for "needful buildings," as when after prior purchase or
condemnation by the United States it cedes jurisdiction, it may
reserve such a concurrent jurisdiction as will not operate to deprive the United States of the enjoyment of the property for the
purposes for which it is acquired. P. 146.
West Virginia, by a reservation qualifying her consent to their
acquisition, retained her jurisdiction to tax, over *lands purchased
or condemned by the United States for navigation improvements
on a river.
7. An independent contractor, engaged under his contract with the
Government in the construction of locks and dams for the improvement of navigation, is not an instrumentality of the Government.
P. 149.
8. As applied to such a contractor, a non-discriminatory state tax on
his gross receipts under the contract is not unconstitutional as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

tax laid on the contract itself or as otherwise directly burdening
the Government. P. 149.
9. Application of the principle that governmental instrumentalities
of the United States are immune from taxation by the States, and
vice versa, requires close distinctions, in order to maintain the
essential freedom of government in performing its functions, without unduly limiting the taxing power which is equally essential to
both Nation and State under our dual system. P. 150.
Decisions on immunity of government bonds and -of government
purchases of commodities, held inapplicable in case of tax on earnings of independent contractor rendering services to the Government. Pp. 150-153.
10. The question of the taxability of a contractor upon the fruits of
his services to the Government is closely analogous to that of the
taxability of his property used in performing the services. His
earnings flow from his work; his property is employed in securing
them. In both cases, the taxes increase the cost of the work and
diminish his profits. P. 153.
11. The fact that the tax in this case was on gross rather than net
receipts does not prove it an unconstitutional burden on the Government. P. 157.
Distinguished from cases where taxes on gross receipts of individuals engaged in interstate commerce have been held invalid
under the commerce clause.
12. Assuming, (what is not necessarily so) that a state tax on contractor's gross receipts may increase cost of service to the Government, that fact would not invalidate the tax, any more than it
would a tax on the contractor's property equipment used in the
performance of the contract. P. 159.
13. Semble that Congress has power to prevent interference with the
operations of the Government through state taxation laid on receipts of those who render it services under contracts. P. 160.
16 F. Supp. 527, reversed.
APPEAL from a final decree of the three-judge District
Court enjoining the collection of a State tax.

Mr. Clarence W. Meadows, Attorney General of West
Virginia, for appellant, on the original argument and the
reargument.

Messrs. Homer A. Holt, former Attorney

General, and W. Holt Wooddell, Assistant Attorney General, were with him on the briefs.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

137

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William S. Moorhead for appellee, on the original
argument and the reargument. Messrs. Lawrence D.
Blair, W. Chapman Revercomb, and W. Elliott Nefflen
were with him on the briefs.
Solicitor General Reed, with whom Attorney General
Cummings, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and
MesSrs. Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, Arnold Raum, and
Francis A. LeSourd were on the brief, for the United
States as amicus curiae, by special leave of Court, on the
reargument.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case presents the question of the constitutional
validity of a tax imposed by the State of West Virginia
upon the gross receipts of respondent under contracts
with the United States.
Respondent, The Dravo Contracting Company, is a
Pennsylvania corporation engaged in the general contracting business, with its principal office and plant at
Pittsburgh in that State,*and is admitted to do business
in the State of West Virginia. In the years 1932 and
1933, respondent entered into four contracts with the
United States for the construction of locks and dams in
the Kanawha River and locks in the Ohio River, both
navigable streams.1 The State Tax Commissioner assessed respondent for the years 1933 and 1934 in the sum
of $135,761.51 (taxes and penaltieg) upon the gross
amounts received from the United States under these contracts.
Respondent brought suit in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of West Virginia
1See
Act of July 3, 1930, c. 847, 46 Stat. 928; H. Doc. No. 190,
70th Cong., 1st sess.; Act of August 30, 1935, c. 831, 49 Stat. 1035;
H. Doc. No. 31, 73d Cong., 1st sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

to restrain the collection of the tax. The case was heard
by three judges (28 U. S. C. 380) and upon findings the
court entered a final Idecree granting a permanent injunction. 16 F. Supp. 527. The case comes here on appeal.
The statute is known as the Gross Sales and Income
Tax Law. Code of West Virginia 1931, c. 11, Art. 13,
amended effective May 27, 1933. Acts of 1933, c. 33.
It provides for "annual privilege taxes", on account of
"business and other activities." The clause in question
here is as follows:
"Upon every person engaging or continuing within this
state in the business of contracting, the tax shall be equal
2
to two per cent. of the gross income of the business."
The tax was in addition to other state taxes upon respondent, to wit, the license tax on foreign corporations
(Codeof West Virginia, c. 11, Art. 12, §§ 69, 71) and ad
valorem taxes upon real and personal property of the
contractor within the State.
The questions presented are (1) whether the State
had territorial jurisdiction to impose the tax, and (2)
whether the tax was invalid as laying a burden upon the
operations of the Federal Government.
After hearing we directed reargument and requested the
Attorney General of the United States to present the
views of the Government upon the two questions above
stated. Reargument has been had and the Government
has been heard.
First. As to territorial jurisdiction.-Unless the activities which are the subject of the tax were carried on
within the territorial limits of West Virginia, the State
had no jurisdiction to impose the tax. Hans Rees' Sons
v. North Carolina, 283 U. S. 123, 133, 134; Shaffer v.
2 Prior to May 27, 1933, the tax was three-tenths of one per cent,
and the assessment on receipts prior to that date was at that rate.
Two of the contracts of respondent were made before the rates were

changed.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

139

Opinion of the Court.

Carter, 252 U. S. 37; 57; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook,
281 U. S. 647. The question has two aspects (1) as to
work alleged to have been done outside the exterior limits of West Virginia and (2) as to work done within those
limits but (a) in thelbed of the rivers, (b) on property
acquired by the Federal Government on the banks of
the rivers, and (c) on property leased by respondent and
used for the accommodation of his equipment.
1. A large part of respondent's work was performed at
its plant at Pittsburgh. The stipulation of facts shows
that respondent purchased outside the State of West Virginia materials used in the manufacture of the roller
gates, lock gates, cranes, substructure racks and spur
rims, structural steel, patterns, hoisting mechanism and
equipment, under each of its contracts, and fabricated
the, same at its Pittsburgh plant. The roller gates and
the appurtenant equipment were preassembled at respondents' shops at Pittsburgh and were there inspected
and tested by officers of the United States Government.
The materials and equipment fabricated at Pittsburgh
were there stored until time for delivery, and the appropriate units as prepared for shipment were then transported by respondent to the designated sites in West
Virginia and there installed. The United States knew
at the time the contracts were made that the above described work was to be performed at the plaintiff's main
plant. The contracts provided for partial payments as
the work progressed and that all the material and work
covered by the partial payments should thereupon become
"the sole property of the Government." Payments by
the Government were made from time to time accordingly.
It is clear that West Virginia had no jurisdiction to
lay a tax upon respondent with respect to this work
done in Pennsylvania. As to the material and equipment
there fabricated, the business and activities of respond-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ent in West Virginia consisted of the installation at the
respective sites within that State and an apportionment
would in jny event be necessary to limit the tax accordingly. Hans Rees' Sons v. North Carolina,supra.
2. As to work done within the exterior limits of West
Virginia, the question is whether the United States has
acquired exclusive jurisdiction over the respective sites.
Wherever the United States has such jurisdiction the
State would have no authority to lay the tax. Surplus
Trading Co. v. Cook, supra.
(a) As to the beds of the Kanawha and Ohio rivers.
The present question is not one of the paramount authority of the Federal Government to have the work performed for purposes within the federal province (Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 163; United States v.
Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 61, 62; Lewis Blue
Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs, 229 U. S. 82, 88), or whether
the tax lays a burden upon governmental operations;
it is simply one of territorial jurisdiction.
The title to the beds of the rivers was in the State.
Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, '230; Shively v. Bowlby,
152 U. S. 1, 26; Port of Seattle v. Oregon-WashingtonR.
Co., 255 U. S. 56, 63; Borax Consolidated v. Los Angeles,
296 U. S. 10, 15, 16. It was subject to the power of Congress to use the lands under the streams "for any structure which the interest of navigation in its judgment may
require." Lewis Blue Point Oyster.Co. v. Briggs, supra.
But, although burdened by that servitude, the State held
the title. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269,271,272;
'Port of Seattle v. Oregon-Washington R. Co., supra;
Borax Consolidated v. Los Angeles, supra. There does
not appear to have been any acquisition by the United
States of title to those lands, unless, as respondent urges,
the occupation of the beds for the purpose of the improvements constituted an acquisition of title. But as
the occupation was simply the exercise of the dominant

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

141

Opinion of the Court.

right of the Federal Government (Gibson v. United
States, supra, p. 276) the servient title continued as before. No transfer of that title appears. The Solicitor
General conceded in his argument at bar that the State
of West Virginia retained its territorial jurisdiction over
the river beds and we are of the opinion that this is the
correct view.
(b) As to lands acquired by the United States by purchase or condemnation for the purposes of the improvements. Lands were thus acquired on the banks of the
rivers from individual owners and the United States
obtained title in fee simple. Respondent contends that
by virtue of Article I, Section 8, Clause 17, of the Federal Constitution the United States acquired exclusive
jurisdiction.'
Clause 17 provides that Congress shall have power "to
exercise exclusive legislation" over "all places purchased
by the consent of the legislature of the State in which the
same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings." "Exclusive legislation" is consistent only with exclusive jurisdiction. Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, supra, p. 652. As
we said in that case, it is not unusual for the United
States to own within a State lands which are set apart
and used for public purposes. Such ownership and use
without more do not withdraw the lands from the jurisdiction of the State. The lands "remain part of her
territory and within the operation of her laws, save that
'That provision is as follows:

"The Congress shall have power ...
"To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over
such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of
particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become the Seat
of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority
over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the
State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302.U. S.

the latter cannot affect the title of the United States or
embarrass it in using the lands or interfere with its right
of disposal." Id., p. 650. Clause 17 governs those cases
where the United States acquires lands with the consent
of the legislature of the State for the purposes there described. If lands are otherwise acquired, and jurisdiction
is ceded by the State to the United States, the terms of
the cession, to the extent that they may lawfully be prescribed, that is, consistently with the carrying out of the
purpose of the acquisition, determine the extent of the
federal jurisdiction. Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe,
114 U. S. 527, 538, 539; Palmer v. Barrett, 162 U. S. 399,
402, 403; Arlington Hotel Co. v. Fant, 278 U. S. 439,
451; United States v. Unzeuta, 281 U. S. 138, 142; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, supra.
Are the locks and dams in the instant case "needful
buildings" within the purview of Clause 17? The State
contends that they are not. If the clause were construed
according to the rule of ejusdem generis, it could be
plausibly contended that "needful buildings" are those
of the same sort as forts, magazines, arsenals and dockyards, that is, structures for military purposes. And it
may be that the thought of such "strongholds" was uppermost in the minds of the framers. Elliot's Debates,
Vol. 5, pp. 130, 440, 511; Cf. Story on the Constitution,
Vol. 2, § 1224. But such a narrow construction has
been found not to be absolutely required and to 'be unsupported by sound reason in view of the nature and
functions of the national government which the Constitution established.
In Sharon v. Hill, 24 Fed. 726, 730, 731, Justice Field
(sitting with Judge Sawyer) considered the provision to
be applicable to a court building and custom house on
land which had been purchased with the consent of the
State. In Battle v. United States, 209 U. S. 36, 37, we
held that "post offices are among the 'other needful

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

143

Opinion of the Court.

buildings'" within Clause 17. See, also, United States v.
Wurtzbarger,276 Fed. 753, 755; Arlington Hotel v. Fant,
supra. Locks and dams for the improvement of navigation, which are as clearly within the federal authority
as post offices, have been regarded as "needful buildings."
United States v. Tucker, 122 Fed. 518, 522. We take
that view. We construe the phrase "other needful buildings" as embracing whatever structures are found to be
necessary in the performance of the functions of the
Federal Government.
The legislature of West Virginia by general statute
had given its consent to the acquisition by the United
States, but questions are presented as to the construction
and effect of the consent. The provision is found in § 3
of Chapter 1, Article 1, of the Code of West Virginia of
1931. The full text is set out in the margin." By the
first paragraph the consent of the State is given "to the
4 "Sec. 3. Acquisition of Lands by United States; Jurisdiction.--The
consent of this State is hereby given to the acquisition by the United
States, or under its authority, by purchase, lease, condemnation, or
otherwise, of any land acquired, or to be acquired in this State by
the United States, from any individual, body politic or corporate,
for sites .for lighthouses, beacons, signal stations, post offices, customhouses, courthouses, arsenals, soldiers' homes, cemeteries, locks, dams,
armor plate manufacturing plants, projectile factories or factories of
any kind or character, or any needful buildings or structures or
proving grounds, or works for the improvement of the navigation of
any watercourse, or work of public improvement whatever, or for
the conservation of the forests, or for any other purpose for which
the same may be needed ox required by the government of the United
States. The evidence of title to such land shall be recorded as in
other cases.
"Any county, magisterial district or munieipality, whether incorporated under general law or special act of the legislature, shall have
power to pay for any such tract or parcel of land and present the
same to the government of the United States free of cost, for any
of the purposes aforesaid, and to issue bonds and levy taxes for the
purpose of paying for the same; and, in the case of a municipal corporation, the land so purchased and presented may be within the

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

acquisition by the United States, or under its authority,
by purchase, lease, condemnation, or otherwise, of any
land acquired, or to be acquired in this State by the
United States, from any individual, body politic or corporate, for sites for . . . locks, dams, . . . or any needful buildings or structures or proving grounds, or works
for the improvement of the navigation of any watercourse . . . or for any other purpose for which the same
may be needed or required by the government of the
United States." By the second paragraph provision is
made for gifts by municipalities to the United States of
land for any of the purposes described in the first paragraph. The third paragraph cedes to the United States
"concurrent jurisdiction with this State in and over any
land so acquired . . . for all purposes." The jurisdiction so ceded is to continue only during the ownership
of the United States and is to cease if the United States
corporate limits of such municipality or within five miles thereof:
Provided, however, That no such county, magisterial district or municipality shall, by the issue and sale of such bonds, cause the aggregate of its debt to exceed the limit fixed by the Constitution of this
State: Provided, further, That the provisions of the Constitution and
statutes of this State, or of the special act creating any municipality,
relating to submitting the question of the issuing of bonds and all
questions connected with the same to a vote of the people, shall,
in all respects, be observed and complied with.
"Concurrent jurisdiction with this State in and over any land so
acquired by the United States shall be, and the same is hereby, ceded
to the United States for all purposes; but the jurisdiction so ceded
shall continue no longer than the United States shall be the owner
of such lands, and if the purposes of any grant to the United States
shall cease, or the United States shall for five consecutive years fail
to use any such land for the purposes of the grant, the jurisdiction
hereby ceded over the same shall cease and determine, and the right
and title thereto shall reinvest in this State. The jurisdiction ceded
shall not vest until the United States shall acquire title of record to
such land. Jurisdiction heretofore ceded to the United States over
any land within this State by any previous acts of the legislature shall
continue according to the terms of the respective cessions."

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

145

Opinion of the Court.

fails for five consecutive years to use any such land for
the purposes of the grant.
By a further provision in § 4 ' the State reserves the
right to execute process within the limits of the land
acquired "and such other jurisdiction and authority over
the same as is not inconsistent with the jurisdiction ceded
to the United States by virtue of such acquisition."
The contention is made that the third paragraph of
§ 3 as to "concurrent jurisdiction" was not in the Code of
1923, but was a later addition (1931), and should not
be taken as qualifying the first paragraph. But the
third paragraph was added before the acquisition here in
question and "any land so acquired" manifestly refers
to the acquisitions previously described which expressly
embraced all such acquisitions in the future. The suggestion that the third paragraph applies only to the
lands given by municipalities to the United States under
the second paragraph is without force. The third paragraph appears to have been taken from the provision,
in the same language, of § 19 of the Code of Virginia of
1919 which was not qualified by any intervening provision as to municipalities. See Code of West Virginia,
1931, c. 1, Art. 1, § 3, Revisers' Note. The revisers say
it was added to "make more definite the provisions as
to jurisdiction." Id. We are not referred to any decision of the Supreme Court of West Virginia construing
this paragraph.
Reference is also made to the provision of § 4 as to
service of process. This is said to be unnecessary if only
concurrent jurisdiction is granted. But this provision
5"Sec. 4. Execution of Process and Other Jurisdictionas to Land
Acquired by United States.-The State of West Virginia reserves the
right to execute process, civil or criminal, within the limits of any
lot or parcel of land heretofore or hereafter acquired by the United
States as-aforesaid, and such other jurisdiction and authority over
the same as is not inconsistent with the jurisdiction ceded to the
United States by virtue of such acquisition."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

was a part of the former statute (1923) and cannot be
taken as derogating from the force of the explicit amendment by the later addition in the third paragraph of the
present § 3. And apparently to prevent misunderstanding, there was an amendment at the same time of the
provision now in § 4 by the addition of the last clause 6
in order to make the reservation of the State's jurisdiction "more comprehensive." Code of West Virginia,
1931, c. 1, Art. 1, § 4, Revisers' Note.
The third paragraph of. § 3 carefully defines the jurisdiction ceded by the State and there is no permissible
construction which would ignore this definite expression
of intention in considering the effect upon jurisdiction of
the consent given by the first paragraph.
But it is urged that if the paragraph be construed as
seeking to qualify the consent of the State, it must be
treated as inoperative. That is, that the State cannot
qualify its consent, which must be taken as carrying with
it exclusive jurisdiction by virtue of Clause 17. The point
was suggested by Justice Story in United States v. Cornell,
Fed. Cas. No. 14,867; 2 Mason 60, 65, 66, but the construction placed upon the consent 'in that case made decision of the point unnecessary. There the place (Fort
Adams in Newport Harbor) had been purchased with
the consent of the State, to which was added a reservation
for the service of civil and criminal process. Justice Story
held that such a reservation was not incompatible with a
cession of exclusive jurisdiction to the United States, as
the reservation operated "only as a condition" and "as an
agreement of the new sovereign to permit its free exercise as quoad hoc his own process." Reservations of that
sort were found to be frequent in grants made by the
States to the United States in order to avoid the granted.
places being made a sanctuary for fugitives" from justice.
6

See note 5.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

147

Opinion of the Court.

Story on the Constitution, Vol. 2, § 1225. Reference is
made to statements in the. general discussion in the opinion in Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v. Lowe, supra, but
these are not decisive of the present question. The decision in that case was that the State retained 4ts jurisdiction to tax the property of a railroad compaiiy within
the Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation, as federal
jurisdiction had not been reserved when Kansas was admitted as a State and, when the State subsequently ceded
jurisdiction to the United States, there was saved to the
State the right "to tax railroad, bridge, and other corporations, their franchises and property, on said Reservation."
The terms of the cession in this respect governed the
extent of the federal jurisdiction. See Surplus Trading
Co. v. Cook, supra. There are obiter dicta in other cases
but the point now raised does not appear to have been
definitely determined.
It is not questioned that the State may refuse its consent and retain jurisdiction consistent with the governmental purposes for which the property was acquired
The right of eminent domain inheres in the Federal Government by virtue of its sovereignty and thus it may, regardless of the wishes either of the owners or of the States,
acquire the lands which it needs within their borders.
Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, 371, 372. In that
event, as in cases of acquisition by purchase without consent of the State, jurisdiction is dependent upon cession
by the State and the State may qualify its cession by res-,
ervations not inconsistent with the governmental uses.
Story on the Constitution, Vol. 2, § 1227; Kohl v.
United States, supra, p. 374; Fort Leavenworth R. Co. v.
Lowe, supra; Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, supra; United
States v. Unzeuta, supra. The result to the Federal Government is the same whether consent is refused and cession is qualified by a reservation of concurrent jurisdiction, or consent to the acquisition is granted with a like

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

qualification. As the Solicitor General has pointed out, a
transfer of legislative jurisdiction carries With it not only
benefits but obligations, and it may be highly desirable,
in the interest both of the national government and of
the State, that the latter should not be entirely ousted
of its jurisdiction. The possible importance of reserving
to the State jurisdiction for local purposes which involve
no interference with the performance of governmental
functions is becoming more and more clear as the activities
of the Government expand and large areas within the
States are acquired. There appears to be no reason why
the United States, should be compelled to accept exclusive jurisdiction or the State be compelled to grant it in
giving its consent to purchases.
Normally, where governmental consent is essential, the
consent may be granted upon terms appropriate to the
subject and transgressing no constitutional limitation.
Thus, as a State may not be sued without its consent and
"permission is altogether voluntary," it follows "that it
may prescribe the terms and conditions on -which it consents to be sued." Beers v. Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529;
Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436, 441, 442. Treaties of the
United States are to be made with the advice and consent of the Senate, but it is familiar practice for the Senate
to accompany the exercise of this authority with reservations. Hyde, International Law, Vol. 2, § 519. The
Constitution provides that no State without the consent
of Congress shall enter into a compact with another State.
It can hardly be doubted that in giving consent Congress
may impose conditions. See Arizona v. California, 292
U. S. 341, 345.
Clanse 17 contains no express stipulation that the consent of the State must be without reservations. We
think that such a stipulation should not be implied. We
are unable to reconcile such an implication with the freedom of the State and its admitted authority to refuse

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

149

Opinion of the Court.

or qualify cessions of jurisdiction when purchases have
been made without consent or property has been aequired by condemnation. In the present case the reservation by West Virginia of concurrent jurisdiction did
not operate to deprive the United States of the enjoyment of the property for the purposes for which it was
acquired, and we are of the opinion that the reservation
was applicable and effective.
(c) As to property leased by respondent and used for
the accommodation of its equipment. There can be no
question as to the jurisdiction of the State over this area.
We conclude that, so far as territorial jurisdiction is
concerned, the State had authority to lay the tax with
respect to the respondent's activities carried on at the
respective dam sites.
Second. Is the tax invalid upon the ground that it lays
a direct burden upon the Federal Government? The Solicitor General speaking for the Government supports the
contention of the State that the tax is valid. Respondent urges the contrary.
The tax is not laid upon the Government, its property
or officers. Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, 449,
450.
The tax is not laid upon an instrumentality of the Government. McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316; Osborn
v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Federal Land Bank v. Crosland,
261 U. S. 374; Clallam County v. United States, 263
U. S. 341; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S.
401. Respondent is an independent contractor. The tax
is non-discriminatory.
The tax is not laid upon the contract of the Government. Osborn v. Bank of the United States, supra, p.
867; Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 468, 475; Pollock v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 581, 582, 586;
Telegraph Company v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 464, 466;

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Leloup v. Port of Mobile,. 127 U. S. 640, 646; Williams v.
Talladega,226 U. S. 404, 418, 419; FederalLand Bank v.
Crosland, supra; Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S. 218,
222; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.
570, 574; Graves v. Texas Company, 298 U. S. 393, 401.
The application of the principle which denies validity
to such a tax has required the observing of close distinctions in order to maintain the essential freedom of government in performing its functions, without unduly limiting the taxing power which is equally essential to both
Nation and State under our dual system. In Weston v.
Charleston,supra, and Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co., supra, taxes on interest from government securities
were held to be laid on the government's contract-upon
the power to borrow money-and hence were invalid.
But we held in Willcuts v. Bunn, supra, that the immunity from taxation does not extend to the profits
derived by their owners upon the sale of government
bonds. We said (Id., p. 225): "The power to tax is no
less essential than the power to borrow money, and, in
preserving the latter, it is not necessary to cripple the
former by extending the constitutional exemption from
taxation to those subjects which fall within the general
application of non-discriminatory laws, and where no
direct burden is laid upon the governmental instrumentality, and there is only a remote, if any, influence upon
the exercise of the functions of government." Many
illustrations were given.
In Telegraph Company v. Texas, supra, a specific state
tax was imposed on each message sent by an officer of
the United State's on public business over the lines of the
Telegraph Company. In holding the -tax to be invalid
the Court leaned heavily upon the fact that the Company
had accepted the terms of the Act of Congress of 1866
(14 Stat. 221) authorizing the use of the military and

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

151

Opinion of the Court.

post roads and requiring in return that government messages have priority over all other business and be transmitted at rates fixed annually by the Postmaster General. The Court considered that the Company had thus
become an agent of the Government for the transmission
of messages on public business. See to the same effect
Lelcup v. Port of Mobile, supra. The same point was
taken in Williams v. Talladega, supra, involving a local
license fee applicable to the same Telegraph Company.
The Court said that the tax was laid upon "the privilege
of carrying on a business a part of which is that of a governmental agency constituted under a law of the United
States and engaged in an essential part of the public business--communication between the officers and departments of the Federal Government." The emphasis put
in these cases upon the effect of the acceptance of the
obligation of the Act of Congress shows that they cannot be regarded as sustaining the broad claim of immunity here advanced.
In Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox,
supra, and Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, supra,
the taxes were held to be invalid as laid on the sales to the
respective governments, the one being a state tax on a
sale t6 the United States, and the other a federal tax
on the sale to a municipal corporation of Massachusetts.
A similar result was reached in Graves v. Texas Company,
supra. These cases have been distinguished and must be
deemed to be limited to their particular facts. Thus, in
Wheeler Lumber Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 572, 579,
the federal tax on transportation as applied to lumber
which the vendor had engaged to sell to a county for
public bridges and to deliver f. o. b. at the place of
destination at a stated price, was held to be laid not
on the sale but on the transportation. Although the
transportation was with a view to a definite sale, it was
held to be not part of the sale but preliminary to it and

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

"wholly the vendor's affair." 'In Liggett & Myers Co.
v. United States, 299 U. S. 383, 386, the federal tax as
applied to tobacco purchased by a State for use in a state
hospital was sustained as a tax upon the manufacture of
the tobacco and not upon the sale. Hence, the Court
said, "the effect upon the purchaser was indirect and imposed no prohibited burden."
In Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 509, 514, the Court
sustained a state tax upon the gross receipts of an independent contractor carrying the mails. The taxpayer
operated an automotive stage line. Two-thirds of his
gross receipts, upon the whole of which he was taxed,
were derived from carriage of United States mails and
the remainder from carriage of passengers and freight.
The Court found that the property used in earning these
receipts was devoted chiefly to carrying the mails and
that without his contract with the Government the stage
line could not be operated profitably. In upholding the
tax upon his gross receipts we distihguished Panhandle
Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, supra, saying: "There
was no tax upon the contract for such carriage; the
burden laid upon the property employed affected operations of the Federal Government only remotely...
The facts in Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi.ex rel.
Knox, 277 U. S. 218, and New Jersey Bell Tel. Co. v.
State Board, 280 U. S. 338, were held to establish direct
interference with or burden upon the exercise of a Federal right. The principles there applied are not controlling here."
These decisions show clearly the effort of the Court in
this difficult field to apply the practical criterion to which
we referred in Willcuts v. Bunn, supra, and again in
Graves v. Texas Company, supra. *There is no ineluctable
logic which makes the doctrine of immunity with respect
to government bonds applicable to the earnings of an
independent contractor rendering services to the Gov-

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

153

Opinion of the Court.

ernment. That doctrine recognizes the direct effect of a
tax which "would operate on the power to borrow before
it is exercised" (Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
supra) and which would directly affect the Government's
obligation as a continuing security. Vital considerations
are there involved respecting the permanent relations of
the Government to investors in its securities and its ability to maintain its credit,--considerations which are not
found in connection with contracts made from time to
time for the services of independent contractors. And
in dealing with the question of the taxability of such
contractors upon the fruits of their work, we are not
bound to consider or decide how far immunity from taxation is to be deemed essential to the protection of Government in relation to its purchases of commodities or
whether the doctrine announced in the cases of that
character which we have cited deserves revision or
restriction.
The question of the taxability of a contractor upon
the fruits of his services is closely analogous to that of
the taxability of the property of the contractor which is
used in performing the services. His earnings flow from
his work; his property is employed in securing them. In
both. cases, the taxes increase the cost of the work and
diminish his profits. Many years ago the Court recognized and enforced the distinction between a tax laid
directly upon a government contract or an instrumentality of the United States and a tax upon the property
employed by an agent or contractor in performing services for the United States. "Taxation of the agency is
taxation of the means; taxation of the property of the
agent is not always, or generally, taxation of the means."
Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579, 591. In expounding the grounds for the conclusion that the property of the contractor was taxable, the Court envisaged
the serious consequences which would follow if immunity

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

were maintained. In Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18
Wall. 5, 33, 36, the Court said:
"It may, therefore, be considered as settled that no
constitutional implications prohibit a State tax upon the
property of an agent of the government merely because
it is the property of such an agent., A contrary doctrine
would greatly embarrass the States in the collection of
their necessary revenue without any corresponding advantage to the United States. A very large proportion
of the property within the States is employed in execution of the powers of the government. It belongs to governmental agents, and it is not only used, but it is necessary for their agencies. United States mails, troops, and
munitions of war are carried upon almost every railroad.
Telegraph lines are employed in the National service. So
are steamboats, horses, stage-coaches, foundries, shipyards, and multitudes of manufacturing establishments.
They are the property of natural persons, or of corporations, who are instruments or agents of the General government, and they are the hands by which the objects of
the government are attained. Were they exempt from
liability to contribute to the revenue of the States it is
manifest the State governments would bp paralyzed.
While it is of the utmost importance that all the powers
yested by the Constitution of the United States in the
General government should be preserved in full efficiency,
and while recent events have called for the most unembarrassed exercise of many of those powers, it has never
been decided that State taxation of such property is impliedly prohibited. ....
"It is, therefore, manifest that exemption of Federal
agencies from State taxation is dependent, not upon the
nature of the agents, or upon thd mode of their constitution, or upon the fact that they are agents, but upon
the effect of the tax; that is, upon the question whether
tfe tax does in truth deprive them of power to serve the

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

155

Opinion of the Court.

government as they were intended to serve it, or does
hinder the efficient exercise of their power. A tax upon
their property has no such necessary effect. It leaves them
free to. discharge the duties they have undertaken to
perform. A tax upon. their operations is a direct obstruc-

tion to the exercise of Federal power."
The dissenting opinion of Justice Bradley (with whom
Justice Field concurred) while considering that the state
tax was invalid as applied to property of the Union Pacific Railroad because of its special relation to the Government which had chartered it, emphasized the-distinction between such a situation as he conceived it and one
where the Government has entered into a contract for
services to aid in the discharge of governmental functions. His observations are strikingly pertinent here
(id. pp. 41, 42):
"The case differs toto caelo from that wherein the
government enters into a contract with an individual or
corporation to perform services necessary for carrying on
the functions of government-as for carrying the mails,
or troops, or supplies, or for building ships or works for
government use. In those cases the government has no
further concern with the contractor than in his contract
and its execution. It has no concern with his property or
his faculties independent of that. How much he may be
taxed by, or what duties he may be obliged to perform towards, his State is of no consequence to the government,
so long as his contract and its execution are not interfered with. In that case the contract is the means employed for carrying into execution the powers of the government, and the contract alone, and not the contractor,
is exempt from taxation or other interference by the State
government."
The question of immunity frotn taxation of the earnings of an independent contractor under a government
contract arose in Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

514. The services were rendered to a political subdivison
of a State and the contractors' earnings were held to be
subject to the federal income tax. That was a pivotal
decision, for we had to meet the question whether the
earnings of the contractor stood upon the same footing
as interest upon government securities or the income
of an instrumentality of government. It is true that the
tax was laid upon net income. But if the tax upon the
earnings of the contractor had been regarded as imposing a direct burden upon a governmental agency, the fact
that the tax was laid upon net income would not save
it under the doctrine of Gillespie v. Oklahoma, supra.
And if the doctrine of the immunity of interest upon government bonds had been deemed to apply, the tax would
have been equally bad whether the tax was upon net or
gross income. The ruling in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co., supra, related to net income. The uniform
ruling in such a case has been that the interest upon government securities cannot be included in gross income
for the purpose of an income tax computed upon net
income. The pith of the decision in the case of Metcalf
& Eddy is that government bonds and contracts for the
services of an independent contractor are not upon the
same footing. The decision was a definite refusal to extend the doctrine of cases relating to government securities, and to the instrumentalities of government, to earnings under contracts for labor.
The reasoning upon which that decision was based is
controlling here. We recognized that in a broad sense
"the byrden of federal taxation necessarily sets an economic limit to the practical operation of the taxing power
of the states, and vice versa." "Taxation by either the.
state or the federal government affects in some measure
the cost of operation of the other." As "neither government may destroy the other nor curtail in any substantial
manner the exercise of its powers," we said that the lirni-

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

157

Opinion of the Court..

tation upon the taxing power of each, so far as it affects
the other, "must receive a practical construction which
permits both to function with the minimum of interference each with the other; and that limitation cannot
be so varied or extended as seriously to impair either the
taxing power of the government imposing the tax . . . or
the appropriate exercise of the functions of the government affected by it." Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, supra,
pp. 523, 524.
We said further that the nature of the governmental
agencies or the mode of their constitution could not be
disregarded in passing on the question of tax exemption,
as it was obvious that an agency might be of such a
character or so intimately connected with the exercise of
a power or the performance of a duty by the one government "that any taxation of it by the other would be such
a direct interference with the functions of government
itself as to be plainly beyond the taxing power." And it
was on that principle that "any taxation by one government of the salary of an officer of the other, or the public
securities of the other, or an agency created and controlled by the other, exclusively to enable it to perform
a governmental function," was prohibited. We concluded that a non-discriminatory tax upon the earnings
of an independent contractor derived from services rendered to the Government could not be said to be imposed
"upon an agency of government in any technical sense"
and could not "be deemed to be an interference with
government, or an impairment of the efficiency of its
agencies in any substantial way." Id., pp. 524, 525.
While the Metcalf case was one of a federal tax, the
reasoning and the practical criterion it adopts are clearly
applicable to the case of a state tax upon earnings under
a contract with the Federal Government.
As we have observed, the fact that the tax in the
present case is laid upon the gross receipts, instead of

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

net earnings, is not a controlling distinction. Respondent
invokes our decisions in the field of interstate commerce,
where. a tax upon the gross income of the taxpayer derived from interstate commerce has long been held to
be an unconstitutional burden. Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326; Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 297; United States
Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, 328, 329; Fisher's
Blend Station v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 650, 655, 656.
But the difference is plain. Persons have a constitutional right to engage in interstate commerce free from
burdens imposed by a state tax upon the business which
constitutes such commerce or the privilege of engaging
in it or the receipts as such derived from it. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 400. Interstate commerce is
not an abstraction; it connotes the transactions of those
engaged in it and they enjoy the described immunity in
their own right. Here, respondent's activities at the dam
sites are local and not in interstate commerce. Respondent has no constitutional right to immunity from nondiscriminatory local taxation and the mere fact that the
tax in question burdens respondent is no defense. The
defense is that the tax burdens the Government and
respondent's right is at best a derivative one. He asserts
an immunity which, if it exists, pertains to the Government and which the Government disclaims.
In Alward v. Johnson, supra, as already noted, the tax
was upon gross receipts and these were derived from a
contract for carrying the mails, but the tax was upheld.
It there appeared that the tax was in lieu of taxes upon
the property and had been treated by the state court
as a property tax. But if the tax as actually laid upon
the gross receipts placed a direct burden upon the Federal
Government so as to interfere with the performance of
its functions, it could not be saved because it was in lieu
of a tax upon property or was so characterized. See

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

159

Opinion of the Court.

Hanover Insurance Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S. 494, 509,
510.
In Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania, 240 U. S.
319, we sustained the tax upon the gross premiums received by a company as surety upon bonds running to
the United States for "internal revenue, customs, United
States government officials, United States government
contracts and banks for United States deposits," and
"bonds given in courts of the United States in litigation
there pending." While the challenged tax was "an exaction for the privilege of doing business," we held it to
be valid as "mere contracts between private corporations
and the United States do not necessarily render the
former essential governmental agencies and confer freedom from state control."
Id., pp. 320, 323. The premiums, of course, were paid by those who were required
to obtain the bonds, but the fact that the contracts were
with the United States and that the tax was laid upon
gross receipts from the writing of such contracts, did not
make the tax an invalid exaction.
In both the Alward case and that of the Fidelity &
Deposit Company, the argument, pressed here, that the
State withheld for its use "a part of every dollar" received by the taxpayer, was equally pertinent and equally
unavailing.
The contention ultimately rests upon the point that
the tax increases the cost to the Government of the service rendered by the taxpayer. But this is not necessarily
so. The contractor, taking into consideration the state
of the competitive market for the service, may be willing
to bear the tax and absorb it in his estimated profit rather
than lose the contract. In the present case, it is stipulated that respondent's estimated cost of the respective
works, and the bids based thereon, did not include, and
there was not included in the contract price paid to respondent, any specified item to cover the gross receipts

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

tax, although respondent knew of the West Virginia act
imposing it, and respondent's estimates of cost did include "compensation and liability insurance, construction
bond and property taxes."
But if it be assumed that the gross receipts tax may
increase the cost to the Government, that fact would not
invalidate the tax. With respect to that effect, a-tax on
the contractor's gross receipts would not differ from a tax
on the contractor's property and equipment necessarily
used in the performance of the contract. Concededly, such
a tax may validly be laid. Property taxes are naturally,
as in this case, reckoned as a part of the expense of doing the work. Taxes may validly be laid not only on the
contractor's machinery but on the fuel used to operate it.
In Trinityfarm Constructton Co. v. Grosjean, 291 U. S.
466, the taxpayer entered into a contract with the Federal Government for the construction of levees in aid of
navigation and gasoline was used to supply power for
taxpayer's machinery. . A state excise tax on the gasoline
so used was sustained. The Court said that if the payment of the state taxes imposed on the property and operations of the taxpayer "affects the federal government
at all, it at most gives rise to a burden which is consequential and remote and not to one that is necessary, immediate or direct." But a tax of that sort unquestionably increases the expense of the contractor in performing his service and may, if it enters into the contractor's
estimate, increase the cost to the Government. The fact
that the tax on the gross receipts of the contractor in the
Alward case, supra, might have increased the cost to the
Government of the carriage of the mails did not impress
the Court as militating against its validity.
There is the further suggestion that if the present tax
of two per cent. is upheld, the State may lay a tax of
twenty per cent. or fifty per cent. or even more, and make
it difficult or impossible for the Government to obtain

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

161

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

the service it needs. The argument ignores the power of
Congress to protect the performance of the functions of the
National Government and to prevent interference therewith through any attempted state action. In Thomson
v. Pacific Railroad,supra, the Court pointedly referred to
the authority of Congress to prevent such an interference
through the use of the taxing power of the State. "It
cannot," Said the Court, "be so used, indeed, as to defeat
or hinder the operations of the National government;
but it will be safe to conclude, in general, in reference to
persons and State corporations employed in government
service, that when Congress has not interposed to protect
their property from State taxation, such taxation is not
obnoxious to that objection." See Van Allen v. Assessors,
3 Wall. 573, 585; Fidelity & Deposit CJ v. Pennsylvania,
supra.
We hold that the West Virginia tax so far as it is laid
upon the gross receipts of respondent derived from its
activities within the borders of the State does not interfere in any substantial way with the performance of federal functions and is a valid exaction. The decree of the
District Court is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS, dissenting.
I regret that I am unable to concur in the Court's opinion. I should not set forth my views in detail were I
not convinced the decision runs counter to the settled rule
that a State may not, by taxation, burden or impede the
United States in the exercise of its delegated powers. The
judgment seems to me to overrule, sub silentio, a century
of precedents, and to leave the application of the rule
uncertain and unpredictable.
The doctrine which forbids a state to interfere with the
exercise of federal powers does not have its origin in the

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

common law exemption of the sovereign from regulation
or taxation. It springs from the necessity of maintaining our dual system of government.' "The attempt to
use it [the power of taxation] on the means employed
by the government of the Union, in pursuance of the constitution, is itself an abuse, because it is the usurpation
of a power which the people of a single State cannot
give. We find, then, on just theory, a total failure of
this original right [of the states] to tax the means employed by the government of the Union, for the execution
of its powers." 2 "The immunity is derived from the Constitution in the same sense and upon the same principle
that it would be if expressed in so many words." '
This immunity was defined by Chief Justice Marshall
in M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 436:
" , . . the States have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner control,
the operations of the constitutional laws enacted by
Congress to carry into execution the powers vested in
the general government."
In its application the principle forbids taxation by a
state of property of the federal government,4 or of the
office or salary of any of its officers.5
1 Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 575; Board
of Trustees v. United States, 289 U. S. 48, 59; Helvering v. Powers,
293 U. S. 214, 225.
2 M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 430; Weston v. Charleston,
2 Pet. 449, 467.
3 Clallam County v. United States, 263 U. S. 341, 344.
4 McGoon v. Scales, 9 Wall. 23, 27; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall.
527, 572; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Wisconsin Central R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 504; Irwin v. Wright,
258 U. S. 219, 228. But property acquired from the Government,
upon its severance, loses the immunity in the hands of the transferee.
Forbes v. Gracey, 94 U. S. 762; Group No. I Oil Corp. v. Bass, 283
U. S. 279; Indian Territory Oil Co. v. Board, 288 U. S. 325.
5 Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall.
113. But the exemption does not extend to taxes laid upon his pri-

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

ROBERTS,

163

J., dissenting.

I agree that the gross receipts tax laid by West Virginia upon the appellee's transactions with the United
States is not upon the government as such, upon its
property or upon its officers.
The government need not perform all its functions by
the use of its property and the activity of its officers,
but may establish agencies to these ends. Such an
agency, created not for private gain but wholly devoted
to governmental- purposes and wholly owned by the
United States, is as free from state taxation on its property and its activities as the government itself; and the
exemption extends to the salaries of its officers.8 In the
exertion of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, the United States may, in its discretion, erect
corporations for private gain and employ them as its
instrumentalities. 7 No tax can be laid upon their franchises or operations,8 but their local property I is subject
to non-discriminating state taxation. In contrast, the
bestowal of benefits, rights, privileges, or immunities or
the imposition of duties by federal law upon a natural
person or a corporation does not convert him or it .into
a federal agency exempt from uniform state excise or
vately owned property or a sales tax on his personal purchases,
even though they be of articles he uses in connection with his performance of his government work. Dyer v. City of Melrose, 215
U. S. 594; Tirrell v. Johnston, 293 U. S. 533; 86 N. H. 530.
6 Clallam County v. United States, 263 U. S. 341; New Brunswick
v. United States, 276 U. S. 547; New York ex rel. Rogers v. Graves,
299 U. S. 401. For the same reason a state tax which burdens the
fiscal operations of a territory must fall: Farmers& Mechanics Savings
Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S. 516.
7
Interstate railroad: Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5.
National banks: M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Smith v.
Kansas City Title & T. Co., 255 U. S. 180.
8 Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; Railroad Company v. Peniston,
18 Wall. 5; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664.
9 Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Indian Territory Oil
Co. v. Board, 288 U. S. 325, 327, 328.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

property taxes.5 0 Where the United States, by contract,
constitutes a person or corporation its agent to fulfil a
governmental obligation, a state tax upon such an agent
is forbidden if it falls upon the avails of the operation
in which the government has an interest, or is an excise
or privilege tax upon the agent's operations; 11 but a general and uniform state property tax which falls only upon
the agent's property used in the performance of the contract is valid." The opinion of the court adverts to these
distinctions, but, since admittedly the appellee is not an
agency or instrumentality of the United States, a discussion of taxes laid upon the operations as contrasted
with those imposed upon the property of such an agency
or instrumentality is beside the point upon which the
case turns. 8
I agree that the challenged tax is not, in terms, laid upon
the contract of the government, but I am of opinion that
it directly burdens and impedes the operations of the
United States within the reason and scope of the principle of immunity and according to the application of
that principle in numerous decisions of the court. If
this be so, the facts that the exaction is not in terms
upon the contract with the government, that the appellee
10 Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9 Wall. 579; Western Union Tel.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Massachusetts v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 141 U. S. 40; Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195
U. S. 375; Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania, 240 U. S. 319;
Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Mackey, 256 U. S. 531; Susquehanna
Power Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 291; Broad River Power
Co. v. Query, 288 U. S. 178; Federal Compress Co. v. McLean, 291
U. S. 17.
1"Choctaw & Gulf R. Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292; Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609.
12Indian Territory Oil Co. v. Board, 288 U. S. 325; Taber v.
Indian Territory Oil Co., 300 U. S. 1.
18 The Solicitor General's argument, noticed later, would, however,
validate a tax of any description imposed upon federal instrumentalities, provided the exaction were non-discriminatory.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

165

RoBERs, J., dissenting.

is an independent contractor, that the tax is non-discriminatory, or that it is not excessive in amount cannot serve to exculpate the statute from the charge that
it transgresses the rule. These considerations, as repeatedly held, are irrelevant where the tax falls directly, immediately, and palpably upon an operation of the federal government or a means chosen for the exercise of
its powers. Many illustrations are available of exactions
which plainly burden and impede in some degree the lawful operations of the United States. As the opinion of
the court indicates, a tax in terms laid upon the contract
would do so,-such as an excise for the privilege of making the contract or performing it, 4 a stamp tax upon the
documents evidencing the contract, or a requirement that
the contract be recorded and a tax be paid upon its recordation.' 5
The court has, moreover, repeatedly held a tax nominally upon one who contracts with the government was
in effect and in fact imposed upon the operations of the
latter. Thus an excise upon a telegraph company which,
under contract with the United States, transmits government messages, whether the tax be at a given sum per
message 16 or in the form of a license tax upon all business, private and governmental,"' is prohibited because it
imposes a burden upon the operations of the United
States. The cases so holding are sought to be distinguished by the circumstance that the telegraph companies carrying the messages of the United States were
by federal statute given the privilege of using the post
roads; and it is said that this in some way gave them
a peculiar status which rendered their gross receipts un14 Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 867.
15 FederalLand Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374.
16 Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460.
17 Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Williams v. Talladega,
226 U. S. 404.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. 8.

taxable. But that was not the basis of decision. The
ground of immunity was that the tax was in effect on
the government's transactions in the exertion of its lawful powers. Thus in Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. at
p. 465, it was said "The tax is the same on every message
sent, and because it is sent, . . . Clearly if a fixed tax

for every two thousand pounds of freight carried is a tax
on the freight, or for every measured ton of a vessel a
tax on tonnage, or for every passenger carried a tax on
the passenger, or for the sale of goods a tax on the goods,
this must be a tax on the messages. .

.

. As to the gov-

ernment messages, it is a tax by the State on the means
employed by the government of the United States to execute its constitutional powers, and, therefore, void. It
was so decided in McCulloch v. Maryland, (4 Wheat. 316)
and has never been doubted since."
That the privileges granted telegraph companies by
federal law, had no bearing upon the validity of the tax is
shown by Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Massachusetts,
125 U. S. 530 and Massachusetts v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 141 U. S. 40, in which state taxes on the property and franchises of companies, operating under the
same statute as the Telegraph Company in the Texas
case were sustained because not on the transactions between the carrier and the United States.
Stock issued by the United States -evidencing indebtedness to the holder cannot be taxed ad valorem by a
state. 8 A tax upon the assets of a corporation is bad
if obligations of the United States are included in the
assessment. 9 A gross income tax is invalid to the extent
is Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 465.
9
1'
Bank of Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black 620; Bank Tax
Case, 2 Wall. 200; Bank v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26; Home Savings
Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503; Missouri v. Gehner, 281 U. S.
313.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

RoBERTs, J.,

167

dissenting.

that it is laid on income from federal securities. 0 The
reason is that "the tax . . . is a tax upon the contract
subsisting between the government and the individual.
It bears directly upon that contract, while subsisting and
in full force. The power operates upon the contract the
instant it is framed, and must imply a right to affect that
contract." The government's obligation is for the payment both of principal and interest, and an exaction
which bears upon either of these features of the obligation is prohibited.
Certificates of indebtedness issued by the United
States, payable at a future date, with interest, issued to
creditors for supplies furnished by them to the nation,
cannot be taxed by a state. They differ from the gross
receipts here taxed only in the respect that they were
issued to secure payment of past-due contractual obligations, whereas the cash paid the appellee was in solution of a present obligation of like nature. Of the taxability of these certificates it was said: "
0 . . . But we fail to perceive . . . that such certificates, issued as a means of executing constitutional powers of the government other than of borrowing money,
are not as much beyond control and limitation by the
States through taxation, as bonds or other obligations
issued for loans of money."
Many sorts of imposts, however, which bear merely
upon the obligee of a government contract for the exercise of a privilege having no relation to the contractual
nexus between him and the government have been sus20

Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136; National

Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508. And no form of words
or subterfuge can save an act the intent of which is to reach the
income from federal bonds. Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713;
Macallen Co. v. Massachusetts, 279 U. S. 620, 629.
21 The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Wall. 16, 25.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

tained. So, a franchise or privilege tax measured by
assets or by income is not rendered void by the circumstance that the taxpayer's assets or income include federal securities or interest thereon.2 And a law which
imposes an excise upon the privilege of transmission of
property at death may include federal securities in the
estate by which the tax is measured." Upon the like
reasoning a tax upon moneys and credits in the assessment of which uncollected government checks are included is valid."'
There can be no difference in reason, or in practical
effect, between taxation of government contracts to repay borrowed funds or written promises to pay for goods
previously furnished and a contract to pay for goods and
services as furnished, or any other form of contract
whereby the government exercises its granted powers.
The federal power to contract for supplies or services is
as necessary and as fundamental as the power to borrow
money. Thus it has been said, speaking of a tax upon
government obligations: 25
"If the states and corporations .throughout the union,
possess the power to tax a contract for the loan of nfioney,
what shall arrest this principle in its application to every
other contract? What measure can government adopt
which will not be exposed to its influence?"
If the government, as guardian of an incompetent
Indian, leases land to a mining company on a royalty consisting of a percentage of the gross proceeds derived from
the sale of ores mined, a state ad valorem tax assessed to
the lessee on the ores mined and in storage upon the
22

Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 119 U. S. 129; Home Ins. Co. v.
New York, 134 U. S. 594.
2
sPlummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; Greiner v. Lewellyn, 258
U. S. 384.
2"Hibernia Savings Society v. San Francisco, 200U. S. 310.
25 Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 465.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

169

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

leased land before any sale or segregation of the equitable
interests of the government as guardian, is void as burdening and impeding an operation of the government.26
A sales tax on commodities sold to the government,
though laid upon the seller at a given rate per unit sold,
is also bad as directly burdening the government's transactions."' A tax on storage or withdrawal from storage
essential to the sale of a commodity contracted to be delivered to the United States is in the same class as a tax
on sales to the government. 8 On the other hand, a sales
tax upon articles purchased by a government contractor,29
or a net income tax laid upon his income, is valid.3' The
reason is that exactions of the latter sort do not impinge
upon or directly affect the transaction between him and
the government; do not affect the government's choice of
means for executing its powers..
While a gross income tax upon receipts derived from a
government contract would in itself be bad, if the exaction is in lieu of all property taxes and intended as a property tax, measured by receipts. of the property, it is
valid.'
Over a century ago the court said:2
"Can a contractor for supplying a military post with
provisions, be restrained from making purchases within
any State, or from transporting the provisions to the
place at which the troops were stationed?, or could he be
Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609.
Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S. 218; Graysburg
Oil Co. v. Texas, 278 U. S. 582; 3 S. W. (2d) 427. Compare Brown
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 440.
28 Graves v. Texas Company, 298 U. S. 393.
29 Trinityfarm Construction Co. v. Grosjean, 291 U. S. 466.
80 General Construction Co. v. Fisher, 295 U. S. 715; 149 Ore. 84;
39 P. (2d) 358; Burnet v. A. T. Jergins Trust, 288 U. S. 508.
31 Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 509.
82 Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 867.
26

27Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

fined or taxed for doing so? We have not yet heard these
questions answered in the affirmative. It is true, that
the property of the contractor may be taxed, as the propBut we do not admit that
erty of other citizens;'...
the act of purchasing, or of conveying the articles purchased, can be under State control."
There is no distinction between a sales tax on goods
sold to the federal government and a gross receipts tax
upon the furnishing of goods and services under a contract with the government. As was said in Panhandle
Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, 221:
"The right of the United States to make such purchases
is derived from 'the Constitution. The petitioner's right
to make sales to the United States was not given by the
State and does not depend on state laws; it results from
the authority of the national government under the Constitution to choose its own means and sources of supply.
While Mississippi may impose charges upon petitioner
for the privilege of carrying on trade that is subject to
the power of the State, it may not lay any tax upon transactions by which the United States secures the things
desired for its governmental purposes."
As in the Panhandlecase, so in the present, the receipt
of the thing contracted for constitutes the transaction by
which the tax is measured and on which the burden rests.
We may thus paraphrase what was there said: to use the
value and amount of the goods and services furnished to
the United States as a measure of the tax is in substance
and effect to tax the transaction itself. The amount of
the tax rises and falls in direct ratio to the contract value
of the goods and services rendered to the government.
This is to tax the sale; and that is to tax the United
States.
The Solicitor General as amicus curiae proposes a single
test of the constitutionality of a state tax upon the operations of the United States, or the means chosen for

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

171

RoBiRTs, J., dissenting.

the execution of its powers. That test is whether the
taxing statute discriminates against the government and
in favor of other taxpayers. He frankly admits that if

the proposed criterion be adopted we must overrule Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570;
Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, supra; and
Graves v. Texas Company, 298 U. S. 393. He professes
himself, as I am, unable to distinguish a sales tax or a
tax upon storage preliminary to sale to the United States
from a gross receipts tax upon goods and services furnished the government. In a brief filed as amicus curiae
in Graves v. Texas Company, supra, he urged the court
to hold such a tax imposed on gasoline under contract
to the United States invalid as an unconstitutional impediment and burden upon the operations of the government.8" It is said that these cases have been distinguished. But in the cases distinguished from them the
tax was found to be one on the property of a contractor
with the United States, or on his net income, not on the
gross receipts of his contract with the government. To
distinguish them from the present case is not to rely
upon any principle but upon the mere name or label
given to a tax. Such distinctions only serve to confuse.
r do not think the Solicitor General in brief or argument answered the question propounded by the court
in the present case: whether the tax is invalid as laying
a burden upon the operations of the federal government.
He responds that the tax is valid in spite of the fact
that it lays such a burden. Thus he states: "We have
indicated that a tax upon the contractor, the sole result
of which is to increase the cost to the' sovereign by the
81.In this brief the Solicitor General stated that figured upon the
estimated purchases of the Government for the then current fiscal
year, state sales taxes on gasoline of four cents per gallon, imposed
by all the states, would impose an added burden upon the United
States of $4,479,661.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

amount of the normal tax burden, presents no interference with its operatibns." Again he says that the imposition of the tax in question "isin no sense a threat to
the capacity of the government to perform its functions."
Thus it appears that, in his view, a non-discriminatory
state tax is to be judged not by the "burden" it imposes,
but by the extent of its "interference" with the functioning of government. If this be the test, no tax, however
great, can prevent such functioning, so long as the United
States' taxing and borrowing powers remain adequate to
meet the ordinary expenses of its operations and the
added cost of state taxes thereon. The adoption of any
such theory would require the overruling not only of the
three decisions the Solicitor General singles out for deletion, but literally scores of others, beginning with M'Culloch v. Maryland and ending with Graves v. Texas Company, 298 U. S.393, decided at the 1935 term in accordance with the views then earnestly pressed upon us by
the Solicitor General.
It is not clear to what extent the court's opinion
adopts the doctrine advocated by the government. It is
said merely that the appellee is an independent contractor, that the tax is non-discriminatory and is not
laid upon the contract of the government; and it is suggested that if in the view of Congress the burden of
such a tax becomes too heavy, Congress has the means
of redress. Whether one or all of these factors is requisite to justify the exaction we are not told.
The cases on which the opinion especially relies do not
justify sustaining this tax. Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U. S. 514, throws no light upon the problem presented. A contractor employed to advise a state and
its municipal subdivisions sought exemption from a fed6ral tax upon net income. The law imposing the tax did
not discriminate against the receipts from the contract
but treated them as part of the gross income upon which

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

173

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

the taxable net income was to be calculated. In accordance with all of this court's applicable decisions the tax
was held not to be upon the state or its contract with the
taxpayer, not upon an instrumentality or means chosen
by the state for executing its powers, not directly upon
the amount of the taxpayer's compensation received from
the state. The exaction was not, as here, of a proportion
of each dollar paid by the government. It. was upon
net income remaining after allowable deductions from
gross.
The decision in Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. Pennsylvania,
240 U. S. 319, relied on as sustaining the instant exaction,
neither rules nor aids in the decision of the present cause.
There a foreign surety company was required by law to
pay an annual fee equal to two per cent. of its gross premiums, in order to be admitted to do business in Pennsylvania. Under a federal statute surety companies desiring to execute bonds running to the United States were
required to obtain written authority from the Attorney
General so to do. The Fidelity Company obtained such
authority and became surety in Pennsylvania on a number of bonds insuring the faithful performance of official
duties by federal employes. It challenged so much of
the state tax as was laid upon the premiums received
for writing these bonds. The challenge was not sustained.
The claim that the company, by obtaining leave to execute bonds running to the United States, had become a
federal instrumentality, was properly overruled.8" But
it is said that, in sustaining the tax, the court held that
an exaction on the gross receipts of government contracts is valid. A moment's reflection will show that
this is incorrect. The premiums received by the surety
company were received from its clients-those for whom
it wrote the bonds. It received no compensation from
the United States and its transactions in essence were with
84

See the cases cited in note 10, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

citizens of the State of Pennsylvania as such. They did
not differ from transactions with federal officers and employes whereby the latter procured any other sort of goods
or service." Of course, the mere fact that a contractual
relation-that of suretyship-was created between the
Fidelity Company and the United States, was not in and
of itself sufficient to relieve the company of the burden
of paying a local tax for the privilege of doing business
with its customers.
Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 509, is cited as an instance where a gross receipts tax incident upon the consideration paid the contractor by the United States was
sustained. Examination of the case demonstrates that
the contrary is true. Alward was engaged in operating
an automotive stage line between points in California.
In his business he employed automotive property and
used the state highways. In classifying property for
taxation the state separately classified property of persons carrying on such a business as his and laid a tax on
this class of property, in lieu of all other taxes, at the
rate of four and one-half per cent. of gross receipts.
Other classes of property were taxed at a percentage of
value. As the major portion of Alward's gross receipts
arose from a contract for carrying United States mails he
insisted that the tax was invalid because, by virtue of his
contract with the Government, he became a federal
agency immune from taxation upon his gross receipts.
This court found that the Supreme Court of California
had declared the tax one upon property in cases having
no relation to its incidence upon federal instrumentalities
or means. It further found that the challenged classification for taxation of automotive property used in a
business transacted on the public roads was not arbitrary
or unreasonable. The case was likened to those arising
85 See note 5, supra.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

ROBERTS,

175

J., dissenting.

under the commerce clause in which the intrastate property of an interstate carrier was either directly taxed or
was taxed by use of a percentage of gross receipts in lieu
of all other taxes, including property taxes, in order
to reach a fair measure of the taxable value of the carrier's intrastate property. Pullman Co. v. Richardson,
261 U. S. 330; Hopkins v. Southern California Tel. Co.,
275 U. S. 393. It was pointed out that the tax was not
on gross receipts as such and did not bear upon the contract between the taxpayer and the government. In the
instant case the tax is admittedly an excise for revenue imposed in addition to property taxes and foreign corporation fees paid by the appellee.
It may be considered,-though I do not think with
reason,-that the conclusion of the court that the tax
was a property tax and not a tax upon gross receipts as
such was erroneous but, even if this be conceded, it cannot be contended that the case stands as authority for
the proposition that a gross receipts tax as such upon the
earnings of a government contractor, from his government contract, is not a burden or impediment upon the
operations of the United States within the rule of federal
immunity.
Much stress is laid by the Solicitor General upon the
decision in Liggett & Myers Co. v. United States, 299
U. S. 383, and he suggests that the views therein stated
be adopted in the present case in preference to those embodied in the PanhandleOil case, supra. The suggestion
implies, contrary to the fact, that the two decisions are
contradictory. The Liggett & Myers Company, a manufacturer of tobacco, sold a portion of its product to a
state. The company resisted the collection of a federal
internal revenue tax laid "upon all tobacco and snuff
manufactured in or imported into the United States, and
hereafter sold by the manufacturer or importer, or removed for consumption or sale" at a flat rate in cents

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

per pound "to be paid by the manufacturer or importer
thereof." Upon analysis of the statute it was concluded
that the tax was upon the manufacture and that payment was merely postponed until removal or sale. The
tax did not vary in amount with the price received for
the tobacco and was not in terms upon its sale. Upon
this ground the Indian Motocycle Co. case and the Panhandle case were distinguished.
It may be conceded that often it is difficult to determine whether a tax is laid upon the local operations of a
manufacturer or contractor or upon the actual sale of his
product. But such distinctions must be made. Indeed
the court itself is required to make such an one in the
instant case in determining that payment for what the
appellee manufactured for the government, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, did not constitute a gross receipt
in West Virginia under the contract. The court has repeatedly been confronted with the problem whether a
tax was in fact on the sale of a commodity or upon some
prior dealing with it by the producer or supplier. While
the distinctions drawn may seem somewhat nice, examination of the facts carries conviction that the distinctions
are substantial."
It is suggested that the appellee's status as an independent contractor lifts the ban from the tax. This is to
ignore the direct bearing of the exaction on the transaction between the contractor and the government. The
fact that the tax is laid upon him who contracts with
the government rather than upon the contract as such,
or the government itself, is immaterial. Every purchaser of government obligations is an independent con81Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418; Hope Natural Gas Co. v. Hall,
274 U. S. 284; Wheeler Lumber Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 572.
The same problem arises in connection with taxation alleged -to
burden interstate commerce. See American Manufacturing Co. v.
St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

ROBERTS,

177

J., dissenting.

tractor with the government. If the fact that the taxpayer is an independent contractor were significant, it
would have validated every tax laid upon the ownership
of government obligations or upon the interest received
therefrom. 7 It has been held that ores produced by an
independent contractor for the government, though still
in his possession, cannot be taxed by a state; " and that
a license tax upon an independent contractor cannot be
measured by the 9gross receipts from his transactions with
the government.
What was said by Mr. Justice Bradley, dissenting in
Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 38, when read
in the light of its context, has no bearing upon the issue
here presented. In M'Culloch v. Maryland, in holding
that a tax upon the operations of the United States Bank
invaded the federal immunity, Chief Justice Marshall
said:
"It [the immunity] does not extend to a tax paid by
the real property of the bank, in common with the other
real property within the State, . .."
In the Peniston case the question was whether a uniform ad valorem state tax could lawfully be assessed upon
the intrastate property of the railroad, a federal corporation. The court held that it could. The correctness of
the decision has never been doubted. Justices Bradley
and Field, however, thought that the scope of the immunity was so broad as to exempt even the local property
of a federal instrumentality from such a uniform local
tax. It is to be observed that no other kind of exaction
was involved. Mr. Justice Bradley insisted that while
the cases cited in notes 17, 18 and 19.
Jaybird Mining Co. v. Weir, 271 U. S. 609.

87 See
88

39 Western Union Tel. Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Williams v.
Talladega, 226 U. S. 404; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283
U. S. 570; Panhandle Oil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S.
218; Grave8 v. Texas Company, 298 U. S. 393.

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

such a tax might lawfully be laid upon the property of
one who was a mere contractor with the United States
it could not be laid upon the local assets of a federal corporate instrumentality. The challenged tax was not upon
the franchise of the corporation granted by the government, not on its right to exist within the state, nor upon
the gross receipts from its operations. Confessedly the
property of a contractor with the government is more remote from the government's operations than is the property of a government instrumentality. If the latter may
be locally taxed a fortiori the former may, and the
language of Mr. Justice Bradley applied only to that
situation, and not to a gross receipts tax such as we have
here.
Does the fact that the tax is non-discriminatory save
it? The Solicitor General, as we have seen, so argues.
He says that both the appellee and the United States
derive substantial benefits in connection with the federal projects located in the State and adds that it seems
these benefits should not be free. Though he does not
overlook the fact that when the work is completed the
United States will continue to receive benefits from the
State, he contends that a non-discriminatory tax upon
the gross receipts of the contractor is but a method of reimbursing the State for benefits conferred. The argument proves too much. It requires that equal and uniform state taxation upon federal property on which stand
customs houses, post offices, forts, arsenals, et id omne
genus, be upheld. In every instance of the ownership
and use of property within a state, according to the argument, the federal government receives substantial benefits for which it should pay. The Solicitor General balks
at the result of his position. He says: "We recognize
that the logic of our analysis of benefits received would
lead to taxation of the sovereign itself. But the attributes
of sovereignty may be such as to prevent a tax from being

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

179

RouERTs, J., dissenting.

imposed upon the government itself. Certainly, the principle of the tax immunity of the sovereign itself is too

firmly established now to be reexamined."
The short answer is that the immunity from state taxation upon the means, the operations, and the instruments of the government is just as firmly established as
is the immunity from taxation of the government's property or offices or posts created by it, and that neither
class of taxation can be justified by the fact that the
burden on the government is uniform with that laid on
others.
Taxes condemned by the court's decisions which were
imposed upon the principal and interest of federal securities, upon the product of mining lessees, in which the
government had an interest, upon storage and sale of
property sold to the government, upon the operation and
franchises of federal instrumentalties, such as national
banks, were non-discriminatory. They bore equally and
alike upon property and operations in which the government was interested and those which were alien to it, but
they were voided as illegally burdening the operations of
the United States. The fact that taxes upon government
property and upon property of wholly owned government
corporations were non-discriminatory did not suffice to
save them. Taxes on franchises granted by the federal
government, taxes upon the office or salary of a federal
official, though non-discriminatory, nevertheless fell under
the ban. It was said in Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S.
51, 55:
"Here the question is whether the State can interrupt
the acts of the general government itself. With regard
to taxation, no matter how reasonable, or how universal
and undiscriminating, the State's inability to interfere
has been regarded as established since McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316."
The element of discrimination becomes important only
in a case where a tax which would otherwise be per-

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

missible is aimed at the taxpayer because of his relation
to the government. Of course a state cannot lay a
heavier burden upon those contracting with the government simply because they are such contractors. A disdrimination of that nature on its face spells a hostile
purpose, an intent to hinder and burden the government,
to impede its operations, and to discourage dealing with
it. But the question of discrimination has no place in
the consideration of the legality of an exaction laid directly upon the government, upon its operations, or upon
the means or instrumentalities it has chosen for executing its powers.
As we, have seen, the Solicitor General suggests that the
tax should be sustained, although it lays a burden on the
United States, because the burden is a "normal tax burden" and the United States can bear it. The opinion
of the court suggests the same thought and adds that if
West Virginia ever imposes a gross receipts tax uniform
in its incidence, but inordinately heavy, Congress has
power to relieve the government from such interference.
Both suggestions are in the teeth of all that has been
said by the court on the subject of federal immunity. The
necessity for enforcement of the doctrine was embodied
in the phrase of Chief Justice Marshall in M'Culloch v.
Maryland, supra, that "the power to tax involves the
power to destroy." As was said in Knowlton v. Moore,
178 U. S. 41, 60:
"This principle is pertinent only when there is no
power to tax a particular subject, and has no relation
to a ocase where such right exists. In other words, the
power to destroy which may be the consequence of taxation is a reason why the right to tax should be confined
to subjects which may be lawfully embraced therein, even
although it happens that in some particular instance no
great harm may be caused by the exercise of the taxing
authority as to a subject which is beyond its scope."

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

181

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

Chief Justice Marshall denied the existence of the
power. From that day to this the court has consistently
held that the question is not one of quantum, not one of
the weight of the burden, but one of power. The court
has said that the attempt to tax the means employed
by the Government is "the usurpation of a power which
the people of a single State cannot give." Referring to
the decision in M'Culloch v. Maryland, it was said:
"The decision in that case was not put upon any consideration of degree but upon the entire absence of power
on the part of the States to touch, in that way at least,
the instrumentalities of the United States; 4 Wheat. 429,
430; and that is the law today." 40
Again the court has said:
"It is obvious, that the same power which imposes a
light duty, can impose a very heavy one, one which
amounts to a prohibition. Questions of power do not
depend on the degree to which it may be exercised. If
it may be exercised at all, it must be exercised at the will
of those in whose hands it is placed. If the tax may be
levied in this form by a State, it may be levied to an extent which will defeat the revenue by impost, so far as it
is drawn from importations into the particular State." 41
Again it was recently said:
"Where the principle applies it is not affected by the
amount of the particular tax or the extent, of the resulting interference, but is absolute. , McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 430; United States v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 17 Wall. 322, 327; Johnson V.Maryland,254
U. S. 51, 55-56; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501,
505; Crandallv. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 44-46." 42
No one denies the competence of the Congress to
waive the immunity in whole or in part. 48 But this is the
40 Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51, 55.
41
Brown
42

v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 439.
Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 570, 575.

48 Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Romw, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

reverse of saying the power to tax federal means -and
operations exists in the states subject to veto by Congress of any exorbitant exercise of the power. And it
may be pertinent to suggest that, if, as the court has
always held, the immunity is reciprocal, the state legislatures by a parity of reasoning, ought to have the power
to prohibit federal taxes upon state operations, if they
be deemed immoderate.
It must be evident that if the principle of federal immunity is to be preserved, if all that the court has said
respecting it is not to be set aside, the gross receipts tax
under review cannot be rescued from condemnation by the
circumstances that it bears upon an independent contractor, does not discriminate, and is not so burdensome as
seriously to interfere with governmental functions.
Such a tax upon gross receipts has been contrasted in
all the decisions, including those dealing with burdens
upon comlnerce, with a tax upon net income; the one
being held a forbidden burden and the other a permissible
exaction. Despite the fact that the court has repeatedly
applied the same tests of validity to taxes alleged to burden interstate commerce as it has to exactions said to burden the operations of the federal government," it is said
in the opinion:
"Respondent invoke8 our decisions in the field of interstate commerce, where a tax upon the gross income of the
Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 465; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1, 14; Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. 8. 1, 32; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.
335, 344; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Harrison,235 U. S. 292, 299;
Kansas City, F. S. & M. Ry. Co. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227, 232;
Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 504-5; Northwestern Mutual
Life In. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136, 140; Macallen Co. v. Mas8achusetts, 279 U. S. 620, 627; Indian Motocycle Co. v. United States,
283 U. S. 570, 575; Eastern Air Transport v. South Carolina Tax
Comm'n, 285 U. S.147, 152; Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U. S. 123,
126; Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. v. United States, 299 U. S.383,

387..

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

ROBERTS,

183

J., dissenting.

taxpayer derived from interstate commerce has long been
held to be an unconstitutional burden ...
"But the difference is plain. Persons have a constitutional right to engage in interstate commerce free from
burdens imposed by a state tax upon the business which
constitutes such commerce or the privilege of engaging
in it or the receipts as such derived from it."
As has been pointed out, the doctrine of federal immunity from state taxation is based upon the right of the
federal government to carry on its lawful operations free
from burden or impediment imposed by a state upon the
business which constitute such operations or the privilege of engaging in them. The Constitution contains
no clause forbidding the states to burden, impede, or interfere with the operations of the federal government. In
express terms it confers upon that government power to
conduct those operations. Nor does the Constitution
contain any clause prohibiting the states from burdening
or interfering with the conduct of interstate commerce.
In express terms it confers upon Congress the power
to regulate that commerce. In each case there is implied
from the federal power delegated by the people an immunity from interference or burden by the states. The
cases are entirely analogous. Comparing the immunity
of interstate commerce from state taxation with the
like immunity of the federal government, the court has
said:
"The rule as to instrumentalities of the United States
on the other hand is absolute in form and at least stricter
in substance." "
The cases in our reports respecting the immunity of
interstate commerce from burden by state taxation are
the complete analogue of those dealing with the federal
immunity from the like burden. As in the case of a
private corporation employed as an agency of the United
SGillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
RomRs, J., dissenting.

302 U. S.

States, so in the case of a private corporation engaged in
interstate commerce, the states are free to lay a uniform
and nondiscriminatory tax upon the property employed
in the business within their 'jurisdiction."
A tax upon the gross receips of corporations derived
both from intrastate and interstate commerce is bad because it burdens the latter. 7 A franchise tax upon a
corporation transacting an interstate business, measured
by its interstate business or its property without the
state, is void, on the same principle that a tax laid upon
the franchise of a corporation which is a federal agency
or instrumentality is void. 8
A sales tax on gasoline sold within a state is invalid as
it affects gasoline purchased outside the state for use
therein, for the same reason a sales tax upon sales to
the United States is invalid.'9 A tax upon the gross receipts of one engaged in interstate commerce is bad be"Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163 U. S. 1; Old Dominion S. S. Co.
v. Virginia, 198 U. S. 299; United States Express Co. v. Minnesota,
223 U. S. 335; Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330. And as
in the case of agents of the federal government or contractors with
it, a state may measure the value of the property within its borders
by a receipts tax in lieu of all property taxes. bompare United States
Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Cudahy Packing Co. v.
Minnesota, 246 U. S.450; Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U. S. 330,
with Alward v. Johnson, 282 U. S.509.
47 Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.
326; Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.217; Meyer
v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298.
' Compare Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, and
Ozark Pipe Line Corp. v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, with California v.
Central Pacific R. Co., 127 U. S.1; Owensboro National Bank v.
Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664; Third National Bank v. Stone, 174 U. S.
432; and Louisville v. Third National Bank, 174 U. S. 435.
49 Compare Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, and Bowman v.
Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S.642, with PanhandleOil Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Knox, 277 U. S.218.

JAMES v. DRAVO CONTRACTING CO.
134

ROBERTS,

185

J., dissenting.

cause a direct burden on that commerce in the same sense
that a tax on the gross receipts of business done with the
United States is a direct burden on the transaction with
the federal government." In contrast, a tax on the net
income of one engaged in interstate commerce is not upon
his transactions in that commerce, but so remote therefrom as not to burden it, just as a net income tax upon
one who contracts with the federal government is inoffensive to the rule of federal immunity.5 1
A state may not lay an occupation tax upon the act of
engaging in interstate commerce, for the same reason
that it may not lay a similar tax upon the employment
of an officer of the United States.52 The same considerations of remoteness sustain taxes upon the mere purchase of articles intended for use in interstate commerce
or for the fulfilment of government contracts. 3
I conclude, then, that the tax in question is plainly
imposed upon the operations of the federal government;
that it falls squarely within the definition of such a
burden and is prohibited upon the principle announced
Compare Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, Fargo v. Michigan,
121 U. S. 230, Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, New
Jersey Bell Tel. Co. v. State Board, 280 U. S. 338, Fisher's Blend
Station v. State Tax Comm'n, 297 U. S. 650, Puget Sound Co. v.
Tax Comm'n, ante, p. 90, with Western Union Tel. Co. v. Texas,
105 U. S. 460.
-' Compare Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37, United States Glue
Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321, and Atlantic Coast Line v. Daughton, 262 U. S. 413, with General Construction Co. v. Fisher, 295 U. S.
715 (149 Ore. 84; 39 P. (2d) 358), and Burnet v. A. T. Jergim Trust,
288 U. S. 508. But see Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, and
Burnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285' U. S. 393.
52
Compare East Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465,
with Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435, and New York ex rel.
Rogers v. Graves, 299 U. S. 401.
8 Compare Eastern Air Transport v. South Carolina Tax
Comm'n, 285 U. S. 147, with Trinity!arm Construction Co. v. Grosjean, 291 U. S. 466, and Tirrell v. Johnston, 293 U. S. 533.
50

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

in M'Culloch v. Maryland and ever since consistently
applied in the decisions of the court. I think that the
judgment should be affirmed.
These views with respect to the nature of the tax
render it unnecessary to express any opinion as to the
-asserted exclusive federal jurisdiction over the area
within which the appellee pursued the activities which
are the' subject of the exaction.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUsTICE BUTLER

join in this opinion.

SILAS MASON CO. ET AL. v. TAX COMMISSION
OF WASHINGTON

ET AL.*

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 7. Argued April 27, 1937. Reargued October 12, 13, 1937.Decided December 6, 1937.
1. A state occupation tax on gross receipts may constitutionally include the receipts from construction work done under a contract
• with the United States. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., ante
p. 134. P. 190.
2. Acquisition by the United States of exclusive territorial jurisdiction
over land to which it has acquired title within a State, is dependent upon consent of or cession from the State. P. 197.
3. Whether a State has yielded to the United States exclusive legislative authority over land within the State is a federal question.
P. 197.
4. The provisions of the federal Reclamation Act relative to the
acquisition of land, and the provisions of Remington's Rev. Stats.
of Washington §§ 7410-7412 granting land to the United States.
for irrigation projects, do not intend thai, with the title, the United
States shall acquire exclusive jurisdiction over the land conveyed.
Pp. 197 et seq.
* Together with No. 8, Ryan v. Washington et al., also on appeal
from the Supreme Court of Washington.

