OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

302 U. S.

Bankruptcy Act concerning the appointment of depositories and the deposits to be made by trustees are of a
very different character.
As the exercise of ordinary care in making and maintaining deposits, even if made in a designated depository,
was part of Howard's official duties, he and his surety are
liable on the bonds if he failed in this respect. On that
issue the evidence-particularly in view of the personal
loans to him-was ample to justify submitting the question to the jury. The judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is, therefore, reversed; and the cause is remanded
to it for consideration of the other errors which the
defendants assigned concerning the conduct of the trial.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. BASHFORD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR TIE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 33.

Argued October 21, 1937. Reargued December 15, 1937.Decided January 3, 1938.

The A corporation brought about a consolidation of three of its
competitors into a new corporation, of which it became the owner
of all the preferred shares and 57% of the common shares. Stockholders of the consolidated companies received in exchange for
their shares: shares of the new corporation, shares of the A corporation, and cash which the A corporation supplied. Held, the
A corporation was not a "party to a reorganization" under § 112
(b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1928; its shares received by stockholders of the consolidated companies were "other property" under
§ 112 (c) (1), and gain thereon was taxable. Following Groman v.
Commissioner, ante, p. 82. P. 458.
87 F. (2d) 827, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 678, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 33 B. T. A. 10,

HELVERING v. BASHFORD.
454

Opinion of the Court.

which reversed an order of the Commissioner assessing a
deficiency in income tax.
Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Reed, Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Maurice J. Mahoney were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Walter G. Moyle, with whom Messrs. Charles C.
Gammons and Ernest L. Wilkinson were on the brief, for
respondent.,
MR.
Court.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Whether Bashford is liable for a deficiency in the income 'taxes assessed for the year 1930 depends upon
whether Atlas Powder Company was, as defined by § 112
(i) (2) of the Revenue Act of 1928, 45 Stat. 818, "a
party to the reorganization" of the Peerless Explosives
Company.
Atlas Powder Company desired to eliminate the competition of three concerns-Peerless Explosives Company,
Union Explosives Company and Black Diamond Powder
Company. Deeming it unwise to do so by buying either
their stock or their assets, Atlas conceived and consummated a plan for consolidating the three competitors into
a new corporation, with Atlas to get a majority of its
stock. To this end holders of the stock of the three companies were duly approached by individuals who represented Atlas; their agreements to carry out the plan were
obtained; the new corporation was formed and became
the owner practically of all the stock, and all the assets,
of the three competitors; Atlas became the owner of
all the preferred stock and 57% of the common stock of
the new corporation; and in exchange for the stock in
the three companies each of the former stockholders re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ceived some common stock in the new company, some
Atlas stock, and some cash which Atlas supplied.
Bashford, one of the stockholders in Peerless, received
in exchange for his stock 2,720.08 shares of the common
stock of the new corporation, $25,306.67 in cash, 625
shares of Atlas preferred, and 1344 shares of Atlas common. In his income tax return for the year 1930 he
included all the cash, but did not include the gain on
stock of either the new corporation or Atlas. The Commissioner concedes that gain on the stock in the new
corporation was properly omitted, since the new company was a "reorganization" of Peerless. He insists that
the Atlas stock should have been included, as it was
"other property" on which gain was taxable under § 112
(c) (1) of the Revenue Act of •1928, since Atlas was not
"a party to the reorganization." The Board of Tax Appeals, 33 B. T. A. 10, held that Atlas was "a party to
the reorganization," and hence that gain on its stock
was properly omitted by Bashford. The Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed that judgment.
87 F. (2d) 827. Because of alleged conflict of the decision with Commissioner v. Groman, 86 F. (2d) 670, we
granted certiorari in both cases.
In Groman v. Commissioner, ante, p. 82, we gave the
following construction to the reorganization sections here
involved:
"... where, pursuant to a plan, the interest of the
stockholders of a corporation continues to be definitely
represented in substantial measure in a new or different
one, then to the extent, but only to the extent, of that
continuity of interest, the exchange is to be treated as
one not giving rise to present gain or loss." P. 89.
Applying the rule, we held there that the Glidden stock
received by Groman was "other property" and he, therefore, liable on the deficiency assessment; because the
Glidden Company was not "a party to the reorganiza-

HELVERING v. BASHFORD.
454

Opinion of the Court.

tion," although it had, pursuant to agreement with the
stockholders of the Indiana corporation, caused it to be
reorganized as an Ohio corporation; had taken for itself
all the common stock, of Ohio; and had distributed
among the former stockholders of Indiana the Ohio preferred stock and some Glidden stock, as well as cash,
which it supplied. Applying the rule here, we hold likewise that the Atlas stock was "other property" and Bashford, therefore, liable on the deficiency assessment; because the Atlas Powder Company was not "a party to
the reorganization."
Bashford contends that there is a clear distinction in
the facts between the case at bar and the Groman case
which should lead to a different conclusion here. The
differences mainly relied upon are these:
1. In the Groman case, the court found that Glidden
did not acquire a majority of the shares of the voting
stock and a majority of the shares of all other classes of
stock involved, whereas here the facts were as follows:
Atlas acquired "not only a majority of the voting stock
and a majority of the stock of all other classes of another
corporation (the new company) in the reorganization,but
of all the other corporations (Peerless and Union) in the
reorganization."
2. "Atlas actually acquired, as part of the plan . . .
substantially all of the shares of Peerless and Union in
direct exchanges with the taxpayer and the other stockholders of those companies in part consideration for
which it delivered to the shareholders 6,318 shares of
Atlas preferred stock and 87121/ shares of common."
3. "Atlas, unlike Glidden was a party to all the exchanges, while the new company was a party only to
exchanges with Atlas."
4. "The stockholders of Peerless and Union did not participate in the contract or exchange between Atlas and
the new company."

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

Any direct ownership by Atlas of Peerless, Black Diamond, and Union was transitory and without real substance; it was part of a plan which contemplated the
immediate transfer of the stock or the assets or both of
the three reorganized companies to the new Atlas subsidiary. Hence, under the rule stated, the above distinctions are not of legal significance. The difference in the
degree of stock control by the parent company of its subsidiary and the difference in the method or means by
which that control was secured are not material. The
participation of Atlas in the reorganization of its competitors into a new company which became a subsidiary
did not make Atlas "a party to the reorganization." The
continuity of interest required by the rule is lacking.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of the case.
MR. JUSTICE iVCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the Board of

Tax Appeals and the Circuit Court of Appeals reached the
right conclusion, and that the judgment below should
be affirmed.
LEITCH MANUFACTURING CO. v. BARBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 208.

Argued December 14, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. The owner of a patent for a process for curing concrete by the
use of a spray of bituminous emulsion, an unpatented article of
commerce, can not enjoin as a contributory infringer a competing
manufacturer who sold bituminous emulsion to a road contractor
who used it in practicing the patented method. Pp. 460, 463.

