CASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.

KELLY, DIRECTOR,

ET AL. V. WASHINGTON EX REL.

FOSS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 2.

Argued March 9, 1937. Reargued October 11, 12, 1937.Decided November 8, 1937.

1. Tug-boats plying navigable waters of the United States, and employed partly in towing other vessels on interstate and foreign
voyages, or in moving vessels engaged in interstate and foreign
commerce, in and about the harbors where the tugs are stationed,
are subject to regulation by Congress under the commerce clause.
P. 4.
2. There is no express provision in federal laws and regulations for
inspection of hull and machinery, in order to insure safety or
determine seaworthiness, of motor-driven tugs which do not carry
passengers or freight for hire, or do not have on board any inflammable or combustible liquid cargo in bulk, or do not transport
explosives or like dangerous cargo, or are not seagoing vessels
of three hundred gross tons or over, or (with respect to requirements as to load lines) are under one hundred and fifty gross
tons. Pp. 4, 8.
3. The federal statutes are not to be construed as implying a prohibition of inspection by state authorities of hull and machinery,
to insure safety and determine seaworthiness, in the case of vessels
which in this respect lie outside the federal requirements. P. 9.
4. State regulation of interstate commerce is invalid: (a) if in conflict with an express regulation by Congress; (b) if the subject is
one demanding uniformity of regulation so that state action is
altogether inadmissible in the absence of federal action; (c) where
federal regulation has occupied the field. P. 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Gpinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

5. When Congress circumscribes its regulation of a subject of interstate commerce and occupies only a limited field, state regulation
outside of that limited field and otherwise admissible is not forbidden or displaced. P. 10.
6. An exercise of state police power, which would be valid if not
superseded by federal action, is superseded only where the repugnance or conflict is so direct and positive that the two acts cannot
be reconciled or consistently stand together. P. 10.
7. Inspection of the hull and machinery of motor-driven tugs, in
order to insure safety and seaworthiness, is not such a subject as
by its nature requires uniformity of regulation, and therefore this
field is open to the States in the absence of conflicting federal regulation under the commerce clause. P. 14.
If, however, the State goes farther and attempts to impose
particular standards as to structure, design, equipment and operation, which in the judgment of its authorities may be desirable
but which pass beyond what is plainly essential to safety and seaworthiness, the State may encounter the principle that such requirements, if imposed at all, must be through the action of Congress, which can establish a uniform rule.
186 Wash. 589, 596; 59 P. (2d) 373, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 299 U. S. 539, to review a reversal of a
judgment denying a writ of prohibition.
On reargument, Mr. E. P. Donnelly for petitioners, and
Mr. Glenn J. Fairbrook for respondents. Assistant Solicitor General Bell, with whom Solicitor General Reed
and Messrs. Sam E. Whitaker and J. Frank Staley were
on the brief of the United States, as amicus curiae, supporting the decision of the state court.
On original argument, Messrs. W. A. Toner and Daniel

Baker for petitioners, and Mr. Glenn J. Fairbrookfor respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HuGHEs

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondents, owners of motor-driven tugs, sought a
writ of prohibition to prevent the enforcement of provi-

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

sions of c. 200 of the Washington Laws of 1907 (Rem.
Rev. Stat., §§ 9843 et seq.) relating to the inspection and
regulation of vessels. The Supreme Court of the State
directed judgment for respondents, holding the statute
invalid "if applied to the navigable waters over which the
Federal Government has control." 186 Wash. 589, 596.
We granted certiorari. 299 U. S. 539. After hearing, we
ordered reargument and requested the Attorney General
of the United States to present the views of the Government upon the question whether the state Act or the action of the officers of the State thereunder conflicts with
the authority of the United States or with the action of
its officers under the Acts of Congress. The case has
been reargued accordingly and the views of the Government have been presented both orally and upon brief in
support of the decision of the state court.
The material facts, as set forth in the opinion of the
state court, are that respondents own and operate one
hundred and thirty-nine motor-driven tugs of which one
hundred and eleven are less than sixty-five feet in length.
Some of these tugs are registered and the remainder are
enrolled and licensed under federal laws. For the most
part these tugs are employed in intrastate commerce, but
some tow to and from British Columbia ports or across
the Columbia River or from other ports in Washington
to ports in Oregon. Practically all these tugs are capable
of engaging in interstate or foreign commerce and will do
so if and when opportunity offers. Some of the larger
tugs have towed and will tow to California ports. The
main business, however, of most of the tugs is confined to
moving vessels engaged in interstate and foreign commerce and other work in and about the harbors where
they are stationed. 186 Wash. p. 590.
Respondents' complaint challenged the validity of a
large number of requirements of the state Act which it
was alleged the state authorities sought to enforce (186

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

Wash. p. 591), but these authorities by their answer
and in the argument at bar disclaim an intention to enforce any of the state regulations which conflict with
those established under the laws of the United States.
First. The first question is whether the state legislation as applied to respondents' motor-driven tugs is in
all respects in conflict with express provisions of the
federal laws and regulations. Wherever such conflict exists, the state legislation must fall. Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 210.
Chapter 200 of the Washington Laws of 1907 is described by the state court as "a comprehensive and complete code for the inspection and regulation of every
vessel operated by machinery which is not subject to
inspection under the laws of the United States." Rem.
Rev. Stat., § 9844; 186 Wash. p. 590. It cannot be
doubted that the power of Congress over interstate and
foreign commerce embraces the authority to make regulations for respondents' tugs. Foster v. Davenport, 22
How. 244; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S.69; Harman
v. Chicago, 147 U. S.396. Has Congress exercised that
authority and, if so, to what extent?
The federal acts and regulations with respect to vessels on the navigable waters of the United States are
elaborate. They were well described in the argument of the Assistant Solicitor General as a maze of
regulation. Provisions with respect to steam vessels are
extremely detailed. 46 U. S. C., c. 14, §§ 361 et seq.
Provisions as to motor-driven vessels are far less comprehensive and establish only a limited regulation. By
§ 4426 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the Act
of March 3, 1905, c. 1457, 33 Stat. 1029, 1030, and by
the Act of May 16, 1906, c.'2460, 34 Stat. 193, 194, it
was provided that all vessels "above fifteen gross tons
carrying freight or passengers for hire, but not engaged
in fishing as a regular business, propelled by gas, fluid,

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
I

Opinion of the Court.

naphtha, or electric motors," should be subject to the
provisions of the statute relating to the inspection of
hulls and boilers and requiring engineers and pilots.
These vessels were also required to carry life preservers
for passengers and, while carrying passengers, to be in
charge of a person duly licensed by the federal local
board. 46 U. S. C. 404. It does not appear that respondents' motor-driven tugs are within the class of vessels
which carry freight or passengers for hire.
In 1910, Congress enacted the Motor Boat Act. 36
Stat. 462. While this statute is applicable to respondents' tugs, so far as it goes, its scope is restricted. Section 1 defines the word "motor boat" as including "every
vessel propelled by machinery and not more than sixtyfive feet in length except tugboats and towboats propelled by steam." There follows in that section a proviso that the engine, boiler or other operating machinery
shall be subject to inspection by the local inspectors of
steam vessels, and to the approval of the design thereof,
where the vessels "are more than forty feet in length and
are propelled by machinery driven by steam." Section
2 divides the motor boats which are subject to the Act
into three classes; (1) those less than twenty-six feet in
length; (2) those twenty-six feet or over and less than
forty feet in length; (3) those forty feet or over and
not more than sixty-five feet in length. Section 3 then
provides for the carrying of lights by motor boats of the
respective classes. Section 4 relates to whistles, fog
horns and bells. Sections 5 and 6 provide that'motor
boats subject to the Act, and also motor boats more than
sixty-five feet in length, shall carry life preservers or life
belts or similar devices and fire extinguishing equipment.
Section 5 requires that all motor boats, carrying passengers for hire shall be in charge of a person duly licensed
by the federal local board of Inspectors, and has the proviso that motor boats shall not be required to carry

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

licensed officers except as required by the Motor Boat
Act. 46 U. S. C. 511-518. Under the federal regulations, motor boats are required to have on board two
copies of the pilot rules to be observed by them, with
copies of the departmental circular.
As documented vessels of the United States, motor
boats must be marked in a specified manner with their
names and home ports. 46 U. S. C. 46. All vessels, regardless of tonnage, size, or manner of propulsion, and
whether or not carrying freight or passengers for hire
(other than public vessels of the United States not engaged in commercial service), which have on board "any
inflammable or combustible liquid cargo in bulk," are
to be "considered steam vessels" and are made subject
to the provisions of the statutes relating to such vessels.
This provision does not apply to inflammable or combustible liquid for use as fuel or stores. Act of June 23,
1936, c. 729, 49 Stat. 1889; 46 U. S. C. 391a. Vessels
transporting explosives or like dangerous cargo are subject to inspection to determine that such cargo may be
carried with safety, and appropriate permit for that purpose is required. Act of August 26, 1935, c. 697, 49 Stat.
868, 46 U. S. C. 178. "Load lines" are established for
merchant vessels of one hundred and fifty gross tons or
over proceeding on a "coastwise voyage by sea," as defined, that is, outside the line dividing inland waters
from the high seas. Act of August 27, 1935, c. 747, 49
Stat. 888, 46 U. S. C. 88. Compare International Load
Line Convention of July 5, 1930, 47 Stat. 2229. It appears from statements in the record and in argument,
which we do not understand to be challenged, that there
are not more than three of respondents' motor tugs, here
involved, which exceed one hundred and fifty tons gross.
The limited application of the provisions of the federal
laws and regulations to vessels propelled by internal combustion engines was recently and definitely brought to

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

the attention of Congress. The report of the Bureau
of Navigation and Steamboat Inspection showed that
there were many large vessels of this class.1 The Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House
of Representatives found that this situation was due to
the fact "that when the steamboat-inspection laws were
passed, internal-combustion-engine laws were unknown,
with the result that many of the existing laws apply to
steam vessels and under the opinion of the law officers of
the department, do not apply to vessels operated by machinery other than by steam." The Committee added
that "it was very doubtful whether under existing law
lifeboats could be required on these motor vessels." '
To meet that situation Congress has provided that existing laws covering the inspections of steam vessels shall
be applicable "to seagoing vessels of three hundred gross
tons and over propelled in whole or in part by internalcombustion engines" to such extent as may be required
by the regulations of the Board of Supervising Inspectors
of Steam Vessels with the approval of the Secretary of
Commerce. Act of June 20, 1936, c. 628, 49 Stat. 1544, 46
U. S. C. 367. Even as thus limited, the Act expressly
excepts vessels engaged "in fishing, oystering, clamming,
crabbing, or any other branch of the fishery or kelp or
sponge industry." It is manifest that Congress carefully
considered the application of existing laws and decided to
what extent its field of regulation should be widened.'
Congress decided to extend its regulation as to motordriven vessels only to those of the specified class.
I Report (June 25, 1935) of the Committee on Merchant Marine
and Fisheries of the House of Representatives on "Inspection of
Motor Vessels." H. R. Rep. No. 1321, 74th Cong., 1st sess. Reference was made to the situation as described by the Assistant
Director of the Bureau of Navigation and Steamboat Inspection
as follows:
"We have at the present time vessels that are operated by internal-

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

We find the conclusion inescapable that, apart from
the particular requirements in other respects, there is
no provision of the federal laws and regulations for the
inspection of the hull and machinery of respondents'
motor-driven tugs in order to insure safety or determine
seaworthiness, where these tugs respectively do not carry
freight or passengers for hire, or do not have on board
any inflammable or combustible liquid cargo in bulk,
or do not transport explosives or like dangerous cargo,
or are not seagoing Vessels of three hundred gross tolls
or over, or, with respect to requirements as to load lines,
are under one hundred and fifty gross tons. It follows
that inspection of the hull and machinery of these tugs
by state authorities in order to insure safety and determine seaworthiness is not in conflict with any express
provision of the federal laws and regulations. The testimony in the record shows that those laws and regulations are administered in accordance with this view.
combustion engines, of tonnages exceeding 100, there are 772 vessels
of 819,935 gross tons that would come under the provision of this
law [the proposed bill].
"For instance, we have in the class from 5,000 to 7,500 tons 29
vessels, with a total tonnage of 179,556; and over 7,500 tons we
have 33 vessels, with a total tonnage of 300,292.
"Those large vessels at the present time are subject to only a
very limited inspection-that is, the inspection of the hulls and
boilers, and are required under the law to carry a licensed engineer
and a licensed pilot. The provisions of section 4472 that provides
for protection against fire do not apply to our 7,500-ton vessels
that are in the trans-Atlantic trade. They are not required under
the law to carry a single lifeboat. There are many other provisions of the steamboat inspection laws that are of the utmost importance to safety of life that do not apply to 'these large transoceanic vessels. As a matter of fact, we are inspecting those vessels
at the present time, but it is only because the owners of the ships
accept such inspection. It is not a matter of law."
2 H. R. Rep. No. 2505, 74th Cong., 2d sess.
3

Id.

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Second. The next question is whether the federal
statutes are to be construed as implying a prohibition of
inspection by state authorities of hull and machinery to
insure safety and determine seaworthiness in the case
of vessels which in this respect lie outside the federal
requirements.
The state court took the view that Congress had occupied the field and that no room was left for state action
in relation to vessels plying on navigable waters within
the control of the federal government. 186 Wash. pp.
593, 596. And this is the argument pressed by respondents and the Solicitor General.
This argument, invoking a familiar principle, would
be unnecessary and inapposite if there were a direct conflict with an express regulation of Congress acting within
its province. The argument presupposes the absence of
a conflict of that character. The argument is also unnecessary and inapposite if the subject is one demanding
uniformity of regulation so that state action is altogether
inadmissible in the absence of federal action. In that
class of cases the Constitution itself occupies the field
even if there is no federal legislation. The arguinent is
appropriately addressed to those cases where States may
act in the absence of federal action but where there has
been federal action governing the same subject. Prigg v.
Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 617, 618; Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 379; Erie R. Co. v.
New York, 233 U. S. 671, 681, 682; Southern Ry. Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 236 U. S. 439, 446, 447; Oregon,Washington R. & N. Co. v. Washington, 270 U. S. 87, 101,
102; Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 272 U. S. 605,
612, 613; Gilvary v. Cuyahoga Valley Ry. Co., 292 U. S.
57, 60, 61.
Under our constitutional system, there necessarily remains to the States, until Congress acts, a wide range for
the permissible exercise of power appropriate to their ter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ritorial jurisdiction although interstate commerce may
be affected. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402.
States are thus enabled to deal with local exigencies and
to exert in the absence of conflict with federal legislation
an essential protective power. And when Congress does
exercise its paramount authority, it is obvious that Congress may determine how far its regulation shall go.
There is no constitutional rule which compels Congress
to occupy the whole field. Congress may circumscribe
its regulation and occupy only a limited field. When it
does so, state regulation outside that limited field and
otherwise admissible is not forbidden or displaced. The
principle is thoroughly established that the exercise by
the State of its police power, which would be valid if not
superseded by federal action, is superseded only where
the repugnance or conflict is so "direct and positive" that
the two acts cannot "be reconciled or consistently stand
together." Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243; Missouri, K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S. 613, 623, 624;
Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137, 148; Crossman v. Lurman, 192 U. S. 189, 199, 200; Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S.
251, 257, 258; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Larabee Mills,
211 U. S. 612, 623; Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533;
Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280, 293, 294;
Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118, 122; Atchison,
T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 283 U. S.
380, 392, 393; Mintz v. Baldwin, 289 U. S. 346, 350. Gilvary v. Cuyahoga Valley Ry. Co., supra.
A few illustrations will suffice. In Reid v. Colorado,
supra, the question arose with respect to a statute of
Colorado aimed at the prevention of the introduction
into the State of diseased animals. One who had been
convicted of its violation contended that the subject of
the transportation of cattle by one State to another had
been so far covered by the federal statute, known as the
Animal Industry Act (23 Stat. 31), that no enactment by
the State upon that subject was permissible. While the

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
I

Opinion of the Court.

congressional act did deal with the subject of the driving
or transporting of diseased livestock from one State into
another, Congress had gone no further than to make it an
offense against the United States for one knouingly to
take or send from one State to another livestock affected
with infectious or communicable disease. The Court concluded that the state statute, requiring a certificate that
the cattle were free from disease, irrespective of the shipper's knowledge of the actual condition of the cattle,
did not cover the same ground as the Act of Congress
and was not inconsistent with it. Id., pp. 149, 150. The
principle was thus emphatically stated: "It should never
be held that Congress intends to supersede or by its legislation suspend the exercise of the police powers of the
States, even when it may do so, unless its purpose to effect
that result is clearly manifested. This court has saidand the principle has often been reaffirmed-that, 'in the
application of this principle of supremacy of an act of
Congress in a case where the State law is but the exercise of a reserved power, the repugnance or conflict should
be direct and positive, so that the two acts could not be
reconciled or consistently stand together'." [p. 148.]
In Savage v. Jones, supra,the Court held that,a statute
of Indiana regulating the sale, and requiring a statement
of the formula of ingredients, of concentrated commercial food for stock was not repugnant to the federal Food
and Drugs Act of 1906 (34 Stat. 768). A citizen of Minnesota sought to restrain the enforcement of the Indiana
statute with respect to stock food sold and transported
in interstate commerce. The federal Act dealt with the
subject of adulterated and misbranded foods and defined
misbranding. It covered any false or misleading statements as to ingredients but did not require a disclosure of
the ingredients. The state statute dealt with that omitted
matter. We found that the state requirements could be
sustained without impairing the operation of the federal
Act as to the matters with which that Act dealt. We

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

said: "But the intent to supersede the exercise by the
State of its police power as to matters not covered by the
Federal legislation is not to be inferred from the mere
fact that Congress has seen fit to circumscribe its regulation and to occupy a limited field. In other words, such
intent is not to be implied unless the act of Congress
fairly interpreted is in actual conflict with the law of
the State." [p. 533.]
In Mintz v. Baldwin, supra,the question related to the

validity of the requirement of a New York statute that
cattle brought into that State for dairy or breeding purposes, and also the herds from which they came, should
be certified to be free from Bang's disease by the chief
sanitary official of the State of origin. One of the contentions was that the statute conflicted with the federal
statute known as the Cattle Contagious Disease Act of
1903. 32 Stat. 791. To enable the Secretary of Agriculture to prevent the spread of disease among cattle and
other livestock, he was authorized to establish regulations
concerning interstate transportation from any place where
he had reason to believe that diseases existed. When
an inspector of the Bureau of Animal Industry certified
that he had inspected cattle and had found them free
from communicable disease, they were permitted to be
transported "without further inspection or the exaction
of fees of any kind except such as may at any time be
ordered or exacted by the Secretary of Agriculture."
[p. 351.] But the express exclusion of state inspection
extended only to cases where there had been federal inspection and a certificate issued. Accordingly we held
that it could not be extended to the case before the
Court where the cattle had not been inspected and
certified by federal authority. We said: "The purpose of
Congress to supersede or exclude state action against the
ravages of the disease is not lightly to be inferred. The
intention so to do must definitely and clearly appear."
[p. 350.]

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
Opinion of the Court.

The application of the principle is strongly fortified
where the State exercises its power to protect the lives
and the health of its people. But the principle is not
limited to cases of that description. It extends to exertions of state power directed to more general purposes.
Thus it was applied in sustaining the order of a state
commission requiring interstate carriers to construct a
union passenger station as against the contention that
Congress had occupied the field-in view of the broad
sweep of the Act conferring authority upon the Interstate
Commission to deal with the operation of interstate railroads-as it was found'that Congress had not authorized
the Commission to meet the public need in the particular
matter in question. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra, p. 391.
In the instant case, in relation to the inspection of
the hull and machinery of respondents' tugs, the state
law touches that which the federal laws and regulations
have left untouched. There is plainly no inconsistency
with the federal provisions. It would hardly be asserted
that when Congress set up its elaborate regulations as
to steam vessels, it deprived the State of the exercise of
its protective power as to vessels not propelled by steam.
The fact that the federal regulations were numerous and
elaborate does not extend them beyond the boundary
they established. When Congress took up the regulation
of vessels otherwise propelled it applied its requirements
to vessels of a described tonnage which carried freight
or passengers for hire. When Congress a few years later
passed the Motor Boat Act, it did not attempt to deal
with the subject comprehensively but laid down rules
in a few particulars of a definitely restricted range. And
when, in 1936, Congress again addressed itself to the
subject, it did not purport to occupy the entire field. but
confined its regulation to seagoing vessels of three hundred gross tons and over. It would be difficult to find a

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

series of statutes in which the intention of Congress to
circumscribe its regulation and to occupy a field limited
by definite description is more clearly manifested.
When the State is seeking to prevent the operation
of unsafe and unseaworthy vessels in going to and from
its ports, it is exercising a protective power akin to that
which enables the State to exclude diseased persons, animals and plants. These are not proper subjects of commerce, and an unsafe and unseaworthy vessel is not a
proper instrumentality of commerce. When the State
is seeking to protect a vital interest, we have always been
slow to find that the inaction of Congress has shorn the
State of the power which it would otherwise possess.
And we are unable to conclude that so far as concerns
the inspection of the hull and machinery of these vessels
of respondents in order to insure safety and seaworthiness, the federal laws and regulations, which as we have
found are not expressly applicable, carry any implied
prohibition of state action.
Much is made of the fact that the state law remained
unenforced for a long period. But it did not become inoperative for that reason. Where the state police power
exists, it is not lost by non-exercise but remains to be
exerted as local exigencies may demand.
Third. The remaining question is whether the state
law must fall in its entirety, not because of inconsistency
with federal action, but because the subject is one as
to which uniformity of regulation is required and hence,
whether or not Congress has acted, the State is without
authority. Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299,
319; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399, 400.
The state law is a comprehensive code. While it excepts vessels which are subject to inspection under the
laws of the United States, it has provisions which may
be deemed to fall within the class of regulations which
Congress alone can provide. For example, Congress may

KELLY v. WASHINGTON.
1

Opinion of the Court.

establish standards and designs for the structure and
equipment of vessels, and may prescribe rules for their
operation, which could not properly be left to the diverse
action of the States. The State of Washington might
prescribe standards, designs, equipment and rules of one
sort, Oregon another, California another, and so on. But
it does not follow that in all respects the state Act
must fail.
We have found that in relation to the inspection of
the hull and machinery of these tugs, in order to insure
safety and seaworthiness, there is a field in which the
state law could operate without coming into conflict with
present federal laws. Is that a subject which necessarily
and in all aspects requires uniformity of regulation and
as to which the State cannot act at all, although Congress has not acted? We hold that it is not. A vessel
which is actually unsafe and unseaworthy in the primary
and commonly understood sense is not within the protection of that principle. The State may treat it as it
may treat a diseased animal or unwholesome food. In
such a matter, the State may protect its people without
waiting for federal action providing the state action does
not come into conflict with federal rules. If, however,
the State goes farther and attempts to impose particular
standards as to structure, design, equipment and operation which in the judgment of its authorities may be desirable but pass beyond what is plainly essential to safety
and seaworthiness, the State will encounter the principle
that such requirements, if imposed at all, must be through
the action of Congress which can establish a uniform rule.
Whether the State in a particular matter goes too far
must be left to be determined when the precise question
arises.
We have mentioned the inspection of hull and machinery of respondents' vessels in order to insure safety and
seaworthiness. There may be other requirements of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

state Act which also lie outside the bounds of the federal
action thus far taken and as to which uniformity of regulation is not needed. That question cannot be satisfactorily determined on this record and must also remain
for decision as it may be presented in the future in connection with some particular action taken by the state
authorities. Our conclusion is that the state Act has a
permissible field of operation in relation to respondents'
tugs and that the state court was in error in holding the
Act completely unenforceable in deference to federal law.
The judgment of the state court to that effect is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
WHITE, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. ARONSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIRST CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 20. Argued October 20, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. The term "games," as used in § 609, of the Revenue Act of 1932,
does not include jigsaw picture puzzles. P. 17.
This section, headed "Tax on Sporting Goods," imposes a manufacturer's sales tax on a wide variety of articles used in sports
and games, named specifically, and generally on "games and parts
of games," "and all similar articles commonly or commercially
known as sporting goods."
2. It is to be presumed that Congress, in enacting § 609 of the
Revenue Act of 1932, was aware that, under earlier like provisions, no tax assessments were laid on sales of puzzles, and that
Congress knew that in litigation over the question, there was
proof that in commercial usage jigsaw puzzles were never regarded
as games but a recognized distinction was made between games
and puzzles. P. 20.
3. Where there is a reasonable doubt as to the meaning of a taxing
act it should be construed most favorably to the taxpayer. Id.
87 F. (2d) 272, affirmed.

