90

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Counsel for Parties.

302 U. S.

and to attribute that relation to Glidden, would be not
only to disregard the letter but also to violate the spirit
of the Revenue Act.
We hold that Glidden was not a party to the reorganization and the receipt of its stock by Indiana's shareholders in exchange, in part, for their stock was the basis
for computation of taxable gain to them in the year 1929.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
PUGET SOUND STEVEDORING

CO. v. STATE TAX

COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 68. Argued October 13, 14, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. The business of a stevedoring corporation, acting as an independent contractor, in so far as it consists of the unloading or
discharge of cargoes of vessels engaged in interstate or foreign
commerce by longshoremen subject to its own direction and control,
is interstate or foreign commerce, and the privilege of doing it
can not be taxed by the State. P. 92.
2. In so far as the business of a stevedoring corporation consists of
supplying longshoremen to shipowners or masters without directing or controlling the work of loading or unloading, it is not interstate or foreign commerce, but rather a local business, and subject,
like, such business generally, to taxation by the State. P. 94.
189 Wash. 131; 63 P. (2d) 532, modified.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a
suit to enjoin collection of a tax on the business of the
appellant measured by gross receipts.
Mr. John Ambler, with whom Messrs. Ben C. Grosscup

and Bernard H. Levinson were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. E. P. Donnelly for appellees.

PUGET SOUND CO. v. TAX COMMISSION.
90

91

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A tax laid upon the business of a stevedoring company,
the amount to be measured by a percentage of the gross
receipts, has been sustained against the protest of the
taxpayer that an unlawful burden is imposed thereby
upon interstate and foreign commerce. We are to determine whether the tax is valid either altogether or in
part.
A statute of the State of Washington provides that
for the privilege of engaging in business activities within
the state a tax shall be payable by persons so engaged,
payment to be made according to a designated measure.
As to certain forms of business, as, for example, manufacturing and sales at retail or wholesale, the measure is
a specially prescribed percentage of the value of the products or the gross receipts of sales. As to all other forms
of business there is a general provision that the tax shall
be equal to the gross income of the business multiplied
by the rate of one half of one per cent. Washington
Laws 1935, c. 180. This general provision is broad enough
to cover the business of a stevedore.
Appellant, the Puget Sound Stevedoring Company, is
a Washington corporation. It is engaged in the general
stevedoring business at Seattle and at other ports on
Puget Sound. At times it contracts with a shipowner or
shipmaster to load or discharge a vessel through its own
employees, controlling and directing the work itself. The
great mass of its business, as we were informed upon the
argument, is done in that way. At times, however, even
though comparatively infrequently, it makes a different
kind of contract which changes essentially its relation to
the ship. In this second form of contract it does not
undertake to control, direct, or supervise the work. It
"merely collects the longshoremen and supplies them to
the vessel," advancing their pay at the completion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

job and "billing the ship and her owner the amount of the
pay-roll plus a commission for services." All vessels
served by the appellants are engaged exclusively in
interstate or foreign commerce.
A suit by the taxpayer to enjoin the tax officials of the
state from proceeding to collect the tax Was dismissed by
the trial court after a hearing upon bill and answer, the
answer not disputing the allegations of the bill. The
Supreme Court of Washington affirmed the dismissal, its
judgment being placed upon the ground that the taxpayer
was an independent contractor engaged in a local business. 189 Wash. 131; 63 P. (2d) 532. The case is here
upon appeal. 28 U. S. C. ยง 344.
1. The business of appellant, in so far as it consists of
the loading and discharge of cargoes by longshoremen
subject to its own direction and control, is interstate or
foreign commerce.
Transportation of a cargo by water is impossible or
futile unless the thing to be transported is put aboard
the ship and taken off at destination. A stevedore who
in person or by servants does work so indispensable is as
much an agency of commerce as shipowner or master.
"Formerly the work was done by the ship's crew; but,
owing to the exigencies ,of increasing commerce and the
demand for rapidity and special skill, it has become a
specialized service devolving upon a class 'as clearly
identified with maritime affairs as are the mariners'."
Atlantic Transport Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 62.
No one would deny that the crew would be engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce if busied in loading or unloading an interstate or foreign vessel. Cf. Baltimore &
0. S. W. R. Co. v. Burtch, 263 U. S. 540. The longshoreman busied in the same task bears the same relation as the crew to the commerce that he serves. Indeed,
for the purposes of the Merchant Marine Act (41 Stat.
988, 1007), a stevedore is a "seaman." International

PUGET SOUND CO. v. TAX COMMISSION.
90

93

Opinion of the Court.

Stevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S.50. A stipulation
in the record tells us that any serious interruption in the
service of such cargo handlers cripples at once the activities of a port and slows down and obstructs the free and
steady flow of commerce. We might take judicial notice
of the fact if the stipulation were not here.
What was done by this appellant in the business of
loading and unloading was not prolonged beyond the
stage of transportation and its reasonable incidents. Cf.
Baltimore & 0. S. W. R. Co. v. Burtch, supra. True, the
service did not begin or end at the ship's side, where the
cargo is placed upon a sling attached to the ship's tackle.
It took in the work of carriage to and from the "first
place of rest," which means that it covered the space between the hold of the vessel and a convenient point of discharge upon the dock. Sometimes, though not, it seems,
under appellant's contracts, the work in the hold is done
by members of the crew, and the work upon the dock by
employees of the dock company. Sometimes the cost is
.absorbed by the vessel and sometimes billed as an extra
charge to shipper or consignee. The fact is stipulated,
however, that no matter by whom the work is done or
paid for, "stevedoring services are essential to waterborne
commerce and always commence in the hold of the vessel
and end at the 'first place of rest,' and vice versa." In
such circumstances services beginning or ending in the
hold or on the dock stand on the same plane for the purposes of this case as those at the ship's sling. The movement is continuous, is covered by a single contract, and
is necessary in all its stages if transportation is to be accomplished without unreasonable impediments. The situation thus presented has no resemblance to that considered in New York ex rel. Pennsylvania R. Co. v.
Knight, 192 U. S.21, 26, where an interstate railroad furnished its passengers with taxicab ser vice to and from its
terminus, the service being "contracted and paid for in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

dependently of any contract or payment for strictly interstate transportation."
The business of loading and unloading being interstate
or foreign commerce, the State of Washington is not at liberty to tax the privilege of doing it by exacting in return
therefor a percentage of the gross receipts. Decisions to
that effect are many and controlling. Philadelphia &
Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326, 341342; Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Galveston,
H. & S. A. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Matson Navigation
Co. v. State Board of Equalization, 297 U. S. 441, 444;
Fisher'sBlend Station v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S.650,
655. The fact is not important that appellant does business as an independent contractor as long as the business
that it does is commerce immune from regulation by the
states. What is decisive is the nature of the act, not the
person of the actor. An independent contractor undertaking to navigate a vessel would have the same protection as a pilot agreeing to navigate it himself.
2. The business of appellant, in so far as it consists of
supplying longshoremen to shipowners or masters without
directing or controlling the work of loading or unloading,
is not interstate or foreign commerce, but rather a local
business, and subject, like such business generally, to taxation, by the state.
What is done by appellant in connection with activities
of this order is similar in many aspects to the work of a
ship's chandler, and even more closely similar to that of
a labor or employment bureau. Such a bureau was considered in Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S.270,. 278, and its
business found to be no part of interstate or foreign commerce, though the transactions of such commerce were
increased thereby. Cf. Federal Compress Co. v. McLean,
291 U. S. 17, 21, 22; Chassaniol v. Greenwood, 291 U. S.
584. Little analogy exists between the activities now

HALE v. STATE BOARD.
90

Syllabus.

in question and those reviewed in McCall v. California,
136 U. S. 104; Texas Transport & Terminal Co. v. New
Orleans, 264 U. S. 150; and Di Santo v. Pennsylvania,
273 U. S. 34. The contractors there considered were
found to be acting as agents of foreign steamship companies with authority to make contracts binding on the
principals and even running in their names. If appellant
stands in that relation-to the vessels that it serves in this
branch of its activities, it has failed to make the fact
apparent by the allegations of its bill. The effect of such
a showing
is not before us now.
The decree
of the Supreme Court of Washington
being
erroneous to the extent here indicated and no farther is
modified accordingly, the. cause being remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of
this court.
Decree modified.
HALE ET AL. V. STATE BOARD OF ASSESSMENT
AND REVIEW.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.

No. 16. Argued October 18, 19, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.
1. In determining the extent of a contractual obligation alleged to
have been impaired by a state law, this Court will accept the
judgment of the highest court of the State unless manifestly wrong.
P. 100.
2. Iowa legislation, in effect when state and municipal bonds were

issued and acquired, declared that such bonds should not be taxed.
Later, a tax on the net income of residents in the State was
imposed for the first time, and income taxes were assessed to the

bondholders, the interest derived from their bonds being included
in the computation of net income. The state court assumed without deciding that the statutes of exemption should be treated as
giving rise to contracts, but interpreted those statutes as limited
to taxes laid directly upon property in proportion to its value,
and not as touching taxes in the nature of an excise upon the net

