OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

Any direct ownership by Atlas of Peerless, Black Diamond, and Union was transitory and without real substance; it was part of a plan which contemplated the
immediate transfer of the stock or the assets or both of
the three reorganized companies to the new Atlas subsidiary. Hence, under the rule stated, the above distinctions are not of legal significance. The difference in the
degree of stock control by the parent company of its subsidiary and the difference in the method or means by
which that control was secured are not material. The
participation of Atlas in the reorganization of its competitors into a new company which became a subsidiary
did not make Atlas "a party to the reorganization." The
continuity of interest required by the rule is lacking.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of the case.
MR. JUSTICE iVCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

are of opinion that the Board of

Tax Appeals and the Circuit Court of Appeals reached the
right conclusion, and that the judgment below should
be affirmed.
LEITCH MANUFACTURING CO. v. BARBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 208.

Argued December 14, 1937.-Decided January 3, 1938.

1. The owner of a patent for a process for curing concrete by the
use of a spray of bituminous emulsion, an unpatented article of
commerce, can not enjoin as a contributory infringer a competing
manufacturer who sold bituminous emulsion to a road contractor
who used it in practicing the patented method. Pp. 460, 463.

LEITCH MFG. CO. v. BARBER CO.
458

Opinion of the Court.

2. A patent may not be used as a means of obtaining a limited
monopoly of unpatented material. Carbice Corp. v. American
Patents Corp., 283 U. S. 27. P. 463.
3. The rule of the Carbice case, supra, is applicable whether the
patent be for a machine, a product, or a process; and whatever
the nature of the device by which the owner of the patent seeks
to effect such unauthorized extension of the monopoly. P. 463.
89 F. (2d) 960, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 673, to review a decree which,
upon appeal from a decree dismissing the bill in a suit for

contributory infringement of a patent, 14 F. Supp. 212,
directed the District Court to enter a decree adjudging the
claims in issue valid and infringed and awarding an
accounting.
Mr. Samuel Ostrolenk for petitioner.
Mr. George J. Harding,with whom Mr. Frank S. Busser

was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question for decision is whether the owner of a
process patent may by suit for contributory infringement
suppress competition in the sale of unpatented material
to be used in practicing the process.
The Barber Company brought, in the federal court
for New Jersey, against the Leitch Manufacturing Company,' this suit to enjoin the alleged contributory in1

The suit was begun by The Barber Asphalt Company, the then
owner of the patent. During the pendency of the suit that corporation transferred the patent, together with all claims for damages and profits for past infringement and the right to sue therefor,
to The Barber Company, Inc. Upon supplemental bill of complaint,
it was substituted as plaintiff. The Stulz-Sickles Company, the
jobber through whom the sale was made, was a co-defendant throughout the proceedings below; but declined to join in the petition for
certiorari.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

fringement of patent No. 1,684,671, dated September 18,
1928, by selling and delivering bituminous emulsion. to a
road builder, knowing that it was to be used in Newark
in accordance with the method defined in the claims of
the patent. Besides denying the validity of the patent,
this further defense was interposed. It was insisted that
the suit could not be maintained, even if the patent were
valid, because to do so would give a limited monopoly
of an unpatented staple article of commerce. The following facts were proved or admitted.
The Barber Company and Leitch Manufacturing Company are competing manufacturers of bituminous emulsion-an unpatented staple article of commerce produced in the United States by many concerns and in common use by their customers for many purposes. By
builders of macadam roads the emulsion has long been
used as a coating for crushed stone and otherwise. With
builders of cement concrete roads it has recently come
into use for a film on the surface of the roadway to retard
evaporation during curing. For the method of so retarding evaporation The Barber Company acquired the process patent sued on, and seeks to use it to secure a limited
monopoly in the business of producing and selling the
bituminous material for practicing and carrying out the
patented me .hod. The company does not itself engage
in road building, or compete with road contractors. It
does not seek to make road builders pay a royalty for employing the patented method. It does not grant to road
builders a written license to use the process.2 But it
adopts a method of doing the business which is the pracNo written license had, so far as appears, been granted by The
Barber Company to any one. Its predecessor, The Barber Asphalt
Company (see note 1), had granted a written license to JohnsonMarch Corporation, which paid no royalty but bought from The
Barber Asphalt Company "cutback material" for use in the East.
and "Trinidad or Bermudez asphalt" for use in the West.
2

LEITCH MFG. CO. v. BARBER CO.
458

Opinion of the Court.

tical equivalent of granting a written license with a condition that the patented method may be practiced only
with emulsion purchased from it. For any road builder
can buy emulsion from it for that purpose, and whenever
such a sale is made, the law implies authority to practice
the invention. On the other hand The Barber Company
sues as contributory infringer a competing manufacturer
of this unpatented material who sells it to a road builder
for such use. Thus, the sole purpose to which the patent
is put is thereby to suppress competition in the production and sale of staple unpatented material for this use
in road building.
The District Court discussed, but found, it unnecessary
to pass upon, this defense, as it dismissed the bill on the
ground that the patent was void. 14 F. Supp. 212. The
Court of Appeals sustained the validity of the patent;
concluded that there was contributory infringement; held
that maintenance of the suit was not forbidden by the
rule declared in CarbiceCorporationv. Amecan Patents
Development Corp., 283 U. S. 27; and directed that the
District Court enter a decree adjudging the claims in issue
valid and infringed, and awarding an accounting. 89 F.
(2d) 960. One judge dissented on the ground that the
decree dismissing the bill should have been. affirmed under
the rule declared in the Carbice case. A petition for
certiorari limited to that question was applied for and
granted.
That the patent did not confer upon The Barber
Company the right to be free from competition in supplying unpatented material to be used in practicing the
invention was settled by the rule declared in the Carbice
case. That suit was likewise one to enjoin an alleged
contributory infringer. The subject of the patent was
a refrigerating transportation package in which the refrigerant to be used was solid carbon dioxide, or "dry
ice." The sole business of the Dry Ice Corporation was

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

to make and sell dry ice-which is unpatented material.
It did not make or sell transportation packages in which
dry ice was used as a refrigerant. It did not issue to other
concerns licenses to make such packages upon payment
of a stipulated royalty. It did not formally license buyers of its dry ice to use the invention in suit. But each
invoice for dry ice bore a notice in effect that the patented container could be used only with dry ice purchased from the Corjoration. In declaring that relief
must be denied the Court said:
"The Dry Ice Corporation has no right to be free from
competition in the sale of solid carbon dioxide. Control over the supply of such unpatented material is beyond the scope of the patentee's monopoly; and this
limitation, inherent in the patent grant, is not dependent
upon the peculiar function or character of the unpatented
material or on the way in which it is used. Relief is denied because the Dry Ice Corporation is attempting, without sanction of law, to employ the patent to secure a
limited monopoly of unpatented material used in applying the invention." (pp. 33-34.)
"In the case at bar the plaintiffs neither sell nor license
others to sell complete transportation packages. They
supply merely one of several materials entering into the
combination; and on that commodity they have not been
granted a monopoly. Their attempt to secure one cannot be sanctioned." (pp. 34-35.)
The Barber Company contends that the rule of the
Carbice case is not applicable because it has not entered
into any contract or agreement aimed at expansion of
the patent monopoly. It argues that in the Carbice case,
as in Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg.
Co., 243 U. S. 502, the attempt to secure the "partial
monopoly of an unpatented material, outside of and apart
from the patent monopoly" was made by contract or notice, whereas The Barber Company has made no attempt

LEITCH MFG. CO. v. BARBER CO.
458

463

Opinion of the Court.

"by contract, notice, or otherwise, to expand its patent
monopoly by limitations, or to reserve or create any
monopoly in emulsion outside of, or apart from, its patent
monopoly"; that its "customers for emulsion have no
more than the unconditioned license to use implied by
law, and are under no restriction"; and that neither
the defendant nor its customers has any "relation with
the patent owner."
The distinction upon which The Barber Company thus
rests is without legal significance. The Court held in the
Carbice case that the limitation upon the scope or use
of the patent which it applied was "inherent in the patent grant." It denied relief, not because there was a
contract or notice held to be inoperative, but on the
broad ground that the owner of the patent monopoly,
ignoring the limitation "inherent in the patent grant,"
sought by its method of doing business to extend the
monopoly to unpatented material used in practicing the
invention. By the rule there declared every use of a
patent as a means of obtaining a limited monopoly of
unpatented material is prohibited. It applies whether
the patent be for a machine, a product, or a process. It
applies whatever the nature of the device by which the
owner of the patent seeks to effect such unauthorized
extension of the monopoly. Nothing in Leeds & Catlin
Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213 U. S. 325, limits it.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO took no part in the consideration
or decision of the case.

