PALMER v. COMMISSIONER.
Syllabus.

56

they were not equitably entitled to recover the tax after
the statute had barred collection- from the beneficiary.
The assessment of a deficiency against the trustees and
the payment of it by them were not barred by limitation.
Hence § 607 did not compel a recovery. Section 609 did
not require it. The commissioner neither sought, nor
did § 322, regardless of any period of limitation, permit
him to credit the amount which the one taxpayer had
paid against the tax which another should have paid.
Equitable considerations not within the reach of the
statutes denied a recovery. It was enough, in the peculiar facts of the case, that the trustees had suffered
no burden and that the Government was not unjustly
enriched.
Reversed.
PALMER v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 19.

Argued October 19, 1937.-Decided November 8, 1937.

1. By §§ 111, 112, 113 of the Revenue Act of 1928, profits derived
from the purchase of property, as distinguished from exchanges
of property, are ascertained and taxed as of the date of its sale
or other disposition by the purchaser. Profit, if any, accrues to
him only upoi sale or disposition, and the taxable income is the
difference between the amount thus realized and its cost, less
allowed deductions. P. 68.
2. A sale by a corporation to its shareholders of part of its property which does not result in any diminution of its net worth,
can not result in a distribution of profits and is not a "dividend"
within the meaning of § 115 of the Revenue Act of 1928. P. 69.
The bare fact that a transaction, on its face a sale, hs resulted
in a distribution of some of the corporate assets to stockholders,
*Together

with No. 59, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal

Revenue v. Palmer, also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U.S.

gives rise to no inference that the distribution was of property
worth more than the price received and was therefore, to that
extent, a dividend within the meaning of § 115.
3. Mere issue by a corporation to its shareholders of "rights" to
subscribe for stock which it owns in another corporation, and their
receipt by shareholders, is not a dividend as defined in § 115. P. 71.
4. Where a corporation, through resolution of its board of directors,
offers to its shareholders rights to subscribe, within a time limited, for shares which it owns in another company, intending a
bona fide sale and fixing the price at the fair value of the shares
at the time of the offer, the fact that, between the time of the
offer and the exercise of the option by a shareholder, the rights
were bought and sold at substantial prices on the exchange, or
that the stock itself sold at prices substantially above the stipulated purchase price, did not convert the sale, pro tanto, into a
dividend. P. 71.
5. Findings of the Board of Tax Appeals based on permissible inferences from the record are not to be set aside by a court even
if upon examination of the evidence it might draw a different
inference. P. 70.
88 F. (2d) 559, reversed.

REVIEW by certiorari, 301 U. S. 676, 680, of a judgment
reversing the Board of Tax Appeals and sustaining a deficiency income tax assessment.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge, with whom Mr. Harold S. Davis
was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 19 and respondent
in No. 59.
Assistant Attorney General Morris, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Sewall Key and Ellis
N. Slack were on the brief, for respondent in No. 19 and
petitioner in No. 59.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question for decision is whether a purported sale
by a corporation to its stockholders, of shares of stock
issued by and acquired from another corporation, the sale
being effected by means of an issue to the stockholders
of rights to purchase the stock at a named price, is to be

PALMER v. COMMISSIONER.
63

Opinion of the Court.

treated as a distribution of corporate earnings taxable as
a dividend to the stockholders when received, within the
reach of §§ 22 and 115 of the Revenue Act of 1928,
c. 852, 45 Stat. 791.
In January, 1929, The American Superpower Company, of which petitioner was a stockholder, acquired
through consolidation of public utility corporations, in
one of which it in turn was a stockholder, a large amount
of the securities of The United Corporation, the latter
being received in exchange for stock of the consolidated
corporations owned by Superpower. The securities received included shares of the preference stock of United,
2,210,583 shares of its common stock, and 1,000,000 rights
to subscribe for United common stock at any time for
$27.50 a share. United was incorporated. January 7,
1929. The consolidation was effected January 12th,
when Superpower became entitled.to its allo.tment of the
secUritie. On January 23, 1.929,,the board of directors
,of Superpower, pursuant to a plan to strengthen its cash
position and to create a wide market for the stock of
United, adopted a resolution offering :to its common
stockholders of record January 26, 1929, the privilege of
purchasing, at $25 a share, one-half share of United for
each share of their common stock in Superpower.. The
privilege was evidenced by negotiable certificates distributed to stockholders about January 31. By their terms
they were to become void unless the privilege was exercised by February 15, 1929. On that date petitioner
exercised the privilege by purchasing his allotment of
3,198 shares of United at $25 a share. In its books, records and accounts, Superpower treated the transaction
as a sale of the United stock, resulting in no change in its
net assets or earnings.
The prices received by Superpower for shares distributed to its stockholders represented a substantial profit

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S,

to it over cost of the securities which it had exchanged
for them. It reported the profit in its 1929 income tax
return and paid the tax on it for that year. In computing
the tax the commissioner, in allocating the cost of the
three classes of securities received from United by Superpower, found it necessary to determine the value of each
class of security when received. He did this by finding
the total value of the securities and allocating to the
common stock a value of $25 a share. On or about January 9th, bankers who were active in promoting the consolidation purchased from United 400,000 shares of its
stock at $22.50 per share. Shortly after the adoption
by Superpower, on January 23rd, of the plan for distribution of the United stock, an active market developed
on the New York Curb Exchange for the sale of subscription rights. On January 25th, 11,000 rights were sold
at prices ranging from 11% to 12%, making the cost per
share to purchasers of the fights, upon their exercise,
about $50. On January 28th, 44,000 of them were dealt
in on the exchange at prices ranging from 12% to 17 ,
with a corresponding cost of the shares of from $50 to $60.
On January 29th, 30th and 31st, Superpower sold about
9,200 shares of its United stock on the open market at
from $50 to $63 per share.
On May 1, 1929, a like privilege to purchase one-fourth
of a share of stock of United at $30 a share for each share
of Superpower was extended to the stockholders of the
latter, as of May 8, 1929, which petitioner similarly exercised on May 24, 1929. On June 5, 1929, a like privilege
was given to the common stockholders of Superpower as
of June 18, 1929, to purchase stock of Commonwealth
and Southern Corporation at $15 a share, which petitioner exercised on July 2, 1929.
Petitioner did not, in 1929, sell or otherwise dispose of
any of the shares for which he subscribed, or report their
receipt in his income tax returns for that year. The corn-

PALMER v. COMMISSIONER.
63

Opinion of the Court.

missioner ruled that the rights to subscribe were dividends, and assessed a deficiency against petitioner based
on their market value on the respective dates when the
stockholders were first entitled to exercise them. The
cause was heard by the Board of Tax Appeals upon a
stipulation of facts which it adopted as a finding and which
specified the facts already detailed. The board held that
the distributions were sales of the shares by Superpower
to its stockholders, not dividends, and reduced the deficiency accordingly. In reaching this decision the board,
upon consideration of all the facts and circumstances attending the issue of the rights by Superpower to its stockholders, found that there was no intention to distribute
any of its earnings to stockholders and that the transaction was what it purported to be on its face-a sale to
stockholders of part of the corporate assets. As a supporting fact it found that the fair value of the common
stock of United during January, 1929, was $25 a share.
It concluded that the facts as stipulated and as found by
it did not show fair market value of the. United stock in
May, 1929, or of the Commonwealth and Southern stock
in June or July of that year. Upon the entire record it
was of the opinion that there was no reason to treat the
transaction any differently than as the parties had treated
it, as a sale of a part of the assets of Superpower from
which no taxable gain would result before the taxpayer
sold or otherwise disposed of the shares.
The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed,
holding that the distributions were taxable dividends
measured by the difference between the value of the several allotments of shares on the respective dates when
the rights were exercised and the prices paid for them.
88 F. (2d) 559. In reaching this conclusion the court
recognized that the board had found the January, 1929,
value of the stock of United to be $25 a share. But it
thought that the board in making the finding had disre-

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

garded the substantial prices at which the rights were sold
pending their exercise, denying to them persuasive weight
because it had mistakenly assumed that the purported
sale could not be treated as a dividend unless there was
intention to distribute the corporate earnings. Tlhe court
held that what was done, and not what was intended, was
the decisive factor, and as there was substantial evidence
that the stock, when distributed, was worth more than
the price received, there was a distribution of corporate
assets from earnings, taxable to stockhol ders as a dividend. It accordingly remanded the cause to enable the
board to ascertain the value of the distributed shares on
the dates when the rights were exercised (February 15,
1929, May 24, 1929, July 2, 1929).
Both the taxpayer and the commissioner petitioned
for certiorari, the one challenging the ruling that the distributions were dividends, and the other assigning as error the failure to hold that the critical dates for fixing
the value of the dividends for taxation were either those
when the rights were received by the stockholders or
when the stockholders first became entitled to exercise
them, rather than the times when they were actually exercised. We granted certiorari, because of the importance of the questions in the administration of the revenue laws, and the doubts which have been raised as to
their appropriate answers by the varying opinions of the
circuit courts of appeals. Compare the opinions below,
Ramapo, Inc. v. Commissioner, 84 F. (2d) 986 (C. C. A.
2d) and Commissioner v. Mayer, 86 F. (2d) 593 (C. C. A.
7th) with Helvering v. Bartlett, 71 F. (2d) 598 (C. C. A.
4th) and Commissioner v. Cummings, 77 F. (2d) 670
(C. C. A. 5th).
By §§ 111, 112 and 113 of the Revenue Act of 1928,
profits derived from the purchase of property, as distinguished from exchanges of property, are ascertained
and taxed as of the dat& of its sale or other disposition

PALMER v. COMMISSIONER.
63

Opinion of the Court.

by the purchaser. Profit, if any, accrues to him only
upon sale or disposition, and the taxable income is the
difference between the amount thus realized and its cost,
less allowed deductions. It follows that one does not subject himself to income tax by the mere purchase of property, even if at less than its true value, and that taxable
gaindoes not accrue to him before he sells or otherwise
disposes of it. Specific provisions establishing this basis
for the taxation of gains derived from purchased property were included in the 1916 and each subsequent
revenue Act and accompanying regulations.
Section 22 of the Revenue Act of 1928 includes "dividends" in "gross income," which is the basis of determining taxable net income, and § 115 defines "dividend"
as "any distribution made by a corporation to its shareholders, whether in money or in other property, out of its
earnings or profits." While a sale of corporate assets to
stockholders is, in a literal sense, a distribution of its
property, such a transaction does not necessarily fall
within the statutory definition of a dividend. For a sale
to stockholders may not result in any diminution of its
net worth and in that case cannot result in any distribution of its profits.
On the other hand such a sale, if for substantially less

than the value of the property sold, may be as effective
a means of distributing profits among stockholders as the
formal declaration of a dividend. The necessary consequence of the corporate action may be in substance the
kind of a distribution to stockholders which it is the purpose of § 115 to tax as present income to stockholders,
and such a transaction may appropriately be deemed in
effect the declaration of a dividend, taxable to the extent
that the value of the distributed property exceeds the stipulated price. But the bare fact that a transaction, on its
face a sale, has resulted in a distribution of some of the
corporate assets to stockholders, gives rise to no inference

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court

302 U. S.

that the distribution is a dividend within the meaning of
§ 115. To transfer it from the one category to the other,
it is at least necessary to make some showing that the
transaction is in purpose or effect used as an implement
for the distribution of corporate earnings to stockholders.
The facts stipulated and the finding of the fair market value of the United stock at the time of the adoption
of the first plan for its distribution abundantly sustain
the board's conclusion that the transaction-in form a
sale-was not intended to be the means of a distribution
of earnings to stockholders. There may be cases in which
market quotations, after the subscription rights have
been issued, are persuasive evidence of value as of the
time when the plan was adopted, and hence of its pur.pose and probable effect. But we cannot say that the
board here, in finding the value of the shares of the newly
organized United as of the time of adoption of the first
plan, did not consider the market prices of the rights.
The findings are inferences which the board was free to
draw from all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the
record. Such a determination of fact is not to be set
aside by a court even if upon examination of the evidence
it might draw a different inference. Helvering v. Rankin, 295 U. S. 123, 131, 132; Elmhurst Cemetery Co. v.
Commissioner, 300 U. S. 37. We accept the findings as
at least establishing that the plan was adopted by Superpower in good faith as a means of effecting a sale of its
assets to stockholders at fair market value. Hence the
issue for decision, in so far as the first allotment of stock
is concerned, is narrowed to the question of law whether
the commitment of Superpower, by formal action of its
board, to the sale of United stock at its then fair market
value and the ensuing distribution to stockholders is
taken out of the category of sales and placed in that of
dividends by the fact that, pending execution of the

PALMER v. COMMISSIONER.
63

Opinion of the Court.

project, rights to subscribe sold on the exchange at substantial prices, or that the stock itself sold at prices substantially above the stipulated purchase price.
First. The mere issue of rights to subscribe and their
receipt by stockholders, is not a dividend. No distribution of corporate assets or diminution of the net worth of
the corporation results in any practical sense. Even
though the rights have a market or exchange value, they
are not dividends within the statutory definition. Cf.
Miles v. Safe Deposit & T. Co., 259 U. S. 247; Helvering
v. San Joaquin Co., 297 U. S. 496; Helvering v. Bartlett,
supra. They are at most options or continuing offers,
potential sources of income to the stockholders through
sale or the exercise of the rights. Taxable income might
result from their sale, but distribution of the corporate
property could take place only on their exercise. The
question, then, is whether the distribution which results
from the exercise of the rights must be regarded as a dividend if the reasonable value of the property at the time
of exercise is more than the purchase price.
Second. We think that a distribution of assets by a
corporation to its stockholders by means of a sale, to
which it is committed by appropriate corporate action at
a time when their sale price represents their reasonable
value, is not converted into a dividend by the mere circumstance that later, at the time of their delivery to
stockholders, they have a higher value. The meaning of
§ 115 must be sought in the light of the situations to
which it must be applied. It does not purport to withdraw corporations and their stockholders wholly from the
operation of §§* 111, 112 and 113, taxing the profits of
purchasers. It cannot be taken to withhold from corporations the power at their own election to effect, by
workable means, sales of their assets to stockholders at
fair value, subject to that incidence of taxing statutes
which usually attends sales. The distribution contem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

plated and defined by it as a dividend is one to be effected
by corporate action. Hence, in determining whether a
given transaction is "sale" or "dividend," the corporate
action which results in one or the other must be scrutinized in the light of the circumstances at the time when
the action is taken, and of the conditions under which in
practice it must be taken.
The only feasible method by which a corporation of
large membership can effect a sale of its assets to stockholders is by tendering to them rights to subs~ribe, a
method whose indispensable first step is the adoption,
by appropriate corporate action, of the terms of the,
offer. Between the dates of the first step and of sub-'
scription a substantial period of time must elapse, during which the rights may, and often do, become the subject of violent market fluctuations. Any vendor who
offers property for sale at a named price similarly carries
the burden of risk that the property may increase in
value between offer and acceptance. If the sale is by
executory contract he also carries the risk between promise and performance. It is an inseparable incident of
every sale except those in which conditions admit of payment for the property simultaneously with its tender
for sale, a procedure which may not be available to a
corporation seeking to sell its property to stockholders.
It is a solecism to speak of a corporation as distributing its profits for the sole reason that, after it has unavoidably assumed that risk in order to effect a sale of
its property to stockholders at a fair price, the property
increases in value. Price, which in the present case is
decisive of the issue, must be determined in the light
of the situation existing when price is fixed. If the option
price is fair when fixed the transaction is a tender for a
sale and not for a distribution of profits-a dividend as
defined by § 115. If, pending execution of the plan.
there were no change in value of the stock the transac-

PALMER v. COMMISSIONER.
63

Opinion of the Court.

tion would throughout concededly retain its character as
a sale. Its character is not altered by the fluctuations
of a speculative market, after the corporate action which
defines the character of the transaction has been taken.
When the corporation has committed itself to a sale
of its assets to stockholders at present market value the
effeqt on its balance sheet is. the same as in the case of
other vendors who in various ways assume the risk of
rising prices pending the consummation of the sale. In
every case purchasers may, as a result of market change,
acquire property at less than its value at the date of
acquisition. But in the case of the corporation it does
not follow that there has been a distribution of its profits.
It can hardly be said that profits accrue to a corporation
from a fortuitous gain in market value, the benefits of
which it has relinquished before the gain occurs. Distribution of profits is neither the purpose nor effect of
the action taken by the corporation and there is no
adequate basis for saying that the transaction to which
the directors committed their corporation was the distribution of earnings, and hence a dividend rather than
a fairly conducted sale of corporate property with all
the incidents which usually attend a sale when the price
is fixed in advance of performance. It is decisive of the
present case, so far as the first allotment of United
shares is concerned, that distribution of corporate assets,
effected by the sale, was not intended to be a means of
distributing earnings, and that the price when fixed represented the fair market value of the property to be
distributed.
There has been no finding, either by the commissioner
or the board, of the fair market value of the United
stock in May or of the Commonwealth & Southern in
June, the months when the plans for the second and
third allotments of the shares were adopted. The finding of the board that the facts as stipulated were not

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Statement of the Case.

302 U. S.

sufficient to establish fair market value of the shares on
those dates furnish sufficient support for its conclusion
that there was no basis for treating the transactions,
which were on their face sales, as distributions of earnings
and hence dividends as defined by § 115.
The writ in No. 59 is dismissed and in No. 19 the
judgment is
Reversed.
DODGE ET AL. v. BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
CHICAGO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 5. Argued April, 28, 1937. Reargued October 14, 1937.Decided November 8, 1937.
1. An Act merely fixing the terms or the tenures of public employees
is presumptively not intended to create a vested right in the incumbent, but merely to declare a policy to be pursued until the
legislature shall ordain otherwise. P. 78.
2. He who asserts the creation of a contract with the State in such
a case has the burden of overcoming the presumption. P. 79.
3. While this Court, in applying the contract clause of the Constitution, is required to reach an independent judgment as to the existence and nature of the alleged contract, great weight is given to
the views of the highest court of the State. P. 79.
4. Decision of Supreme Court of Illinois construing "An Act to provide for compulsory and voluntary retirement of teachers,...
and the payment of retirement annuities," in pani materia with
earlier laws and decisions, as not intending to create contracts or
vested rights,-held a reasonable construction to be accepted
by this Court when questioned under the contract clause of the
Constitution. P. 79.
5. Interchangeability of the terms "pensions," "benefits," and "annuities," in Acts of Illinois dealing with retirement of teachers.
P. 81.
364 Ill. 547; 5 N. E. (2d) 84, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree affirming the dismissal of the bill
in a suit to prevent the enforcement of a law alleged to

