McNAIR v. KNOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

McNAIR, RECEIVER, v. KNOTT, TREASURER OF

FLORIDA,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
-FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 32. Argued November 10, 11, 1937.-Decided December 13, 1937.
1. The Enabling Amendment of June 25, 1930, provides that any
National Bank Association "may, upon the deposit with it of public
money of a State or any political subdivision thereof, give security
for the safe-keeping and prompt payment of the money so
deposited, of the same kind as is authorized by the law of the State
in which such association is located in the case of other banking
institutions in the State." Held applicable by intention, to security
given and deposits made before the date of the amendment. P. 371.
2. Thus construed retroactively, the amendment was within the
power of Congress. P. 372.
87 F. (2d) 817, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 677, to review the affirmance of a
decree dismissing a bill by the receiver of a national bank
praying for the cancellation of a pledge agreement made
by the bank.

Messrs. J. Turner Butler and George P. Barse for
petitioner.
Mr. J. Compton French, Assistant Attorney General of
Florida, with whom Messrs. Cary D. Landis, Attorney
General, and H. E. Carter, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question presented is whether the National Bank
Enabling Amendment of June 25, 1930, which granted
power to National Banks to secure deposits of public
funds, validates or makes enforceable previous pledge
agreements made to protect such funds deposited before
the Enabling Amendment became effective.

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

That Enabling Act' provides:
"Any association may, upon the deposit with it of public money of a State or any political subdivision thereof,
give security for the safe-keeping and prompt payment
of the money so deposited, of the same kind as is authorized by the law of the State in which such association
is located in the case of other banking institutions in the
State."
Before, and at the time this Enabling Amendment was
passed, the laws of Fl6rida authorized state banks to give
security for public deposits and also imposed upon public
officials a duty to obtain such security.2 In 1929 and
1930, before the passage of this amendment, the First
National Bank of Perry, Florida, by agreement with the
officials of Taylor County, Florida, pledged collateral
security for the protection of county funds thereafter
to be deposited from time to time in the bank.
This contractual relationship, established by the
pledge agreement and deposits made thereunder, continued to exist until the bank was closed October 18,
1930. The Receiver for the closed bank at first recognized the pledge agreement as valid and enforceable and
accordingly paid the county the income he received from
the pledged securities. In 1935, however, the receiver
filed this suit in equity in the Federal District Court for
the Northern District- of Florida, alleging that the pledge
agreement was ultra vires and illegal and praying that
it be cancelled and annulled. Upon motion of the
county, the district court dismissed the bill. 13 F. Supp.
963. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed. 87 F. (2d) 817. This Court granted certiorari. 301 U. S. 677.
Ch. 604, 46 Stat. 809, 12 U. S. C. 90.

'First American Bank & Trust Co. v.. Palm Beach, 96 Fla. 247; 117
So. 900, 65 A. L. R. 1398; Davis v. Knott, 109 Fla. 60; 147 So. 276.

McNAIR v. KNOTT.
369

Opinion of the Court.

The issues raised require that we determine:
(1) Did Congress intend to validate existing ultra
vires pledges?
(2) Could this pledge agreement be validated by
changing the law which was in force when the transaction
was initiated?
First. The language of the amendment, read in the
light of the conditions that brought about the necessity
for its passage, leads irresistibly to the conclusion that
Congress did intend to make existing pledges enforceable.
The amendment does not expressly exclude existing
contracts from its field of operation. On the contrary it
extended a general grant of the broad power to give security for public deposits, with a single limitation relating
to the kind of security given by state banks. If Congress had desired to limit the remedial grant to subsequent security contracts, it would doubtless have provided
an additional limitation relating to prior agreements.
This it did not do. Congress alone had the power to
write such a limitation in the bill.3
Agreements to secure public deposits did not violate
any express statutory prohibition; no statute imposed a
penalty for making such agreements. Since the banking
act of 1863 Congress has passed many laws requiring that
security be given to protect deposits of certain public
funds.'
For many years Comptrollers of the Currency assumed
that National banks had power to give security for public deposits and approved the practice of the banks in
pledging such security. It has been, and is now, the
policy of most states to require security for public funds
whether deposited in State or National banks. The
'Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 479; James
v. Milwaukee, 16 Wall. 159, 161.
' Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorff, 291 U. S. 245, 257, note 11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

weight of judicial authority in the state courts has supported the doctrine that banks could pledge security for
public deposits, but not for private deposits.'
The Senate Committee on Banking and Currency
which made a favorable report on the Enabling Amendment gave information to the Senate in its report that
millions of dollars worth of collateral had been pledged
The
by National banks as security for public deposits
Senate and House committee reports show that the
sponsors of the amendment desired it not merely to permit future pledges but also to assure that agreements
under which "millions of dollars" of pledges had been
made by National banks.would be enforceable. One of
the chief reasons for the enactment of the amendment
was the need for validation of pledges already made. The
amendment was designed to meet this need. To determine that Congress did not intend to validate pledge
agreements existing when the amendment was passed
would greatly limit its curative effect. Such a construction would be an unwarranted departure from the plain
intent of this curative and enabling statute.
Second. Appellant insists that the contract could not
be validated by changing the law which was in force
when the pledge agreement was made.
There is nothing'novel or extraordinary in the passage
of laws by the Federal Government and the States ratifying, confirming, validating, or curing defective contracts. Such statutes, usually designated as "remedial,"
"curative," or "enabling," merely remove legal obstacles
and permit parties to carry out their contracts according
to their own desires and intentions. Such statutes have
validated transactions that were previously illegal relat'See cases collected in 42 Harvard Law Rev. 272; 79 University
of Pennsylvania Law Rev. 608.
'Senate Report No. 67, 71st Cong., 2d Sess.

McNAIR v. KNOTT.
369

Opinion of the Court.

ing to mortgages, deeds, bonds, and other contracts.'
Placing the stamp of legality on a contract voluntarily
and fairly entered into by parties for their mutual advantage takes nothing away from either of them. No
party who has made an illegal contract has a right to
insist that it remain permanently illegal. Public policy
cannot be made static by those who, for reasons of their
own, make contracts beyond their legal powers. No person has a vested right to be permitted to evade contracts
which he has illegally made.8
This Court held that the Enabling Amendment removed the obstacle that prevented the enforcement of a
contract of a National bank to give security to the State
of Georgia for its deposits.9 In that case as in this case,
the bank made an ultra vires agreement to secure public
deposits. In that case the deposits wcre made after the
law was passed and were legal. In this case the deposits
were made before the law was passed and were legal.
In that case as in this case, the-only illegal element of
the agreement was the attempt to give security for public deposits. In that case as in this case, the parties permitted the original illegal security agreement to remain
unaltered in its terms after the amendment was enacted.
In that case it was held that the security agreement'Watson v. Mercer, 8 Pet. 88 (defective acknowledgment in deed

validated by general law); Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall.
459 (mortgage validated by general statute); Randall v. Kreiger,
23 Wall. 137 (defective power of attorney validated by general statute); Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S. 143 (note validated by general

statute); Gross v. U. S. Mortgage Co., 108 U. S. 477 (mortgage
validated by general statute); Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416 (bonds
validated by general law); West Side Belt R. Co. v. Pittsburgh Construction Co., 219 U. S. 92 (contract validated by general statute);
Brown v. Boston & Maine Railroad, 233 Mass. 502; 124 N. E. 322;

(agreement to purchase stock validated).
"Ewell v. Daggs, supra.
Lewis v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 292 U. S. 559.

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
MCRaYNOLDS, J., concurring.

302 U. S.

originally ultra vires-became enforceable from the date
the amendment became effective. In this case, we hold
that the security agreement--originally ultra vire-became enforceable from the date the amendment became
effective. Let the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, concurring.

The challenged judgment, I think, should be affirmed
upon the theory that subsequent to the enabling amendment of June 25, 1930, both parties recognized an existing
obligation, to observe the terms of the pledge agreement,
and on this understanding maintained the relationship
of debtor and creditor. Discussion of other questions
seems unnecessary.
Prior to June 25, 1930, the Perry National Bank obtained deposits of public funds by undertaking to hypothecate certain of its assets to secure their payment.
This went beyond the corporate power theretofore conferred. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorff, 291 U. S.
245; ,Marionv. Sneeden, 291 U. S. 262; Lewis v. Fidelity
& Deposit Co., 292 U. S. 559.
The amendment empowered the bank to secure such
deposits by a pledge of assets. 'For more than 'three
months thereafter the securities originally hypothecated
were allowed to remain in the keeping of the trustee without suggestion of change in the outstanding agreement.
And during that period prior deposits were allowed to
remain with the bank-. It closed October 18, "1930.
Earlier insolvency is not relied upon.
The receiver claims that as the hypothecation was un•lawful when made he became entitled to the assets free
of lien.
After the amendment the bank had full power to do
what it had undertaken to do. For three months it

HONEYMAN v. HANAN.

375

Counsel for Parties.

369

accepted the benefits of the agreement and allowed the
assets to remain with the trustee. All parties assumed
the validity of the arrangement and acted in reliance
upon it. The result was the same as if the assets had
been repossessed by the bank after June 25, 1930, and
again hypothecated under an agreement identical with
the original one.
HONEYMAN v. HANAN, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 583.

Motion to dismiss.-Decided December 20, 1937.

Sections 1083-a and 1083-b of the New York Practice Act, which
provide that an action to recover a money judgment for any
indebtedness secured by mortgage may not be maintainea after
the mortgaged premises have been sold under a judgment of foreclosure and sale, unless the right to a deficiency judgment has been
determined in the foreclosure suit, did not impair the contract
rights (Const. Art. I, § 10) of one who, having foreclosed a mortgage and been denied a deficiency judgment, was prevented by
the statute from enforcing, by separate action, a bond securing
the mortgage debt collaterally, against one who was party to th
foreclosure suit, and against whom a deficiency judgment might
have been awarded in the foreclosure suit, but as to whom it was
discontinued after a motion for deficiency judgment was denied.
The question relates to the distribution of jurisdiction in the state
courts. P. 378.
275 N. Y. 382; 9 N. E. (2d) 970, appeal dismissed.

APPEAL from affirmance of a judgment dismissing an
action on a bond. An earlier phase of the case is reported
in 300 U. S. 14.
Mr. Robert B. Honeyman was on the brief for appellant.
Messrs. Aithony F. Tuozzo and James S. Brown, Jr.
were on the brief for appellee.

