292

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllabus.

302 U. S.

WORCESTER COUNTY TRUST CO. v. RILEY,
CONTROLLER OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 34. Argued November 15, 16, 1937.-Decided December 6, *1937.
1. State taxing officials seeking through judicial proceedings to assess
a succession tax on intangible property in pursuance of laws of
their State, which impose the tax only if the deceased was domiciled therein at death, can not constitutionally be interpleaded in
a federal court with tax officials of another State likewise claiming
the domicile and the right to tax, in order that the federal court
may determine which State is in fact domiciliary and enjoin taxation in the other State, for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. P. 296.
Such a suit is in effect against the State, forbidden by the
Eleventh Amendment.
A bill of interpleader, brought by an executor against tax officials of California and of Massachusetts, alleged that the California officials had determined and were asserting that the decedent, at death, was domiciled in that State, and were threatening
to assess and collect under California laws, applicable in case of
local domicile, a death tax upon all his intangibles, which would
be in excess of any tax that would be due if the domicile was Massachusetts; and that the Massachusetts official, in behalf of his State,
was asserting that the domicile was in Massachusetts and the estate
taxable there upon all the intangibles; that it was .impossible in
law and in fact for decedent to have been domiciled in both States
at the time of his death, or for his estate to be subject to death
taxes in both States as asserted, and that attempted collection was
a threatened deprivation of property without due process of law
and denial of equal protection of the laws. The bill prayed that
the court order the respondent officials of the two States to interplead their respective claims for the tax; that the court determine
the domicile of decedent, the amount of the tax, and the person
or persons to whom it was payable; and that respondents be
enjoined from any other proceedings to collect it. Held, that, on
objection of the California respondents, the suit was properly
dismissed as. in substance, a suit against the State.

WORCESTER COUNTY CO. v. RILEY.
292

293

Amici Curiae.

2. Under California statutes, inheritance taxes are assessed by
judicial proceedings resulting, after full opportunity for presentation of evidence and a hearing, in a judgment which is reviewable
on appeal by the state courts, and by this Court if it involves any
denial of federal right. P. 298.
3. Conflicting decisions of the same issue of fact do not necessarily
imply judicial error. P. 299.
4. Neither the Fourteenth Amendment nor the full faith and credit
clause requires uniformity in the decisions of the courts of different
States as to the place of domicile, where the exertion of state
power is dependent upon domicile. P. 299.
5. City Bank Farmers Trust Co. v.. Schnader, 291 U.. S. 24, distinguished. P. 300.
89 F. (2d) 59, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 301 U. S. 678, to review the reversal of a
decree granting a temporary injunction in an interpleader
suit, 14 F. Supp. 754.
Mr. Merrill S. June, with whom Mr. Bradley B. Gilman was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. James J. Ronan, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for Henry F. Long, Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation of Massachusetts,
iitervener-respondent, by special leave of Court.
Mr. George S. Fuller for Riley, -Controller, et al.,
respondents.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by:
Messrs. Maurice Bower Saul and William N. Trinkle,
on behalf of Girard Trust Co. et al.; Mr. James A.
Branch and Daniel MacDougald, on behalf of Hughes
Spalding et al.; Mr. Maurice Bower Saul, on behalf of
Alpin W. Cameron; Mr. James A. Reed, on behalf of

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

Hadassah T. Boyer, - all urging issuance of the writ of
certiorari-and
Messrs. David T. Wilentz, Attorney General of New
Jersey, Jack Holt, Attorney General of Arkansas, A. A. F.
Seawell, Attorney General of North Carolina, Byron G.
Rogers, Attorney General of Colorado, Cary D. Landis,
Attorney General of Florida, and J. W. Taylor, Attorney
General of Idaho, on behalf of the States of New Jersey,
Arkansas, North Carolina, Colorado, Florida, and Idaho;
Messrs. David T. Wilentz, Attorney General of New
Jersey, and William A. Moore, on behalf of New Jersey;
Messrs. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General of New
York, Henry Epstein, and Wendell P. Brown, on behalf of
New York; and Messrs. Casper Schenk and I. H. Van
Winkle, Attorney General of Oregon,-all urging affirmance of the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion, of the Court.
The question for decision is whether the Federal Interpleader Act, § 24 (26) of the Judicial Code as amended
January 20, 1936, c. 13, § 1, 49 Stat. 1096, may be availed
of for the litigation' and final disposition of the rival
claims of two states, each asserting through its officers
the right to recover death taxes on the ground that decedent was last domiciled within its boundaries.
Petitioner is the duly qualified executor named in the
last will of decedent, which has been probated in Massachusetts. Ancillary administration of the estate has been
granted in California. Petitioner brought the present suit
in the District Court for Massachusetts, joining as defendants Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation of
the Commonwealth of Massachuetts, and respondents,
officers of the State of California, all charged with the
duty of administering death tax statutes of their respective states. The bill of complaint is founded upon the
Interpleader Act and seeks the remedy which it affords.

WORCESTER COUNTY CO. v. RILEY.
292

295

Opinion of the Court.

Section 24 (26) confers jurisdiction on the district
courts in suits of interpleader or in the nature of interpleader, by plaintiffs who are under an obligation to the
amount of $500 or more, the benefits of which are demanded by two or more adverse claimants who are citizens of different states. By subsection 26 (a) "Such a
suit in equity may be entertained although the titles or
claims of the conflicting claimants do not have a common origin, or are not identical, but are adverse to and
independent of one another." And by subsection 26
(a) (ii) and (d) complainant, upon satisfying jurisdictional requirements of the Act, and depositing the money
or property in the registry of the court, or upon giving a
prescribed bond, is entitled to a decree discharging him
from further liability and enjoining the claimants from
further proceedings in other courts to recover the sum
claimed.
The bill of complaint alleges that decedent left bank
deposits and other intangibles in California and Massachusetts, a substantial part of which has come into the
possession or custody of petitioner; that respondents, the
California taxing officials, have determined and assert
that decedent at death was domiciled in California, and
that under the law of that state his estate is subject to
death taxes upon all his intangibles; that respondents
threaten to assess and collect there a tax in excess of any
which would be due if decedent were domiciled in Massachusetts; that the Massachusetts Commissioner, in behalf of the state, asserts a similar claim that decedent at
death was domiciled in Massachusetts, and that his estate
is subject to taxes there upon all his intangibles; that it
is impossible in law and in fact for decedent to have been
domiciled in both states at the time of his death, or for
his estate to be subject to death taxes in both states as
asserted; and that the attempted collection of the tax
is a threatened deprivation of property without due proc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

ess of law and a denial of equal protection of the laws.
Petitioner prays that the Court order respondent officials
of the two states to interplead their respective claims
for the tax; that the Court determine the domicile of
decedent, the amount of the tax, and the person or persons to whom it is payable; and that respondents be
enjoined from any other proceedings to collect it.
Respondents, the California officers, appeared specially
and moved to dismiss the complaint upon the ground,
among others, that the suit was brought against respondents in their official capacity, and was in substance a suit
against the state forbidden by the Eleventh Amendment. The district court overruled this contention and
granted a temporary injunction restraining defendants
until further order of the court, from taking any action
to assess the tax. The Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit reversed, 89 F. (2d) 59, holding that the maintenance of the suit is an infringement of the Eleventh
Amendment, which provides that "The judicial power
• . . shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law
or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the
United States by citizens of another state. . .

."

We

granted certiorari, 299 U. S. 567, the decision below being.
of an important question of federal law which has not
been but should be settled by this Court. Supreme Court
Rules, 38 (5) (b).
Petitioner does not deny that a suit nominally against
individuals, but restraining or otherwise affecting their
action as state officers, may be in substance a suit against
the state, which the Constitution forbids, Louisiana v.
Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52;
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; North Carolinav. Temple, 134
U. S. 22, 30; Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S. 436; Lankford
v. Platte Iron Works, 235 U. S. 461; Ex parte New York,
No. 1, 256 U. S. 490, 500; Missouri v. Fiske, 290 U. S. 18,
28; see Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick R. Co., 109

WORCESTER COUNTY CO. v. RILEY.
292

297

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 446; cf. Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335, or that generally suits to restrain action of state officials can, consistently with the constitutional prohibition, be prose-.
cuted only when the action sought to be restrained is
without the authority of state law or contravenes the
statutes or Constitution of the United States. Cf. Ex
partq Young, 209 U. S. 123; Scully v. Bird, 209 U. S. 481;
Old Colony.Trust Co. v. Seattle, 271 U. S. 426, with Louisianav. Jumel, supra; Hagood v. Southern, supra; In re
Ayers, supra; Lankford v. Platte Iron Works, supra. The
Eleventh Amendment, which denies to the citizen the
right to resort to a federal court to compel or restrain
state action, does not preclude suit against a wrongdoer
merely because he asserts that his acts are within an official authority which the state does not confer.
Petitioner's contention is that here the prospective official action of respondents involves a threatened violation
of the Constitution for which state law can afford no
sanction. It is said that as the officers of each state assert the right to collect the tax out of decedent's property
within the state, they may succeed in establishing that
right by a judicial determination in each that decedent
was last domiciled there, cf. Dorrance's Estate, 309 Pa.
151; 163 Atl. 303; In re Estate of Dorrance, 115 N. J. Eq.
268; 170 Atl. 601; 116 N. J. Eq. 204; 172 Atl. 503, with
New Jersey v. Pennsylvania, 287 U. S. 580; Dorrance v.
Pennsylvania,287 U. S. 660; Hill v. Martin, 296 U. S. 393,
although he could not be domiciled in both; that neither
state could constitutionally authorize its officials to impose the tax if decedent was last domiciled elsewhere, and
petitioner is thus exposed to the danger of double taxation, which the Constitution forbids. See First National
Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312; FarmersLoan & Trust Co.
v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204. As those officials threaten
acts whose consequence may be taxation which is unauthorized by any valid state enactment, petitioner in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Opinion of the Court.

302 U. S.

sists that the suit brought to restrain such action does.
not run against the state.
But this argument confuses the possibility of conflict
of decisions of the courts of the two states, which the
Constitution does not forestall, with other types of action
by state officers which, because it passes beyond the limits
of a lawful authority, is within the reach of the federal
judicial power notwithstanding the Eleventh Amendment. This Court has held that state statutes, construed
to impose death taxes upon the' intangibles of decedents
domiciled elsewhere, infringe the Fourteenth Amendment, and it has accordingly reversed judgments of state
courts enforcing such liability. First National Bank v.
Maine, supra; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota,
supra. But petitioner does not assert that there are such
statutes in California or Massachusetts, or that the courts
in those states have ever held or threaten to hold that
their laws taxing inheritances apply to intangibles of
those domiciled in other states.
Although the bill of complaint states that respondents
California officials "have determined" that decedent was
domiciled in California, it is not contended that they
have or are assuming authority to assess the tax, independently of the judgment of a court. Under California
statutes, inheritance taxes are assessed by judicial proceedings resulting, after full opportunity for presentation of evidence and a hearing, in a judgment which is
reviewable on appeal by the state courts, and by this
Court if it involves any denial of federal right. §§ 14,
15, 16, 17 and 18, Cal. Inheritance Tax Act of June 3,
1921, Stats. 1921, p. 1500, as amended; see Stebbins v.
Riley, 268 U. S. 137; Estate of Haskins, 170 Cal. 267;
149 Pac. 576; Estate of Brown, 196 Cal. 114; 236 Pac.
144.
Petitioner does not contend that respondents, the California officers, propose to do more than invoke the action

WORCESTER COUNTY CO, v. RILEY.
292

299

Opinion of the Court.

of its courts to assess a lawful tax and to seek there a
judicial determination that decedent was domiciled in
California as the basis of its power to impose the tax.
'Nor is it denied that in so doing they are acting in the
performance of official duty imposed upon them by state
statutes, which conform to all constitutional requirements. Petitioner's real concern is that the judgment of
the California court, if it should decide that decedent
was domiciled there, may be erroneous or may conflict
with that of the Massachusetts courts. But conflicting
*decisions upon the same issue of fact do not necessarily
connote erroneous judicial action. Differences in proof
and the latitude necessarily allowed to the trier of fact
in each case to weigh and draw inferences from evidence
and to pass upon the credibility of witnesses, might lead
an appellate court to conclude that in none is the judgment erroneous. In any case the Constitution of the
United States does not guarantee that the decisions of
state courts shall be free from error, Central Land Co. v.
Laidley, 159 ,U. S. 103; Tracy v. Ginzberg, 205 U. S. 170,
or require that pronouncements shall be consistent. Milwaukee Electric Ry. & L. Co. v. Wisconsin ex rel. Milwaukee, 252 U. S. 100, 106. Neither the Fourteenth
Amendment nor the full faith and credit clause requires
uniformity in the decisions of the courts of different states
as to the place of domicil, where the exertion of state
power is dependent upon domicil within its boundaries.
Thormann v: Frame, 176 U. S. 350; Overby v. Gordon,
177 U. S. 214; Burbank v. Ernst, 232 U. S. 162; Baker v.
Baker, Eccles & Co., 242 U. S. 394; Iowa v6 Slimmer, 248
U. S. 115, 120, 121; cf. Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43. Hence
it cannot be said that the threatened action of respondents involves any breach of state law or of the laws or
Constitution of the United States. Since the proposed
action is the performance of a duty imposed by the statute of the state upon state officials through whom alone

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1937.
Syllibus.

302 U. S.

the state can act, restraint of their action, which the bill
of complaint prays, is restraint of state action, and the
suit is in substance one against the state which the
Eleventh Amendment forbids. We do not pass on the
construction of the Interpleader Act or its applicability
in other respects.
Unlike that in Ex parte Young, supra,and in the many
cases which have followed it, the present suit is not
founded on the asserted unconstitutionality of any state
statute and the consequent want of lawful authority for
official action taken under it. In City Bank Farmers
Trust Co. v. Schnader, 291 U. S. 24, on which petitioner
relies, it was held that the bill of complaint stated a cause
of action in equity to enjoin a state official from proceeding to assess and collect an inheritance tax upon chattels
alleged to have no tax situs within the state. The objection that the suit was one against the state within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment was not urged or
considered on the appeal to this Court.
Affirmed.

NATURAL GAS PIPELINE CO. v. SLATTERY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 230. Argued November 8, 1937.--Decided December

6, 1937.

1. A Delaware corporation, engaged in piping and selling natural gas

in interstate commerce, sold and delivered gas in Illinois, under a
long term contract, to an Illinois corporation which, in turn, sold
it in that State to distributing companies. All the stock of this
local gas company and many of the outstanding shares of the
pipeline company were owned by a local investment company.
Two of the eight or nine directors of. the pipeline company at all
times since its incorporation had been directors of the investment
company or of corporations wholly controlling it or the local gas
company, through stock ownership. The president of the local gas

