OCTOBER TERM, 1991
Syllabus

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA ET AL. v. WELTOVER,
INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 91-763. Argued April 1, 1992-Decided June 12, 1992
As part of a plan to stabilize petitioner Argentina's currency, that country and petitioner bank (collectively Argentina) issued bonds, called
"Bonods," which provided for repayment in United States dollars
through transfer on the market in one of several locations, including
New York City. Concluding that it lacked sufficient foreign exchange
to retire the Bonods when they began to mature, Argentina unilaterally
extended the time for payment and offered bondholders substitute instruments as a means of rescheduling the debts. Respondent bondholders, two Panamanian corporations and a Swiss bank, declined to accept
the rescheduling and insisted on repayment in New York. When Argentina refused, respondents brought this breach-of-contract action in
the District Court, which denied Argentina's motion to dismiss. The
Court of Appeals affirmed, ruling that the District Court had jurisdiction under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 (FSIA), 28
U. S. C. § 1602 et seq., which subjects foreign states to suit in American
courts for, inter alia,acts taken "in connection with a commercial activity" that have "a direct effect in the United States," § 1605(a)(2).
Held: The District Court properly asserted jurisdiction under the FSIA.
Pp. 610-620.
(a) The issuance of the Bonods was a "commercial activity" under the
FSIA, and the rescheduling of the maturity dates on those instruments
was taken "in connection with" that activity within the meaning of
§ 1605(a)(2). When a foreign government acts, not as a regulator of a
market, but in the manner of a private player within that market, its
actions are "commercial" within the meaning of the FSIA. CE Alfred
Dunhill of London, Inc. v. Republic of Cuba, 425 U. S. 682, 695-706
(plurality opinion). Moreover, because § 1603(d) provides that the commercial character of an act is to be determined by reference to its "nature" rather than its "purpose," the question is not whether the foreign
government is acting with a profit motive or instead with the aim of
fulfilling uniquely sovereign objectives. Rather, the issue is whether
the government's particular actions (whatever the motive behind them)
are the type of actions by which a private party engages in commerce.
The Bonods are in almost all respects garden-variety debt instruments,

608

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.
Syllabus

and, even when they are considered in full context, there is nothing
about their issuance that is not analogous to a private commercial transaction. The fact that they were created to help stabilize Argentina's
currency is not a valid basis for distinguishing them from ordinary debt
instruments, since, under § 1603(d), it is irrelevant why Argentina participated in the bond market in the manner of a private actor. It matters only that it did so. Pp. 612-617.
(b) The unilateral rescheduling of the Bonods had a "direct effect in
the United States" within the meaning of § 1605(a)(2). Respondents
had designated their accounts in New York as the place of payment,
and Argentina made some interest payments into those accounts before
announcing that it was rescheduling the payments. Because New York
was thus the place of performance for Argentina's ultimate contractual
obligations, the rescheduling of those obligations necessarily had a "direct effect" in this country: Money that was supposed to have been delivered to a New York bank was not forthcoming. Argentina's suggestion that the "direct effect" requirement cannot be satisfied where the
plaintiffs are all foreign corporations with no other connections to this
country is untenable under Verlinden B. V v. Central Bank of Nigeria,
461 U. S. 480, 489. Moreover, assuming that a foreign state may be a
"person" for purposes of the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment, Argentina satisfied the "minimum contacts" test of International
Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U. S. 310, 316, by issuing negotiable debt
instruments denominated in United States dollars and payable in New
York and by appointing a financial agent in that city. Pp. 617-620.
941 F. 2d 145, affirmed.
SCALIA,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Richard J. Davis argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Steven Alan Reiss, Bonnie Garone,
and Andreas F. Lowenfeld.
Richard W. Cutler argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Joel I. Klein.
Jeffrey P. Minear argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Starr, Assistant Attorney General
Gerson, Deputy Solicitor General Roberts, Douglas Letter,
and Edwin D. Williamson.

Cite as: 504 U. S. 607 (1992)

Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case requires us to decide whether the Republic of
Argentina's default on certain bonds issued as part of a plan
to stabilize its currency was an act taken "in connection with
a commercial activity" that had a "direct effect in the United
States" so as to subject Argentina to suit in an American
court under the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976,
28 U. S. C. § 1602 et seq.
I
Since Argentina's currency is not one of the mediums of
exchange accepted on the international market, Argentine
businesses engaging in foreign transactions must pay in
United States dollars or some other internationally accepted
currency. In the recent past, it was difficult for Argentine
borrowers to obtain such funds, principally because of the
instability of the Argentine currency. To address these
problems, petitioners, the Republic of Argentina and its
central bank, Banco Central (collectively Argentina), in 1981
instituted a foreign exchange insurance contract program
(FEIC), under which Argentina effectively agreed to assume
the risk of currency depreciation in cross-border transactions
involving Argentine borrowers. This was accomplished by
Argentina's agreeing to sell to domestic borrowers, in exchange for a contractually predetermined amount of local
currency, the necessary United States dollars to repay their
foreign debts when they matured, irrespective of intervening devaluations.
Unfortunately, Argentina did not possess sufficient reserves of United States dollars to cover the FEIC contracts
as they became due in 1982. The Argentine Government
thereupon adopted certain emergency measures, including
refinancing of the FEIC-backed debts by issuing to the creditors government bonds. These bonds, called "Bonods," provide for payment of interest and principal in United States
dollars; payment may be made through transfer on the London, Frankfurt, Zurich, or New York market, at the election
JUSTICE SCALIA

610

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.
Opinion of the Court

of the creditor. Under this refinancing program, the foreign
creditor had the option of either accepting the Bonods in satisfaction of the initial debt, thereby substituting the Argentine Government for the private debtor, or maintaining the
debtor/creditor relationship with the private borrower and
accepting the Argentine Government as guarantor.
When the Bonods began to mature in May 1986, Argentina
concluded that it lacked sufficient foreign exchange to retire
them. Pursuant to a Presidential Decree, Argentina unilaterally extended the time for payment and offered bondholders substitute instruments as a means of rescheduling the
debts. Respondents, two Panamanian corporations and a
Swiss bank who hold, collectively, $1.3 million of Bonods, refused to accept the rescheduling and insisted on full payment, specifying New York as the place where payment
should be made. Argentina did not pay, and respondents
then brought this breach-of-contract action in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York,
relying on the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 as
the basis for jurisdiction. Petitioners moved to dismiss for
lack of subject-matter jurisdiction, lack of personal jurisdiction, and forum non conveniens. The District Court denied
these motions, 753 F. Supp. 1201 (1991), and the Court of
Appeals affirmed, 941 F. 2d 145 (CA2 1991). We granted
Argentina's petition for certiorari, which challenged the
Court of Appeals' determination that, under the Act, Argentina was not immune from the jurisdiction of the federal
courts in this case. 502 U. S.1024 (1992).
II
The Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 (FSIA), 28
U. S. C. § 1602 et seq., establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether a court in this country, state
or federal, may exercise jurisdiction over a foreign state.
Under the Act, a "foreign state shall be immune from the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States and of the

Cite as: 504 U. S. 607 (1992)

Opinion of the Court

States" unless one of several statutorily defined exceptions
applies. § 1604 (emphasis added). The FSIA thus provides
the "sole basis" for obtaining jurisdiction over a foreign
sovereign in the United States. See Argentine Republic v.
Amerada Hess Shipping Corp., 488 U. S. 428, 434-439 (1989).
The most significant of the FSIA's exceptions-and the one
at issue in this case-is the "commercial" exception of
§ 1605(a)(2), which provides that a foreign state is not immune from suit in any case
"in which the action is based upon a commercial activity
carried on in the United States by the foreign state; or
upon an act performed in the United States in connection with a commercial activity of the foreign state elsewhere; or upon an act outside the territory of the United
States in connection with a commercial activity of the
foreign state elsewhere and that act causes a direct effect in the United States." § 1605(a)(2).
In the proceedings below, respondents relied only on the
third clause of § 1605(a)(2) to establish jurisdiction, 941 F. 2d,
at 149, and our analysis is therefore limited to considering
whether this lawsuit is (1) "based ...

upon an act outside

the territory of the United States"; (2) that was taken "in
connection with a commercial activity" of Argentina outside
this country; and (3) that "cause[d] a direct effect in the
United States."' The complaint in this case alleges only one
cause of action on behalf of each of the respondents, viz.,
a breach-of-contract claim based on Argentina's attempt to
refinance the Bonods rather than to pay them according to
their terms. The fact that the cause of action is in compliance with the first of the three requirements-that it is
"based upon an act outside the territory of the United

IIt is undisputed that both the Republic

of Argentina and Banco Central

are "foreign states" within the meaning of the FSIA. See 28 U. S. C.
§§ 1603(a), (b) ("[F]oreign state" includes certain "agenc[ies] or instrumentalit[ies] of a foreign state").

612

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.

Opinion of the Court

States" (presumably Argentina's unilateral extension)-is
uncontested. The dispute pertains to whether the unilateral refinancing of the Bonods was taken "in connection with
a commercial activity" of Argentina, and whether it had a
"direct effect in the United States." We address these issues in turn.

A
Respondents and their amicus, the United States, contend
that Argentina's issuance of, and continued liability under,
the Bonods constitute a "commercial activity" and that the
extension of the payment schedules was taken "in connection
with" that activity. The latter point is obvious enough, and
Argentina does not contest it; the key question is whether
the activity is "commercial" under the FSIA.
The FSIA defines "commercial activity" to mean:
"[E]ither a regular course of commercial conduct or a
particular commercial transaction or act. The commercial character of an activity shall be determined by reference to the nature of the course of conduct or particular transaction or act, rather than by reference to its
purpose." 28 U. S. C. § 1603(d).
This definition, however, leaves the critical term "commercial" largely undefined: The first sentence simply establishes
that the commercial nature of an activity does not depend
upon whether it is a single act or a regular course of conduct;
and the second sentence merely specifies what element of the
conduct determines commerciality (i. e., nature rather than
purpose), but still without saying what "commercial" means.
Fortunately, however, the FSIA was not written on a clean
slate.

As we have noted, see Verlinden B. V v. Central

Bank of Nigeria, 461 U. S.480, 486-489 (1983), the Act (and
the commercial exception in particular) largely codifies the
so-called "restrictive" theory of foreign sovereign immunity
first endorsed by the State Department in 1952.

The mean-

ing of "commercial" is the meaning generally attached to that

Cite as: 504 U. S. 607 (1992)

Opinion of the Court

term under the restrictive theory at the time the statute was
enacted. See McDermott Int'l, Inc. v. Wilander, 498 U. S.
337, 342 (1991) ("[W]e assume that when a statute uses [a
term of art], Congress intended it to have its established
meaning"); NLRB v. Amax Coal Co., 453 U.S. 322, 329
(1981); Morissette v. United States, 342 U. S. 246, 263 (1952).
This Court did not have occasion to discuss the scope or
validity of the restrictive theory of sovereign immunity until
our 1976 decision in Alfred Dunhill of London, Inc. v. Republic of Cuba, 425 U. S. 682. Although the Court there
was evenly divided on the question whether the "commercial" exception that applied in the foreign-sovereignimmunity context also limited the availability of an act-ofstate defense, compare id., at 695-706 (plurality opinion),
with id., at 725-730 (Marshall, J., dissenting), there was little
disagreement over the general scope of the exception. The
plurality noted that, after the State Department endorsed
the restrictive theory of foreign sovereign immunity in 1952,
the lower courts consistently held that foreign sovereigns
were not immune from the jurisdiction of American courts
in cases "arising out of purely commercial transactions," id.,
at 703, citing, inter alia, Victory Transport,Inc. v. Comisaria General, 336 F. 2d 354 (CA2 1964), cert. denied, 381 U. S.
934 (1965), and Petrol Shipping Corp. v. Kingdom of Greece,
360 F. 2d 103 (CA2), cert. denied, 385 U. S. 931 (1966). The
plurality further recognized that the distinction between
state sovereign acts, on the one hand, and state commercial
and private acts, on the other, was not entirely novel to
American law. See 425 U. S., at 695-696, citing, inter alia,
Parden v. Terminal Railway of Alabama Docks Dept., 377
U. S. 184, 189-190 (1964) (Eleventh Amendment immunity);
Bank of United States v. Planters' Bank of Georgia, 9
Wheat. 904, 907-908 (1824) (same); New York v. United
States, 326 U. S. 572, 579 (1946) (opinion of Frankfurter, J.)
(tax immunity of States); and South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S. 437, 461-463 (1905) (same). The plurality

614

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.
Opinion of the Court

stated that the restrictive theory of foreign sovereign immunity would not bar a suit based upon a foreign state's participation in the marketplace in the manner of a private citizen
or corporation. 425 U. S., at 698-705. A foreign state engaging in "commercial" activities "do[es] not exercise powers
peculiar to sovereigns"; rather, it "exercise[s] only those
powers that can also be exercised by private citizens." Id.,
at 704. The dissenters did not disagree with this general
description. See id., at 725. Given that the FSIA was enacted less than six months after our decision in Alfred Dunhill was announced, we think the plurality's contemporaneous description of the then-prevailing restrictive theory of
sovereign immunity is of significant assistance in construing
the scope of the Act.
In accord with that description, we conclude that when a
foreign government acts, not as regulator of a market, but
in the manner of a private player within it, the foreign sovereign's actions are "commercial" within the meaning of the
FSIA. Moreover, because the Act provides that the commercial character of an act is to be determined by reference
to its "nature" rather than its "purpose," 28 U. S. C. § 1603(d),
the question is not whether the foreign government is acting
with a profit motive or instead with the aim of fulfilling
uniquely sovereign objectives. Rather, the issue is whether
the particular actions that the foreign state performs (whatever the motive behind them) are the type of actions by
which a private party engages in "trade and traffic or commerce," Black's Law Dictionary 270 (6th ed. 1990). See,
e. g., Rush-Presbyterian-St.Luke's Medical Center v. Hellenic Republic, 877 F. 2d 574, 578 (CA7), cert. denied, 493
U. S. 937 (1989). Thus, a foreign government's issuance of
regulations limiting foreign currency exchange is a sovereign
activity, because such authoritative control of commerce cannot be exercised by a private party; whereas a contract to
buy army boots or even bullets is a "commercial" activity,
because private companies can similarly use sales contracts

Cite as: 504 U. S. 607 (1992)

Opinion of the Court

to acquire goods, see, e.g., Stato di Rumania v. Trutta,
[1926] Foro It. 1 584, 585-586, 589 (Corte di Cass. del Regno,
Italy), translated and reprinted in part in 26 Am. J. Int'l L.
626-629 (Supp. 1932).
The commercial character of the Bonods is confirmed by
the fact that they are in almost all respects garden-variety
debt instruments: They may be held by private parties; they
are negotiable and may be traded on the international market (except in Argentina); and they promise a future stream
of cash income. We recognize that, prior to the enactment
of the FSIA, there was authority suggesting that the issuance of public debt instruments did not constitute a commercial activity. Victory Transport, 336 F. 2d, at 360 (dicta).
There is, however, nothing distinctive about the state's assumption of debt (other than perhaps its purpose) that would
cause it always to be classified as jure imperii, and in this
regard it is significant that Victory Transport expressed
confusion as to whether the "nature" or the "purpose" of a
transaction was controlling in determining commerciality,
id., at 359-360. Because the FSIA has now clearly established that the "nature" governs, we perceive no basis for
concluding that the issuance of debt should be treated as
categorically different from other activities of foreign states.
Argentina contends that, although the FSIA bars consideration of "purpose," a court must nonetheless fully consider
the context of a transaction in order to determine whether
it is "commercial." Accordingly, Argentina claims that the
Court of Appeals erred by defining the relevant conduct in
what Argentina considers an overly generalized, acontextual
manner and by essentially adopting a per se rule that all
"issuance of debt instruments" is "commercial." See 941 F.
2d, at 151 ("'[I]t is self-evident that issuing public debt is
a commercial activity within the meaning of [the FSIA]'"),
quoting Shapiro v. Republic of Bolivia, 930 F. 2d 1013, 1018
(CA2 1991). We have no occasion to consider such a per se
rule, because it seems to us that even in full context, there

616

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.
Opinion of the Court

is nothing about the issuance of these Bonods (except perhaps its purpose) that is not analogous to a private commercial transaction.
Argentina points to the fact that the transactions in which
the Bonods were issued did not have the ordinary commercial consequence of raising capital or financing acquisitions.
Assuming for the sake of argument that this is not an example of judging the commerciality of a transaction by its purpose, the ready answer is that private parties regularly issue
bonds, not just to raise capital or to finance purchases, but
also to refinance debt. That is what Argentina did here: By
virtue of the earlier FEIC contracts, Argentina was already
obligated to supply the United States dollars needed to retire the FEIC-insured debts; the Bonods simply allowed Argentina to restructure its existing obligations. Argentina
further asserts (without proof or even elaboration) that it
"received consideration [for the Bonods] in no way commensurate with [their] value," Brief for Petitioners 22. Assuming that to be true, it makes no difference. Engaging in
a commercial act does not require the receipt of fair value,
or even compliance with the common-law requirements of
consideration.
Argentina argues that the Bonods differ from ordinary
debt instruments in that they "were created by the Argentine Government to fulfill its obligations under a foreign exchange program designed to address a domestic credit crisis,
and as a component of a program designed to control that
nation's critical shortage of foreign exchange." Id., at 2324. In this regard, Argentina relies heavily on De Sanchez
v. Banco Central de Nicaragua,770 F. 2d 1385 (1985), in
which the Fifth Circuit took the view that "[o]ften, the essence of an act is defined by its purpose"; that unless "we
can inquire into the purposes of such acts, we cannot determine their nature"; and that, in light of its purpose to control
its reserves of foreign currency, Nicaragua's refusal to honor
a check it had issued to cover a private bank debt was a

Cite as: 504 U. S. 607 (1992)
Opinion of the Court

sovereign act entitled to immunity. Id., at 1393. Indeed,
Argentina asserts that the line between "nature" and "purpose" rests upon a "formalistic distinction [that] simply is
neither useful nor warranted." Reply Brief for Petitioners
8. We think this line of argument is squarely foreclosed by
the language of the FSIA. However difficult it may be in
some cases to separate "purpose" (i. e., the reason why the
foreign state engages in the activity) from "nature" (i. e., the
outward form of the conduct that the foreign state performs
or agrees to perform), see De Sanchez, supra, at 1393, the
statute unmistakably commands that to be done, 28 U. S. C.
§ 1603(d). We agree with the Court of Appeals, see 941
F. 2d, at 151, that it is irrelevant why Argentina participated
in the bond market in the manner of a private actor; it matters only that it did so. We conclude that Argentina's issuance of the Bonods was a "commercial activity" under the
FSIA.
B
The remaining question is whether Argentina's unilateral
rescheduling of the Bonods had a "direct effect" in the
United States, 28 U. S. C. § 1605(a)(2). In addressing this
issue, the Court of Appeals rejected the suggestion in the
legislative history of the FSIA that an effect is not "direct"
unless it is both "substantial" and "foreseeable." 941 F. 2d,
at 152; contra, America West Airlines, Inc. v. GPA Group,
Ltd., 877 F. 2d 793, 798-800 (CA9 1989); Zernicek v. Brown &
Root, Inc., 826 F. 2d 415, 417-419 (CA5 1987), cert. denied,
484 U. S. 1043 (1988); Maritime Int'l Nominees Establishment v. Republic of Guinea, 224 U. S. App. D. C. 119, 135136, 693 F. 2d 1094, 1110-1111 (1982), cert. denied, 464 U. S.
815 (1983); Ohntrup v. Firearms Center Inc., 516 F. Supp.
1281, 1286 (ED Pa. 1981), aff'd, 760 F. 2d 259 (CA3 1985).
That suggestion is found in the House Report, which states
that conduct covered by the third clause of § 1605(a)(2) would
be subject to the jurisdiction of American courts "consistent
with principles set forth in section 18, Restatement of the

618

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.
Opinion of the Court

Law, Second, Foreign Relations Law of the United States
(1965)." H. R. Rep. No. 94-1487, p. 19 (1976). Section 18
states that American laws are not given extraterritorial application except with respect to conduct that has, as a "direct
and foreseeable result," a "substantial" effect within the
United States. Since this obviously deals with jurisdiction
to legislate rather than jurisdiction to adjudicate, this passage of the House Report has been charitably described as
"a bit of a non sequitur," Texas Trading & Milling Corp. v.
FederalRepublic of Nigeria, 647 F. 2d 300, 311 (CA2 1981),
cert. denied, 454 U. S. 1148 (1982). Of course the generally
applicable principle de minimis non curat lex ensures that
jurisdiction may not be predicated on purely trivial effects
in the United States. But we reject the suggestion that
§ 1605(a)(2) contains any unexpressed requirement of "substantiality" or "foreseeability." As the Court of Appeals
recognized, an effect is "direct" if it follows "as an immediate
consequence of the defendant's ...

activity."

941 F. 2d, at

152.
The Court of Appeals concluded that the rescheduling of
the maturity dates obviously had a "direct effect" on respondents. It further concluded that that effect was sufficiently "in the United States" for purposes of the FSIA, in
part because "Congress would have wanted an American
court to entertain this action" in order to preserve New York
City's status as "a preeminent commercial center." Id., at
153. The question, however, is not what Congress "would
have wanted" but what Congress enacted in the FSIA. Although we are happy to endorse the Second Circuit's recognition of "New York's status as a world financial leader," the
effect of Argentina's rescheduling in diminishing that status
(assuming it is not too speculative to be considered an effect
at all) is too remote and attenuated to satisfy the "direct
effect" requirement of the FSIA. Ibid.
We nonetheless have little difficulty concluding that Argentina's unilateral rescheduling of the maturity dates on the

Cite as: 504 U. S. 607 (1992)

Opinion of the Court

Bonods had a "direct effect" in the United States. Respondents had designated their accounts in New York as the place
of payment, and Argentina made some interest payments
into those accounts before announcing that it was rescheduling the payments. Because New York was thus the place of
performance for Argentina's ultimate contractual obligations, the rescheduling of those obligations necessarily had a
"direct effect" in the United States: Money that was supposed to have been delivered to a New York bank for deposit
was not forthcoming. We reject Argentina's suggestion
that the "direct effect" requirement cannot be satisfied
where the plaintiffs are all foreign corporations with no
other connections to the United States. We expressly
stated in Verlinden that the FSIA permits "a foreign plaintiff to sue a foreign sovereign in the courts of the United
States, provided the substantive requirements of the Act are
satisfied," 461 U. S., at 489.
Finally, Argentina argues that a finding of jurisdiction in
this case would violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth
Amendment, and that, in order to avoid this difficulty, we
must construe the "direct effect" requirement as embodying
the "minimum contacts" test of International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U. S. 310, 316 (1945).2 Assuming, without
deciding, that a foreign state is a "person" for purposes of
the Due Process Clause, cf. South Carolina v. Katzenbach,
383 U. S. 301, 323-324 (1966) (States of the Union are not
"persons" for purposes of the Due Process Clause), we find
that Argentina possessed "minimum contacts" that would
satisfy the constitutional test. By issuing negotiable debt
instruments denominated in United States dollars and payable in New York and by appointing a financial agent in that
2Argentina concedes that this issue "is before the Court only as an aid in
interpreting the direct effect requirement of the Act" and that "[w]hether
there is a constitutional basis for personal jurisdiction over [Argentina] is
not before the Court as an independent question." Brief for Petitioners
36, n. 33.

620

REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA v. WELTOVER, INC.
Opinion of the Court

city, Argentina "'purposefully avail[ed] itself of the privilege of conducting activities within the [United States]."
Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, 471 U. S. 462, 475 (1985),
quoting Hanson v. Denck la, 357 U. S. 235, 253 (1958).
We conclude that Argentina's issuance of the Bonods was
a "commercial activity" under the FSIA; that its rescheduling of the maturity dates on those instruments was taken in
connection with that commercial activity and had a "direct
effect" in the United States; and that the District Court
therefore properly asserted jurisdiction, under the FSIA,
over the breach-of-contract claim based on that rescheduling.
Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

