Oct. 1878.]

FARRELL V. UNITED STATES.

FARRELL V. UNITED STATES.
Debt on a bond given, under sect. 23 of the act of July 20, 1868 (15 Stat. 135),
by a distiller with sureties, conditioned to be void if the obligors paid the
taxes on the spirits deposited in the warehouse before their removal, and
within one year from the date of the bond. Before the expiration of that
time the spirits, while in the bonded warehouse in charge of an internalrevenue store-keeper, were destroyed by fire, without any fault, negligence,
or carelessness on the part of the distiller, or of any person in charge of the
distillery and warehouse who was in his employ. Held, that the obligors are
liable to pay the taxes.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This action was brought April 12, 1872, on a bond bearing
date June 13, 1870, executed by De Witt C. Farrell as principal,
and Andrew W. Pinkney and John B. Smith as sureties, to the
United States in the penal sum of $33,000, with condition to
be void if the obligors or either of them should well and truly
pay or cause to be paid unto the collector of internal revenue
for the fifth collection district of Illinois the amount of taxes
due and owing on the following-described distilled spirits, to
wit: four hundred and forty-nine barrels, numbered from 4,951
to 5,449, both numbers inclusive, containing 32,182-% proof
gallons, which were entered for deposit in the distillery warehouse, No. 6, of D. C. Farrell, at Peoria, in the fifth collection
district of Illinois, on the tenth day of June, 1870, before such
spirits should be removed from such warehouse, and within one
year from the date of the bond. The bond was taken pursuant to sect. 23 of the act of July 20, 1868, entitled "An Act
imposing taxes on distilled spirits and tobacco." 15 Stat. 135.
The breach assigned was that the tax of $16,116.50, to which
said spirits were subject, had never been paid.
The defendants pleaded non est factum, and that they did
not owe any part of the sum demanded. It was stipulated
that the defendants might give in evidence under those pleas
any matter of defence. The court to which the issues were
submitted for trial found them for the United States. Judgment was rendered against the defendants for the penalty of

FARRELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the bond, to be discharged on the payment of $15,502.27 and
costs of suit.
It appears from a bill of exceptions that the court found as
a matter of fact that the spirits were destroyed by fire July
27, 1870, without any fault, negligence, or carelessness on the
part of said Farrell, or any person in charge of said distillery
and bonded warehouse in his employment; that the spirits
were so destroyed while in the bonded warehouse connected
with his distillery, and that said warehouse was in the charge
of an internal-revenue store-keeper.
The court ruled, as matter of law, that the defendants were
liable for the tax.
The defendants, on the rendition of the judgment, sued out
this writ. They assign for error that the court erred, 1. In holding that the plaintiffs in error were liable for the
tax mentioned in the bond sued on, notwithstanding the finding that, as matter of fact, the spirits upon which the tax was
claimed were entirely destroyed by fire, without any fault,
negligence, or carelessness on the part of said Farrell, or of
any person in his employ in charge of the distillery and
bonded warehouse in which they were stored.
2. In its application of the law to the facts, in this, in holding the plaintiffs in error to be liable, it clearly appearing that
without their fault or negligence, from a period prior to the
expiration of one year from the date of the bond sued on, it
had not been, and at the time of the commencement of this
suit it was not, in the power of the United States to deliver
said spirits.
3. In finding the issues for the United States.
Mr. E. B. Mc Oagg for the plaintiffs in error.
By the act of 1868, under which this bond was taken, the
warehouse in which the spirits were stored was required to
be, and the findings show that it was, a bonded warehouse of
the United States, under the charge of a revenue store-keeper,
assigned thereto by the commissioner of internal revenue.
United States v. Tinger, 15 Wall. 111. It was, therefore, the
duty of the government to safely keep the spirits thus in its
exclusive custody until they were removed therefrom by the
owner, on his paying the tax, at any time within twelve months

Oct. 1878.]

FARRELL V. UNITED

STATES.

from the execution of the bond. The obligation to pay does
not arise until he removes them. The recital that the tax was
due and owing at the date of the bond was an unwarranted
interpolation in that instrument, officially extorted, and void.
United -States v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 114. It cannot work an
estoppel, because it is not of the essence of the contract, but
merely a mistaken construction of the statute. The United
States could not, at that date, have maintained a suit against
Farrel for the tax. It had no vested right, not even a right
of action, until some breach of the bond had been committed.
Badlam v. Tacker, 18 Mass. 284. No breach is committed if
the tax be paid on the removal of the spirits; and this payment can only be made by purchasing stamps, each one of
which must have a serial number, corresponding to that on the
barrels. These stamps could not have been furnished after
the destruction of the spirits.
Upon the payment of the tax the owner is entitled to an
order for the delivery of the spirits. This is the provision of
the statute; and the agreement of the government to deliver
them on such payment will be inferred, although there be
no express covenant to that effect. The government must
therefore be in a condition to deliver before this action can
be maintained. Having only the same rights and remedies, it
incurs the same liabilities as a natural person. United States
v. Tingey, supra; Same v. Bradley, 10 Pet. 843; Same v.
Hodge, 6 How. 279; Neilson v. Lagow, 12 id. 98; Dugan et
al. v. United States, 3 Wheat. 172; Dixon v. United States,
1 Brock. 177. To this contract there are reciprocal obligations.
The government did not have the property in its possession
for twelve months from the date of the bond. The plaintiffs in error were entitled to all that period before the right
to the tax accrued, upon the delivery to them of the property; and having lost all the benefits of the contract, they
are excused from performing their part of it. Badlam v.
Tucker, supra; United States v. -Dixey, 3 Wash. 15; Same
v. Mitchell, id. 95; Mounsey v. -Drake, 10 Johns. (N. Y.) 27;
Baylies v. Pettyplace, 7 Mass. 325; Irion v. Hume, 50 Miss.
419.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

FARRELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JusTIcE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The evidence given in the court below we cannot consider.
It is improperly brought before us. The Circuit Court made
no special finding of facts. All the finding it made was, that
the high wines or distilled spirits mentioned in the distiller's
warehousing bond were entirely destroyed by fire without any
fault, negligence, or carelessness on the part of the distiller,
or of any person in charge of the distillery and bonded warehouse in the employment of the distiller; that they were so
destroyed while in the bonded warehouse connected with the
distillery, and that the warehouse was in the charge of an
internal-revenue store-keeper. The single question, therefore,
is, -whether these facts thus found relieve the obligors in the
bond from liability to pay the government tax upon the liquors
thus destroyed. We think they do not. The bond was dated
on the 13th of June, 1870. It bound the obligors in a penal
sum, conditioned to pay the taxes on the spirits deposited in
the warehouse before their removal, and within one year from
the date thereof. The obligation was unconditional, and it
was exactly that which the distiller and his sureties were by
the act of Congress required to assume. Act of July 20,
1868, sect. 23; 16 Stat. 135, 136. Depositing distilled spirits
in a government warehouse did not make them the property
of the government, or cause them to be held at the risk of the
bailee. The property remained in the distiller, and the risk
of loss by fire or any other casualty was consequently his.
He and his sureties undertook to pay the government tax upon
the spirits in the warehouse within one year, with no exception
for any possible contingency. The judgment of the Circuit
Court was, therefore, correct. The case of the distiller may
be a hard one; but his misfortune is not the fault of the government. He might have protected himself by insurance, and
possibly he did; or he might have obtained relief under the
act of Congress of May 27, 1872, 17 Stat. 162. By that act
Congress has provided a way in which a remission of the tax
upon distilled liquors, casually destroyed while in the custody
of a revenue officer in a bonded warehouse, may be obtained.
The provision of such a mode of relief indicates a purpose to
exclude any other.
Judgment affirmed.

