BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE C0.

[Sup. Ct.

BROOKLYN v. INSURANCE CONANY.
1. Where the authorities of a town in Illinois, being thereunto empowered, subscribed in its behalf for stock in a railroad company, and issued its coupon
bonds in payment therefor, the town, when sued by a bona fide purchaser
for value of the coupons before maturity, cannot set up as a defence that
the company disregarded its promise to construct the road, or that the town
officers delivered the bonds in violation of special conditions not required
by statute, and of which he had no knowledge or notice.
2. Where the bonds were signed by the town officers designated for that purpose
by the charter of the company which authorized the issue of the bonds,
after the requisite popular vote and the subscription, it is not necessary
that the board of auditors or the other corporate authorities should participate in their issue and delivery.
3. Where a suit was brought by the town in the county court against the company and others, and a decree rendered that the bonds and coupons were
null and void and should be surrendered for cancellation, - Held, that the
decree bound the parties who were personally served with process or who
appeared, and did not affect the other holders of the securities, who had
only constructive notice of the suit.
4. In an action of debt, the jury were sworn to try "the issue." Two issues
were joined, and the jury found "the issue" for the plaintiff, and assessed
his damages. Judgment was rendered therefor. On a subsequent day of
the term, the defendant moved the court to set aside the judgment and
grant a new trial, but filed no reasons therefor, and thereafter failed to
appear. The record presents no bill of exceptions showing to what point
the evidence at the trial was directed. Held, that the denial of the motion
furnished no ground for reversing the judgment.
ER o-R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.

This action was brought by the aEtna Life Insurance Company, a corporation of the State of Connecticut, against the
town of Brooklyn, in the State of Illinois, upon certain interest
coupons detached from bonds issued in the name of that town.

Besides the general issue, the defeijdant filed four special pleas.
The second plea, in substance, avers that the coupons in suit
and the bonds to which they were attached were issued and

delivered by the supervisor and town clerk of the town for stock
claimed to have been subscribed to the Chicago and Rock River
Railroad Company, an Illinois corporation, organized under an

act approved March 24, 1869, and thereby authorized and empowered to locate, construct, and complete a railroad from a
point on the south side of Rock River, near Sterling, via

Oct. 1878.]

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE

CO.

Amboy, crossing the Chicago and Burlington Railroad, thence
to intersect the Chicago branch of the Illinois Central Railroad, outside of the corporation at Chicago; that the company,
in order to induce the town to subscribe to its capital stock, pretended, by its officers and agents, to lay out the line of railroad
through the town and near the village of Maluguis Grove,
thence to its terminus on the Chicago branch of the Illinois
Central Railroad, and gave out that it was about to construct
and complete its road, and thereby establish a through line to
Chicago, wholly independent of and a competing line with the
Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad, which passes a few
miles south of Brooklyn; that on 20th September, 1869, an
election was held to determine whether the town should subscribe $50,000 to the stock of the company; that the notices
for the election expressly stated that no bonds in payment of
any subscription should be issued, draw interest, or be delivered
to the company, until the railroad was completed and cars
running through Brooklyn; that a majority of the voters at
such election voted to make the subscription; that on 23d May,
1870, William Holdren, the acting supervisor of the town,
signed and executed as such a certain paper, purporting to subscribe $50,000 in the name of the town to the capital stock of the
company, which subscription provided that it was made upon
the express understanding set forth in the notices of election,
and that no payment was to be made until the road was completed and the cars running through the town; that the supervisor of the town had no authority or power to issue any bonds
or coupons to the company until the road should be completed,
which has never been done; that just before the issuing of the
bonds and coupons it was rumored in the town that the railroad was about to be transferred to the Chicago, Burlington,
and Quincy Railroad Company, and was not to be built and
completed as required by the notices of election and the terms
of subscription; that thereupon the agents and representatives
of the Chicago and Rock River Railroad Company were notified
that if the road was not to be built and completed as promised,
the bonds and coupons would not be issued and delivered;
whereupon said agents and representatives informed the town
and the citizens thereof that the company intended to complete

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ot.

the railroad as promised, and as fast as men and money could
do so; that thereupon the supervisor and town clerk, relying
upon such representations, but having no power or authority so
to do, did, on or about Nov. 7, 1872, sign, issue, and deliver, in
the name of the town, to the agents and representatives of the
company, bonds to the aggregate amount of $50,000, with coupons attached, part of which are those sued on; that as soon as
the bonds and coupons were received by the company it utterly
ceased and ref used to prosecute the construction of the road, and
abandoned the entire work, whereby the town failed to obtain
any railroad to Chicago, or a competing road with that of the
Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad; that the representations aforesaid of the company's agents were knowingly false
and fraudulent, but their falsity was unknown to the town, its
supervisor, and clerk when the bonds were issued and delivered,
and the issuing and delivery were procured by such false and
fraudulent representations ; that the bonds and coupons are
wholly void and in no wise obligatory upon the town, because
the company bad not at the time they were issued complied
with the conditions prescribed by the election notices and the
subscription; that the town claims no interest in the stock of
the company, which is worthless, and has been ever since the
work was abandoned, and has received no value whatever for
the bonds and coupons.
The third plea avers that the insurance company "is not a
bona fide assignee of the interest coupons declared upon in said
declaration, before maturity and without notice of the defences
set up in the second plea."
The fourth plea avers that the bonds and coupons "were
issued by the supervisor and town clerk of said town of Brooklyn, and delivered without the authority of the board of auditors
or the corporate authorities of said town ; and the supervisor
of said town who issued and delivered the same acted therein
fraudulently and in collusion with the parties to whom the
same were delivered, the said supervisor knowing at the time
he had no such authority, and he having been elected supervisor on the express pledge on his part, and with the understanding between him and those who voted for and supported him,
that he would not issue and deliver said bonds and coupons

Oct. 1878.]

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE

Co.

until said Chicago and Rock River Railroad was completed its
entire length to the Chicago branch of the Illinois Central
Railroad."
The fifth plea avers that by a decree of the Circuit Court of
Lee County, Illinois, rendered Nov. 14, 1873, in the action of
the town of Brooklyn and others against the Chicago and Rock
River Railroad Company and others, " it was ordered, adjudged,
and decreed that the said pretended bonds and coupons of the
said town of Brooklyn, so issued to the said Chicago and Rock
River Railroad Company, and registered as aforesaid in the
office of the auditor of public accounts of Illinois, are void and
in no wise obligatory on the said town of Brooklyn, and that the
same be surrendered up by the parties holding the same to be
cancelled," which decree it is averred is in full force and effect;
that the said insurance company was made defendant in such
suit with the other holders and owners of the bonds and coupons issued by the town, by the name and description of "the
unknown owners of certain bonds and coupons issued by Washington J. Griffin, the supervisor of the towri of Brooklyn, Lee
County, Illinois, to the Chicago and Rock River Railroad Company, purporting to be the bonds and coupons of said town of
Brooklyn;" that said Circuit Court of Lee County had then
and there jurisdiction of the subject-matter and the persons or
parties defendant therein, by the issuing and return of process,
and by proof of publication made as required by the statute of
the State of Illinois in case of non-resident defendants.
To the plea of the general issue a joinder was filed, and to
the third plea a replication was filed, averring that the insurance company became a bona fide assignee of the coupons declared upon before maturity, and for value, without notice of
the defences set forth. To the second, fourth, and fifth pleas
there was a general demurrer.
Upon the calling of the case for tnial, the plaintiff moved the
court "that a jury come to try the issue joined upon the plea
herein. It is thereupon considered by the court that a jury
came to try said issue, and thereupon came a jury, &c., .
who were . . .sworn, well and truly to try said issue, and
after, &c., . . . returned into court the following verdict, to
wit: ' We, the jury, find the issue for the plaintiff, and assess

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

its damages to the sum of 85,5112" Judgment was thereupon
rendered for the plaintiff. Upon a subsequent day of the term,
the town, by its attorney, moved the court to set aside the
judgment and grant a new trial, but filed no grounds therefor in writing. The town failing thereafter to appear and
sustain its motion, the same was overruled and the judgment
ordered to stand in full force. The town then sued out this
writ of error.
The errors assigned are, that the court below erred, 1st, in
sustaining the demurrers to the second, fourth, and fifth pleas;
2d, in rendering judgment on the verdict of the jury.
Mr. Nilton T. Peters for the plaintiff in error.
A general demurrer should not be sustained to special pleas,
setting up a substantial defence, though the matter of them
might be given in evidence under the general issue. The objection can be reached only by a special demurrer, or a motion to
strike them from the files. Pendleton County v. Amy, 13 Wall
297.
It is the established ruling of this court that to preclude a
municipal corporation from insisting that it is not liable to pay
its bonds and coupons, issued without the precedent performance of the conditions prescribed by statute, its constituted authorities must not only have decided that such conditions had
been performed, but their decision must appear in the recitals
of such bonds. Otherwise purchasers are not protected, if the
non-performance of such conditions be shown. Town of Coloma
v. .Baves,92 U. S. 484; Town of Vienna v. Murdock, id. 494;
Marcy v. Township of Oswego, id. 637; Humboldt Township v.
long et al., id. 642; Commissioners v. Bolles, 94 id. 104; Com,missionersv. January,id. 202; Commissioners v. Clark, id. 278;
County of Warren v. Marcy, 97 id. 96.
If the pleadings on the part of the plaintiff do not aver
such recitals, the estoppel does not arise. The plea setting up
such non-performance is a valid defence to the action, where,
as in this case, the defendant demurs instead of setting up
in a replication such recitals by way of estoppel. Pendleton
County v. Amy, supra. A want of authority to issue bonds is
fatal to their validity, even though held by an innocent purchaser for value. They are void where the vote of the town

Oct. 1878.]

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE CO.

authorized their issue in a certain contingency which never
occurred. Twnship of East Oakland v. Skinner, 94 U. S. 255;
Bissell v. City of Kfankakee, 64 Ill. 249; Decker et al. v. Hughes
et al., 68 Ill. 40; Burr et al. v. City of Carbondale, 76 id. 470;
Barnes v. The Town of Lacon, 84 id. 461 ; 1"fiddleport v. -Etna
Life Insurance Co., 82 id. 568; Supervisorsof Jackson County v.
Brush, 77 id. 59; People v. Dutcher, 56 id. 149; Dillon, Mun.
Corp. 524.
The foregoing decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois
establish that the issue by the supervisor and town clerk of
bonds before the completion of the road having been expressly
prohibited by the vote of the town, the subscription to the
stock of the company was unauthorized, and that bonds issued
in payment therefor are void. Those officers are not of themselves, in the constitutional sense of the term, the corporate
authorities, and cannot, without the consent of the people, be
clothed with the discretionary power of creating a debt. People
v. Solomon, 51 Ill. 37; People v. Mayar, id. 17; Lovingston v.
Wilder, 53 id. 305; Marshall et al. v. Silliman et al., 61 id. 218;
Dunnavan et al. v. Green, 57 id. 60; Decker et al. v. lugiehes et
al., 68 id. 83; Wiley et al. v. Silliman et al., 62 id. 170; Town
of Elmwood v. Marcy, 92 U. S. 289. The proper tribunal to
decide whether the road had been completed was the board
of auditors, or corporate authorities of the town. The legislature could not deprive them of their legal and constitutional
right to determine that fact, nor confer the authority upon the
supervisor and town clerk.
By the vote the issue of the bonds was only authorized on
the actual completion of the road, and not when the supervisor
and town clerk should declare that such completion was an
accomplished fact.
The second plea expressly negatives any presumption that
the officers who issued the bonds had decided that the conditions of their issue had been performed. It alleges that such
officers were induced to issue and deliver them upon the false
and fraudulent assurances of the company, that it would thereafter complete the road. This has never been done. The road
was abandoned by the company immediately upon its obtaining the bonds.

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ot.

Recitals, if made by the supervisor and town clerk in the
bonds that such conditions had been performed, would be unauthorized by the Constitution of the State, the act of the legislature authorizing such subscription and the issue of bonds,
the vote of the people, the contract of subscription, and the
actual facts.
After the court had sustained a general demurrer to the
second, fourth, and fifth pleas, the defendant did not further
appear. On motion of the plaintiff, a jury was called "to
try the issue joined on the plea herein." The jury found the
issue for the plaintiff. There having been two issues joined,
the jury only determined one, leaving the other undisposed of.
The judgment on that verdict is erroneous, and should be
reversed.
.1fr. 0. . Bailey and Mr. J H. Boberts, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The questions presented for consideration upon this writ of
error seem to have been concluded by the former decisions of
this court.
The facts set out in the second plea do not constitute a defence to this action. It is not averred in that plea that the
insurance company had, at the time it purchased the coupons
in suit, any knowledge or actual notice of the special conditions embodied in the election notice, and repeated in the formal subscription of May 23, 1870. Nor is it therein alleged
that the bonds to which these coupons were originally attached contained recitals indicating that the subscription had
been voted and made upon any conditions whatever. The
defendant in error was undoubtedly bound to take notice of
the provisions of the statute under which the bonds had been
issued. But it was under no legal obligation to inquire as to
the precise form or terms of the subscription, whether it was
absolute or only conditional.
Had the insurance company, before consummating its purchase of the coupons, examined the act incorporating the
Chicago and Rock River Railroad Company, it would have
ascertained : 1st, That the statute made no provision for condi-

Oct. 1878.]

*BROOKLYN V. INSURANCO

CO.

tional subscriptions. 2d, That upon the approval by a majority
of the legal voters of any incorporated city, town, or township,
along or near the route of the road, at an election called and
held for such purpose, in the mode prescribed by law, it was
made, by the express words of the statute, the duty of the
president of the board of trustees, or other executive 6fficer of
such town, and of the supervisor of such township, to make
the subscription voted for, receive certificates therefor, and
execute to the company bonds of the required amount, bearing
interest, payable annually, and signed by such president, executive officer, or supervisor, and attested by the clerk of the
municipality in whose name the bonds were issued. 3d, That,
within ten days after the approval of a subscription by popular
vote, it was the duty of the clerk to transmit to the county
clerk a statement of the vote given, the amount voted, and
the rate of interest to be paid ; and, within like period, after
bonds were issued, to file with the county clerk a certificate
showing the amount and number of bonds issued, and the rate
of interest to be paid. If it be suggested that the statement
thus directed to be transmitted to and filed with the county
clerk would inform the purchaser whether the subscription
was conditional or absolute, a sufficient response is, that such
statement might have been in conformity with the letter of
the statute without setting forth the precise nature of the subscription. But a conclusive answer is, that there is no averment that any such statement was prepared, transmitted, or
filed, or if filed, that it indicated the conditional nature of the
subscription, by reference either to the election notice, or to
the formal subscription of May 27, 1870. The plea shows
that " the town and the citizens " (to adopt the language of
the plea) were assured by the agents and representatives of
the railroad company that the latter intended, in good faith,
to perform the special conditions annexed to the subscription,
and that all rumors to the contrary were without just foundation. These assurances were credited, and, in reliance upon
them, the supervisor and clerk executed and delivered the
bonds, knowing, at the time, that the conditions imposed by
popular vote, as well as by the terms of the subscription, had
not been complied with. Thus was faith in the promises of a
VOL. IX.

24

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE CO.'

[Sup. Ct.

railroad company substituted for a contract which, had the
town stood upon it, would either have secured the construction
of the road, as contemplated, or guarded its people against a
burden which has been imposed upon them through the fraudulent conduct of railroad officials, and the violation, by its own
officers, of the trust committed to them. By the act of the
town's constituted authorities, who, by the statute, had the right,
under certain circumstances, to execute and deliver the bonds
and coupons, the railroad company was enabled to put them
upon the money market in advance of the construction of the
road. It is now too late for the town to claim exemption, as
against bona fide purchasers, upon the ground that the railroad
company disregarded its promise to construct the road, or upon
the ground that its own officers delivered the bonds in violation of special conditions, of which the purchasers had no
knowledge or notice either from the statute or otherwise. The
remedy of the city is against the railroad company, and its
own unfaithful officers, who, it is alleged, were in fraudulent
combination with the company.
For the reasons already stated, the fourth plea must also be
held to be insufficient. The bonds were signed by the officers
designated for that purpose by the charter of the railroad company, and, after the vote and subscription, it does not seem to
have been necessary that the board of auditors or other corporate authorities of the town should have participated in their
issue and delivery.
The fifth plea is radically defective. The suit commenced
and determined in the Circuit Court of Lee County was a proceeding wholly in personam, against the holders and owners of
bonds and coupons which had been issued in the name of the
town, and delivered to the railroad company. Upon principle
and authority, no decree therein rendered could bind any one
not personally served with process, or who did not appear.
It could not affect the rights of non-resident holders of bonds
and coupons, proceeded against by constructive service. Such
service, as to them, was ineffective for any purpose whatever. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, and authorities there
cited.
We come now to consider the remaining assignment of error,

Oct. 1878.]

BROOKLYN V. INSURANCE

CO.

viz., that the court erred in rendering judgment upon the verdict. This objection rests upon the ground that although
there were two issues to try, - those arising under the first and
third pleas, - the jury were sworn to try "the issue," and
found only "the issue" for the defendant in error.
We observe, from the record, that after the demurrer to the
second, fourth, and fifth pleas was sustained, the city failed to
appear, by attorney, at the trial before the jury. After verdict, a motion was entered to set aside the verdict and judgment and grant a new trial. But no written grounds were
filed in support of the motion. Nor did the city appear at the
hearing of the motion, and urge any reason for its being
granted. It was, consequently, denied, and, in this court for
the first time, specific objection is made that the jury were
sworn to try, and, in fact, tried but one issue, and that it is
impossible from the orders of the court to say what issue was
tried. We decline to consider the objection. If the attention
of the court below had been called to this matter, the objection
might have been obviated. There is no bill of exceptions
showing to what point the evidence was directed, and we will
assume, under the circumstances of the case, that all the issues
were tried which were presented in due form for trial, or which
the parties desired to be disposed of. Laber v. Cooper, 7 Wall.
665.
Our conclusion is that no error was committed in the court
below.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JuSTICE BRAD

part in deciding it.

Y did not sit in this case, nor take any

