VAN NORDEN V. MORTON.

[Slip. t

VAN NORDEN V. M ITON.
Whenever a statute grants a new right, or a new remedy for the violation of an
old right, or whenever such rights and remedies are dependent on State statutes
or on acts of Congress, the jurisdiction, as between the law side and the equity
side of the Federal courts, must be determined by the essential character of
the case. Unless it comes within some of the recognized heads of equitable
jurisdiction, the remedy of the party is at law.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MTIr. Thomas J Durant for the appellant.
Mr. Jon A. Campbell, contra.
MR. JusTIoE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant filed his bill addressed to the Circuit Courb
sitting in chancery, alleging that he is the owner of dredge-boat
No. 3, lying in the river at New Orleans; that Morton, Bliss,
& Co. having obtained a judgment in the same court against
the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company for
over ,$24,000, had issued an execution on said judgment, under
which the marshal had seized dredge-boat No. 3, and had advertised to sell it to satisfy the writ; that he, and not the Ship
Canal Company, is the owner of the boat; that it is not liable
to be taken on said execution ; that the seizure has already subjected him to a loss of $5,000, and that his continued deprivation of its use will cause him much greater loss. He prays for
process, that the judgment plaintiffs and Packard, the marshal,
be made defendants, and enjoined from interfering with him in
the possession of the boat; that lie be quieted and maintained
in his title and possession, and defendants decreed to pay him
$5,000 aforesaid as damages. A temporary injunction was
granted. Answers and a replication thereto were filed, depositions and other testimony taken. On hearing, the court dissolved the injunction and dismissed the bill.
The first question we are called to consider is, whether the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction of this suit in equity.
If the case had arisen in any State where separate jurisdic-

Oct. 1878.]

VAN NORDEN v. MORTON.

tion at common law and in equity was fully recognized, there
could be no difficulty in answering this question in the negative.
The remedy in all times for this trespass, which is a very
common one, has been by an action of replevin to take the
property out of the hands of the sheriff or marshal and return
it to the owner, or to leave the officer to proceed with the sale
of the property and sue him or the purchaser in trespass for its
value and for any incidental damage. In the one case the
party whose property was wrongfully seized recovered possession of it. In the other he recovered compensation for its loss.
No case has been cited to us - we presume none can be found where equity has interfered under such circumstances. Watson
v. Sutherland (5 Wall. 74) is cited by the appellant. In that
case, Sutherland, the party whose goods were seized, was engaged in a successful dry-goods trade. The seizure was of all
his goods, and it closed his store, and if continued would have
broken up a profitable business. For this the court held that
the action at law for damages could have given no adequate
remedy. The equitable jurisdiction, as will be seen by an examination of the opinion of the court, rested solely on that consideration. The case, as it was, is a very close one, and its
main feature is absent in the one before us. There is no reason
to believe that the value of the dredge-boat would not be adequate compensation for its loss, and no such allegation is made
in the bill. On the contrary, the complainant claims $5,000
damages for the loss of its use while held by the marshal.
It is said, however, that the code of Louisiana does not give
an action of replevin in any case, or its equivalent, and that it
does give a specific remedy for cases of this class, which, in its
nature, is of an equitable character, and should be administered
in the Federal courts on the equity side of the calendar.
If the first proposition were true, there would still remain an
adequate remedy by an action at law for damages. But while
it is true that the Louisiana code provides no process by which,
in advance of a judgment as to the right of the parties, personal
property can be taken from the possession of one party and delivered to the other, it does provide the remedy of sequestration,
by which the possession of the property which is the subject of
the litigation may be taken by order of the court and held until

VAN NORDEN V. MORTON.

[Sup. Ct.

the right is decided. See Sequestration, Code of Practice, art.
269-283. Under these articles we see no reason why the complainant might not have brought suit and recovered the ultimate
possession of his boat and damages for its detention.
The special provision for such cases as the present is found
in art. 298, par. 7, of the same Code of Practice. The whole of
sect. 5 is devoted to injunctions, and a careful reading of all
the subdivisions shows that the word is used as applicable to
cases which are in their nature of a common-law character, and
that it is used as synonymous and interchangeably with prohibition. It is also authorized in some cases which with us would
be undoubtedly of chancery cognizance.
We think the rule is settled in this court that whenever a
new right is granted by statute, or a new remedy for violation
of an old right, or whenever such rights and remedies are dependent on State statutes or acts of Congress, the jurisdiction
of such cases, as between the law side and the equity side of
the Federal courts, must be determined by the essential character of the case, and unless it comes within some of the recognized heads of equitable jurisdiction it must be held to belong
to the other.
The case of Thompson v. Railroad Companies (6 Wall. 134)
had been removed from the State court into the Circuit Court
of the United States. In the latter a bill in chancery was filed
and a decree rendered in favor of the complainant. On appeal,
this court held that the case had no feature of equitable cognizance, and ordered it to be dismissed without prejudice. It
was conceded that if the case had remained in the State court
the plaintiff could have recovered.
The court said: "The remedies in the courts of the United
States are, at common law or in equity, not according to the
practice of the State courts, but according to the principles of
common law and equity, as distinguished and defined in that
country from which we derive our knowledge of these principles. And although the forms of proceedings and practice in
the State courts shall have been adopted in the circuit courts of
the United States, yet the adoption of the State practice must
not be understood as confounding the principles of law and
equity, nor as authorizing legal and equitable claims to be

Oct. 1878.]

VAN NORDEN V. M RTON.

blended together in one suit," citing Bobinson v. &ampbell (3
Wheat. 212) and Bennett v. Butterworth (11 How. 669), to
which we take leave to add Jones et al. v. fMeasters (20 id. 8)
and Basey v. Gallagher (20 Wall. 680).
With this criterion before us, we are of opinion that the
remedy provided by the Code of Practice of Louisiana is a
simple application to the court from which the writ issued to
remedy the evil of an erroneous levy of the execution. It says:
"The injunction must be granted and directed against the defendant himself, in the following cases: . . .
" When the sheriff, in the execution of a judgment, has seized
property not belonging to the defendant, and insists on selling
the same, disregarding the opposition of him who alleges that
he is the real owner, or is guilty of any other act in the execution of his office."
Now this obviously refers to the control of the court over its
own officer, in the execution of its own writs, and is as applicable to other misconduct of that officer in the execution of his
official duties, as in cases of seizure of property not liable under
an execution in his hands. The remedy needs no formal chancery proceeding, but a petition or motion, with notice to the
sheriff, is not only all that is required, but is the most speedy
and appropriate mode of obtaining relief.
This relief does not depend on any inadequacy of an action
for damages or by sequestration. It is a short, summary proceeding before the court under whose authority the officer is
acting, gives speedy relief, and is very analogous to the statutory remedy given in many of the Western States in similar
cases to try the right of property at the instance of the party
whose property is wrongfully seized. It has no element of
equitable light or procedure, and ag a court of chancery the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case.
Although the court below dismissed the bill, it was a decision
on the merits, and not for want of jurisdiction. The decree
recites that the case was heard on bill, answer, replication, exhibits, and proofs, and on consideration thereof the bill was
dismissed. This decree would be a bar to any other action
which complainant might bring at law.
In accordance with the settled rule of this court, as shown in

RYAN V. RAILROAD Co.[SpCt

[Sup. Ct.

the case above cited, of Thompson v. Railroad Companies and
Kendig v. Dean (97 U. S. 423), this decree must be reversed,
and a new one entered dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction, and without prejudice to the right of complainant to bring
any action at law or other proceeding which he may be advised;
and it is
So ordered.

RYAN v. RAILROAD COlPANY.
1. An act of Congress (14 Stat. 239) granted to a railroad company, to aid in
the construction of its road, every section of public land designated by odd
numbers, to the amount of " twenty alternate sections per mile (ten on each
side) of said railroad line," and provided that, where any of said sections or
parts of sections should be found to have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, pre-empted, or otherwise disposed of, the company should, in lieu thereof, select, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, other lands nearest to the limits of said sections, and not more
than ten miles beyond them. There being a deficiency of said sections to
satisfy the grant, the company, with the approval of said Secretary, selected
as part indemnity a quarter of an odd-numbered section of public land
within ten miles beyond those limits, and obtained a patent therefor from
the United States. When so selected, it was within a tract formerly covered by a Mexican claim, which, although sub judice at the date of the
act, had been finally rejected as invalid. Held, that the patent conveyed
a perfect title to the company.
2. Newhall v. Sanger (92 U. S. 761) cited and distinguished from this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This is a suit in equity brought by Ryan to enjoin and restrain the Central Pacific Railroad Company from relying upon
or using as evidence a patent issued to it by the United States
for a certain tract of land in California.
The company is successor to the California and Oregon Railroad Company, to which, in aid of the construction of a railroad, Congress granted land by an act approved July 25, 1866
(14 Stat. 239), entitled "An Act granting lands to aid in the
construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Central
Pacific Railroad, in California, to Portland, in Oregon," the
second section whereof is set out in the opinion of the court.

