Oct. 1878.]

BIEBINGER V. CONTINENTAL BANK.

BIEBINGER V.

CONTINENTAL BANK.

A customer of a bank, who had deposited with it, as collateral security for his
current indebtedness on discounts, the note of a third person secured by mortgage, and had withdrawn the same after maturity, for the purpose of foreclosure and collection, under an agreement to return the proceeds, or to replace
the note by securities of equal value, purchased the mortgaged property at
the foreclosure sale. At the request of the bank he deposited with it the deed
he had received for the property. His indebtedness to the bank was then
fully paid, and his dealings with it were temporarily suspended. He afterwards incurred debts to it; and on his becoming an adjudicated bankrupt, it
filed its bill against his assignee, claiming an equitable lien in its favor upon
the property. The bill contained no allegation of money loaned or debt
created on the faith of the deposit of the deed, and it prayed for the specific
performance of the agreement to replace the note withdrawn. Held, that the
bank could not claim an equitable mortgage by such deposit.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court- of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was submitted upon printed arguments by Mr. J.
0. Broadhead for the appellant, and was argued orally by Mr.
PrestonPlayer for the appellee.

MNR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The partnership firm of Yeager & Co., composed of Yeager
and Crandall, were declared bankrupts Oct. 24, 1873, by the
District Court of the Eastern District of Missouri, and the appellant duly appointed assignee. At the time of their failure
Yeager & Co. had the legal title to a mill in Washington
County, Illinois, and the Continental Bank, the appellee,
filed its bill in chancery in the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Missouri, against the assignee, alleging a large
indebtedness of the bankrupts to the bank, for the security of
which they were entitled to an equitable lien on the mill property in Illinois, above mentioned.
The facts as recited in the bill, out of which this lien is said
to arise; are shortly these : For several years prior to 1871 the
bankrupts had been doing business with the bank and had a line
of discounts amounting generally to upwards of $50,000. There
had also been on deposit with the bank as collateral security
for this current indebtedness, among other paper of the same

BIEBINGER V. CONTINENTAL

BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

kind, a note of Harriman & Co. to Yeager & Co. for $20,000,
secured by a mortgage on the mill. This note being overdue
and unpaid, Yeager & Co. applied to the bank for its delivery
to them that they might foreclose the mortgage and collect the
money, prdmising to pay the money if collected, or return to
the bank whatever might be recovered in the foreclosure proceeding. The bank complied with this request, taking a receipt from Yeager & Co., which will be presently considered,
dated Feb. 11, 1871. The mortgage was foreclosed, the property sold and bought in by Yeager & Co., who on the 6th of
December, 1872, received in'their own name the master's deed,
which was duly recorded in Illinois, Dec. 20, 1872.
It is further alleged that shortly after this deed was made to
Yeager & Co., it was, at the suggestion of the bank, delivered
to it, and remained there until suspicion was excited that this
deposit might not give them a lien on the property. A mortgage of the property to the bank was drawn up by its attorney,
which one of the bankrupts promised should be executed, but
which was not done; and matters remained in this condition
when the bankruptcy proceeding was instituted, at which time,
as the bill states, the bankrupts were indebted to them over
$40,000.
Pending the litigation, the property was sold under a stipulation for $7,369.90, and the money paid into court; and for
this sum a final decree was rendered in favor of the bank, from
which this appeal is taken.
The assignee filed an answer, affirming ignorance of the facts
alleged, and putting them in issue.
Most of the matters stated in the bill are supported by the
evidence. The original pledge of the note and mortgage of
Harriman, their withdrawal under a promise to return them or
their proceeds, or to supply their places by some equivalent,
seem fairly established. The purchase of the mill property
under foreclosure proceedings, the deposit of the master's deed
with the bank, and the indebtedness of Yeager & Co. to the
bank at the time of their failure, are sufficiently proved. It
would seem, under these circumstances, that the equitable lien
asserted by complainants in their bill is established. But there
is one fatal defect in the grounds on which this equity rests.

Oct. 1878.]

BIEBINGER V. ONTINENTAL BANK.

It is established, we think, by the evidence of complainant's
witnesses, the officers of the bank, that every dollar of the indebtedness of Yeager & Co., existing at the time they withdrew
the note and mortgage of Harriman, was fully paid off and
discharged before they purchased the mill and received the
title, and that a total interruption or suspension of loans or
discounts to6k place in the summer of 1872.
It is impossible to hold, under these circumstances, that for
a new debt made on a renewal of business relations the bank
retained any lien on the note and mortgage which had been
delivered up, or on the proceeds of the foreclosure sale. All
that it stood for when so delivered up had been paid. By this
payment the lien was released or discharged. To test this
proposition let us suppose that when the master's deed came
to the hand of the bankrupts there had been $10,000 due the
bank, for which the original note and mortgage had been
pledged to the bank, and the bank had demanded of Yeager &
Co. a compliance with their promise to place in their hands the
proceeds of the foreclosure. Can it be doubted for a moment
that Yeager & Co. by paying the $10,000 due would have fulfilled their promise, and would have been released from any
obligation to give a lien on the mill property?
The language of the receipt given by Yeager & Co. when
the original note and mortgage were delivered to them shows
this very clearly. It says: "Whereas, the subscribers being
indebted to the National Loan Bank of St. Louis (afterwards
the Continental) to a considerable amount on sundry notes and
drafts, and having given said bank the following-described notes,
secured by a deed of trust to secure said bank against loss, which
have been delivered to said Yeager & Co. for the purpose of
disposing of them," they agree if they do not return them in a
reasonable time to replace them by others of equal value.
Now, what was secured by the notes and mortgage? Clearly
the amount they then owed, evidenced and identified by notes
and drafts then in existence. Not only is there here no allusion to security for any future transactions, but the parties
acted on this idea; for during the two years they were engaged
in foreclosing the mqrtgage, not only were all these notes and
drafts paid, but there was a period of some months in which
VOL. IX.

10

BIEBINGER V. CONTINENTAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

the bankrupts owed the bank nothing, and in which there was
no business transacted between them. This is sworn to clearly
by the cashier of the bank, who says there was quite a number
of months we did not see the bankrupts in the bank. Mr.
Yeager, the bankrupt, testifies to the same thing; namely, that
for a long time during this period the bank stopped taking paper from them, and it was all paid up. Mr. Crandall declares
that none of the paper held by the bank at the date of their
failure was for money discounted in 1872, and that they owed
them nothing which they owed them in 1872. It is true the
president of the bank suggested rather than affirmed that renewals ran into the present time, but refused on request to
produce the books or transcripts from them to show this fact.
The cashier, whose deposition was taken a second time, after
full opportunity to examine the books, did not retract or modify
his first declaration on this subject.
We are of opinion, therefore, that there was no lien for the
bank's debt growing out of the original pledge of the note and
mortgage of Harriman, or of any promise made when it was
returned to Yeager & Co.
As regards the subsequent transactions, there are no allegations in the bill which would bring the case within the principle of an equitable mortgage by deposit of title-deeds, if that
doctrine is recognized in the State of Illinois, where the land
lies, or of Missouri, where the transaction occurred. There is
no allegation of money loaned or debt created on the faith of
the deposit of this deed. On the contrary, the allegation is
that the bankrupts owe complainants over $30,000, which will
be wholly lost unless the assignee be compelled to perform the
contract of Feb. 11, 1871, which was the date of the receipt
taken from Yeager & Co. when the note of Harriman was
returned to them. And the prayer of the bill is for specific
performance of that contract. No such suggestion is made in
argument, and no proper foundation for relief on that ground
being found in the bill, it is unnecessary to consider it here.
The decree of the Circuit Court will therefore be reversed,
and the case remanded with directions to dismiss the bill; and
it is
So ordered.

