Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

JACKsoN v. LUDELING.
VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT, AND TExAs RAILROAD

COMiPAxNY

V. JACKSON.
1. In Louisiana, where a railroad, in a state of complete dilapidation and ruin,
was sold under a mortgage, under circumstances which, importing some
fraud in the purchasers, induced the court to set the sale aside and order a
resale, such purchasers, though deemed possessors in bad faith, are entitled,
by the spirit of article 508 of the Civil Code of that State, to compensation
for reconstructing and repairing the road and putting it in working order.
2. Whatever question may exist about compensation for inseparable improvements made by a possessor in bad faith, there is no question about his right
to be reimbursed for necessary repairs, both according to article 2314 of
that code and to the general civil law.
3. It seems to be held in Louisiana, contrary to former decisions, that conpensation will not be allowed to the possessor in bad faith for inseparable improvements to land, such as clearing and ditching; but reconstructing a
railroad and putting it in working order, thereby restoring it to its normal
condition, partake so much of the nature of repairs, that compensation
therefor is required, by an equitable construction of article 508 of the Civil
Code.
4. The rule of compensation in such a case is to allow credit to the possessors
for the value of the materials of such improvements as are yet in existence, and the cost of the labor bestowed thereon, not to exceed their value
when delivered up; but not for the improvements which were consumed
in the use. Interest on the outlay of the possessors will also be allowed
to an amount not exceeding the net earnings, or fruits, received from
the improvements. They will be accountable, however, for all the fruits
received by them from the property, and will have a lien on it for any
balance found to be due them on such an accounting. Qutere, Are they
accountable for such fruits beyond the dllowance made to them for the
improvements.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John A. Campbell and Mr. H. I. Spofford for Jackson.
Mr. Jeremiah S. Black, Mr. Hatt. H. Carpenter,and Hr.
John T. Ludeling, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case, like Parsons v. Jackson. (supra, p. 434), arises out
of the supplementary proceedings which took place in the case
of Jackson et als. v. The Vicksburg, Shreveport, - Texas BailVOL. Ix.

33

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

road Co. (reported as Jackson v. Ludeling in 21 Wall. 616),
after our decision therein. In pursuance of the mandate in
that case, the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana made
a further decree on the twenty-second day of March, 1875,
containing, amongst other things, the following directions, that
is to say: " 2. It is further adjudged and decreed that the writ of injunction directed by the decree issue to the parties to the deed
of the 5th of February, 1866, executed to John T. Ludeling
and his associates, and to all of the defendants in this cause,
according to the directions of said mandate, and that they be
required to cancel the said deed, and deliver the same as cancelled to the master of this court hereinafter named.
" 3. It is ordered that F. A. Woolfley be appointed special
master to receive the said deed as cancelled ; to take the proofs
of the bonds bona fide issued, &c. ; that he take an account of
the property embraced in the mortgage described in the bill
executed to John Ray or bearer, which was not sold or disposed of prior to 23d December, 1865, and render the account
between the plaintiffs and defendants provided for in the
decree aforesaid. He will give notice to the holders of bonds,
&c. He will give notice to the defendants, or their solicitor,
of his taking, the account, and for all purposes of his duties
under this order he may refer to the testimony on file in the
cause, and shall also report upon the sale of the property and
the best mode of effecting it, so as to promote the interests of
all concerned under the decree. He is authorized to make
special reports from time to time to the court, and to ask for
instructions.
"4. It is further ordered that John W. Greene be appointed
receiver under the decree to collect, receive, and hold possession of all of the estate, property, and effects described in the
mortgage aforesaid, executed to John Ray or bearer, by the
Vicksbuxg, Shreveport, and Texas Railroad Company, not sold
or disposed of prior to the 23d of December, 1865, and to hold
the same subject to the orders of this court."
To understand the questions that are raised on the present
appeal, it is necessary briefly to rehearse the history of the case.
The Vicksburg, Shreveport, and Texas Railroad Company,

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON

V. LUDELING.

on the first day of September, 1857, by an authentic act of
mortgage, did grant to John Ray a first-mortgage lien and
privilege upon its entire railroad from the Mississippi River,
opposite Vicksburg, by way of Monroe and Shreveport, to the
boundary line of Louisiana and Texas, a distance of one hundred and ninety miles, more or less, including right of way,
lands, property, and franchises of every description, with all
its rolling-stock, machinery, and effects, including also a landgrant of over four hundred and twenty thousand acres,- to
secure the payment of a contemplated issue of two thousand
bonds, of $1,000 each. A considerable portion of these bonds
were issued; but the disturbances arising from the late civil
war resulted in the destruction of the company's property, and
default in the payment of interest on the bonds. In the month
of December, 1865, an order of seizure and sale was made by
the Twelfth District Court of Louisiana, for the sale of the
mortgaged premises, at the instance of one William R. Gordon,
a holder of some of the bonds; and on !he third day of February, 1866, the whole property was sold by the sheriff of the
parish of Ouachita to John T. Ludeling and others, for the
sum of $50,000; and a regular act of sale was passed to them
on the tenth day of February, 1866; and they thereupon took
possession of the property, and commenced to reconstruct the
same and put it in repair. A large number of the bondholders,
however, on the first day of December, 1866, filed their original bill in this case, complaining that the said proceedings
were irregular and fraudulent, and praying that the said sale
might be set aside, and that the property might be again sold
by virtue of the mortgage for the benefit of all the bona fide
bondholders; and that the purchasers under the first sale might
be decreed to account for all moneys received, or which they
might have received, from the use of the property; and for an
injunction and receiver. This bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court; but that decree was reversed by this court, and a
decree made in favor of the complainants, establishing the
mortgage, declaring the sale to Ludeling and his associates
fraudulent and void, and setting it aside, and ordering an
injunction against them to refrain from setting up any title by
reason. thereof. The cause was thereupon remitted to the

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

Circuit Court with instructions to direct an account to be
taken of all the property of the corporation, to appoint a
receiver thereof, and to order the same to be sold for the benefit of the bondholders. It was further ordered and decreed
that the defendants should account for all money and property
received by them out of the property, or from its profits or
income, receiving in their account such credits as, under the
circumstances of the case, by the law of Louisiana, they were
entitled to, and that they should pay and deliver to the receiver
whatever on such accounting might be found due from them.
A mandate was issued corresponding to this decree; and in
obedience thereto the decree of the Circuit Court was made,
which is first above recited. In pursuance of this decree an
accounting -was had, in which the amounts received by the
defendants from the earnings of the railroad were stated and
in which the defendants claimed large allowances for expenditures made by them in rebuilding and repairing the railroad
and its appurtenances, and in providing it with rolling-stock,
machinery, &c. The plaintiffs resisted all claim for allowances
to the defendants, beyond the necessary expenses of operating
the road; and whether any, and what, allowances should be
made to them is the principal question in the cause. The
court below made such allowances, decreeing, amongst other
things, as follows: " Third, That the defendants have expended on said mortgaged property in the making of improvements and betterments
thereon, which still remain upon said property ready to be
turned over, the sum of four hundred and eighty-eighbt thousand
one hundred and nine dollars and fifty-four cents ($488,109.54),
on which they are entitled to interest from the date of said
expenditures, at the rate of five per cent per annum, until said
mortgaged property was placed in the bands of a receiver by
this court; that defendants have received from the earnings of
said property, over and above all sums paid out for maintenance of said property and running expenses, the sum of one
hundred and sixty-one thousand four hundred and seventy-six
dollars and sixty-nine cents, for which they should account,
with interest at the rate of five per cent per annum from the
receipt of said sum; that the interest on said sum expended

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

and said sum received by the defendants should be computed
for the same period of time, or what is equivalent thereto, the
said sum received should be deducted from the said sum expended and the interest computed on the remainder; that after
making said deduction the remainder is three hundred and
twenty-six thousand six hundred and thirty-two dollars and
eighty-five cents ($326,632.85), which with interest added
from the time when interest should be computed, up to April
13, 1875, when the receiver of this court took possession of
said property, amounts to three hundred and ninety-one thousand nine hundred and fifty-nine dollars and forty-two cents
($391,959.42), for which sum defendants are entitled to compensation out of said property, to be raised in the manner
hereinafter set forth.
" Pourth, That article 508 of the Revised Code of Louisiana,
which authorizes the owner of property to require the removal
or demolition of the improvements made in his land by a third
person, or to keep them at the value of the materials and cost
of the workmanship, is not applicable to this case, because the
plaintiffs are mortgagees and not owners, and because the removal of many of said improvements is impossible, and because
said improvements cannot be demolished without destroying
the property of which they form a part, and therefore the claim
to said election made by plaintiffs under said article of the code
is disallowed.
"PFifth, That all of said mortgaged property, including the
improvements placed thereon by the defendants, shall be set
up at the price of $833,098.38, the actual value thereof, as
shown in the report of the experts; and that if this sum or a
greater amount be obtained at the sale the defendants shall be
entitled to the sum of $391,959.40, fixed as the value of their
improvements and interest thereon, as settled in the third paragraph of this decree; and if the said sum of $833,098.38 cannot be obtained, then they shall have in the same proportion
of the sum actually obtained as that sum bears to the upset
price aforesaid if any less amount shall be obtained.
"Sixth, That the holders of a majority of the bonds and coupons shall be at liberty to agree upon a committee to purchase
the property for their account upon articles and terms of asso-

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[SUP. Ct.

ciations, and with concessions to any bondholder to become a
party thereto at or within fifteen days from the day of sale.
Should the purchase be made, the purchasers shall not be required to make a payment beyond the costs, charges, expenses
of the sale, and the amount of the judgment in favor of the
defendants hereinbefore stated, -with five per cent interest to
the day of sale, which shall be a privilege upon the proceeds of
sale; and the said purchasers shall be entitled to credit their
bonds with the sums that may be due from the purchasers on
them as a part of the payment."
From this decree both parties have appealed; the complainants insisting 1. That no allowance at all should have been made to the
defendants for ameliorations and improvements.
2. That the allowances made are too great.
3. That interest should not have been allowed.
The defendants, on the other hand, insist 1. That the allowances made are insufficient in amount.
2. That no allowance is made for improvements worn out in
the service of the railroad.
3. That an insufficient amount of interest is allowed.
4. That no allowance is made for salaries and contingent ex-penses, taxes, &c.
5. That it does not enforce the right of the defendants to
retain possession until their claim for improvements is paid.
6. That the account of earnings is incorrectly stated.
Other errors are assigned, but they are either included in
those stated, or are not of sufficient importance to require serious consideration.
Assuming that the determinations of this court in its former
decree are not open to further question, and that the defendants acquired possession of the property by a proceeding which
was founded in fraud, still it cannot be doubted that they supposed themselves to be the legal owners of the property by
virtue of the judicial sale, and made the repairs and improvements in controversy under that idea. But as the vice of their
title consisted in their own inequitable acts and proceedings,
-we think that they are to be regarded, in the language of the
civil law, as possessors in bad faith. The common law allows

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

nothing to the possessor in good or bad faith for expenditures
made upon land from which he is evicted by superior title;
but equity, in cases within its jurisdiction, allows the possessor
in good faith both for repairs and improvements; but where
the possessor (being a trustee) has been guilty of actual fraud,
it makes him no allowance for improvements, but allows him
compensation for necessary repairs. Lewin, Trusts, 466. The
present case, however, is to be governed by the law of Louisiana,
which is based upon the civil law, not precisely as laid down in
the compilations of Justinian, but as interpreted in the jurisprudence of France and Spain; and has some peculiar rules on
this subject. When Louisiana was acquired by the United
States in 1803, it had been a colony of Spain for more than
thirty years, except in the formal transfer to France at the
time of our purchase; and the Spanish law was the common
law of the Territory until modified by subsequent legislation.
In 1808, the first civil code was adopted, based partly on the
Spanish Partidas and partly on the projet of the Code Napoleon,
the completed code not having yet been received. In 1825, the
Civil Code was revised, and was made to conform more closely
to the French code, often copying its phraseology. The provisions of the code which have the nearest application to the
present case are the same both in the code of 1808 and 1825,
and are very nearly an exact copy of the corresponding provisions of the Code Napoleon, whilst they also correspond, substantially, with the Spanish law. They are as follows: " ART. 508. When plantations, constructions, and works have
been made by a third person, and with such person's own materials, the owner of the soil has a right to keep them, or to compel
this person to take away or demolish the same.
"If the owner requires the demolition of such works, they shall
be demolished at the expense of the person who erected them, without any compensation ; such person may even be sentenced to pay
damages, if the case require it, for the prejudice which the owner of
the soil may have sustained.
"If the owner keeps the works, he owes to the owner of the ma-

terials nothing but the reimbursement of their value and of the price
of workmanship, without any regard to the greater or less value
which the soil may have acquired thereby.
"Nevertheless, if"
the plantations, edifices, or works have been

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. or.

done by a third person evicted, but not sentenced to make restitution
of the fruits, because such person possessed bonafde, the owner shall
not have a right to demand the demolition of the works, plantations, or edifices, but he shall have his choice either to reimbu-se
the value of the materials and the price of workmanship, or to reimburse a sum equal to the enhanced value of the soil.'
"ART. 2314. He to whom property is restored must refund to
the person who possessed it, even in bad faith, all be had necessarily expended for the preservation of the property?
These articles are substantially equivalent to articles 555
and 1381 of the Code Napoleon. They are also nearly equivalent to the laws of the Partidas. The latter divide ameliorations into three kinds, - necessary, useful, and voluntary:
.Necessary,such as preserve the property and prevent it from
going to ruin, as repairs to a house, causeways to prevent inundations, &c.; Useful, such as augment the value of the property and its rents, as the planting of trees or vines, the erection
of a furnace, wine-press, barn, or stable ; Voluntary, such as are
made for ornament or pleasure. The Partidas declare that if
the possesssor in bad faith makes necessary repairs, or does
other things by which the estate is benefited, he may recover
the expense thereof, less the amount of rents received, and
will not be obliged to deliver the property to the owner until
such compensation is made. But if he construct an edifice, or
plant seed, he can only deduct the expense from the fruits for
which he is made accountable; or if he has defrayed expenses
for works of profit and utility, and the owner is unwilling to
reimburse him, he may carry away the additional works which
he has erected. Partida III. title 28, laws 42, 44; Escriche,
titles Mejores and Poseedor de gnalafe.
From these laws it seems clear that for necessary repairs the
possessor, even in bad faith, is entitled to full indemnity; and
for useful improvements, he will also be entitled to full indemnity to the value of the materials and price of workmanship, if
the owner elects to retain them; or the right to demolish them
and remove the materials, if the owner shall elect not to retain
them. The general principle upon which this law is founded
is that no one should be made richer at the expense of another,
even though the latter has acted in bad faith.

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

The question then arises how the laws which we have quoted
are to be applied in a case like the present, - the case of a railroad which was in a state of ruin and dilapidation, and which
the purchasers have repaired and put in working order. Are
they to be indemnified in any way, or to any extent, for the
expense which they have been at, or are they to lose it all?
We have no great difficulty in considering the parties as
holding the relation of rightful owners on one side, and ejected
possessors on the other. Both claim under the same title, the mortgage; and the question between them was, whether
the derivative title of the defendants was a valid one or not.
The complainants, if not the owners, represent the owners,
namely, the railroad company, which is conceded to be utterly
insolvent and practically out of existence. So far as the parties
are concerned, therefore, the laws above quoted may be regarded
as applicable to them.
But, in regard to the subject-matter, it seems almost impossible to apply them literally. It is not like the case of lands,
either in the country or the town. These may be recovered
and enjoyed by the owner, though the improvements erected
thereon be demolished. But a railroad is hot land: it is a
peculiar species of property, of a compound character, consisting of roadway, embankment, superstructure, and equipment.
These constitute the corpus of the property. There is no room
to exercise the election which the law gives to the owner, of
keeping the ameliorations, or requiring the ejected possessor
to demolish them. The demolition of the ameliorations would
be the demolition of the thing itself. If any room for election
does exist, it is virtually made in bringing the suit to recover
the property. To carry out the spirit of the law, therefore,
since we cannot carry out its letter, the other alternative, of
allowing the defendants compensation for their ameliorations,
seems to be the only course that is left. Its propriety in this
case is corroborated by the fact that the property in its improved state has been taken possession of by a receiver at the
instance of the complainants, and has been used for their benefit for now nearly four years past.
In addition to these considerations, it is very questionable
whether a large portion of what are called ameliorations in

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

this case are not rather to be regarded as repairs. The railroad has been rescued from destruction and repaired by the
defendants. These repairs were necessary in order to restore
the property to its condition and quality as a railroad, - the
thing which the mortgage contemplated, and which the complainants seek to possess under and by virtue of the mortgage.
So far as the improvements may be regarded as necessary
repairs, there is no question that the defendants would be
entitled to compensation for their expenses in making the
same. But as it is impossible to distinguish what might properly be called repairs from ameliorations, we think that the
rule laid down in the law for the case where the owner elects
to keep the constructions and works erected by the unlawful
possessor may be equitably applied. This rule is that the
latter shall be reimbursed the value of his materials and the
price of the workmanship. This was the rule adopted by
the Circuit Court, and we think that its decision in this respect
was correct, except that, in an equitable application of the rule,
the allowance made to the defendants should not exceed the
value of the improvements. For this amount, therefore, with
interest, less the fruits received, the defendants should have
remuneration.
After a careful examination of the authorities bearing upon
the case, we find nothing which, properly considered, derogates
from this view of the case. The class of cases which comes
nearest to the present is that of lands which have been cleared
up, and brought to a state of cultivation by embankments and
ditches: though even here, there is a point of difference which
it is material to notice; namely, that such clearings and reclamations of new land involve a change in its character, which was
not produced by the rehabilitation of the railroad. The repairs
made on the latter had the effect to restore the property to its
first estate and use ; and the expenditures for that purpose are
such as the true owner must necessarily have made, in order to
have the property in the only form which its nature and uses
admit of, and which the mortgage contemplated.
A leading case in Louisiana relating to clearing and re-

claiming land is Pearce v. Frantum, decided in 1840, and
xeported in 16 La. Ann. 414. In that case, the defendant

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON v. LUDELIN-.

had settled on the land, supposing it to belong to the United
States, and that he had a right of pre-emption to it; but it
turned out to be an Indian claim under which the plaintiff's
title was derived. Whether the defendant was a possessor in
good or bad faith the court do not seem to have decided, and
do not appear to have regarded it as material. The defendant
cleared about one hundred and fifty acres of the land, and put
up a very ordinary dwelling on it, and some cabins. The
clearing was the principal improvement; and with regard to
the defendant's claim to compensation therefor, the court said:
"The right of the defendant to be paid for the improvements
by which the value of the premises was enhanced depends
upon other provisions of law. It rests upon the broad principle of eqhity, that no man ought to enrich himself at the
expense of another. If instead of recovering four hundred
arpents of waste land, covered with heavy timber, the plaintiffs succeeded in establishing their title to that quantity, of
which one hundred and fifty is ready for the plough, together
with the convenience of a dwelling and a gin, the result of the
industry of his adversary, he cannot justly resist the latter's
claim for remuneration. If the party evicted be entitled to be
paid for edifices erected on the premises, of which the successful party has taken possession, no plausible reason can be perceived why he should lose the lasting conquest his industry has
achieved over the forest."
On a reargument of the case, the court, in support of the
same views, further said: " The character of Frantum's possession, his liability to restore fruits upon eviction, and his
right to be paid for useful improvements, are to be determined
by the provisions of the code of 1808, and the Spanish law
then in force. Admitting that the provisions of the code itself
left it doubtful whether Frantum was or was not a possessor
in bad faith, in that sense which would deprive him of a right
to claim for improvements, yet, the forty-fourth law, twentyeighth title, of the third Partida, appears fully to sustain the
court in the position first assumed; to wit, that ' in respect to
the right to be reimbursed for useful expenses, by which the
property has been made more valuable to the owner, the code
makes little or no distinction between the possessor in good

[Sup. ot.

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

or bad faith.' The words of that law of the Partida are:
' Men may incur expenses on account of other persons' houses
or lands, not by erecting new works there, but by making
necessary repairs, or doing other things there by which the
estate is benefited. In that case, we say that if such expenses
were necessary, they who made them may and ought to recover them back, while in possession of the estate upon which
they expended them, whether they hold in good or in bad
faith; and, though the owner may evict them by a judgment
of the court, they will not be obliged to deliver him the house
or estate until he shall have paid the expenses incurred on
account of the same.'"
The court also cites Merlin, as follows: "1Merlin, after treating this subject ex professo, and in a manner as usual with that
author, which leaves little to be said on either side, and after
discussing the opinions of Cujas, Favre, and other distinguished
doctors, opinions not always in harmony with each other, sums
up his conclusions in the following manner. .

.

. We may,

therefore, lay it down as a settled rule, that the proprietor
who sues for an immovable (un fonds) never ought to enrich
himself at the expense of the possessor, whether in good or in
bad faith, no matter in what manner the maxim ought to be
applied." Repertoire de Jurisprudence, verbo Amelioration,
16 La. 431.
Quite a number of cases, which it is not necessary to quote,
followed the general reasoning of this case. In Beard v. 11_orancy (2 La. Ann. 347), decided in 1847, the court allowed a
party compensation for improvements of the same kind as
those in Pearce v. 1rantum, made after judicial demand, and
after judgment of eviction; holding that they were necessary
improvements, and that the rule of compensation should extend to such, though not to improvements merely useful. The
court say: "But there can be no doubt that the party evicted
is entitled to be paid for necessary improvements. The improvements in this case were clearings, levees, and ditches,
without which the land could not have been brought into cultivation, so as to yield the rents and profits which the plaintiff
now claims."
If the Supreme Court of Louisiana was correct in this case

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

in holding that the ameliorations made by the defendants were
necessary improvements, taking into view the fact that the
character of the property was changed thereby from: its original
condition, then, much more in the present case ought the improvements effected by the defendants to be regarded as necessary, resulting as they did in the restoration of the property to
its original and normal state. It is for the use by the defendants of these very improvements that the complainants are
seeking, in this suit, for an account of fruits and profits of the
estate.
There is a series of cases, however, in which it is held by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana that a person without title, going
into possession of the public lands of the United States, cannot
set up a claim for improvements against the government or its
grantees. This was decided in Jenkins v. Gibson, 3 La. Ann.
203; in Rollon v. Sapp, 4 id. 519; and in Jones v. Wheelis,
4 id. 541. In Hollon v. Sapp, the court say expressly, "We
are of opinion that this article of the code is not applicable to
materials used and labor expended in making settlements upon
the national domain. No right can be acquired in relation to
the public lands except under authority of Congress."
The case of Gibson v. Hutchins (12 id. 545) is much relied
on by the complainants, and in its general reasoning does undoubtedly overrule the doctrine of Pearce v. Frantum, though,
as in Jenkins v. Gibson, Hollon v. Sapp, and Jones v. Wheelis,
the title of the land was in the government when the improvements were made. The court say: "The mere possessor is
presumed to have made such changes for his own amelioration,
and to have received a sufficient reward in the immediate benefit which he reaps from the enhanced production of the soil.
Perhaps the true owner would have preferred that the primitive
forest should remain. Perhaps the ditching will not suit the
purposes for which he wishes to use the land." It is evident
from the reasons here given that the court regarded the change
of the condition and character of the land as a material circumstance, and the suggestion is not without force, that the owner
might have preferred that the original timber of the forest
should not have been destroyed. The present case, as already
intimated, is distinguishable from Gibson v. Hutchins, and others

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct,

of like character, in that the character of the property is not
changed by the improvements, but the property is restored to its
original condition, purpose, and use, and to the only condition
and use which it is susceptible of, and which makes it what
it is, - a railroad. It is this aspect of the present case which
gives to a large portion of the improvements made the character
of necessary repairs.
But the fact that the title to the land in the case of Gibson
v. Hutchins was in the government when the improvements
were made is sufficient, of itself, to place it in a different category from the present. The court, indeed, say: "He" (the
defendant) "had no claim against the United States for improvements. He was rather indebted to the United States for
the privilege of living so long undisturbed upon the public
land. And the United States ceded its rights to the plaintiff's
authors. They took it free from any legal demand against
either the government or themselves for improvements." 12
La. Ann. 547. Reference is then made by the court to Pearce
v. Frantum, and other cases, as being overruled. But one of
the grounds for overruling them is stated to be that they sustained a claim for improvements against the United States.
"The overruled cases," said the court, "conceded to a settler
upon the United States lands, who possessed with the hope of
securing a pre-emption, the right of retaining the land against
a vendee or patentee of the United States government until
such patentee should reimburse the settler the increased value
of the property as resulting from improvements and expenses
upon it during the settlement." It is true, the court adds,
"we said in ffemkin v. Overly" (a case which seems not to
have been reported) "that 'we are unable to recognize the
doctrine that one who makes improvements upon property to
which he knows he has no title has any legal or equitable
claim to reimbursement for such improvements."' But with
the feature referred to, - namely, the right of the government,
present in the case of Gibson v. Hutchins, to which so much
importance is given,-it is impossible to regard it as a decisive authority on the general question of a possessor's right
to compensation for improvements which are inseparable from
the land.

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

It must be conceded, however, that in several subsequent
cases the Supreme Court of Louisiana has used expressions
indicating an intention to adhere to the general views enunciated
in Gibson v. Hutchins, and to hold that for improvements of
the kind referred to the only compensation which the maker'
of such improvements can claim is the benefits which he has
enjoyed from the use of them. Thus, in Cannon v. White (16
La. Ann. 91), the defendant having been adjudged a possessor
in bad faith, the court held that he was entitled to no other
claim for improvements than those stated in the first three
sections of the article of the Civil Code before recited. Art.
508. The improvements consisted of a clearing of two hundred
and thirty acres of land, and of certain erections on the land,
costing $5,250. The clearing was set off in compensation of
the fruits and cord-wood derived from the land cleared, which,
the court said, would more than compensate for the clearing
made. As to the erections, the plaintiff was decreed to elect
in thirty days whether he would keep them and pay for their
cost, or not; if he so elected, or made default, it was decreed
that he should pay for them; on his refusal to retain them, the
defendant was allowed to remove them in a reasonable time.
But in the case of Stanbrough v. Wilson (13 id. 494), decided
a year later than Gibson v. Hutchins, the defendant, who had
purchased land at a probate sale, which was declared void, and
which would probably plade him in the category of a possessor
in bad faith, was allowed compensation for his improvements,
including over $4,000 for clearing the land, and judgment was
given in his favor for a balance exceeding $5,000, over the rent
of the property.
And in the case of D'Armand v. Pullin (16 id. 243), where
the defendant had erected various improvements on land to
which he had no just title, the court held that, under the code,
the plaintiff had the right either to keep them, or to cause their
removal or demolition; but also held, that by executing a lease
to the defendant for i few months, after having procured an
adjudication of his title, he had elected to keep the improvements, and must pay the defendant their cost.
The case of Wilson v. Benjamin et al. (26 id. 587) was decided at the same term with D 'Armand v. Pullin (1861), and

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

the judgment was affirmed on a rehearing in 1874. In that
case, the plaintiff, who had been a possessor in bad faith, sued
for the value of his improvements; and it was held that his
expenses in clearing the land should be set off in compensation
for his detention thereof; and judgment was given in his favor
for the value of his other improvements, consisting of erections
on the land; and the court refused to charge him any rent
therefor, because they were his own property.
On the whole, we should infer the prevailing doctrine of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana at present to be, that for inseparable improvements on land, such as clearings, &c., made by
a possessor in bad faith, he cannot recover any compensation
from the owner; though he will not be accountable for the
fruits derived from such improvements.
But, as before suggested, we do not think that the decisions
referred to govern the present ease. It is so different in its
circumstances from the cases in which those decisions were
made, that any attempt to carry out the spirit of the code will
require that those circumstances should be taken into consideration.
The character of the property, -a

railroad,-

so different

from that of land; the character of the ameliorations made to
it, partaking so nearly of that of necessary repairs; the acts
and demands of the parties in this suit, wherein the plaintiffs
seek possession of the ameliorations in question, and thereby
in effect elect to retain them, and seek to charge the defendants
for all the fruits and profits thereof ; the fact that, at the instance of the complainants, and for their benefit, the property,
with all its ameliorations, has been taken out of the defendants'
hands, and placed in the hands of a receiver; the fact that the
plaintiffs, in getting possession of the property, cannot but come
into the enjoyment of large expenditures which the defendants
have made, and which, if they had not made, the plaintiffs, or
the persons who may purchase the property, would have to
make,' and which they are now relieved from making; the fact,
in other words, that the taking of the property in its present
state would make the complainants so much richer as the improvements are worth, -all these things combined present a
case so peculiar, that we do not see how it is possible for the

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

complainants, under any fair interpretation of the code, to avoid
allowing the defendants the value of the improvements. On
the contrary, we think that the code, interpreted according to
its spirit and meaning, requires that the complainants should
take the property, or rather that it should be sold, subject to
the lien of the defendants for the actual expense which they
have incurred in creating and putting into repair the works as
they now exist, but not to exceed the actual value thereof.
We have not thought it necessary to discuss or review the
commentaries on the French code cited by both parties, except
in a single instance, which will be presently stated. We have
examined them sufficiently to ascertain that they give us no
clear light on the precise question in this case. They are not
consentaneous even on the general question of inseparable improvements made to land. The references to the Roman law,
even if otherwise applicable to the case, cannot be received
against the positive laws of France and Spain, much less
against the text of the Civil Code of Louisiana. It is this
code, and the proper meaning and effect to be given to its
provisions, adopting its spirit where the letter is imperfect,
that must decide the case before us. It is conceded by many
French jurisconsults that the Roman law of Justinian refuses
any reimbursement for improvements to a possessor in bad
faith. But the French law has always been otherwise. See
Denisart, verbo Ameliorations, vol. i. p. 495, where this subject is discussed.
Cujas thought the rule for reimbursement could be deduced
from the general principle that no one ought to enrich himself
by another's loss; and from the dispositions of the thirtyeighth law of the title De Petitione Hereditatis. Dig., lib.
v. tit. iii. Pothier, expounding the old Frerflh law, says:
"In our practice, it is left to the discretion of the judge to
decide, according to the different circumstances, whether or
not the owner ought to reimburse the possessor in bad faith
for useful expenses to the amount that the property recovered
is benefited thereby." And then he distinguishes between
possessors in bad faith whose acts partake of a criminal character (such as usurping an estate without any title during the
long absence of the owner), and those who have taken a title
VOL. XX.

34.

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

which they knew was not valid, yet had some excuse for doing
so (such as purchasing from a guardian, &c.). The former
class should receive the utmost rigor of the law; the latter
should be treated with indulgence, and should receive compensation for their ameliorations to the amount they have benefited the property. Pothier, Trait6 du Droit de Propridt6,
sect. 350.
The Code Napoleon settled many uncertainties of the old
law, and attempted to lay down a fixed rule; but, nevertheless,
as we have seen, left the question of inseparable improvements
somewhat at large.
Demolombe, one of the ablest commentators on this code,
in -vol. ix. sect. 689, has a very interesting article on this subject. He thinks that inseparable improvements are not provided for by article 555 of the code; but that the question of
compensation therefor is to be governed by general principles
of equity, to be drawn from other sources. He instances the
case of a possessor in bad faith who has drained a marsh,
cleared lands, dug ditches for irrigation, or who has caused
paintings to be made or paper to be placed on the walls of a
mansion, or who has performed any other like work of intrinsic
amelioration. And he asks, Is article 555 applicable in such
a case? After stating the argument on both sides of this
question, he gives his own opinion in the negative. He says
the article refers to- works which the possessor may be compelled to remove; but such as those mentioned are not susceptible of removal; and the option given to the owner, either
to keep them by payment, or to cause them to be removed,
cannot be exercised. Besides, it would be a savage doctrine
to hold that the possessor might in any case destroy such improvements, een though he should leave the property in its
first estate. He therefore concludes that the specific case is
unprovided for, and thinks that it is necessary to resort to analogies deduced from similar matters and to the general principles of the law; and that a solution of the case may be found
in the quasi contract of agency. We find here, he says, two
rules of equity, both equally certain: .First,That no one ought to enrich himself at the expense
of another, - a rule which the law applies in the very case of

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

the relations between the owner and possessor, even in bad
faith.
Second, That a third person cannot impose upon the owner
of the soil, without his authority and against his will, expenses
which he would not have made himself, and which exceed his
means, and for the payment of which, if forced to it, he would
have to sell an estate that he would prefer to keep.
In the combination and conciliation of these two rules, he
thinks, we may find the solution of the difficulty.
He then quotes to his purpose a law of the Digest (law 38,
De Rei Vindicatione, book vi. tit. i.), which he characterizes
as full of good sense, equity, wisdom, and practical knowledge
of affairs. It is a passage from Celsus, as follows: "On another's land which you have unwittingly bought, you have
builded, or made repairs; then you are evicted; a good judge
will decide according to the merits of the 'parties,and according
to the circumstances. Suppose the owner would have done the
same thing, then let him reimburse the expense, as a condition
of receiving his land; but only to the amount that it is benefited. If he is poor, and cannot pay without selling his home,
you should be satisfied in being permitted to remove what you
can of your improvements, leaving the estate in as good condition as if they had not been made. But it has been -decided
that if the owner can pay what the possessor can get for them,
if removed, he should have that privilege. And let nothing
be done in malice; as, by defacing plaster or pictures on the
walls, which could do you no good, but only result in injury.
If it is the owner's intention immediately to sell the property,
you will not be condemned to give it up, until he has paid
what we have said he ought to pay."
Considering the possessor in bad faith as a quasi agent in
charge, and applying these principles, we must look, says Demolombe, First, To the characterof the possessor: as whether he has
taken a title which he knew to be invalid, but which he hoped
to have confirmed; or whether he was a mere interloper, without title, taking possession in the absence of the owner.
Second, To the character of the owner: as whether he would
himself have been able and willing to make the improvements

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

in question; whether they would be useful to him, considering
his profession, habits, &c.; and whether it was his intention to
keep the property, or to offer it for sale.
Third, To the nature of the improvements made: as whether
they have added to the income and to the actual value and
salableness of the property, &c., or only to its ornamentation,
&c.; also, whether the improvements have or have not been
excessive and unreasonable.
The consideration of these three elements, giving due weight
to each, will enable the judge to decide whether any indemnity
should be given; what it should be; and how it should be paid,
whether at once or on time, whether in a capital sum or in the
way of rent.
This is the substance of Demolombe's article. We can only
say, that if it is a sound explication of the law of France, and,
therefore, of the law of Louisiana (which in this matter is exactly the same as that of France), it is in direct accord with
the result to which we have been brought in this case, by the
application of the principles which we suppose to be involved
in article 508 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, interpreted according to its spirit and intent. If by the course of decisions
in Louisiana it cannot be held to apply to the case of an ordinary immovable, it is at least applicable to such a case as that
with which we are now dealing, considered in all its various
-circnmstances.
The other points raised in the case do not present much
difficulty. We shall proceed to consider those which we deem
material.
First, The defendants complain that they were not allowed
for the cost of those things which were consumed by them in
the use, such as cross-ties, &c., which were worn out, and had
to be replaced. The court below only allowed them compensation for those things which were in existence when the
railroad was turned over to the receiver, in April, 1875. This,
it seems to us, is in strict accordance with the law. In ordinary cases of possessors in bad faith, the owner, according to
article 508, has an election either to keep the constructions
and works, or to require their removal. He certainly cannot
keep, nor require the removal of, that which no longer exists.

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

When he elects to keep them, as we suppose to be virtually
the case here, he owes to the owner of the materials nothing
but the reimbursement of their value and of the price of workmanship. This evidently refers only to the materials which
compose the things which are in existence at the time of making
the election, - and that time, in this case, must be deemed to
be the time of the delivery of the property to the receiver,
which was on the 13th of April, 1875. We think the court
was right in deciding that it was the improvements then in
existence, the value or cost of which was to be allowed to the
defendants.
Secondlyj, The defendants complain that the full first cost of
the improvements which were in existence was not credited to
them in the decree: they contend that these improvements
cost them at least forty per cent more than their value at the
time they were appraised by the experts, besides the sum of
$49,005, which the experts deducted for deterioration.
The experts appraised these improvements in the fall of 1875,
and estimated their then cash value at the sum of $347,361.29.
It was sufficiently shown that their original cost was considerably more than this. The master, from the evidence before
him, estimated and reported that the cost of materials and
workmanship was, on the whole, twenty-five per cent more than
their then value, the cost being much greater when the improvements were made than the same would be at the time of
the appraisement, in conseqtience of the condition of the country
after the war, the disturbance in labor, and the expansion of
the currency. He therefore reported the cost at $434,201.61.
But as the experts had deducted $49,005 for deterioration of
iron rails whilst used by defendants, this sum added would
make the whole first cost $488,206.61. The court, in its opinion, considers the allowance of twenty-five per cent as excessive, because, whilst prices were higher when the improvements
were made, so also the currency was depreciated; and the court
was of opinion that fifteen per cent additional was sufficient.
This would make the first cost of the improvements equal to
$399,465.48. But the decree allows the sum of $488,109.54,
which is more than forty per cent greater than the amount of
the appraisement. No explanation of this discrepancy has been

JACKSON V. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

made. It seems to be the result of some inadvertent error in
making the computations.
But, in our judgment, there should be no allowance for increased cost. We have proceeded on the principle of carrying
out the spirit and equity of the law, since it cannot be carried
out in the letter. Now, the letter gives the owner the option
of requiring the improvements to be removed. This option is
a means in his hands of protecting himself if the original cost
is greater than the improvements are worth. As he cannot
actually exercise it in this case, it would violate the spirit of
the law to allow the defendants a greater sum. We think,
therefore, that the appraised value of $347,361.61 is all that
can be allowed to the defendants.
Thirdly, As to the question of interest. On this subject there
does not seem to have been any distinct adjudication by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana. In all the cases which we have
examined, the rents, or fruits, have been deducted from the
cost of the improvements, or vice versa, and judgment given
for the balance, without any calculation of interest on either
side, except where the possessor, in exoneration of the estate,
has paid money which was a lien thereon. The question of
interest does not seem to have been debated. But the French
jurisconsults, who have given special attention to this subject,
agree that when the owner of the land compels the unlawful
possessor to account for the fruits of his improvements, the
the principle
latter is entitled to interest on their value, -on
that it would be unjust to charge him for the fruits of his own
improvements without allowing him interest on their cost,
provided, it does not exceed the amount of such fruits, - not,
indeed, as interest properly so called, but as an equivalent pro
tanto to the fruits received, in the account to be rendered
thereof. They all agree, however, in saying that interest cannot be allowed beyond the amount of such fruits, and that it
cannot be brought into compensation with the fruits of the
original property. Demolombe on the Code Napoleon, vol. ix.
art. 679; Aubry & Rau, Droit Civ. Fr., vol. ii. sect. 204 b,
p. 232 and note; Dalloz, vol. xxxviii. p. 273,. tit. Propri6t6,
art. 429.
In the present case, the fruits were, in fact, the results of

Oct. 1878.]

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

the improvements made. The property, when taken possession
of by the defendants, was a ruin. They reconstructed it, and
made it capable of producing what it did produce. According
to the French rule, therefore, the defendants were entitled to
interest on their expenditures in making the improvements in
question, provided it did not exceed the fruits and profits with
which they were charged. It is conceded that interest should
only be charged at the rate of five per cent per annum. The
master estimates four and a half years as the proper average
time for allowing interest. In this we concur. The interest,
therefore, on the whole first cost of the improvements, without
deducting for deterioration, would be $108,721.48. This should
be credited against the net earnings for which the defendants are
held responsible, both being in the same currency. These net
earnings were found to be $161,476.69; and deducting the
said interest therefrom, the remainder is $52,755.21, which is
to be deducted from the value of the improvements. Being so
deducted, the balance is $294,606.08.
This sum, according to our view, was the amount due to the
defendants at the time when they delivered the property to
the receiver, and not the sum of $391,959.42, as stated in the
decree of the Circuit Court; which should, therefore, be reversed, with directions to be corrected in respect to the amount,
as now stated; which amount, with interest at the rate of five
per cent per annum from the time of delivering the property
to the receiver, should be first paid to the defendants out of
the proceeds of the sale of the property, before any payment
made to the bondholders. But as it may be difficult for the
bondholders, or other persons purchasing the property, to raise
at once the whole amount due to the defendants, the court
bel6w should direct the property to be sold subject to the lien
of the defendants for said amount with interest as aforesaid,
and should allow a reasonable time to the purchaser, not exceeding nine months from the day of sale, to pay the same;
with a condition annexed to said sale, that if the amount due
the defendants be not paid within the time so limited, a resale
of the property shall be made for the purpose of satisfying said
amount due the defendants, with interest as aforesaid and
expenses. The court should also direct that, subject to said

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

lien, no bid be received for a less sum than will be sufficient as
a fund to defray the costs, expenses, and charges arising in the
cause since the former decree of this court; which costs, expenses, and charges, except the costs of the defendants for
attorneys', counsel, and witness fees, should be paid from said
fund. The amount of said fund should be fixed by the court,
and should be paid to the special master making said sale
before adjudicating the property as sold to any bidder.
In view of the dispositions thus to be made in the decree, the
defendants will not be concerned or interested in the accounts
and transactions of the receiver; but any net earnings of the
railroad, or proceeds of property, which shall have come into
his hands as such receiver, after paying his expenses and compensation, will go to the benefit of the bondholders; and any
deficiency of moneys in his hands to pay said exTenses and
compensation should be paid out of the said fund required to
be paid in cash as aforesaid.
As to the costs in the court below, incurred since the former
decree of this court, the defendants should be decreed to pay
their own attorneys', counsel, and witness fees; and the residue
of the costs, expenses, and charges in the cause should be paid
out of the proceeds of said sale from the fund before specified
in that behalf.
We do not deem it necessary to discuss the remaining points
which have been raised on either side. We have given them
due attention, and do not regard them as presenting any valid
objection to the residue of the decree.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
record remitted with directions to enter a decree in conformity
with this opinion, each party to pay their own costs of this
appeal; and it is

So ordered.

FIELD dissenting.
I agree with the court that the decree should be reversed,
but I do not agree with it in allowing the defendants compensation for expenditures and improvements upon the road
whilst they were in control of it. This court has held, after
elaborate consideration, that they were possessors in bad faith,
MIR. JTSTIC,

Oct. 1879.]

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

having obtained control of the road fraudulently. I know of
no law and no principle of justice which would allow them any
thing for expenditures upon property they wrongfully obtained
and wrongfully withheld from the owners, who were constantly
calling for its restitution. Why should the owners pay for expenditures they never ordered, or for the construction of works
they never authorized? The defendants knew all the time the
vice of their title; they knew they were not possessors in good
faith; they concocted the scheme by which the fraudulent sale
was made; and this court has so adjudged.
In the courts that administer the common law the rights of
the owner are paramount and exclusive. An occupant without title is not recognized as entitled to compensation for improvements. Heron, in his History of Jurisprudenice, says:
There is no case " decided in England, Ireland, or the United
States, grounded upon common-law principles, declaring that
an occupant of land, without a special contract, is entitled to
payment for his improvements as against the true owners,
when the latter had not been guilty of a fraud in concealing
the title." p. 715.
And courts of chancery do not give to an occupant compensation for improvements, unless there are circumstances attending his possession which affect the conscience of the owner, and
impose an obligation upon him to pay for them or to allow
for their value against a demand for the use of the property.
Putnam v. Bitc ie, 6 Paige (N. Y.), 390; Story, Eq. Jur., sect.
799; Hill v. Hill, 3 H. L. Cas. 828; Gibson v. D 'E-ste, 2 Y.
& C. 542; Mulhallen v. Marum, 3 Dru. & W. 317. To a possessor whose title originates in fraud, or is attended with
circumstances of circumvention and deception, no compensation for improvements is ever allowed. Railroad Company v.
Soutter et al., 13 Wall. 517; "orrison v. Robinson, 31 Pa. 456;
Yan Horne v. Fonda, 5 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 388, 416; Russell
v. Blake, 2 Pick. (Mass.) 505; M.Eirm v. -Moody, 1 Rand. (Va.)
58; Morris and Others v. Terrell, 2 id. 6.
The learned counsel for the appellants who argued this case
showed, I think, conclusively, by reference to numerous adjudications and approved text-wiiters, that the civil law as
enforced in Europe and in Louisiana draws the same line of

JACKSON v. LUDELING.

[Sup. Ct.

demarcation between the possessor in good faith and the
possessor in bad faith in allowing for improvements and expenditures on the property of another. Pothier, the great
legal writer, referring to the rule that no man ought to enrich
himself at the expense of another, upon which compensation
for improvements is here claimed, says: "A bona fide possessor may properly oppose it against an owner, but it is
not available to a mala fide possessor. The owner can reply
to the latter that equity did not empower him to take possession of his land and to make thereon such changes as he desired
and so put the owner to charges that were burdensome, and
that he might not wish to bear, and which this possessor had
no right to impose. If the latter suffers from the failure to
reimburse him, he must blame himself, as being in fault, and
no one can complain of consequences he has brought upon
himself." Trait6 du Droit de Propri6t6, sect. 350.
The civil law as thus stated corresponds with what a great
chancellor of England said of the interference of equity to
allow one the value of improvements on another's property.
"If a person," he said, "really entitled to the estate will
encourage the possessor of it to expend his money in improvements, or if he will look on and suffer such expenditures, without apprising the party of his intention to dispute his title,
and will afterwards endeavor to avail himself of such fraud,
the jurisdiction of equity will attach in such a case. But does it
follow from thence that if a man has acquired an estate by a
rank and abominable fraud, and shall afterwards expend his
money in improving the estate, that therefore he shall retain it
in his hands against the lawful proprietor ? If such a rule
shall prevail, it will certainly justify a proposition which I
once heard stated at the bar of the Court of Chancery, that
a common equity of this country was to improve a man out of
his estate."
I prefer in this case to stand by the ancient law, than to follow any new doctrines supposed to arise out of the character
of railroad property. To me it seems that the peculiar character of that property requires the special application of the old
law; for just in proportion to the value of this property is the
temptation to get possession of it, and if plunderers can, when

Oct. 1878.]

YULEE V. VOSE.

compelled to restore it, be allowed for their expenditures and
alleged improvements, there will be an added incentive to
plunder.
I therefore dissent from so much of the decree of this court as
allows for expenditures upon property the possession of which
the defendants did not obtain in good faith.

YULEE V. VOSE.
A., a citizen of Florida, with other persons, some of whom were citizens of New
York, was sued by a citizen of the latter State, in a court thereof. The plaintiff, in his petition, alleged that the defendants held all the franchises and
property of a certain railroad company, and prayed that they he required to
hold the income of the railroad in trust for the payment of a judgment theretofore rendered in his favor in that court against the company, and that they,
be directed to pay him the amount thereof, and for other relief. He averred
that A. was indorser on part of the notes on which the judgment had been
rendered. There was a judgment in favor of all the defendants, which the
Court of Appeals affirmed, except as to A. The cause was remanded for a
new trial as to him, solely on account of his alleged liability as such indorser.
After the remittitrwent down to the court of original jurisdiction, and before
such new trial, A. filed his petition in due form, accompanied by the necessary bond for the removal of the suit as against him to the proper Circuit
Court of the United States, under the act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 306. Held,
that the matter in dispute being sufficient, A. was entitled to a removal of
the suit.

to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York.
This was a suit commenced Feb. 16, 1868, in the Supreme
Court of New York, by Francis Vose against the Florida Railroad Company, David L. Yulee, Edward N. Dickerson, Marshall
0. Roberts, and Isaac K. Roberts. The prayer of the complaint
was that Edward N. Dickerson, Marshall 0. Roberts, and all
other associates of Edward N. Dickerson, who, when discovered,
should be made parties, might be required to pay a judgment
which had been rendered in favor of Vose against the Florida
Railroad Company in the Supreme Court of New York, on
which there was due $136,534.63, and interest from Feb. 1,
1867; that Dickerson, Yulee, Marshall 0. and Isaac K. Roberts,
and their associates, who it was alleged held all the franchises
ERROR

