SHERRY V. MICKINLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Orleans and its inhabitants with respect to the United States
became changed. Before that time the former was enemy's
territory and the latter were enemies. .

. General Butler's

proclamation was proof of the subjugation of the city and the
re-establishment of the national authority. The hostile character of the territory thereupon ceased, and the process of rehabilitation began. The inhabitants were at once permitted to
resume, under the regulations prescribed, their wonted commerce with other places, as if the State had not belonged
to the rebel organization. The enice, 2 Wall. 258. But
they were clothed with new duties as well as new.rights."
The cotton was shipped to New York in August, 1865, and
there sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury of the
United States. The claim then first accrued. The petition
was filed on the 27th of March, 1872. This was at least six
months in excess of the six years limited by the statute.
During all this period the appellants could easily have put
the proper machinery of the law in motion. The delay is
unaccounted for.
The supplementary briefs filed by the parties since the argument at the bar do not, we think, call for any special remarks.
The case is clearly within the bar of the statute, and we are
constrained to hold accordingly.
JTudgment affirmed.

SMR-RY v. McKnEY.
The rulings in De Treville v.Smalls (98 U. S. 517) and in Keely v. Sanders (supra,
p. 441) reaffirmed.

D'nROt to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
This is a bill filed by McKinley and others in the Chancery
Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, and for the purposes of the
case it was conceded that they were the owners of two lots of
ground near Memphis, in that county, prior to the tax sale
thereof, June 22 and June 25, 1864, under the act of Congress
for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts

Oct. 1878.]

SHERRY V. MCKINLEY.

within the United States and for.other purposes, and the acts
amending the same. Tax-sale certificates in due form were
granted by the commissioners to Sherry, the purchaser at said
sale. The complainants alleged that the sales were null and
void, because the said acts of Congress were unconstitutional;
that the assessment was excessive; that the commissioners put
the act in force before the military occupation of the whole of
said county by the United States; that the sales were not sufficiently advertised; and that although the day fixed in the
advertisement was June 13, 1865, the lots were not in fact sold
until the 22d and 25th of that month. The bill prayed that
the sales be set aside. The defendants answered. The court
passed a decree in conformity with the prayer of the bill. The
Supreme Court, on appeal, decreed that the tax commissioners
in making the sales did not follow the acts of Congress in this,
that the military authority of the United States was not established throughout the county of Shelby when they entered upon
the discharge of the duties of their office; that the sales were
therefore void; that the certificates be cancelled and held for
naught; that the possession of the property be restored to the
complainants; and that an account of the rents and profits be
taken. Thereupon Sherry sued out this writ of error.
Mr. William M. Randolph for the plaintiff in error.
lifr. J. B. Heiskell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Most of the questions presented in this record received our
consideration in Keely v. Sanders (supra, p. 441), to which we
refer. We shall not repeat what was there said. The sole
ground upon which the Supreme Court of the State rested its
decree declaring the tax sales to be invalid was that the military authority of the United States had not been established
throughout the county of Shelby when they took place, and,
therefore, that the lots were not then subject to sale according to the provisions of the act of Congress. That this ground
cannot be maintained, we held in the former case.
That both the lots were subject to the tax, and that it had
not been paid or they redeemed, is not controverted. It is
also in evidence, and not denied, that the commissioners gave a
voL. Ix.

32

SHERRY V. MCKINLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

certificate of sale of each of the lots to Sherry, the purchaser.
What the effect of that certificate is we determined in KYeely
v. Sanders, as also in De Treville v. Smalls, 98 U. S. 517. If
it be suggested (though it has not been during the argument)
that the sale of lot 32 was of a different lot from that claimed
by the complainants, it may be replied, that the suggestion is
in conflict with the proof.
It is true it was mentioned as "part of Manly tract," which
was an obvious mistake that could have misled no one; for there
was no such tract, and the remaining portion of the description clearly identified the property. It was as follows : "Lot
32.... Six and fifty-eight one-hundredths acres (6-V5) assessed
to heirs of McKinley (the complainants) in 1860. Fifth civil
district (country)."
It is a fair presumption that the description was taken from
the State assessment of 1860, and followed it, since there is no
evidence to the contrary. The number and the designation of
owners are correct. No doubt the description would be sufficient in a deed, since it afforded the owners the means of identification, and could not have misled them. Cooley, Const.
Lim. 282.
The objection that the sales were not sufficiently advertised
is met in the cases we have heretofore decided. But in truth
they were advertised four weeks before they were made. The
tax sales in the district were advertised to commence on the 13th
of June, and to continue from day to day until all the lands not
redeemed from forfeiture were sold. The sales of the lots now
in controversy were made confessedly more than a month after
they had been advertised for sale. Lorain v. Smith et al., 37
Iowa, 67.
It is to be presumed that the sales were adjourned from day
to day until June 25. At most, there was but an irregularity
which the act of 1863 rendered ineffective to defeat the title of
the purchaser.
The judgment of the Supreme Court will be reversed, and
the record remitted with instructions to order a dismissal of
the bill; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTiCE FIELD dissented.

