LYONS V. MUNSON.

[Sup. Ot.

LYONS v. MuXSoN.
1. The ruling in Orleans v. Platt (supra, p. 676) as to the jurisdiction of the county
judge in New York to decide upon the application made to him by the taxpayers of a town for an order that its bonds be issued to enable it to subscribe and pay for shares of the capital stock of a railroad company in
that State, reaffirmed and applied to this case.
2. His judgment in favor of the subscription cannot be collaterally attacked
in a suit on the bonds, brought by a bona fide holder for value of them
against the town, and where it is recited in them, the town is estopped from
denying their validity.

EIORRO

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of New York.
This was an action brought by Edgar Munson upon three
hundred and eighty-seven coupons or interest warrants originally
attached to one hundred and twenty-nine bonds issued by the
town of Lyons, Wayne County, New York, for $1,000 each, in
payment of its subscription to the Sodus Bay, Corning, and New
York Railroad Company, a corporation of that State, being the
coupons for interest due respectively Oct. 1, 1872, and April 1
and Oct. 1, 1873, each for the sum of $35, payable to bearer at
the Central National Bank of the city of New York.
Each bond bears date May 17, 1872, and recites that it was
"issued under the authority contained in chapter nine hundred
and seven of the laws of 1869 of that State, and the amendments thereto, and under and pursuant to a judgment and determination of the county judge of Wayne County, dated May
17, 1872, duly rendered and entered of record under and pursuant to a petition of the tax-payers of said town, praying that
said town issue its bonds to the amount of $150,000, and invest
the same in the capital stock of that company; and at the foot
of each of them is the following certificate, viz. :"WAYN COUNTY, ss. :-Registered in the county clerk's office.
"In witness whereof, the clerk of Wayne County has hereto set
his hand and affixed his seal of office.
EL. s.]
".AL-FRED F. REDFIELD, Clerk."
The defence relied on was that the plaintiff was not a bona
fide holder of the coupons for value, and that the petition pre-

Oct. 1878.]

LYONS v. MUNSON.

sented to the county judge was rendered illegal and void by
containing a condition, in these words: "PProvided that the terminus of said road is made at Nicholas Point, on Sodus Bay, in
the town of Huron; " and a qualifying clause, in these words:
"It is understood that the stock so to be taken is to embrace
and include the stock now already subscribed and taken by
persons residing in the said town of Lyons, amounting to the
sum of $16,400 ;" and that by reason of the insufficiency and
illegality of the petition, the county judge had no authority or
jurisdiction to render the judgment mentioned in the bonds, and
that the same are -void.
The jury, under the direction of the court, returned a verdict
for the amount of the coupons, with interest. The questions
of law were reserved for consideration upon the motion of the
plaintiff for judgment on the verdict. After argument, judg-.
ment was rendered in his favor.
The defendant thereupon sued out this writ.
Mr. IT L. Comstoclc for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. P. Cogswell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
All the questions presented for our consideration by this
record relate to the validity of bonds issued by the town of
Lyons in payment for railroad stock Subscribed by its proper
authorities.
Propositions covering the entire ground of the controversy
between the parties have been so frequently decided by this
court that any extended examination of the case is unnecessary.
Orleans v. Platt (supra, p. 676), our last adjudication of this
class, is conclusive in favor of affirming the judgment of the
Circuit Court.
The county judge unquestionably had jurisdiction to decide
upon the application made by the tax-payers. His judgment
until reversed was final. If there were errors, the proceedings
should have been brought before a higher court for review by
a writ of certiorari,and if need be, the issuing and circulation
of the bonds should have been enjoined, subject to the final
result of the litigation. The judgment rendered can no more
be collaterally attacked in this case than could any other judg-

BLOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

ment of a court of competent jurisdiction rendered with the
parties, as in this case, properly before it. The recital in the
bonds sets forth the judgment of the county judge, that it was
duly rendered, that the bonds were issued pursuant to the statutes referred to, for the object specified in the petition of the
tax-payers, and by persons properly appointed and charged by
law with the duty of subscribing for the stock and issuing the
bonds to pay for it.
The sufficiency of the statutory authority under which the
proceedings were had is not denied.
Under such circumstances the recital is an estoppel. A bona
fide holder of the bonds was not bound to look further, and the
obligor cannot go behind it. Orleans v. Platt,supra; Lynde
v. The County, 16 Wall. 6; lMlereer County v. ifaccet, 1 Wall.
83 ; Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539;
Township of Roec Creek v. Strong, 96 U. S. 271.
The learned judge below in his charge to the jury well remarked : " To imply the intent that such obligations after they
are negotiated shall be vulnerable to the objections here urged,
would be to impute bad faith to the authors of such legislation towards those who are to be induced to invest in such
bonds."
Judgment affirmed.

BLOCK v. COADiISSIONERS.

CONMaIISSIONERS v. BLOCK.
1. A., the lawful holder of coupons detached from bonds issued by a county in
Kansas, applied to a court of competent jurisdiction for a mandamus to
compel the county commissioners to pay such of them as were then due,
and levy a tax sufficient to pay those shortly thereafter falling due. The
commissioners denied the validity of the bonds and the obligation of the
county to pay them. Judgment was rendered for the defendants. Subsequently, A. delivered the same coupons to B., to be collected for the benefit
of A. B. brought suit. Held, that the judgment was a bar to the suit.
2. The court again decides that a bona fide purchaser of municipal bonds for a
valuable consideration, who had no actual notice of any defence which could
be set up against them, is not bound to look further than to see that there
was legislative authority for their issue, and that the officers who were
thereunto authorized have decided that the precedent conditions upon which

