EVANSTON v. GUNN.

EVANSTON

[Sup. Ct.

v. GUNN.

1. A party specifying his objection to the admission of evidence must be considered as waiving all others, or as conceding that there is no ground upon
which they can be maintained.
2. The record kept by a person employed in the Signal Service of the United
States, whose public duty it is to record truly the facts therein stated, is
competent evidence of such facts.
3. During its change from a town to a village organization, under the statute of
Illinois of April 10, 1872, the corporation is not released from the obligation to exercise the power with which it is invested to keep its streets and
sidewalks in a safe condition. For neglect in that regard it is liable to a
party who thereby sustains special damages.
4. Inasmuch as the village succeeds to all the property and funds as well as to
the liabilities of the town, and has power to borrow money to provide for
improvements rendered necessary by any casualty or accident happening
after the annual appropriation, it cannot, when sued by such party, set up
that its board of trustees were unauthorized to make that appropriation
for the year in which the plaintiff's injury occurred, nor that the board and
the other officers of the village were prohibited by law from adding to the
corporate expenditures in any one year an amount above that provided for
in the annual appropriation bill for that year.
5. Where the charge to the jury taken as a whole fully and fairly submits the
law of the case, the judgment will not be reversed because passages extracted therefrom and read apart from their connection need qualification.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.
This was an action of trespass on the case brought by Jessie
Gunn against the village of Evanston, Ill., t6 recover damages

which she had sustained April 22, 1873, by reason of the alleged
neglect of duty on the part of the defendant.

The old town of Evanston was in 1863 incorporated under
the General Laws of 1845, and the defendant, its successor,
became incorporated as a municipal corporation, and assumed
its present name, Oct. 15, 1872, under an act of the General
Assembly, entitled "An Act to provide for the incorporation
of cities and villages," approved April 10, 1872.
The laws of 1845 authorized the corporation, among other
things, to keep open and in repair its streets and alleys by
making pavements or sidewalks as to it might seem needful,
and to levy and collect a tax for the purpose, and provided
that it should be its duty to cause all its streets and alleys, and

Oct., 1878.]

EVANSTON V. GUNN.

all the public roads passing from and through it for one mile
from the centre thereof, to be kept in good repair.
The corporation, to fulfil these duties, was authorized to require male residents to work on the roads, and it could make
appropriations from the annual tax levy. The duties of a
street commissioner were to be prescribed by ordinance. An
ordinance of the town of Evanston declared them to be "to
keep in repair streets, ditches, drains, crosswalks, and sidewalks,
under the direction of the board of trustees."
The act of April 10, 1872, under which the new organization was effected, confers the following among other powers:
" To lay out, establish, open, alter, widen, extend, grade, pave,
or otherwise improve streets, alleys, avenues, sidewalks, wharves,
parks, and public grounds, and vacate the same; to prevent and
remove encroachments or obstructions upon the same; to construct and keep in repair culverts, drains, sewers, and cesspools,
and regulate the use thereof; to construct and keep in repair
bridges, viaducts, and tunnels, and regulate the use thereof."
The act also authorizes the assessment and levy of taxes for
corporate purposes; the making of annual appropriations to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities; and the borrowing of money under certain contingencies, for the same general
purposes.
It further provides that when a majority of the
votes of the town cast at an election to be held for that purpose shall be for a village organization, " such town shall,
from and henceforth, be deemed to be duly incorporated as
a village under this act; but the town officers then in office
shall continue as like officers of such village until their successors shall be elected or appointed under the provisions of
this act."
The election for village officers is held on the third Tuesday
in April of each year, and the fiscal year commences at that
date.
It is further provided that "from the time of such change
of organization, the provisions of this act shall be applicable
to such cities and villages, and all laws in conflict therewith
shall no longer be applicable. But all laws or parts of laws,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall continue in force and be applicable to any such city or village,

EVANSToN V. GUNN.

[Sul). Cr.

the same as if such change of organization had not taken
place. All ordinances, resolutions, and by-laws in force in
any city or town when it shall organize under this act shall
continue in full force and effect until repealed or amended,
notwithstanding such change of organization; and the making of such change of organization shall not be construed to
effect a change in the legal identity, as a corporation, of such
city or town."
Sect. 12 provides: "All rights and property of every kind
and description, which were vested in any municipal corporation under its former organization, shall be deemed and held
to be vested in the same municipal corporation upon its becoming incorporated under the provisions of this act; but no
rights or liabilities, either in favor of or against such corporation, existing at the time of so becoming incorporated under
this act, and no suit or prosecution of any kind, shall be affected
by such change."
It is further provided that the board of trustees "shall,
within the first quarter of each fiscal year, pass an ordinance,
to be termed the annual appropriation bill, in which such corporate authorities may appropriate such sum or sums of money
as may be deemed necessary to pay all necessary expenses and
liabilities of such corporation. . . No further appropriations
shall be made at any other time within such fiscal year, unless
the proposition to make such has been first sanctioned by a
majority of the legal voters of such village, either by a petition signed by them, or at a general or special election duly
called therefor." "Neither the board of trustees, nor any department or officer of the corporation, shall add to the corporation expenditures in any one year any thing over and above
the amount provided for in the annual appropriation bill of
that year, except as is herein otherwise specially provided;
and no expenditures for an improvement to be paid for out
of the general fund of the corporation shall exceed in any one
year the amount provided for such improvement in the annual appropriation bill: Provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall prevent the board of trustees from adding, by
a two-thirds vote, any improvement, the necessity of which is
caused by any casualty or accident happening after such annual

Oct. 1878.]

OEVANSTON v. GUNN.

appropriation is made. The board of trustees' may, by a like
vote, order the president of the board.of trustees and finance
committee to borrow a sufficient amount to provide for the
expense necessary to be incurred in making any improvements,
the necessity of which has arisen as is last above mentioned,
for a space of time not exceeding the close of the next fiscal
year, which sum, and the interest, shall be added to the amount
authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy, and embraced therein." . ..
The plaintiff was a teacher in the public schools of the village of Evanston, and resided within its corporate limits on the
west side of Sherman Avenue, where there was no sidewalk
on the usual line. In the -avenue, which is one hundred feet
wide, and at a' distance of some twenty feet from its west side,
there was a ditch or drain running north and south through
the entire limits of the village, and which the street commissioner, after the organization of the old town, had, by authority
of its trustees, deepened and sided up with planks, and constructed, at the public expense, street-crossings so as to pass
over it. Without objection on his part, property holders, in
the summer of 1871, had covered it with planks for a sidewalk,
and it was subsequently used as such. As the plaintiff was
passing along the avenue in the morning, on her way to school,
she fell with her right leg into a hole in the cover of the'drain,
which was from six to eight inches in width and from two to
four feet in length. She sustained severe injuries to her spine
and hip-joint, which will probably disable her for life. She
was aware of the existence of the hole, but its exact location
could not, by reason of the snow which covered it, be distinguished, and she was endeavoring to avoid it when the accident
occurred.
The hole was made by a runaway team in the fall of 1872,
and was then insufficiently covered by the owner of a lot in
the neighborhood.
The planks were again broken at that
place, and so remained for several weeks before the plaintiff
was injured. In the mistaken impression that an ex-streetcommissioner was still in office, parties bad notified him of
its condition, and there was evidence tending to show that the
village officers were also aware of it.

EVANSTON V. GUNN.

[Sup. Ct.

The plaintiff, for the purpose of showing the direction and
velocity of the wind and the falling of snow in the morning
in question and the previous evening, offered in evidence the
i:ecord made by a person employed at Chicago by the United
States Signal Service. The defendant objected, because there
was no law authorizing the record to be used in evidence, and
because the same was not competent testimony. The court
overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted. The
record was then read, from which it appeared that a snowstorm occurred on the evening of April 21, 1873, and the wind
blew at the rate of twenty miles an hour; that the storm
continued until the following morning, when the wind blew
at the rate of twenty-four miles an hour; that snow fell at
that time sufficient to make -37 of an inch in melted snow.
It was also proved that Evanston was located ten miles north
of Chicago, and that the snow-storm was as severe there as in
that city.
The defendant introduced evidence tending to prove that
from the organization of the village up to June, 1873, no appropriations had been made by it under said act of April 10,
1872; that the ditch was originally dug in the year 1855 by
the drainage commissioners incorporated as such under the
laws of the State; that by actual measurement the distance
was thirty feet and five inches from the gate in front of the
plaintiff's residence to the covered drain, and that the latter
was six feet five inches wide; that the distance from the west
line of the ditch to the railing of the park between the ditch
and her house was three feet; that the passage left for a sidewalk between the park and her house was nine feet; that
the ground there was hard, dry, and sodded, and that there
was at the time of the accident no obstacle to prevent her
from passing along that passage to the school where she
taught; that the hole in the covered drain was six inches
from the east side thereof; that the distance from the top of
the cover to the bottom of the drain was four feet; that the
trustees of the old town had never by any recorded pro6eedings authorized said sewer to be covered over nor a sidewalk
to be laid on the top thereof; that no street commissioner had
ever by any direct act consented that the cover to said sewer

oct. 1878.]

EVANSTON V. GUNN.

should be built or used for the purposes of a sidewalk, although
at the time the work was done the then commissioner was
aware that the lot-owners doing it expected that the cover
would be used as a sidewalk, and that he planked it at the
intersecting streets and alleys at the public expense.
The court charged the jury, that if the defendant, when it
came into corporate existence, found the ditch as a part of the
drainage system of that locality running along one of the
streets, it was bound in some way to protect the public against
danger from said ditch, and that it made no difference for the
purpose of the case whether the ditch was a drain formed by
nature and existing from time immemorial, or had been created
by artificial means only a few years prior to the formation of
the corporation; that if it was rightfully there when the corporation came into existence, then it was bound to accept it,
and provide for the safety of its citizens against it, and to keep
it in repair; that the fact that the corporation had changed its
organic law but a few months prior to the accident, and had
not yet run the term of its municipal year when it could make
an appropriation under the law under which it was then existing, did not relieve it from liability to keep the street in
repair. The court also instructed the jury at large as to any
contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff for $6,500, and judgment having been rendered thereon, the defendant sued out
this writ of error.
M1r. George 0. Ide for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Wirt Dexter, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The admission in evidence of a record kept by a person employed by the United States Signal Service at Chicago was
objected to at the trial, not because it had not been properly
made, identified, and proved, but for the alleged reason that
"there was no law authorizing such records to be used in evidence, and because it was not competent testimony." The
defendants having thus specified their objection, it must be
considered that all others were waived, or that there was no
ground upon which others could stand, Berks & Dauphin

EVANSTON v. GUNN.

[Sup. Ct.

Turnpike Co. v. lMlyers, 6 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 12; Chicago J.
Alton .Railroad Co. v. ilorgan, 69 Ill. 492. We have then only
to consider the objections that were made, - the only ones that
appear in the bill of exceptions, - and they present the question
whether the record, conceding it to be properly proved, was
competent evidence. It may be admitted there is no statute
expressly authorizing the admission of such a record, as proof
of the facts stated in it, but many records are properly admitted
without the aid of any statute. The inquiry to be made is, what
is the character of the instrument? The record admitted in
this case was not a private entry or memorandum. It had been
kept by a person whose public duty it was to record truly the
facts stated in it. Sects. 221 and 222 of the Revised Statutes
require meteorological observations to be taken at the military
stations in the interior of the continent and at other points in
the States and Territories, for giving notice of the approach
and force of storms. The Secretary of War is also required to
provide, in the system of observations and reports in charge of
the chief signal officer of the army, for such stations, reports,
and signals as may be found necessary for the benefit of agriculture and commer~cial interests. Under these acts a system
has been established, and records are kept at the stations designated, of which Chicago is one. Extreme accuracy in all such
observations and in recording them is demanded by the rules of
the Signal Service, and it is indispensable, in order that they
may answer the purposes for which they are required. They
are, as we have seen, of a public character, kept for public purposes, and so immediately before the eyes of the community
that inaccuracies, if they should exist, could hardly escape exposure. They come, therefore, within the rule which admits
in evidence "official registers or records kept by persons in
public office in which they required, either by statute or by
the nature of their office, to write down particular transactions
occurring in the course of their public duties or under their
personal observation." Taylor, Evid., sect. 1429; 1 Greenl.
Evid., sect. 483. To entitle them to admission it is not necessary that a statute requires them to be kept. It is sufficient
that they are kept in the discharge of a public duty. 1 Greenl.
Evid., sect. 496. Nor need they be kept by a public officer

Oct. 1878.]

EVANSTON

v.

GUNN.

himself, if the entries are made under his direction by a person
authorized by him. Galt v. Galloway, 4 Pet. 332. It is hardly
necessary to refer to judicial decisions illustrating the rule.
They are numerous. A few may be mentioned. De Armond v.
Nesmith, 32 Mich. 231; Gurney v. House, 9 Gray (Mass.), 404;
Tie Catharine M11aria, Law Rep. 1 Ad. & Ec. 53; Oliequot's
Champagne, 3 Wall. 114. We think, therefore, that there was
no error in admitting the record kept by the person employed
for the purpose by the United States Signal Service.
The exceptions to the charge, though numerous, in our opinion point to no error. Without going through in detail the
statute under which the village was organized and the powers
conferred upon it, it is enough to say that it had ample authority to keep the streets and walks in a safe condition at all
times for passage. And the power carried with it the duty of
exercising it. Nothing could have been a more palpable violation of that duty than permitting the continuance of such a
trap as that into which the plaintiff below fell. And this
duty was not suspended during the changes from a township to
a village organization. The identity of the corporation was not
destroyed by the change, and its obligations in regard to the
streets, avenues, sidewalks, drains, &c., continued in full force.
The fact that the board of trustees of the village were not
authorized to make their annual appropriation for the year in
which the plaintiff's injury occurred, if it was a fact, and that
they, as well as every department and officer of the corporation,
were prohibited by law from adding to the corporate expenditures
in any one year any thing above the amount provided for in the
annual appropriation bill for that year, is quite immaterial.
The power to borrow money sufficient to provide for making
any improvements, the necessity for which was caused by any
casualty or accident happening after the annual appropriation,
was expressly given. Besides, the village succeeded to all the
property and funds of the township, as well as to its liabilities.
It was organized in October, 1872, and the accident to the
plaintiff occurred on the 22d of. April, 1873, six months afterwards.
We see no error in the instruction given to the jury respecting contributory negligence of the plaintiff. It was full, - all

LYON V. POLLOCK.

[Sup. Ct.

the case demanded,- and strictly accurate. Sentences may, it
is true, be extracted from the charge, which if read apart from
But the qualifications
their connection, need qualification.
were given in the context, and the jury could not possibly have
been misled. Upon the whole, we think that the case was
submitted in a manner of which there is no just cause of
complaint.
Judgnient affirmed.

LyoN v. POLLOCK.
1. A., at the commencement of the late rebellion, owned property in San Antonio,
Texas, consisting principally of real estate and stock in a gas company.
Apprehending that his life was in danger in consequence of his avowed
hostility to secession, lie fled from the country, and, by a power of attorney,
authorized B. to sell the property for whatever consideration and upon
such terms as he might deem best, and to execute all proper instruments
of transfer. B. took possession of the property, which lie retained until
July, 1865, when lie gave the charge of it, with the business and papers
in his hands, to C. A. thereupon wrote to C., "I wish you to manage [my
property] as you would with your own. If a good opportunity offers to
sell every thing I have, I would be glad to sell. It may be parties will
come into San Antonio who will be glad to purchase my gas stock and
real estate." Ildd, that C. was thereby authorized to contract for the sale
of the real estate, but not to convey it.
2. A deed executed to a purchaser, though invalid as a conveyance, may be good
as a contract for the sale of the property described therein.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
The appellant, Lyon, in 1873, recovered judgment in the
Circuit Court of the United States against the appellees,
Pollock and wife, in an action for two parcels or lots of land
situated in the city of San Antonio, in the State of Texas.
Thereupon the appellees brought the present suit on the equity
side of the court to enjoin the enforcement of the judgment,
and to compel a conveyance to them of the title to the land ;
or, if that relief could not be granted, to obtain a decree for
the value of their improvements, in accordance with a statute
of the State.
The bill of complaint states, as grounds for relief, that the
judgment was obtained upon the trial of the legal title, and

