COLBY V. REED.

[Sup. Ct.

It may be laid down, I think, as a general principle, that
where a case necessarily involves a question arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, and cannot be decided
without deciding that question, it is a case arising under said
Constitution and laws, and may be brought, as the law now
stands, in the Circuit Court of the United States, although
other questions may likewise be involved which might be tried
and decided in the State courts. I do not believe in the doctrine that the presence of a question of municipal law in a case
which necessarily involves Federal questions can deprive the
Federal courts of their jurisdiction. It is too narrow a con.
struction of the judicial powers and functions of the Federal
government and its-courts.
But in this case the complainant asks no relief in relation
to the supposed agreement between him and the defendants.
He places himself solely on his rights accruing under the patent and on the defendants' infringement of them. I think,
therefore, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United
States was undoubted.

COLBY v. REED.
1. Unless the contract so provides, the demand of one of the parties thereto that
the other shall perform his agreement need not be in writing.
2. Where the amount to which the plaintiff is entitled is clear, an action by him
for a breach of the contract will not be defeated solely on the ground that
his demand upon the defendant was in excess of that amount.
3. In such an action the court cannot, unless so authorized by statute, compel
the plaintiff to accept, in mitigation of damages, when tendered to him by
the defendant in open court, the property for the non-delivery of which the
action was brought.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Edwin i. Abbot for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Matt. f. Carpenter,contra.

Oct. 1878.]

COLBY v. REED.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Tender, when the demand is of money, for a definite sum
or for an amount capable of being made certain, may at common law be made on the very day the money becomes due, but
it will constitute a defence only when made before the action
is brought. Chitty, Contr. (10th ed.) 732, 733; 2 Pars. Contr.
(6th ed.) 148; 9 Bac. Abr., Tender D. 321; Suffolk Bank v.
Worcester Bank, 5 Pick. (Mass.) 106; Pitcherv. Bailey, 8 East,
171; Briggs v. Calverly, 8 T. R. 629.
In actions of debt and assumpsit the principle of the plea
of tender is that the defendant has always been ready to perform the contract, and that he did perform it as far as he was
able by tendering the requisite money, the plaintiff himself
having prevented a complete performance by his refusal to
accept the tender. Such a tender and refusal do not discharge the debt, and hence the plea must proceed to allege
that the defendant is still ready to perform, and it must contain a profert in curia of the money tendered. Ayers v. Pease,
12 Wend. (N. Y.) 393.
Arrangements were made between the parties to advance
material aid in the construction of a certain land-grant railroad, and to promote that object the defendant agreed with
the plaintiff, in writing under seal, that he would take stock
in the company to the amount of $200,000, and that he would
pay or deliver to the order of the plaintiff $45,000 of the proceeds of the subscription. Pursuant to the agreement, the
defendant subsequently paid the agreed sum in money, and
received the certificates of the stock to the same amount.
.Progress was made in the undertaking, but it turned out that
more money was needed to complete the enterprise; which
made it necessary that the same parties should subscribe for
an additional hundred thousand dollars of the stock. It appears
that they were willing to do so; but that the plaintiff could
not furnish his proportion of the money for the new subscription, and that the defendant, in consideration of receiving
$5,000 out of the plaintiff's stock, agreed to pay the entire
amount of the additional subscription and to take the whole
of the new stock, which left in his hands only $40,000 of the
original stock belonging to the plaintiff. Money to the amount
VOL. IX.

36

COLBY V. REED.

[Sup. Ct.

of $2,000 was, about the same time, borrowed for six months
by the plaintiff of the defendant, on a pledge of $8,000 of
plaintiff's stock in the hands of the defendant, which the record shows was never repaid, leaving hi the possession of the
defendant only $32,000 of the first subscription.
Throughout these transactions the relations between the
parties were amicable; but they subsequently became hostile,
and on the 28th of May, 1875, the plaintiff instituted the
present suit in the Circuit Court, in which he claimed judgment against the defendant for the stock of the railroad in his
hands to the amount of $45,000, with interest, as alleged in
the complaint.
Service was made; and the defendant filed an answer, setting up several defences: 1. That the allegation that he refused
to deliver the stock mentioned in the complaint is not true.
2. That no proper demand for the delivery of the same was ever
made. 3. That the demand made was for the delivery of
$45,000 of the stock when the defendant well knew that he
was only entitled to demand $32,000 of the same, and the
defendant avers that he always was and still is ready and
willing to deliver the true amount. 4. That the plaintiff is
indebted to the defendant in the sum of $2,000, for which he
claims an allowance as a set-off or as a counter-claim. 5. That
the value of the stock is much below par, and that the pledge
to him for the loan is inadequate as security.
Preliminary matters being closed, the parties went to trial.
Evidence was introduced on both sides, and the court submitted certain questions to the jury, to which they responded
to the effect following: That the plaintiff before the commencement of the action made a demand of the stock from
the defendant, and that the defendant refused to deliver the
same. That the parties entered into the agreement set forth
in the answer, by which the plaintiff was to deliver to the
defendant the excess of the stock originally subscribed, above
840,000, in the event that it should become necessary to make
the additional subscription of $100,000, and that the notice
required of the defendant in that contingency was waived by
the plaintiff; and the jury also found that the amount of
stock which the plaintiff was entitled to demand and receive

Oct. 1878.]

COLBY

v.

REED.

was only $32,000, and that the cash value of the same was
and is $9,600, which finding appeared to be satisfactory to the
plaintiff, as he moved for judgment in his favor; but the de-.
fendant filed two motions, - one that the plaintiff be ordered
to accept the stock found to be due in mitigation of damages,
and the other that a new trial be granted.
Hearing was had, and the court overruled the motions of the
defendant and rendered judgment for the plaintiff in the sum
of $7,641.72. Before doing so, however, the court adjusted the
equities between the parties as follows: Interest in favor of
the plaintiff was added to the sum found due by the jury as
the value of the stock, and the court, deducting therefrom the
counter-claim and interest set up by the defendant, rendered
judgment for the balance.
Seasonable exceptions were filed by the defendant and he
sued out the pending writ of error.
Numerous errors are assigned by the defendant, but in the view
taken of the case it vill not be necessary to give them a separate examination. Attention will be called to the substantial
issues presented in the pleadings and to the material questions
which arose in the progress of the trial and in the rendition of
the judgment.
Both parties agree that the controversy grew out of a contract between them, and that the redress sought by the plaintiff
is compensation for the alleged breach of it and the failure of
the defendant to comply with its terms. Every pretence of conversion, therefore, may be dismissed in the outset without the
least consideration, as there is nothing either in the cause of
action, or the form of the remedy, or in the allegations of the
complainant, or in the averments of the answer, or in the evidence introduced by either party, which gives such a theory
any support whatever. Instead of that, the plaintiff set up the
agreement and alleges that the defendant broke it, and he
claims compensation for the damage he suffered from its nonperformance by the defendant. Demand of performance is
also alleged by the plaintiff, which is explicitly denied by the
defendant, who avers in his answer that be was always ready
and willing to perform to the full extent of his obligation
under the agreement.

COLBY V. REED.

[Sup. Ct.

Neither the answer nor the evidence shows that the defendant ever did perform the agreement to deliver, but what he
alleged and attempted to prove was that the plaintiff claimed
$13,000 of stock more than he, the defendant, contracted to
deliver, and his theory is that the demand being in excess of
the obligation created by the contract, was null and of no effect,
and inasmuch as the demand exceeded the right, he was not
required to perform what the contract required.
Two issues of law were presented by the defendant in respect
to the alleged demand: 1. That it must be in writing, and that
an oral demand was insufficient. 2. That a request to deliver
more property than the party is entitled to receive and a failure to deliver placed on that ground do not in law constitute a
sufficient demand and refusal to sustain an action like the one
before the court.
Had the contract contained the stipulation that the demand
should be in writing, there would be much force in the suggestion; but inasmuch as the contract is silent upon the subject,
the court is of the opinion that the ruling of the Circuit Court
that it might be verbal or in writing is undoubtedly correct.
Smith v. Young, 2 Dev. & Bat. (N. C.) 26.
Responsive to the second request, the judge told the jury that
where a party demands more than he is entitled to receive, that
that circumstance alone will not justify the other party in refusing to deliver that part of the property to which the party
making the demand is entitled, provided it is distinct, well
known, and clearly distinguishable from that to which the demanding party had no right; that if the plaintiff demanded
$45,000 of the stock when he was only entitled to $32,000 of
the same, the defendant could not properly refuse to deliver
what the plaintiff was entitled to receive, on the ground that
the demand was excessive. Injustice and inconvenience would
flow from any different rule, and inasmuch as we are'all of the
opinion that the instruction was correct, it is not deemed necessary to pursue the subject. 2 Greenl. Evid., sect. 604.
Matters of fact in the case need no examination, as they are
found by the jury, and are not the subject of review in this
court. Actual demand, it is conceded, was necessary to complete the cause of action, and the court is of the opinion that

Oct.1878.]

COLBY V. REED.

the demand was not vitiated because it was for too much, as
the party of whom it was made was under no obligation to
tender more than was due. Chitty, Contr. (10th ed.) 738.
Both demand and refusal are established by the special verdict, which is all that need be said upon the subject.
Two other assignments of error deserve to be considered,
and they may be examined together, as they involve the same
question. They are as follows: 1. That the court erred in
denying the motion of the defendant to require the plaintiffs
to accept the stock tendered by the defendant to the plaintiff
in open court in reduction of the damages. 2. That the" court
erred in rendering judgment for the full value of the stock in
money, and in not applying the stock deposited in court in
mitigation of damages, at its value as fixed by the jury.
Tender of the stock before breach of the condition or before
the commentement of the action is not pretended, nor is it pretended that the defendant ever made a money tender of the
debt due to the plaintiff, either before or after the action was
commenced. Such a tender, if made before action brought
and kept good, is a defence to the action, as the money to pay
the debt remains in the court, and the party plaintiff is not
entitled to prevail unless the sum tendered was insufficient, nor
is it questioned that such a tender in a proper case, and payment of the money into court, may be made after action
brought; but the rule is universal, that in that event the tender
and the payment must include the costs to that time as well as
the debt. Addison, Contr. (6th ed.) 954.
Authority undoubtedly exists in the defendant to tender the
debt, if it is of a definite amount, before action brought; but it
is equally well settled, even if it be large enough to pay the
whole debt, that it is utterly nugatory after action brought,
unless it also include a sum sufficient to pay the costs. Emerson v. White, 10 Gray (Mass.), 351; Tke People v. Banker,
7 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 258.
Exceptional cases may be found, but they arise in States
where the matter is regulated by statute. Ashburn v. Poulter,
35 Conn. 553; Call v. Lothrop, 39 Me. 434; Rev. Stats. (Me.)
642; Gen. Stats. (Mass.) 671.
No such regulation has ever been adopted by the State in

COLBY v. REED.

[Sup. or.

which this controversy arose, from which it follows that it
must be governed by the general rules, which do not give the
right of tender after action brought, except in the form and
under the conditions before explained.
Concede that, and still it is insisted by the defendant that
the court erred in refusing his request to order the plaintiff to
accept the certificates of stock in mitigation of damages, which
presents the principal question in the case.
Power to tender back the property in trover, where the gist
of the action is conversion, is certainly vested in the defendant,
and its exercise is a matter of frequent occurrence, where it
appears that the property is in the same condition as when
taken. Such a right may doubtless be exercised where the
charge is conversion or a wrongful taking even after action
brought, if it be accompanied with a tender of costs and intervening damages. Butland & Rrashington Railroad Co. v. Bank
of IIfiddlebury, 32 Vt. 639; Haley v. Shed, 10 Metc. (Mass.)
317.
There can be no manner of doubt that the defendant in
actions of trover and trespass de bonis asportatis,in cases where
the taking was not unlawful and the property is not essentially
injured, will be allowed to surrender the property in specie in
mitigation of damages. Hart v. Skinner, 16 Vt. 138; Fisher
v. Prince, 3 Burr. 1363; Pickering v. Truqte, 7 T. R. 54.
Courts, beyond doubt, may in a proper case, where the
action is trover or trespass de bonis, order the plaintiff to accept
the property in mitigation of damages against his wishes; and
the rule is that the return of the property in such a case will
reduce the damages to those actually sustained for the wrongful
taking, together with intervening damages, and costs. Yale v.
Saunders et al., 16 Vt. 243.
Orders of the kind are frequently given in actions of trover
and trespass de bonis asportatis,but the practice is not applicable in actions of assumpsit for a breach of contract, the rule
being that the party, if he desires to stop the litigation, must
adopt the measure prescribed by the common law, except in
jurisdictions where a different mode of proceeding is prescribed
by statute.
JTudgment affirmed.

