UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

[Sup. Ct.

which he has not been affected. The election to rescind or
not to rescind, once made, is final and conclusive.
The burden of proving knowledge of the fraud and the time
of its discovery rests upon the defendant.
Here Langdon was lulled into security by his relations to
Pence, and by Pence's letters.
There is no proof that he had the slightest knowledge or even
suspicion of any foul play until he visited the mine. His action
then was prompt and decided.
The instructions of the court as to the law upon the subject
were clear, accurate, and well expressed. The rest was for the
jury. With what they did we have nothing to do.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V.

COUNTY OF MACON.

1. Where the statute authorizing a county to subscribe for stock in a railroad
company, and issue its bonds therefor, limits its power to provide for the
payment of them to an annual special tax of one-twentieth of one per cent,
and other laws then and still in force empowered it to levy a tax for general purposes not exceeding one-half of one per cent, upon the assessed
value of the taxable property of the county, -Held, that, in the absence
of further legislation, a mandamus will not lie to compel the levy of taxes
beyond the amount so authorized.
2. A holder of such bonds who has recovered judgment for the amount thereof
does not thereby obtain an increased right to a levy of taxes.

E ROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
The United States, on the relation of Alfred Huidekoper, filed,
on the eighth day of May, 1875, a petition for a mandamus
against the county court of Macon County, Missouri. The
case exhibited by the pleadings is this: the relator, Nov. 25,
1874, recovered in the court below against said county a judgment upon interest coupons detached from bonds issued by
it under and by authority of an act of the General Assembly
of said State, entitled "An Act, to incorporate the Mississippi
and Missouri Railroad Company," approved Feb. 20, 1865.

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

583

He alleges that the company received the bonds, which are
negotiable in form and payable in New York, in satisfaction of
the county's subscription to its capital stock, and delivered the
requisite stock certificates to the county; that the latter has ever
since retained them and exercised the right of a stockholder in
the company, and has levied and collected taxes at the rate of
one-half of one per cent to pay the interest on the bonds, and
has paid the first four instalments thereof; that an execution
was sued out on the judgment, and returned nulla bona; that
he then made a demand of the county court to levy and collect a tax for the purpose of paying the judgment, with which
demand it has refused and neglected to comply. The county
court, in its return to the alternative mandamus awarded, admits
the rendition of the judgment, and alleges that the act incorporating the company provides, by its thirteenth section, that "it
shall be lawful for the corporate authority of any city or town,
or the county court of any county, desiring to do so to subscribe
to the capital stock of said company, and may issue bonds therefor, and levy a tax to pay the same not exceeding one-twentieth
of one per cent upon the assessed value of the taxable property
for each year;" that under the authority so conferred the
county court subscribed, April 2, 1867, for $175,000, and April
12, 1870, for another $175,000, of stock in the company, and
issued its bonds in payment of each subscription ; that the
judgment rendered in favor of the relator was on interest coupons detached from a portion of the bonds issued in payment of
the last subscription ; that all of said bonds, with the interest
thereon, are'still outstanding and unpaid; that both subscriptions were made without the assent of two-thirds of the qualified electors of said county, no regular or special election
having been held to procure such assent; that the tax of onetwentieth of one per cent on the assessed value of all the taxable property of and in Macon County has been annually levied
for the years between 1867 and 1875, inclusive, but is not sufficient to pay the interest annually accruing on the bonds issued
in payment and satisfaction of said first subscription ; that the
county has neither money nor property with which to pay them
or the interest thereon, and the county court has no authority,
under any law of the State, to levy for that purpose a tax other

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

[SuP. Ct.

than the said one-twentieth of one per cent; that it is ready
to continue to levy it, and apply the same as far as it will go
in payment and satisfaction of the principal and interest of
said bonds issued in payment of said first subscription, unless
otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction; and
that there is and was no other consideration for said bonds
from which were detached the interest coupons sued on by
the relator than the payment and satisfaction of said second
subscription.
The county court prays judgment whether the levy of the
tax of one-twentieth of one per cent and the collection and
appropriation thereof pro rata to the payment of the bonds and
interest thereon, issued in payment and satisfaction of said first
subscription, are not a full discharge of its duty in the premises
until the tax thus levied, collected, and appropriated shall have
fully paid said bonds and interest, and that the residue of said
tax shall be applied pro rata in payment of the principal and
interest of the bonds issued in payment and satisfaction of the
second subscription.
The relator demurred to the return.
The demurrer was
overruled and the proceeding dismissed.
The judges were opposed in opinion upon the following questions, and the requisite certificate was filed and made a part of
the record :First, Whether the provision in the thirteenth section of the
act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled
"An Act to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad
Company," approved Feb. 20, 1865, recited in the'bonds, writ,
and return in respect of the levy of taxes to pay the bohds, was
intended only to provide a sinking-fund for the eventual payment of the principal of the bonds, leaving the county court
power to provide for the payment of the interest thereon under
the then existing general statutes of the State or by implication, or whether the said provision in said act is an absolute and
existing limitation on the power of the said county court in respect to both the principal and interest.
Second, Whether the said limitation in the said thirteenth
section of the said act, if it existed when said act was passed,
was removed, or the power to levy taxes enlarged, by the sub-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED

STATES V. COUNTY O

MACON.

585

sequent legislation of the State, so as to give the respondent
power to levy such an amount and rat6 of tax from year to
year as might be necessary to pay the interest on the said
bonds.
Third, Whether the said limitation in said thirteenth section
applies to the case of a creditor who has recovered judgment on
coupons on said bonds, and whose execution has been returned
nulla bona.
Fourth, Whether the relator, a judgment creditor, is entitled only to his proportion of the levy of one-twentieth of
one per cent, said proportion to be ascertained by the ratio
which his bonds bear in amount to the whole bonded debt,
or whether he, by reason of his judgment, is entitled to priority of payment over the bondholder who has obtained no
judgment ?
Fifth, Whether the judgment creditors, upon bonds issued
in payment of the second subscription, are on an equal footing
with creditors who recovered judgment on the bonds issued in
payment of the first subscription ?
The plaintiff sued out this writ, and assigns for error that
the demurrer should have been sustained, and a peremptory
mandamus awarded.
Mr. Joseph Shippen for the plaintiff in error.
The special tax authorized by sect. 13 of the act of 1865
was intended to provide for the payment of the principal of
the bonds by creating a sinking-fund for their gradual extinction. It had no reference or application to current interest.
This interpretation is in harmony with United States v. County
of Clark (96 U. S. 211), and does not conflict with the points
actually presented of record and decided by the Supreme Court
of Missouri in State ex rel. Aull v. Shortridge (56 Mo. 126),
because that case involved not simply the interest, but chiefly
the principal debt itself.
The intention in chartering the company, and authorizing
counties to subscribe for the stock thereof, was that their subscriptions and the bonds to be issued therefor should be of an
amount to render substantial aid.
Such was the construction given in 1870 and prior: By the
Supreme Court, compelling the first issue of bonds to be made

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

[Sup. Ct.

(State ex rel. iltissouri & Mississippi Railroad 0o. v. i1lacon
County Court, 41 Mo. 453) ; by the county court, in making its
two subscriptions and issues, and subsequently for years levying
a tax of one-half of one per cent, adequate to pay the interest
and part of the principal thereof; by the company, which, on
receiving the bonds at par, issued $350,000 of its stock therefor
to the county; and by the purchasers of the bonds.
The carrying into effect of the doctrine that the act created
a special trust fund consisting of said one-twentieth of one per
cent, on which alone all bondholders must depend for payment
of interest and principal, would subvert the intention of the
contracting parties, and work manifest injustice. From that
doctrine it follows: 1. That the Supreme Court of Alissouri, by
its peremptory mandate, compelled the county court to issue
$175,000 of bonds in 1867, when the said tax would have paid
only one and a half per cent interest per annum on said bonds,
without any pro-vision for ever paying the principal. State ex
rel., Jc. v. Hacon County Court, supra. 2. That the county
could legally issue its bonds ad voluntatem, ad infinitum.usque,
but could legally pay thereon only what said tax might yield.
3. That the bonds were of uncertain and contingent payment,
and hence, irrespective of their amount, non-negotiable securities, worthless for the public purposes for which they were issued.
4. That the legal liabilities of the county are destined never
to be extinguished, but must demonstrably in time, by the accumulation and compounding of interest, far exceed in amount
the whole taxable property. 5. That the county, while paying
less than one-tenth of the interest on its valid indebtedness,
retains the $350,000 of stock received in consideration thereof,
and will devote all taxes derived from the property of the
company to the education of the young. 1 Wagner, Statutes,
314, sect. 55. 6. That a pro rata share of such trust fund is
all to which any creditor desiring payment is entitled, although
there is no provision of law to secure to him even such a participation therein. 7. That the litigation between the county
and its creditors for the distribution of such special trust fund
is destined to be perpetual.
In construing a statute, reference must be had to the object
to be attained and the means to be employed. It will not be

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

587

presumed that the legislature attempted to authorize a proceeding unreasonable in itself. Neenan v. Smith, 50 Mo. 523;
Sedgwick, Stat. & Const. Law, 235; Milner v. Pensacola,
2 Woods, 633; McCracken v. City of San Francieso, 16 Cal.
591.
Although these bonds have been adjudicated by both the
State and the Federal courts to be valid obligations, no notice,
either in fact or in law, was given to the purchaser that they
were not to be absolutely and unconditionally paid according
to their tenor. There was nothing on their face to give warning that there was an over-issue of them, and an innocent holder
should not be called upon to ascertain how many may have
been put upon the market, so long as there is a law authorizing
the issue of a bond such as he takes. The amount of them or
of the interest that an annual tax of one-twentieth of one per
cent would pay was not capable of ascertainment at the time
of the subscription or thereafter; and he was not required by
law, or the decisions of this court, to investigate the ratio existing between the debt they represented and the tax assessments.
Contra, the county court had the fullest knowledge and control
of all these matters, and in favor of a bona fide purchaser of its
securities is presumed to have acted through its duly elected
and sworn officers within the prescribed limits. Omniaprcesumuntur solenniter esse acta. Broom's Legal Maxims, 729;
State ex rel. Neal v. Saline County, 48 Mo. 390; Pendleton
County v. Amy, 13 Wall. 297; Dillon, Municipal Corporations,
sect. 419; Town of Venice v. Murdock, 92 U. S. 494, 499; Marcy
v. Oswego Township, id. 637; Humboldt Township v. Long, id.
642; Town of Coloma v. -Eaves,id. 484; Banger v. New Orleans,
2 Woods, 128.
If he had made such an investigation, it could not have
afforded him the slightest protection for the future, and the
estoppel created in his favor by the facts admitted of record in
this case protects him not only in recovering a judgment, but
also in enforcing its payment.
Adequate power to provide by taxation for the payment of
interest upon the bonds in question was conferred by the general statutes in existence at the time of granting the charter of
the company.

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MIACON.

[Sup. Ct.

The Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1855, p. 438, provide:

-

"SECT. 34. Any county court or city which has heretofore sub-

scribed to the capital stock of any railroad in this State shall be
entitled to the privileges and subject to the liabilities of other
stockholders in such company, and the county court or city council
shall have all the rights and powers to provide funds to pay such
subscription as are granted to county courts and cities by this act,
and may levy a special tax to pay the interest on their bonds, or to
provide a sinking-fund to pay the principal."
"SEcT. 57. All existing railroad corporations within this State,
and such as now or may be hereafter chartered, shall respectively
have and possess all the powers and privileges contained in this act,
and they shall be subject to all the duties, liabilities, and provisions,
not inconsistent with the provisions of their charter contained in
this act."
These provisions, in substance, were re-enacted in the general
statutes which went into effect Aug. 1, 1866, and are still in'
force (1 Wagner, Statutes, 305, 306, 312); and ample power
to tax is clearly included among the powers and privileges conferred by sect. 57. Smith v. Clark County, 54 Mo. 58 ; Scotland
County v. Thomas, 94 U. S. 682. The Supreme Court of Missouri has expressly held that, were it not for the supposed limitation in the charter, these statutes conferred the power the
exercise of which the relator demands. State ex rel. Aull v.
Shortridge, supra. They are consistent with the charter, and
a repeal by implication cannot, therefore, be admitted. City
of Galena v. Amy, 5 Wall. 705; McCool v. Smith, 1 Black,
470; City of St. Louis v. Alexander, 23 Mo. 483.
Said sect. 13 has no application to Huidekoper, who in his
suit against the county recovered a general judgment, although
it was based upon coupons from bonds issued under the authority of said section.
United States v. County of Clark, 96 U. S.
211, 216. had it been payable only out of the special tax,
this position would be untenable.
The defendant is concluded by the judgment. Supervisors
v. United States, 4 Wall. 435; The Mayor v. Lord, 9 id. 409.
If the county had subscribed on behalf of a township, the
judgment would have been rendered with an express provision
that it should be payable only by taxes levied within the town-

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY

OF MACON.

589

ship. Cass County v. Johnston, 95 U. S. 360; Jordan v. Cass
County, 3 Dill. 185. In these cases the judgments were against
the county as "trustee of the township." A judgment is rendered against executors payable de bonis testatoris; and against
trustees payable from trust funds quando. It was, in this case,
absolute and unconditional in favor of the relator. Had he
been limited to any specific fund or revenue, as a means of
payment, the judgment would have so declared. The execution, which was returned nulla bona, was general, and so should
be the mandamus.
"When judgment is obtained, and there is no property subject to execution out of which it can be made, mandamus will
lie, and is the proper remedy to compel the levy and collection
of the necessary taxes to pay the judgment. When the claim
is reduced to judgment, the duty to provide for its payment
becomes perfect; and if it can be paid in no other way, it must
be done by the levy and collection of a tax for that purpose,
and this duty will be enforced by mandamus." Dillon, Mun.
Corp., sect. 686, and the authorities there cited.
Mr. Fillard P. Hall and Mr. James Carr for the defendant
in error.
MR. CHmF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In United States v. County of Clark (96 U. S. 211), we
decided that bonds issued by counties under sect. 13 of the
act to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company were debts of the county, and that for any balance remaining due on account of principal or interest after the
application of the proceeds of the special tax authorized by
that section the holders were entitled to payment out of the
general funds of the county. In Loan Company v. Topeka
(20 Wall. 660), we also decided that "it is to be inferred,
when the legislature of a State authorizes a county or city to
contract a debt by bond, it intends to authorize it to levy such
taxes as are necessary to pay the debt, unless there is in the
act itself, or in some general statute, a limitation upon the
power of taxation which repels such an inference."
When the act to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company was passed, the power of counties in the.

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

[Sup. Ct.

State of Missouri to tax for general purposes was limited by
law to one-half of one per cent on the taxable value of the
property in the county. Rev. Stat. Mo., 1865, p. 96, sect. 7,
p. 121, sect. 76. This limit has never since been increased,
and the Constitution of 1875, which is now in force, provides
that this tax shall never exceed that rate in counties of the
class of Macon. Art. 10, sect. 11. If there bad been nothing
in the act to the contrary, it might, perhaps, have been fairly
inferred that it was the intention of the legislature to grant
full power to tax for the payment of the extraordinary debt
authorized to an amount sufficient to meet both principal and
interest at maturity. This implication is, however, repelled
by the special provision for the tax of one-twentieth of one
per cent, and the case is thus brought directly within the
maxim, expressio unius est exclusio alterius.
Thus, while the debt was authorized, the power of taxation
for its payment was limited, by the act itself and the general
statutes in force at the time, to the special tax designated in
the act, and such other taxes applicable to the subject as then
were or might thereafter by general or special acts be permitted. No contract has been impaired by taking away a
power which was in force when the bonds were issued. The
general power of taxation to pay county debts is as ample now
as it was when the railroad company was incorporated and the
debt incurred. The difficulty lies in the want of original
power. While there has undoubtedly been great recklessness
on the part of the municipal authorities in the creation of
bonded indebtedness, there has not unfrequently been gross
carelessness on the part of purchasers when investing in such
securities. Every purchaser of a municipal bond is chargeable
with notice of the statute under which the bond was issued.
If the statute gives no power to make the bond, the municipality is not bound. So, too, if the municipality has no power,
either by express grant or by implication, to raise money by
taxation to pay the bond, the holder cannot require the municipal authorities to levy a tax for that purpose. If the purchaser in this case had examined the statutes under which the
county was acting, he would have seen what might prove to
be difficulties in the way of payment. As it is, he holds the

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED

STATES V. COUNTY OF MACON.

591

obligation of a debtor who is unable to provide the means of
payment. We have no power by mandamus to compel -a
municipal corporation to levy a tax which the law does not
authorize. We cannot create new rights or confer new powers.
All we can do is to bring existing powers into operation. In
this case it appears that the special tax of one-twentieth of
one per cent has been regularly levied, collected, and applied,
and no complaint is made as to the levy of the one-half of one
per cent for general purposes. What is wanted is the. levy
beyond these amounts, and that, we think, under existing
laws, we have no power to order.
Our attention has been directed to the general railroad law
in force when the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company
was incorporated and when the bonds in question were issued,
and it is insisted that ample power is to be found there for the
levy of the required tax. The power of taxation there granted
is, as we think, clearly confined to subscriptions authorized by
that act, which require the assent of two-thirds of the qualified
voters of the county. Under such circumstances, it -seems to
have been considered proper to allow substantially unlimited
power of taxation to pay a debt which the voters had directly
authorized. In this case no such assent was required, and
the tax-payers were protected against the improvident action
of the official authorities by a limit upon the amount they
should be required to pay in any one year. The general
railroad act was in force when this company was incorporated,
but its provisions seem not to have been satisfactory to the
corporators. They wanted authority for counties to subscribe
without an election, and on that account accepted the terms
which were offered. As the bondholders claim under the
corporation, they must submit to the conditions as to taxation
which were substituted for those that would .otherwise have
existed.
We have not been referred to any statute which gives a
judgment creditor any right to a levy of taxes which he did
not have before the judgment. The judgment has the effect
of a judicial determination of the validity of his demand and
of the amount that is due, but it gives him no new rights in
respect to the means of payment.

TERHUNE V. PHILLIPS.

[Sup. Ct.

This disposes of the case, and without answering specifically
the questions that have been certified, we affirm the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -In County of facon v. Huidekoper, error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of -issouri, which was argued at the
same time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case, a. CHIEF
JUSTICE VAITE announced the judgment of the court, as follows: A majority
of the court adheres to the decision in United States v. County of Clark (96 U. S.
211), and I am directed to announce the affirmance of this judgment upon the
authority of that case.

TERHUNE V. PHILLIPS.
The court will take judicial notice of a thing which is in the common knowledge and use of the people through the country. It therefore holds that
reissued letters-patent No. 6748, granted to Matthias Terhune Jan. 27, 1874,
for an alleged new and useful improvement in corner sockets for showcases, are void for want of novelty.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was a bill in equity by Matthias Terhune against John
Phillips and Wellington Phillips, praying for an injunction restraining them from using or vending, or in any manner putting
into practical operation or use, the corner sockets for show-cases
for an improvement in which reissued letters-patent No. 5748
had been granted to the complainant by the United States, Jan.
27, 1874.
It appears by the specification forming a part of the letterspatent that the invention fQr which they were granted "has for
its object to provide a means for connecting the ends of the horizontal and vertical members of a show-case frame; and to that
end it consists in a metallic corner-piece, provided with sockets
adapted to receive the ends of the different members, whereby
the same are firmly connected at the corners of the case."
The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon the complainant brought the case here.
Mr. L. L. Coburn for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
-

