Oct. 1818.]

KEELY V. SANDERS.

chasers to inquire whether they had been issued or not. These
facts, taken in connection with the price at which the bonds
were offered, were abundantly sufficient to affect the purchasers
with notice of any invalidity in their issue. The case is so plain,
that it is hardly necessary to cite any authorities on the subject. "A person who takes a bill," said this court in Andrews
v. Pond et al. (13 Pet. 65), "which upon the face of it was
dishonored, cannot be allowed to claim the privileges which
belong to a bonafide holder without notice." The same doctrine is reaffirmed in Fowler v. Brantley et al. (14 id. 318),
and, indeed, is elementary law. The circumstances in this
case went farther than merely to cast a shade of suspicion
upon the bonds: they were so pointed and emphatic as to be
prima facie inconsistent with any other view than that there
was something wrong in the title. See 1 Daniel, Neg. Inst.,
sect. 796.
Decree affirmed.

KEELY v.

SANDERS.

1. The court reaffirms the doctrine in De Treville v. Smalls (98 'U. S. 517), that
the certificate given by the commissioners to the purchaser of lands at
a sale for a direct tax, under the act of June 7, 1862 (12 Stat. 422),
as amended by the act of Feb. 6, 1863 (id. 640), is prima facie evidence
of the regularity of the sale and of all the antecedent facts essential
to its validity and to that of his title thereunder, and that it can only
be affected by establishing that the lands were not subject to the tax,
or that it had been paid previously to the sale, or that they had been
redeemed.
2. The sale may be valid, although, when it and the assessment were made, the
lands belonged to a non-resident and were in custodia legis, the State court
in which the is was pending having enjoined all creditors from interfering
with or selling them, and they were sold as an entirety, notwithstanding the
fact that the tax bore but a small proportion to their value.
3. A description of the lands in the notice of sale, which identifies them so that
the owner may have information of the claim thereon, is all that the law
requires.
4. The word "district," where it occurs in the sixth section of the said act of
1862, signifies a part or portion of a State. The city of Memphis, Tenn.,
where the lands in controversy are situate, was, therefore, a district within
the meaning of that section.

KEELY V. SANDERS.

[9up. Ct."

to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

_11r. William I1I. Riandolph for the plaintiff in error.
There was no opposing counsel.
RIn.JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
In the courts of the State this was a bill to quiet title to a
parcel of ground in the city of iMemphis, filed against the
appellant, who claims to be the owner by virtue of a sale for
direct taxes made June 24, 1864, and who holds a certificate of
tax sale (No. 1054) given to him in. accordance with the seventh
section of the act of June 7, 1862 (12 Stat. 422), as amended
by the act of Feb. 6, 1863. The force and effect of that certificate we have had occasion to consider in De Treville v.
Smalls, 98 U. S. 517. By the act of Congress it is made
prignafacie evidence of the regularity and validity of the tax
sale and of the title of the purchaser under it, and it is enacted
that it shall only be affected as evidence of the regularity and
validity of the sale by establishing the fact that the property
was not subject to taxes, or that the taxes had been paid previously to the sale, or that the property had been redeemed
according to the provisions of the act. The bill assails the
title of the appellant, and charges that the sale made to him
was null and void, for ten different reasons, which it assigns.
Most of them are assertions of fact, denied in the answer and
sustained by no proof. Among the charges is one that at the
time of the tax sale the property was in eustodia legis, and that
under orders of the State court in which the lis was pending
all creditors - individual, State, and Federal - were enjoined
from selling or interfering with the same. This, of course, was
susceptible of proof only by the record. But no such record
was produced. All that was submitted was the parol testimony
of a witness that the Chancery Court and the Supreme Court
had both taken jurisdiction of the property, and ordered sales
of the same, or parts thereof, to pay the debts of the decedent
owner. Waiving, however, objection to this mode of proof,
-we do not perceive that the fact charged, if it was a fact, had
any tendency to impair the validity of the tax sale. Such a
sale did not disturb any possession which the State court had

Oct. 1878.]

KEELY v. SANDER-S.

"of the property; and no State court coula, by injunction or
otherwise, prevent Federal officers from collecting Federal
taxes. The government of the United States, within its sphere,
is independent of State action ; and certainly it would be a;
strange thing if a State court by its action could relieve property to Federal taxation from liability to pay the taxes when
they are due.
Secondly, the bill charges that the property was misdescribed
in the publication, orders of sale, and in the sale itself, and
that no legal or proper notice of the sale was ever given by
advertisement or otherwise. There is, however, no proof of any
material misdescription. The lot was described as follows:
"Market Street and Thornton Avenue part of country lot five
hundred and six (506) two acres, assessed to Sanders and
Perkins in 1860, fifth civil district, city of Memphis." That
this was a true description, quite sufficient to identify the
property, is not denied. Nor is it denied that it is the same
as that made in the State assessment of 1860. But it is
charged that though the property was part of lot 506, as described, the part sold was known as portions of lots 19 and 3,
allotted to the heirs and devisees of Sanders. It was not, however, described in the State assessment by those numbers, and
mentioning those numbers in the description made by the tax
commissioners would have added nothing to its certainty. The
purposes in describing lands to be sold at a tax sale, says Judge
Cooley, in his Law of Taxation, p. 284, " are, first, that the
owner may have information of the claim made upon him or
his property; second, that the public, in case the tax is not
paid, may be notified what land is to be offered for sale for the
non-payment; and, third, that the purchaser may be enabled
to obtain a sufficient conveyance." "If the description is sufficient for the first purpose, it will ordinarily be sufficient for the
others also." There can be no doubt that the description in
this case was all that was needed to identify the land, and to
inform the Sanders heirs or devisees, who are the complainants
in the bill, of the claim made upon their property.
As to the objection that the property was not advertised for
sale legally and properly, it is sufficient to say that the act of
Congress makes the commissioners' certificate of sale prima

KEELY V. SANDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

facie evidence of the regularity and validity of the sale and of
the title of the purchaser. Even if it is not conclusive of the
existence of every thing antecedent necessary to such regularity
and validity, except liability for taxes and their non-payment,
it is affirmative evidence, controlling until rebutted. In this
case, so far from there being any evidence to rebut the prima
facies of the certificate, or any evidence to support the allegation of the bill, there is positive testimony that the property was advertised for sale in a newspaper then published in
Memphis.
Thus far we have not considered the effect of the proviso to
the seventh section of the act of 1863. That should not be
overlooked. After having declared that the commissioners'
certificate should be primafacie evidence both of the regularity
and validity of the sale, as well as of the title of the purchaser,
Congress went further, and enacted that it should be affected
as evidence of such regularity, validity, and title only by establishing one or more of three facts: non-liability of the property
for taxes, or that the taxes had been paid before the sale, or
that the property had been redeemed. Of what possible use
was this proviso, unless it was intended to make the certificate
conclusive of the validity of the sale and the title of the purchaser, unless it should be impeached by establishing one of
the three facts mentioned? If it meant only that proof of the
existence of one of those facts should destroy the prima facie
effect of the certificate, it was quite superfluous. Without it,
if either of those facts existed, a sale would have been invalid,
and the certificate good for nothing, no matter how regularly
the sale might have been conducted, or how fully and correctly
it might have been advertised, or how accurate might have
been the assessment. Congress must have had a purpose in the
proviso, and what that was it is not difficult to discover. It
was not to repeat what had been enacted in the same section.
The provisions of the whole act were designed to enforce the
collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts, avowedly
so. Governmental disturbance in such districts must have been
anticipated, as well as only a partial restoration of the ordinary
forms of governmental rule, while the districts were under
military control, and consequent irregularities in the processes

Oct. 1878.]

KEELY V. SANDERS.

of collecting taxes. Substance, therefore, not form, was to be
required. Hence the proviso. It secured to land-owners every
substantial defence against sales for taxes, and made the sale
certificate conclusive of every thing else. Such was our opinion
expressed in De Treville v. Smalls, and we adhere to it now.
The fourth and fifth objections to the validity of the sale are,
that while the taxes due bore but a small proportion to the
value of the property, the commissioners sold it as an entirety
without subdivision. If this was so, it was a mere irregularity,
and by no possibility could it affect the validity of the sale.
But it was not even an irregularity. The seventh section of
the act of 1863 required the commissioners to sell the "lot or
parcel of land" upon which the tax was assessed, not such parts
of it as on trial might prove sufficient to pay the tax. It was
not made their duty to subdivide the property.
Another objection urged in the bill against the title acquired
by the appellant at the commissioners' sale is in effect that the
complainant resided in Texas; did not know of the sale until
after it was made; that some other person who was interested
could not get to Memphis in time to redeem before the commissioners had left; and that there was no safe communication
by travel or otherwise outside the city to Nashville or elsewhere.
All this is only asserted as hearsay, and there is no proof that
there was ever any attempt to redeem, or any purpose to redeem.
On the contrary, the proof is that one of the owners was in the
city of Memphis before the commissioners left, and was told he
could redeem the property if he wished; but he refused, expressing the opinion that "as soon as the courts got organized it
would all be upset." But at best, the objection is wholly unimportant. The law charged the tax upon the land. The proceeding to collect it was a proceeding in rem, of all stages of
which the owners had legal notice. It was their duty to pay
the tax when it was due. The commissioners were not bound
to hunt them up. Turner v. Smith, 14 Wall. 553. And it is
not claimed that either the commissioners or the purchaser at
the sale had any agency in preventing a redemption, or that
there was any obstacle in the way thereof that could not easily
have been overcome. While it may be admitted that a statutory right of redemption is to be favorably regarded, it is nev-

KEELY V. SANDERS.

[Sup. Ct,

ertheless true that it is a statutory right exclusively, and can
only be claimed in the cases and under the circumstances prescribed. Courts cannot extend the time, or make any exceptions
not made in the statute. Redemption cannot be had in equity
(titchell v. Green, 10 Ietc. (Mass.) 101), except as it may be
permitted by statute, and then only under such conditions as it
may attach. Craig v. Flanagan, 21 Ark. 319. Thus it has
been held that the pendency of the civil war, and the fact that
the owner resided in another State then in rebellion, cannot
enlarge his right to redeem. Finley v. Brown, 22 Iowa, 538.
It is enough, however, for the present case that there was no
attempt or even offer to redeem.
There are several other matters charged by the bill as objections to this sale unsustained by evidence, and immaterial.
One more only requires consideration. It is the averment
that when the tax sale was made the military authority of the
United States was not established in and over the county of
Shelby, State of Tennessee, nor was it established in any one
county, as required by law.
The sixth section of the act of June 7, 1862, to which the
act'of Feb. 6, 1863, was a supplement, enacted that the board
of tax commissioners should "enter upon the discharge of the
duties of their office whenever the commanding general of the
forces of the United States, entering into an insurrectionary
State or district, should have established the military authority
throughout any parish or district or county of the same."
Manifestly this was only directory to the commissioners. It
was neither a grant nor a limitation of power. By previous
sections the tax had been charged upon every parcel of land in
the State, and the commissioners had been authorized to fix
the amount and receive payment. The sixth section merely
directed when their duties should commence.
Further than this, whether the military authority had been
established throughout Shelby County before the commissioners entered upon the discharge of their duties, is a political
question, to be answered by the executive branch of the government and not by the courts. In its nature it was incapable of
being determined by the latter. Successive juries might give
to it different and contradictory answers.

Oct. 1878.]

KEELY V. SANDERS.

That before the commissioners undertook to enforce the collection of the tax upon the lot in controversy, it had been determined by the executive that military authority had been
established in the district, is plain enough. We know, historically, that the President had appointed a military governor of
the entire State, and he was in active service as such. No
other and civil authority existed. The commissioners themselves were executive officers, and their entering upon the
duties of their office was an assumption that the military authority had been established throughout the district. The act
of Congress required no express and formal determination that
it had been so established, and therefore, whether it had or
not, may be inferred from any executive action that assumed it
had. Hence, opening an office for the collection of the tax,
and proceeding to enforce collection, raised a presumption of
the legality of the commissioners' action. The law presumes
that persons acting in a public office have been duly appointed,
and are acting with authority, until the contrary is shown.
And it has been said that if officers of corporations openly exercise a power which presupposes a delegated authority for the
purpose, the acts of such officers will be deemed rightful, and
the delegated authority will be presumed. Bank of United
States v. Dandridge,12 Wheat. 64.
This is not all of the case in hand. Not only is the averment of the bill that the military authority of the United
States was not established in the county of Shelby when the
tax sale was made denied by the answer, but the averment is
unsustained by proof. The city of Memphis, it is conceded,
was in full and undisputed possession of the Federal army. All
that is proved is that the military lines were around the city,
at a distance of a mile or so from its corporate limits, and that
the remaining part of the county was not in Federal occupation.
All that is quite consistent with the fact that Federal military
authority was established over the whole county. No conquering army occupies the entire territory conquered. Its authority
is established when it occupies and holds securely the most important places, and when there is no opposing governmental
authority within the territory. The inability of any other
power to establish and maintain governmental authority therein
is the test.

KEELY V. SANDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

But if it should be conceded that Federal military authority
bad not been established throughout the entire county of
Shelby, undeniably it had been over Mlemphis, where the sale
was made and where the lot sold is situated. That city had
territorial limits and a municipal organization, with taxing
power and assessments distinct from the county of which it
It was in a very proper sense a "district," and,
was a par.
we think, a district within the meaning of the acts of Congress.
Those acts manifestly had in view not merely the larger civil
divisions of a State or Territory, but "portions of a State," "sections of country," or "conquered territory." The title of the
act of 1862 is, " An Act for the collection of direct taxes ininsurrectionary districts within the United States, and for other
purposes," and the first section enacted that "when in any State
or Territory, or in any portion of any State or Territory, by reason of insurrection or rebellion, the civil authority of the government of the United States is obstructed," &c., . . . "the
said direct taxes" . . . "shall be apportioned and charged in
each State or Territory, or part thereof, wherein the civil authority is thus obstructed, upon all the lands and lots of ground
situate therein," &c. The second section required the President to declare by proclamation in what States or "parts of
States" the insurrection existed. These provisions make no
reference to civil divisions of a State. And when we pass to
the sixth section, it is observable that it speaks of an entry of
a commanding general into "any such insurrectionary State or
distiict." Here it is plain the word "district" means simply
a "part" or "portion" of a State, such as has been previously
mentioned. The section then proceeds to direct the commissioner to open offices when the military authority shall have
been established throughout any county or parish or district
of the same; that is, throughout any district of an insurrectionary district or State. It seems almost an inevitable conclusion
that "taxing districts " was meant, and not alone the large
divisions, such as counties or Louisiana parishes. "Taxing
districts" were in view, as appears also from the thirteenth
section, which contemplated a reference by the commissioners
to the records of assessments and valuations previously made;
and such districts for taxation had a well-known meaning when

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CENTRAL PAC. R.R. CO.

44q

Congress passed the law. They are portions of A State's territory, described for the purpose of assessment, not necessarily
political subdivisions for any other purpose. Our conclusion,
therefore, is that the city of Memphis was a district, within the
meaning of the sixth section of the act of 1862 ; and for the
various reasons we have given, we hold, that the objection which
we are now considering to the validity of the appellant's title is.
without foundation. Upon this mainly, if not alone, the court
below appears to have rested, its judgment.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee will be
reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to direct a
dismissal of the bill; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPNY.
i: This case, in all material respects, involves the same questions as Union
Pacfc Railroad Company v. United States (supra, p. 402), and the court
adheres to the conclusion there announced as to the time when the road
must be considered as completed, so as to render the company thereafter
liable to pay annually five per cent of the net earnings of the road for
the purposes mentioned in the sixth section of the act of July 1, 1862.
12 Stat 489.
2. The rulings in that case upon the question of the earnings and expenditures
of the road, and upon the principles by which the amount of net earnings
is to be ascertained and in what manner paid, reafllrmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for- the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Attorney- General and Mr. Joseph K. AecCammon for
the plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. W. Sanderson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the United States against the Central Pacific Railroad Company, to recover five per cent of the
VOL. IX.

29

