Oct. 1878.]

KLEIN v. NEW ORLEANS.

The Supreme Court still retained jurisdiction of the cause for
the purpose of a rehearing; and when it did rehear and set
aside its former order of reversal, the case occupied the same
position it would if the final judgment of that court had been
the one originally entered. The subsequent judgment operated as a revocation of the order on the court below to proceed,
and consequently took the case out from under the petition for
removal.
We think, therefore, that the Supreme Court had jurisdiction of the cause when its final judgment was entered, and,
consequently, that there is no error in the record which we can
re-examine. The view we have taken of the case makes it
unnecessary to consider whether the filing of the petition for
removal in the clerk's office, the court not being in session, was
sufficient of itself to effect a removal.
Judgment affirmed.

KLEIN v. NEw ORLEANS.
Lands held by a city for public purposes, or ground rents arising therefrom and
forming a part of its public revenues, are not subject to seizure and sale on
execution.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
John Klein, having recovered a judgment for $89,000 against
the city of New Orleans in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana, caused an execution to
issue thereon. The marshal thereupon seized certain real
estate belonging to the city, consisting of "two squares of
ground which had formerly constituted the easterly bank of
the Mississippi River, but which, by the gradual accretion of
said easterly bank, had ceased to constitute the bank of the
river, but which were now used by the public for wharf and
levee purposes, said squares forming a portion of the land known
as the ' Batture property,'" together with certain annual ground
rents therefrom arising and belonging to the city.

KLEIN v. NEw ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

On motion of the city, a rule on the plaintiff to show cause
why the seizure should not be dissolved and set aside was
issued.
At the hearing, the court being of "opinion the said squares
were public property which the city could not alienate without
the permission of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, and that the said ground rents formed a portion of the
public revenues of the said city," and were, therefore, not subject to Klein's execution, made the rule to dissolve the seizure
absolute, and ordered the marshal to release the property.
Klein thereupon brought the case here.
Mifr. J. Q. A. Fellows for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B. F. Jonas, contra.
AIR. C EF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We must take the facts of this case as they are stated in the
bill of exceptions, and cannot look into the evidence. The
questions to be settled are: 1. Whether the lands levied on are
subject to seizure and sale under execution against the city;
and, 2. Whether the ground rents are liable in the same way.
This depends on the facts. If the lands are held by the corporation for public purposes, and the ground rents are part of
the public revenues, it is well settled that they cannot be levied
on or sold. Dillon, Mun. Corp., sects. 64, 446. Municipal corporations are the local agencies of the government creating
them, and their powers are such as belong to sovereignty.
Property and revenue necessary for the exercise of these powers become part of the machinery of government, and to permit a creditor to seize and sell them to collect his debt would
be to permit him in some degree to destroy the government
itself.
The bill of exceptions shows that the lands consisted of
" two squares of ground which had formerly constituted the easterly bank of the Mississippi River, but which, by the gradual
accretion of said easterly bank, had ceased to constitute the
bank of the river, but which were now used by the public for
wharf and levee purposes, said squares forming a portion of the
land known as the 'Batture property.'" From this it must be

,Oct. 1878.]

KLEIN V. NEW ORLEANS.

inferred that they were held for the use of the public. In a
city where business is carried on by water, a public wharf is
as much a public necessity as a public street or highway. If
the land in this case had still continued to be the bank of the
river, and used and improved as a public landing, it certainly
could not have been subject to sale on execution against the
city; but we think a simple extension of its surface does not
change its character. If it continues to be used as it was before,
it is still public wharf *or levee property. It matters not that
charges may have been made by the city for wharfage. That
would be nothing more than a proper governmental regulation.
A street extending to navigable waters and used for wharf purposes does not cease to be public property because a charge is
made for its use in that way. The test in such cases is as to
the necessity of the property for the due exercise of the functions of the municipality. Upon the facts as stated by the
court below, we think the lands levied upon were not subject
to seizure and sale.
As to the ground rents, it was decided by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, in New Orleans & Carrollton Bailroad
Co. v. Municipality No. 1 (7 La. Ann. 148), that "in authorizing the mayor and city council (of New Orleans) to sell property on perpetual ground rent, the legislature established a
'legal destination of the rents, as a portion of the public revenue
of the city, to enable the municipal authority to exercise its
powers of police and government. These rents, therefore, cannot be sold under execution against the municipality." There
is nothing in the bill of exceptions to show that the rents levied
upon in this case were in any respect different from those under
consideration in that. We must presume, therefore, that they
are the same.
Judgment affirmed.

