GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

GRAFTON v. CUXMINGS.
In order to satisfy the requirements of the Statute of Frauds of New Hampshire,
the memorandum in writing of an agreement for the sale of lands which is
signed by the party to be charged, must not only contain a sufficient description of them, together with a statement of the price to be paid therefor, but
in that memorandum, or in some paper signed by that party, the other contracting party must be so designated that lie can be identified without parol
proof.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
On the sixteenth day of May, 1871, the hotel known as
the Glen House, at the foot of the White Mountains in New
Hampshire, together with its furniture, was bid off at an
auction sale by Grafton at the price of $90,000. At the end
of the ten days allowed by the terms of the sale for examination of the title, three deeds were tendered him which were
supposed to convey the title. He refused to accept them, or
pay the purchase-money, or otherwise complete the contract
of purchase. The property was again advertised for sale, and
sold for $61,000 ; and the present suit was brought against him
to recover the difference in the amounts for which the property
sold at these two sales, as damages for failure to perform the
first contract.
The Statute of Frauds of New Hampshire is in these words:
"No action shall be maintained upon a contract for the sale of
land, unless the agreement upon which it is brought, or some
memorandum thereof, is in writing, and signed by the party to
be charged, or by some person by him thereto authorized by
writing." The agreement given in evidence on the trial by
Cummings, the sole plaintiff, consisted of a paper writing
signed by Grafton, certain printed matter on the margin of
that writing, and the advertisement mentioned in the writing
so signed. They are as follows: 'I1,
the subscriber, do hereby'acknowledge myself to be the
purchaser of the estate known as the Glen House, with furniture
belonging to it, in Green's grant, New Hampshire, and sold at
auction Tuesday, May 16, 1871, at 11 o'clock A.M., and for the sum

Oct. 1878.]

GRAFTON V. CUIINGS.

of $90,000, the said property being more particularly described in
the advertisement hereunto affixed; and I hereby bind myself, my
heirs and assigns, to comply with the terms and conditions of the
sale, as declared by the auctioneer at the time and place of sale.
"JOSEPH GRAFTON."

Upon the margin of said agreement were writteh and printed
the following:otTEms OF SALE.

"Ten days will be allowed to examine the title, within which
time the property must be settled for. Five thousand dollars will
be required of the purchaser on the spot, which will be forfeited
to the seller if the terms and conditions are not complied with;
but the forfeiture of said money does not release the purchaser
from his obligation to take the property. Fifteen thousand dollars
to be paid on the delivery of the deed, and one-half of the purchase-money to be paid Sept. 1, 1871, the remaining balance to be
paid Sept. 1, 1872.
"The property is sold subject to the conditions of the sale of the
stage-route, stages, &c., which are, that the proprietors of the route
shall have the exclusive business of the house."
The advertisement referred to in the foregoing paper as being
thereunto affixed was.as follows: " GLEN HOUSE AT AUCTION.
"The famous summer resort at the foot of Mount Washington,
known as the Glen House, together with the land, furniture, mill,
and out-buildings, will be sold at public auction at Gorham, N. H.,
Tuesday, May 16, 1871, at 11 o'clock A.M.
"May 2, 1871.
"VALUABLE

HOTEL PROPERTY FOR SALE.

"The favorite summer resort known as the Glen House, situated

at the foot of Mount Washington and at the commencement of the
carriage road to the summit, will be offered for sale, together with
the land, containing about one thousand acres (well timbered), all
the out-buildings, stables, and mill on the same, also the furniture,
staging, mountain carriages, horses, &c. The house contains some
two hundred and twenty-five rooms, capable of accommodating
between four and five hundred guests. The whole property, if not
disposed of at private sale previous to the 1st of May, will be sold
at public auction to close the estate of the late J. Al. Thompson.

[Sup. Ct.

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

Notice of the time and place of sale will be given hereafter. Any
person desirous of seeing the property, which is in thorough repair,
or wishing to make any inquiries, can do so by applying to J. W.
Weeks, administrator, Lancaster, N. H., or S. H. Cummings, Falmouth Hotel, Portland, Me."
The bill of exceptions adds, that when this paper was put
in evidence it was indorsed.1" A. R. Walker, auctioneer and
agent for both parties." It was not fully shown when this
indorsement was made, and there was some evidence that it
was not there at the time when the deeds which Grafton
refused to accept were tendered. The court, however, instracted the jury, that if it was done at any time before the
commencement of this action it was sufficient.
Evidence was admitted to show that at the time of the sale
another paper was read by the auctioneer affecting the terms
of the sale, but it was not among the papers subscribed by
defendant.
The following letter was, notwithstanding the objection of
the defendant, read in evidence by the plaintiff: "DEAR SIR,- I came up to-day hoping to confer with you in
regard to the purchase of the Glen House. I don't know but
what Lindsay and Barron intend to take it.
Some things they
said indicated as much, and Grafton offered to let them take it at
his bid, and let them have their own time to pay him his claim.
But I find Mrs. Thompson is strongly attached to the place. The
judge of the Probate Court will make her an allowance. It occurred
to me that the purchase might be made in this way. One-tenth
would be $9,000:S. H. Cummings, 1. ........
Lindsay, 3 ..........
Barron, & ..........
Mrs. Thompson,
. .........

..

...

$27,000
27,000
27,000
9,000
$90,000

"This would relieve you from most of the care. It would give
Mrs. Thompson an interest in it. The $9,000 due Grafton is as
much as her share, and I will agree to let it be until she has time
to pay it from the profits. I go home to-morrow, but I wanted to
propose this to you, as Grafton really don't want any thing to do
with the property, though he thinks Stearns, or some one of their

Oct. 1878.]

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

leading hotel men, may have some young man that they would
like to put into the house. He will try to dispose of it in that
way, but hopes that before doing it I shall be able to write to him
that it will be taken up here.
"Very truly yours,
"WOODBuny

DAvis.

"S. H. CUMMINGs, Esq."
There was a judgment for the plaintiff, whereupon Grafton
sued out this writ of error.
Mr. A. J. Tfanderyoel and Mr. James TW. Gerard for the
plaintiff in error.

The action cannot be maintained. No vendor is named in
the paper relied on as the agreement. It is therefore invalid
on its face. Sherburne et al. v. Shaw, 1 N. H. 157; Boyce v.
Green, Batt. 608; Williams v. Lake, 2 El. & El. 349; Williams v. Byrnes, 9 Jur. N. s. 363; Potter v. Duffield, Law Rep.
18 Eq. 4; Champion v. Plummer, 1 New Rep. 252; W ain v.
Warlters, 5 East, 10.
The indorsement by the auctioneer, in which no vendor is
named, did not make the agreement sufficient under the Statute of Frauds. Potter v. Duffield, supra; Bossiter v. Miller,
48 L. J. N. s. 17; Browne, Stat. Frauds, sect. 374.
In the matters put in evidence, the only agreement of Grafton
which, if any, the jury could consider was that signed by him,
referring to the terms and conditions of sale. The connection
between it and some other paper not so signed by him cannot
be shown by parol evidence, but must appear by internal evidence derived from the signed memorandum itself. The declarations of the auctioneer were not admissible. Johnson v.
Miller, 35 N. J. L. 344; Boydell v. Drummond, 11 East, 142;
Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves. 250; Clunan v. Cooke, 1 Sch. &
Lef. 22; Parkhurstv. Van Cortlandt, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.273;
Dobell v. Hutchinson, 3 Ad. & E. 355; First Baptist Church v.
Bigelow, 16.Wend. (N. Y.) 28; O'Donnell v. Leeman, 43 Me.
158; Knox v. King, 36 Ala. 367; 1 Smith, Lead. Cas. 465,
notes to Birckmyr v. Darnell.
No support to the argument of Cummings can be derived
from Beckwith v. Talbot, 95 U. S. 289.
Conditions of sale read before the biddings commenced,

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

but not annexed to the catalogue on which the purchasers'
names were entered, nor referred to therein, cannot supply the
terms of sale omitted in the catalogue. Hinde v. Whitehouse,
7 East, 558; Zenworthy v. Scofield, 2 Barn. & Cress. 945. Nor,
where the signed memorandum contains no reference to them,
are handbills and newspaper notices admissible, although published at the time of sale and there circulated. O'.Donnell v.
Leeman, supra; First Baptist Churchv. Bigelow, supra; Wright
v. Weeks, 25 N. Y. 153; 1iley v. Farnsworth,116 Mass. 223.
Cummings claims that the declarations of the auctioneer were
admissible, because he is the agent of seller and purchaser, so
that his acts and declarations are competent. He is not the
agent of the purchaser until the premises are struck down, and
his agency is limited to then and there signing the contract.
A contract, as originally entered into, cannot at law be
altered by evidence of a parol variation in favor of either the
plaintiff or the defendent. Dart, Vend. and P. 451; Sugden,
Vend. and P. 171 ; Goss v. Nugent, 2 Nev. & M. 33 ; Blood v.
Goodrich, 9 Wend. (N. Y.) 68; Sanderson v. Graves, Law
Rep. 10 Eq. 234.
A parol waiver of the whole contract is sometimes allowed,
but never where the effect of the waiver is to substitute a new
contract for the original one. Goss v. NYugent, 5 Barn. & Adol.
58 ; Sanderson v. Graves, supra.
Xr. T omas H. Hubbard and lVr. Henry Heywood, contra.
There was a sufficient memorandum of the contract in writing
to satisfy the requirements of the Statute of Frauds. Walker
v. Whitehand, 16 Wall. 314; Browne, Stat. Frauds, sect. 373;
Allen v. Bennett, 3 Taunt. -169; Beckwith v. Talbot, 95 U. S.
289. The objection that the memorandum which Grafton signed
does not show who was the vendor, is answered by the letter
written to Cummings by Davis, and also by the printed advertisement pasted to, and thus forming a part of, the memorandum.
It is, in substance, a statement that Cummings was prepared
to treat with purchasers, and to give them all desired information about the property. It thus designated him either as the
seller, or the agent of the seller. Either designation complies
with the statute. No formality is requisite in this respect.
The memorandum is sufficient, if, in addition to the signature

Oct. 1878.]

GRAFTON V. C UIMINGS.

of the party to be charged, it appear with reasonable certainty
who the other party is, and parol evidence is admissible to show
that the person whose name appears on the memorandum acted
as agent for one of the contracting parties. Gowen v. Elous,
101 Mass. 449; Browne, Stat. Frauds, sect. 373; Dykers v.
Townsend, 24 N. Y. 57; Salmon Falls -ManufacturingCo. v.
Goddard, 14 How. 446.
The indorsement written upon the memorandum sufficiently
indicates the other contracting party; and the auctioneer ivho
made it being the agent of both parties at the time of the sale,
and of the seller afterwards until the duties of his agency were
accomplished, he could bind them by his signature. l1fews v.
Carr, 1 IHurlst. & Nor. 484; Kenworthy v. Schofield, 2 Barn. &
Cress. 945; Rice v. Grove, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 158; Lerned v.
Wannemacher, 9 Allen (Mass.), 412; Learned v. Jones, id. 419;
Williams v. Bacon, 2 Gray (Mass.), 387; Coddington-v. Goddard, 16 id. 436; Sanborn v. Chamberlin, 101 Mass. 416; Gowen
v. Elouse, id. 449 ; Hffunter v. Geddings, 97 id. 41; Sievewright
v. Archibald, 1 Langdell, Select Cases, 452; 17 Q. B. 103;
Browne, Stat. Frauds, sects. 352 a, 353, 353 a, 364, 369.
The memorandum consists of all writings connected, physically, or by distinct reference made in one to the other. Browne,
Stat. Frauds, sects. 346-349; Salmon Falls Manufacturing Co.
v. Goddard, supra.
Inasmuch as it was a memorandum, and not the contract itself, parol evidence was admissible to show that as put in evidence it conformed to the contract and expressed its essential
terms. Sievewright v. Archibald, 17 Q. B. 103; Parton v.
Crofts, 33 Law Jour. 189; M11cEean v. Nicoll, 7 Jur. N. s. 999;
Lerned v. Wannemacher, supra; 1 Langdell, Select Cases, 1032
et seq., and cases there cited.
Parol evidence was also admissible, to the same extent that
it would have been to explain ambiguities, to identify the
subject-matter to which the writing referred; to show the situation of the parties at the time the writing was made, and
the circumstances under which the parties executed it. Benjamin, Sales, 156, 157; Browne, Stat. Frauds, sects. 409, 409 a;
Blossom v. Griffin, 13 N. Y. 569; Springsteen v. Samson, 32
id. 703.

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Somewhat greater latitude than is permitted in the case of
written contracts should be allowed in proving by parol the
details of such a contract as this, since the memorandum is
required to contain only the essential elements, and not every
individual incident in the contract.
eLean v. Nicoll, supra;
Salmon Palls M11anufacturing Co. v. Goddard, supra; Linsley
v. Tiblals, 40 Conn. 522.
Mn. JusTICE MILLER, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions in this case is voluminous, containing,
apparently, every thing said and done on the trial. Sixty-one
errors are assigned to this court.
We shall confine ourselves to the examination ;f one of them.
That one presents the question, as it occurs in various forms in
the record, whether there was a sufficient memorandum of the
contract in writing, under the Statute of Frauds of New Hampshire, to sustain the action.
It is proper to observe that the objection to the papers is
not that they were not signed by Grafton, the party charged,
for he signed himself the principal instrument. The reference
to the others, and their annexation to that, are sufficient to
make them a part of the paper which he did sign. We shall,
also, for the purpose of this inquiry, take it that Walker was
the auctioneer, and that his name indorsed on the instrument
gives it all the value which it could have if signed at any time
necessary for that purpose.
The distinct objection to the instrument, as so presented, is
that the other party to the contract of sale is not named in it,
and can only be supplied by parol testimony.
The statute not only requires that the agreement on which
the action is brought, or some memorandum thereof, shall be
signed by the party to be charged, but that the agreement or
memorandum shall be in writing. In an agreement of sale
there can be no contract without both a vendor and a vendee.
There can be no purchase without a seller. There must be a
sufficient description of the thing sold and of the price to be paid
for it. It is, therefore, an essential element of a contract in
writing that it shall contain within itself a description of the

Oct. 1878.]

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

thing sold by which it can be known or identified, of the price
to be paid for it, of the party who sells it, and the party who
buys it. There is a defect in this memorandum in giving no
indication of the party who sells. If Grafton was bound to
purchase, it was because somebody was bound to sell. If he
was bound to pay, somebody was bound to receive the money
and deliver the consideration for the price so paid.
There can be no bargain without two parties. There can be
no valid agreement in writing without these parties are named
in such manner that some one whom he can reach is known
to the other to be bound also. No one is bound in this paper
to sell the Glen House, or to convey it. No one is mentioned
as the owner, or the other party to this contract. Let it be
understood that we are not discussing the question of mutuality
in the obligation, for it may be true that if a vendor was
named in this paper, the offer to perform on his part would
bind the party who did sign. But Grafton did not agree to
buy this property of anybody who might be found able and
willing to furnish him a title. He was making a contract
which required a vendor and a vendee at the time it was made,
and he is liable only to that vendor. The name of that vendor,
or some designation of him which could be recognized without
parol proof extraneous to the instrument, was an essential part
of that instrument to its validity.
It is alleged that Stephen H. Cummings, the plaintiff in this
action, was the vendor, and that this sufficiently appears in the
papers annexed to the memorandum and incorporated into the
statement of this case.
The first ground on which it is sought to maintain this proposition is that Walker's indorsement is sufficient for that
purpose.
It is very clear that Walker did not intend to hold himself out
as the vendor in this case, because he describes himself as auctioneer and agent for both parties. If he had been sued on this
contract by Grafton for failing to tender sufficient deeds of conveyance, it would have been a good answer to the action that he
describes himself in the paper on which he was sued as merely
an auctioneer in the matter, and in that sense as agent, and not
principal. He could not in the act of signing that paper be

GRAFTON V. CUIuNGS.

[Sup. Ct.

the agent of Grafton, for Grafton signed it for himself. The
statement, therefore, did not mean that he signed for both
parties, because he did not, and could not, sign as agent for
Grafton.
What did he mean by putting his name there? It can have
no other fair meaning than simply to say, as he does, I was
the auctioneer who struck off this property.
But concede that he meant to represent the other party in
that contract, a contract in which he takes care not to bind
himself, who is that other party? What light does the writing
of his name as auctioneer and agent throw on that question?
Literally none. An anxious reader of the whole paper and its
attachments would know as little who sold, or for whom Walker
was selling, after his signature as he did before. To say agent
for both parties may show he was agent for the one party
whose name is not there, but it does not show who was that
party. The paper without Walker's indorsement shows who
was the purchaser, but neither with nor without it does it show
who was the seller.
It is next argued that the reference to Cummings's name in
the advertisement annexed to the paper signed by defendant is
sufficient for this. The statement is that the sale is made to
close out the estate of the late Mr. Thompson; and "any
person desirous of seeing the property, which is in thorough
repair, or wishing to make any inquiries, can do so by applying
to J. W. Weeks, administrator, Lancaster, N. H., or S. H.
Cummings, Falmouth Hotel, Portland, Me." Three persons
are here mentioned. One, Mr. Thompson, was dead and could
not be the vend6r. Another, Mr. Weeks, though not mentioned as a party selling, it may be inferred had some interest
in the sale as administrator of Thompson. But Weeks does
not sue, and if his name had been inserted in the contract as
vendor, it would not have sustained the present action. But
the true intent of that advertisement was not to describe the
vendors, or even the owners of the land, but to designate persons who might give any information about the property,
which one thinking of purchasing would need. This did not
require that the person referred to should be the owner of the
land or the party selling it. Such inquiries could as well be

Oct. 1878.]

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

answered by a lawyer, a real-estate agent, the latest keeper of
the hotel, or one who had been his clerk, as by the owner.
There did not arise, therefore, any implication from the reference to Cummings that he was owner, or even part owner, or
that he was holding himself out as the party selling.
The next effort to sustain the instrument sued on as valid
may be said to be a vague effort to show, by the verbal history
of the transaction, that defendant recognized Cummings as
vendor by subsequent interviews and negotiations with him on
the subject of the sale. And special inportance in this part of
the case is attached to a letter written by Davis, a lawyer, to
Cummings.
The letter is liable to three objections, as a recognition
by defendant of Cummings as the party of whom he had
purchased.
1. No such recognition is to be found in the letter. It consists of suggestions on the part of Davis of what had better be
done with the property; that Cummings, Mrs. Thompson, and
Grafton ought to take it; and that Grafton really don't wish to
have any thing to do with it. It is not even a recognition of
the validity of the purchase, and nowhere speaks of Cummings
as the vendor, but he might rather be supposed to be a purchaser with Grafton.
2. Davis does not profess to be speaking or acting for Grafton. He writes in his own name. It is shown by other evidence that, either as attorney or for himself, he controlled the
larger part of the debts against Thompson's estate, which made
the sale necessary, and it may.be fairly inferred that it was in
this character he spoke.
3. There is no satisfactory evidence that he was authorized
to act for Grafton in that transaction, and none whatever that
he was authorized by him to write that letter. The New
Hampshire statute requires that the authority of an agent to
charge a party shall be in writing, and there is no pretence that
Davis had any such authority from Grafton.
These views of the proper construction of the statute are
amply sustained by authority.
In the leading case of Wain v.. IFarlters (5 East, 10), decided
by Lord Ellenborough under the English statute, the same as

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

[Sup. Ct.

that of New Hampshire on the point in question, that eminent
judge said: "The question is whether that word (agreement)
is to be understood in a loose, incorrect sense in which it
may be sometimes used as synonymous to promise or understanding, or in its more correct sense of signifying a mutual
contract on consideration between two or more parties." He
held the latter to be the true construction, and that all its
essential elements must appear in the memorandum, including
the consideration, which in that case was absent. This has
been held to be the law in England ever since.
In Williams v. Byrnes, before the Privy Council, reported in
9 Jur. N. s. 363, decided in 1863, the defendant had in a letter
to one Hardy told him that he would furnish the funds to pay
for a steam-engine if the latter would find and purchase a suitable one. Hardy made a verbal contract for the engine, and
the vendor sued defendant on this memorandum. Coleridge,
J., in delivering the judgment of the Privy Council, said:
"This language" (the language of the statute) "cannot be
satisfied unless the existence of a bargain or contract appear
evidenced in writing; and a bargain cannot so appear unless
the parties to it are specified, either nominally or by description or reference;" and the ruling of the Chief Justice that this
could be done by extrinsic proof as to who was the vendor
was reversed. The case is precisely in point with the one
before us.
Sale v. Lambert (Law Rep. 18 Eq. 1) was a sale of real
estate in which the party charged was the vendor. The memorandum was signed by Sale, the purchaser, for himself, and
by George Jackson, the auctioneer, for the vendor. This memorandum was indorsed on a bill of particulars of the conditions
of the sale, in which it was said that the property was sold by
the proprietor. The Master of the Rolls held that the word
" proprietor" sufficiently described the vendor, and ascertained
who was the party for whom the auctioneer signed. But in
Potter v. -Duffeld(id. 4), he held that the words "confirmed on
the part of the vendor," and signed "Beadels," who were the
auctioneers, did not sufficiently designate who the vendor was,
and that a suit against the owner could not be sustained on the
memorandum. He said: "If you could go into the evidence

Oct. 1878.]

GRAFTON V. CUMMINGS.

as to the person who is described as vendor by Mr. Beadel,
the answer would be that Polley was that person. Bat that
is exactly what the act says shall not be decided by parol
evidence."
In the case before us, Walker, the auctioneer, does not even
say that he signed for the vendor, as Beadel did in the last case
cited.
But the case which should have most weight in informing
our judgment is Sherburne et al. v. Shaw (1 N. H. 157),
because it is an authoritative construction of the statute of the
State where this contract was made and the land is situated, to
which the contract relates, made by the highest court of that
State sixty years ago and never overruled. The case is so perfectly parallel to the one under consideration that its circumstances need not be repeated. It is sufficient to say that the want
of the vendor's name in the memorandum was held fatal to any
right of action, though the auctioneer's name was signed to a
memorandum otherwise sufficient. The concluding language
of the court is, that "the written evidence which hath been
offered to prove the contract declared on, as it fails to give any
intimation that plaintiffs were one of the parties to- that contract, must itself be considered fatally defective and inadmissible."
The same doctrine is laid down in the excellent work of Mr.
Browne on the Statute of Frauds, sects. 372 to 375, and the
authorities fully cited. He also speaks of the case of Salmon
Falls Manufacturing Co. v. Goddard (14 How. 446) as one
which might be saved from conflict with the general rule,
on the ground that a bill of parcels detailing the purchase was
made out and sent to the purchaser, and accepted by him as
such. In that case Mr. Justice Curtis delivered an able dissenting opinion in which Mr. Justice Catron and Mr. Justice
Daniel concurred. It may be doubted whether the opinion of
the majority in all it says in reference to the use of parol proof
in aid of even mercantile sales of goods by brokers is sound
law. It certainly furnishes no rule to govern us in the exposition of the statutes of New Hampshire, concerning contracts of
sale of real estate within its own borders, where it conflicts
with the decisions of the courts of that State on the subject.

TOWN OF WEYAUWEGA V. AYLING.

[Sup. Ct.

Defendant in error relies mainly on that case and the later
one of B3eekwith -v. Talbot, 95 U. S. 289. The latter case,
however, affords no support to the argument of counsel. The
defendant in that action was charged, it is true, on a memorandum in which his name was not found. But he produced that
memorandum from his own possession on the trial, and letters
of his written to the plaintiff while the agreement was so in
his possession were given in evidence, which referred to the
agreement and acknowledged its obligatory force on himself, in
terms that required no parol proof to identify it as the agreement to which he referred. This was within all the cases a
sufficient signing of the memorandum, though found in another
paper, written by the party to be charged, to comply with the
Statute of Frauds, and so this court held.
We are of opinion that there was no sufficient memorandum
in writing of the agreement on which this suit was brought to
sustain the verdict of the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded to that court with instructions
to set aside the verdict ; and it is
-.
So ordered.
Mi'i.

JusTicE BRADLEY took no part in the decision of this

case.

TowIx OF WEYAUWEGA v. AY-I.G.
A town in Wisconsin having, pursuant to law, voted to issue its bonds in aid of
the construction of a railroad in that State, the bonds bearing date June 1,
1871, and signed by A. as chairman of the board of supervisors, and by B.
as town clerk, were issued, and by A. delivered to the railroad company.
When sued on the coupons by a bona fide holder of the bonds for value
before maturity, the town pleaded that the bonds were not in fact signed by
E. until July 13, at which date he had ceased to be town clerk, his resignation of that office having been, June 17, tendered and accepted, and his successor duly elected and qualified. Held, 1. That the town was estopped from
denying the date of the bonds. 2. That in the absence of any thing to the contrary, it must be assumed for all the purposes of this case that the bonds
were delivered to the company by A., with the assent of the then town clerk,
and that they were, therefore, issued by the proper officers of the town.

