Oct. 1878.]

ATWOOD V. WEEMS.

MR. JUSTICE-FiLD concurring.
I agree with the court that the juror Holmes, in this case,
could not be required to answer the questions put to him; but
I go further. I do not think that the act of Congress, which
requires a test oath as to past conduct, and thereby excludes a
great majority of the citizens of one-half the country from the
jury-box, is valid. 1 In my judgment, the act is not only oppressive and odious, and repugnant to the spirit of our institutions,
but is unconstitutional and void. As a war measure, to be
enforced in the insurgent States when dominated by the national forces, it could be sustained; but after the war was
over, and those States were restored to their normal and constitutional relations to the Union, it was as much out of place
and as inoperative as would be a law quartering a soldier in
every Southern man's house.
MR. JusTICE STRONG dissented, on the ground that the evidence of plaintiff's possession was not sufficient to raise the
presumption of title.

ATWOOD V. WEEMS.
1. The right, under sect. 821 of the Revised Statutes, to require the panel of the
jurors called to serve for a term to take the oath therein prescribed, or to
be discharged from the panel, is limited to the district attorney, and is not a
right of individual suitors in a case about to be tried.
2. A testator in whom was the legal title to lands, which he had sold by a written
contract, can transfer by his will both such title and the notes given for the
purchase of them, and the devisee will stand towards the purchaser in the
same position that the testator did.
3. The court reaffirms the ruling in Bennett v. Hunter (9 Wall. 326) and Tacey v.
Irwin (18 id. 549), that a sale for direct taxes under the act of 1862 is void,
where, before the sale, the owner, or some one for him, was ready and
offered to pay them, and was told that payment would not be accepted.

4. Such offer to pay, made to a clerk of the board of commissioners at their
office, who was authorized by them to receive delinquent taxes generally,
is sufficient.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
1 The act was passed in 1862, repealed in 1871, and re-enacted in 1874 by sect.
820, Rev. Stat.

ATWOOD V. WEEMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr.H. Bisbee, Jr., for the plaintiff in error.
Hr. James H. Baker, contra.
MR.JUSTIOE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment for .a lot in St. Augustine,
brought in the proper court of the State of Florida, and transferred into the Circuit Court of the United States for that district, where the plaintiff below recovered a judgment against
the plaintiff in error, which we are called on to review. The
questions to be decided are all raised by a bill of exceptions.
1. It appears "that the defendants moved the court that the
jurors of the panel be required to answer upon oath whether
or not they had given aid and comfort to, or aided and abetted,
the late rebellion against the government of the United States,
within the true sense and meaning of sect. 820 of the Revised
Statutes, for the purpose of exercising the right of challenging
them, if they came within its provisions." The court denied
the motion, on the ground that said section was unconstitutional.
We decided in Burt v. Panjaud(supra, p. 180), from the same
circuit, that a man cannot be compelled to answer this question
when put to him separately in reference to the right of challenge for the disqualification prescribed by that section, and
that to enable a party to avail himself of the right there given,
he must prove by other evidence, if the proposed juror declines
to give it, that he has been guilty of the offences which so disqualify him.
But sect. 821 authorizes such an oath to be tendered to the
whole panel, at the instance of the district attorney or his representative. This, however, must be at the beginning of the
term, and relates to service on the panel for the term. The
right to tender the oath is discretionary with the attorney for
the government, and belongs to no one else.
It is not a right, therefore, in a party to a civil suit to tender
such oath in that suit. Sect. 821 does not require the panel,
or any one on it, to take the oath or to take a general oath to
answer questions touching his qualifications, but provides expressly for his declining to take the prescribed oath. This act
of declining of itself disqualifies him as a member of the panel
for that term. This right to decline to swear confirms what

Oct. 1878.]

ATWOOD V. WEEMS.

we have said in Burt v. Panjaud; namely, that it was not intended to compel the proposed juror to disclose on oath his own
guilt. Since, therefore, the defendant had no right to challenge
the entire panel, as the district attorney might have done at the
beginning of the term, nor to require each member of it to testify as to his guilt or innocence of treason, and since he offered
no evidence that any one of them was so disqualified, the court
was right in overruling his motion.
The judge's declaration of opinion that the law was unconstitutional did not make his action erroneous when it was right
on other grounds.
2. The next question arises out of the construction of the
will of Francis M. Weems, under which plaintiffs claimed
title.
The will is in the record, and is dated Sept. 25, 1865, and
conveys a lot in St. Augustine, three notes due from J. H.
Meyers for $500, each given for the purchase of a lot in St.
Augustine, and all his other property, to his wife and three
sons, who are the plaintiffs. A written agreement, made in
1860 by Francis M. Weems, for the sale of this lot to J. H.
Meyers, is offered in evidence, with proof that Meyers had
taken possession under it. The court was asked to instruct
the jury that the will did not convey the title to the lot, but
only the notes of Meyers; and that, if it was designed to convey the title, it was void, by reason of the adverse possession
of defendant. The court refused to do this, and said that the
failure to pay the notes gave to the testator, Weems, a right
of entry which passed by the will.
It is clear that the contract with Meyers left the legal title
in Weems. This legal title passed by the will as well as the
notes; and though it may have been the desire of the testator
to recognize the contract for the sale, it was necessary, to enable the devisees and the executor to enforce the collection of
the notes, that the title should be in them also. They could
then either tender a deed and demand payment, or assert their
right of entry for failure of the purchaser to pay.
It is not necessary to decide here whether by the common
law a testator having the legal title and right of entry of land
in the adverse possession of another could make a valid devise

ATWOD V. WEEMS.

[Sup. Ct.

of the title, or whether, if that be the common law, it was the
law of Florida; for it appears both by the will itself and by
other evidence in the record that the plaintiffs are heirs as
well as devisees of Francis M. Weems, and if the will did not
convey the title, it was theirs by inheritance.
3. Defendants produced in evidence a certificate of sale of
this lot for taxes made by commissioners appointed under the
act of June 5, 1862, for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts within the United States, to Adolph Mayer,
and an assignment from Mayer to Anna M. Atwood, one of
the defendants, and possession under that certificate. In avoidance of this certificate, plaintiffs introduced evidence tending
to prove that the sale was not advertised as long as the law
required, and also that before the sale their testator offered to
pay the taxes and costs, which the commissioners refused to
receive.
The evidence on this last point, which is without contradiction, is that the commissioners had determined that no taxes
could be lawfully paid, after the advertisement of the sale, by
any one else but the owner of the property; and that under
this view of the matter the clerk of the board of commissioners, who had charge of the office at St. Augustine, twice peremptorily refused to receive the tax due from Weems on this
lot.
One offer to pay was made by Amos Corbitt, who was in
possession of the lot under J. H. Meyers, the purchaser from
Weems, and the other by Christoval Bravo, an agent authorized by Weems to do so. To Corbitt the clerk said he would
take the money from no one but the owner, and he might as
well talk of paying tax for Jeff. Davis.

In Bennett v. ITunter (9 Wall. 326) and Tacey v. I'win (18
id. 549) we decided this very question. In the former case,
the tax was offered by a tenant of the owner and refused,
and we held the sale void; and further, that said payment
could be made by any friend or agent of the owner, whose act
he recognized. The case of Tacey v. I'win went further, and
held that neither payment nor actual tender was indispensable, but that a refusal to receive the taxes rendered a manual
tender unnecessary. If the party offered to pay, was ready to

Oct. 1878.]

ATWOD V.

WVEEMS.

pay, and was told it would not be accepted, it defeated the
sale as much as payment.
Some attempt is made to show that Dunham, the clerk, to
whom Corbitt and Bravo applied, was not authorized to receive
taxes, and that they could only have been lawfully paid or
tendered to the commissioners in person at Fernandina.
But it appears by the testimony of the commissioners themselves that they had an office at St. Augustine as well as at
Fernandina. That Dunham, their clerk at the former place,
-was authorized to receive, and did receive, the taxes which
were payable there, and that all the money received for taxes
at that place was paid to him. Of their right to authorize him
to act for them in the receipt of taxes we have no doubt, and
that his refusal to receive these taxes, which was under instructions from them, was the same as if they had done it in person.
The sale, therefore, was void. Payment of the taxes is
one of the matters which, by the express terms of sect. 7 of
the amendatory act of 1862, may be shown to avoid the certificate ; and in the cases cited we have held that an offer to
pay, and refusal to receive, had the same effect. The error of
the judge concerning the length of the advertisement of the
sale, which is not one of the matters that will avoid the certificate under that section, was immaterial, as it was clearly void,
for the reason we have just stated.
We see no error in the judgment, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD concurring.
I agree with my associates that the jurors summoned in
this case could not be required to make oath whether they had
participated in, or given aid and comfort to, the late rebellion against the government of the United States. And I
also agree with the court below as to the unconstitutionality
of the act which excludes from the jury persons who decline
to take such oath.
Undoubtedly Congress may prescribe the qualifications of
jurors in the Federal courts, and declare the causes of disqualification and challenge. But if any of these causes be the
commission of an act which the law has made a public offence,

KETCHUM

v.

BUCKLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

it is not competent for the court to go into an investigation to
determine the guilt or innocence of the juror. That is to be
ascertained only in one way,- by a separate trial of the party
upon an indictment for the offence; and the only competent
evidence in such case is the record of his conviction or acquittal. It would be a strange and unprecedented thing for a
court, upon the challenge of a juror, to go into a side trial,
whether he had committed a felony, such as highway robbery,
arson, or murder. No one would contend that such a procedure is admissible; and if not in those cases, it is not admissible
in any case where the commission of a public offence is the
ground of challenge.
The court may take judicial notice, from the existence of
war, that a whole people are public enemies; but it cannot take
judicial notice that a whole people, or individuals of it, have
violated the municipal laws of the country. If such violation
be relied upon to exclude a person from becoming a witness or
a juror, it must be shown, not by evidence of what others may
have seen or heard, but by the record of the party's conviction.

IETCHUM

V. BUCTKEY.

Where the President, at the close of hostilities, appointed a military governor of
one of the States, the people whereof had been in rebellion against the United
States, -Held, that such appointment did not change the general laws of the
State then in force for the settlement of the estates of deceased persons, nor
remove from office those who were at the time charged by law with public
duties in that behalf.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama.
In accordance with a special statute of Alabama, authorizing
the appointment of a general administrator and general guardian
for Mobile County, and for other purposes, approved Dec. 14,
1859, Wesley W. McGuire having been duly appointed to that
office for the term of four years, he, March 7, 1864, made and
delivered to the probate judge of the county his bond, in the
penal sum of $150,000, conditioned according to law, with

