Oct. 1878.]

KING V. UNITED STATES.

the firm, though consisting of several members, may do business at one place without being required to pay more than one
special tax.
Suppose the outgoing partner had died b6fore the partnership had been dissolved, no one, it is supposed, would contend
that the survivor would be required to pay another special tax
for the balance of the term covered by the receipt held by the
firm for the tax paid while both partners were in full life, and
the court is of the opinion that the equity of the case disclosed
in the record is equally strong in favor of the defendant.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
United States lost nothing by the transaction, and the court is
of the opinion that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

KING v. UNITED STATES.
1. Where a tax long past due to the United States has been paid to the collector
of internal revenue, he and his sureties are liable therefor, although the
amount so paid had not then been returned to the assessor's office or passed
upon by him, nor had a sworn return of the tax-payer been delivered.
2. The ruling in The Dollar Savings Batk v. United States (19 Wall. 227), that the
obligation to pay the tax on dividends or interest does not depend on an
assessment by any officer, and that a suit for such tax can be sustained without it, reaffirmed and applied to the present case.

3. The tax so paid is public money covered by the terms of the bond.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Ar. Edward Bissell for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court
against Harry Chase and his sureties on his official bond as collector of internal revenue for the tenth district of Ohio.
King and his co-sureties alone join in the writ, and the case

KING V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

having been submitted to the court below without a jury, the
principal error assigned is that on the facts found by that court
the judgment should have been in their favor.
The substance of the facts so found is, that while Chase was
in office as collector, and while the defendants were liable on
his bond for his official acts, he received from the treasurer of
the Toledo, Wabash, and Western Railroad Company, as and
for the tax on interest paid on their mortgage bonds, the sum
of $24,923.87, which he did not pay into the treasury of the
United States, and of which he neglected to render any account
to the government. As it is on the particular circumstances of
this payment to Chase that the defendants rely, it is necessary
to state them -with some care as they appear in the findings of
the court.
It thus appears that on the first day of June, 1868, the railroad company was indebted to the United States, for the five
per cent tax on interest paid by it on its mortgage bonds, the
sum of $112,77.8, which was on that day paid to Chase in three
checks of the treasurer of the railroad company on two different
banks of Toledo, on which the money was paid to Chase by
the banks.
The taxes for which this sum was paid included the whole
amount of the taxes for the years 1865, 1866, and 1867. Of
this sum there was due For the year 1865 .
For the year 1866 .
For the year 1867 .

......
......
......

.
..
.

$19,422.50
44,821.25
48,534.75

This entire sum, as we have said, was paid at the same time
by two different checks of that date.
At the time of this payment there was delivered to Chase six
separate returns of the taxes so due in the form prescribed by
law to be made to the assessor of taxes, which were subscribed
by the treasurer of the company, but not sworn to, and which
had not then been filed with or delivered to said assessor, but
all of which were delivered by Chase to the assessor, except
the returns for the months of August, September, and October, 1867, which were the latest returns so delivered to Chase
at the time the money was paid. These returns he did not

Oct. 1878.]

KING V. UNITED STATES.

deliver to the assessor, nor did he make any mention of them
in his report to the government at any-time, and he retained
the amount of them out of the money received from the treasurer of the company.
It was five years after this before the officers of the government discovered that he had received this sum above what he
had accounted for, and in the mean time he had become insolvent.
The proposition of defendants' counsel is, that because this
money was not received by Chase on any return made to the
assessor, or on any assessment made by him or by the commissioner of internal revenue, for such taxes, and because the
return delivered to Chase was not verified by oath, it was a
voluntary deposit of the money in his hands by the treasurer
of the company, and was not received by him in his official
character. That it was not his duty to receive it for the government under such circumstances, and his sureties are not
liable because it was an unofficial act. The argument has
been pressed with great ingenuity and skill, and with many
illustrations; but in all its forms it amounts to the averment
that Chase had no legal authority as collector of internal revenue to receive the money for the government under the circumstances named, and the payment was not a lawful or valid
payment.
There can be no question that Chase understood himself as
receiving the money for the government, and in payment of
the taxes due. Nor is there any question that the treasurer of
the railroad company intended it as payment to Chase in his
official character as collector, and supposed he had paid the
taxes by so doing; for Chase gave him three separate receipts
in which the taxes for each of the years we have mentioned are
set out, and also the months of the year in which they accrued,
which he signed officially as collector, and declared in each
receipt that it was in full of the account. Nor can there be
any doubt that these taxes were owing and then due to the
United States; for the blank form used by the treasurer in
making these returns shows that such returns were by law to
be made to the assessor on or before the tenth day of the month
following that in which the interest became due and payable,

KING V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

and were to be paid to the collector on or before the last day
of that month. The latest of the taxes in the case before us
had long been due. Part of them had been detained by the
railroad company over two years. All of them over six months.
The company, by the returns which were handed to the collector, acknowledged the sums therein stated to be due, and tendered him the money. There can be no question raised as to
the validity of the tender (because it was in bank checks indorsed good by the bank instead of money), unless objection
had been made to the character of the tender.
The narrow question then is, whether, when a corporation
presents to the collector a statement of taxes long past due,
which taxes must in the end be paid to him, and tenders him
the full payment of said taxes, he may not receive them and
give a valid acquittance for the amount so received.
It is not necessary to decide that such a transaction would
bar a recovery by the United States of any sum in excess of
that paid, which might afterwards be found to be owing for
the same period and for the same tax. The simple question is,
was it a valid payment for that amount, and to that extent,
which the collector might lawfully receive and be bound to
pay to the government.
To hold the contrary is to decide that a debt long past due
and acknowledged to be due by the debtor cannot be paid, when
he is willing to pay, and the proper officer of the government
ready to receive it, because the debtor has neglected to report
the same facts to some other officer, or that officer has neglected
to make report of the facts. Of the duty of the railroad company to pay the money as speedily as possible -there can be no
doubt. When it admitted the obligation and offered to pay it,
was there no one to whom it could pay it?
Sect. 3142, Revised Statutes, then in force, provides for the
appointment of a collector of internal revenue for every collection district. Sect. 3143, in prescribing the conditions of his
official bond, makes it his duty to account for and pay over to
the United States all public money which may come into his
hands or possession, and this condition is in the bond which is
the foundation of the present suit. Money paid for taxes past
due and received by the collector as such, and for which he

Oct. 1878.]

KING V. UNITED STATES.

gives a receipt as collector, specifying with precision the taxes
for which it is paid, is public money. If it is not, whose money
is it? The tax-payer has parted with it in voluntary payment
of a debt due the United States. The collector appointed by
the United States has received it as money paid to the United
States on a debt due the United States. It is not, therefore,
his money. It is the property of the United States, and within
the meaning of the bond it is public money.
The answer made to this by counsel is that the debt was not
due, or, at least, not payable, until the assessor had received and
acted on the return made by the corpqration. There is nothing
in the statute which says this in terms. If it be sound it must
be an implication, and we do not see how such an implication
can arise. That such an assessment was not made long before
was owing to the neglect of the company to make proper returns. Did that neglect make the taxes which should have
been paid a year before any less a debt from that time? And
can it be said they were not due at the time the statute says
they should be paid, because the company failed to make the
report which it was its duty to make?
If there could be any doubt upon this point, it was set at rest
by the decision of this court in The -Dollar Savings Bank v.
United States (19 Wall. 227), where the same objection was
taken to a suit to recover the tax. The court held explicitly
that the obligation to pay the tax did not depend on an assessment made by any officer whatever, but that the facts being
established on which the tax rested, .the law made the assessment, and an action of debt could be maintained to recover it
though no officer had made an assessment. So that, both on
principle and authority, we are of opinion that the judgment
for the sum received by the collector and not paid over, with
interest, is right, and must be affirmed. See also United
States v. ]ierary, 93 U. S. 625.
Sect. 825, Revised Statutes, enacts that "there shall be taxed
and paid to every district attorney two per centum upon all
moneys collected or realized in any suit or proceeding arising
under the revenue laws, and conducted by him, in which the.
United States is a party, which shall be in lieu of all costs and
fees in such proceeding."

KING V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The court in this case, after a motion for re-taxation, ordered
that this two per cent on the sum recovered, amounting to
$712.77, be taxed against defendants. In this we think there
was error.
1. The section applies only to cases where the money is collected or realized. This cannot be told until it is done, and
the sum cannot, therefore, be taxed in the judgment against
defendant. Suppose in the present case half the judgment is
realized and no more, then the sum taxed is twice as much as
the law allows.
2. This two per cent is to be in lieu of all costs and fees in
such proceeding. If it be costs taxable against defendants,
then where, after a long litigation, the defendant is adjudged
to pay ten dollars and costs, he escapes by paying ten dollars
and twenty cents in full. This is obviously not the purpose
of the statute, but must be its results if the word "taxed " in the
section means taxed in court against the defendant.
The section was no doubt intended to establish a rule of compensation as between the government and its attorney, by which,
when he has been successful, he gets a commission of two per
cent for collection, but leaves him his ordinary statutory fee
where nothing is realized.
So much of the judgment, therefore, as relates to this sum
taxed in the costs will be reversed, and the remainder of the
judgment affirmed; and it is
So ordered.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

any part in deciding it.

did not sit in the case, nor take

