TOWN OF WEYAUWEGA V. AYLING.

[Sup. Ct.

Defendant in error relies mainly on that case and the later
one of B3eekwith -v. Talbot, 95 U. S. 289. The latter case,
however, affords no support to the argument of counsel. The
defendant in that action was charged, it is true, on a memorandum in which his name was not found. But he produced that
memorandum from his own possession on the trial, and letters
of his written to the plaintiff while the agreement was so in
his possession were given in evidence, which referred to the
agreement and acknowledged its obligatory force on himself, in
terms that required no parol proof to identify it as the agreement to which he referred. This was within all the cases a
sufficient signing of the memorandum, though found in another
paper, written by the party to be charged, to comply with the
Statute of Frauds, and so this court held.
We are of opinion that there was no sufficient memorandum
in writing of the agreement on which this suit was brought to
sustain the verdict of the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded to that court with instructions
to set aside the verdict ; and it is
-.
So ordered.
Mi'i.

JusTicE BRADLEY took no part in the decision of this

case.

TowIx OF WEYAUWEGA v. AY-I.G.
A town in Wisconsin having, pursuant to law, voted to issue its bonds in aid of
the construction of a railroad in that State, the bonds bearing date June 1,
1871, and signed by A. as chairman of the board of supervisors, and by B.
as town clerk, were issued, and by A. delivered to the railroad company.
When sued on the coupons by a bona fide holder of the bonds for value
before maturity, the town pleaded that the bonds were not in fact signed by
E. until July 13, at which date he had ceased to be town clerk, his resignation of that office having been, June 17, tendered and accepted, and his successor duly elected and qualified. Held, 1. That the town was estopped from
denying the date of the bonds. 2. That in the absence of any thing to the contrary, it must be assumed for all the purposes of this case that the bonds
were delivered to the company by A., with the assent of the then town clerk,
and that they were, therefore, issued by the proper officers of the town.

Oct. 1878.]

TOWN OF WEYAUWEGA V. AYLING.

EIROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This was an action by Charles H. Ayling, a citizen of Massachusetts, against the town of Weyauwega, Wisconsin, to recover
the amount of overdue and unpaid interest coupons detached
from certain bonds issued by that town in aid of the construction of the Wisconsin Central Railroad.
Upon the trial the following facts appeared: 1. That under and by virtue of chapter 126 of the General
Laws of the State of Wisconsin for the year 1869 the legal
voters of the town of Weyauwega voted to issue negotiable
bonds to the amount of $40,000, to aid in the construction of
the Wisconsin Central Railroad.
2. That June 1, 1871, C. M. Fenelon was chairman of the
board of supervisors of the town of Weyauwega, and C. A.
Verke was the clerk of the said town.
3. That said Verke resigned his office of clerk of said town
June 17, 1871; that his resignation was accepted; and on the
same day one Francis W. Sackett was elected and duly qualified as such clerk, and entered upon his duties.
4. That Verke, after his resignation as town clerk as aforesaid, changed his residence to Peshtigo, and ceased to be a resident of Weyauwega.
5. That July 13, 1871, Verke signed in Pesbtigo, where he
then resided, the bonds mentioned in the complaint; that the
date in them at the time he so signed them was June 1, 1871.
6. That he did not in fact sign the coupons mentioned in the
complaint, or any of them, but that his signature to them, as
well as that of Fenelon, the chairman of said town, was lithographed from genuine signatures of Verke and Fenelon.
7. That at the time Verke signed the bonds he was not clerk
of the town of Weyauwega, and had not been clerk thereof
since June 17, 1871.
8. That July 13, 1871, the date when Verke signed said
bonds, said Sackett was the duly and legally qualified clerk
of the town.
9. That Fenelon, who signed the said bonds, was at the date
he signed the same the chairman of the town of Weyauwega,
and as such signed the same.
VOL. IX.

8

TOWN

OF WEYAUWEGA

v. AYLING.

[Sup. Ct.

10. That after the bonds were so signed, they, with the coupons annexed, were issued and delivered by Fenelon, chairman
of the town of Weyauwega, to the Wisconsin Central Railroad
Company, and came to the hands of the plaintiff, who, prior to
their maturity, purchased and paid a full and valuable consideration for them, in good faith, and without notice of any defect
in them or the coupons, or the signatures thereto.
The judges were opposed in opinion upon the following questions 1. Whether the town of Weyauwega was estopped from
showing the true date the bonds were in fact signed by Verke.
2. Whether the bonds, having been in fact signed by him
after he bad ceased to be the clerk of the town, and had removed therefrom his place of residence, and become a resident
of Peshtigo, in law were or could be valid or legal bonds of the
town of Weyauwega.
3. Whether the fact that the bonds bear upon their face the
date of June 1, 1871, and purport to be signed on that day by
Fenelon, chairman, and Verke, clerk, estops or prevents the
town from showing that the bonds were not in fact signed until
July 13, 1871, and that on that day Verke was not the clerk
of the town of Weyauwega; and if it does not, whether in law
the said bonds and coupons are invalid in the hands of a bona
fide holder of the same.
Judgment having been rendered in favor of the plaintiff in
accordance with the opinion of the presiding justice, the town
sued out this writ of error.
The act of 1869 provides as follows:
"SECT. 4.... It shall be the duty of the proper officers in every
such... town.., to cause said... bonds so voted to be. .. issued
and to be paid over or delivered to the said railroad company....
"SECT. 5. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisios of
this act, the proper officers of every . . . town . . . mentioned in
this act are hereby declared to be . . . the chairman of the board
of supervisors and the town clerk in each town.'
Mr. William P. Elynde for the plaintiff in error.
The town was not estopped from showing the true date at
which the bonds were in fact signed by Verke.

Oct. 1878.]

TowN OF WEYAUWEGA v. AYLING.

The enabling act authorized the chairman of the board of
supervisors and the town clerk to execute bonds which should
bind the town. Neither one of them could do it aldne. The
power was conferred -upon them in their official capacity, and
they were constituted the agents of the town for a special
purpose. There can be no doubt that the town has a right
to show that the person who signs as town clerk was not
such when he executed the bonds, and had no authority to
bind the town. The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666; Lee
v. Monroe & Thornton, 7 Cranch, 366; Whiteside et al. v.
United States, 93 U. S. 247; Mayor v. Eschback, 17 Md. 282;
Chisolm v. City of Montgomery, 2 Woods, 594; Story, Agency,
sect. 307.
The act authorized the "proper officers " of the town to
issue the bonds; and those officers are declared to be the chairman of the board of supervisors and the town clerk. Verke,
when the bonds were signed, was neither. He occupied no
official position whatever, and his signature could have no
greater force or effect than that of any other private citizen.
He certainly could not bind the town, of which he was neither
an officer nor a resident. 2 Coler, Municipal Bonds, 136 ;
H1ead v. Providence Insurance Co., 2 Cranch, 127; Freud v.
.Dennett, 4 Sco. N. R. 583; McSpeden v. The Mayor, &c. of
New York, 7 Bosw. (N. Y.) 606; Zottman v. San _rancisco,
20 Cal. 103.
The power of the town to issue its bonds to aid in the construction of this road being derived entirely from an act of
the legislature which declares that they shall be issued by the
chairman of the board of supervisors and the town clerk, the
mode prescribed is essential to the validity of the bonds, indeed, there is no power to issue them in any other way, therefore, having been in fact signed by Verke, after he had
ceased to be the clerk, and removed his residence to Peshtigo,
the bonds are invalid and do not bind the town.
There is nothing in this record to show that the town or its
officers, except the chairman of the board of supervisors, who
is one of the wrong-doers, ever knew of the execution of these
bonds until this suit was brought, nor to show that the town
received any stock or any other consideration for the bonds. It

TOWN OF WEYAUWEGA v. AYLING.

[Sup. Ct.

-would seem that they were given to the company as a gratuity.
What has the town done or said that should estop it from telling the truth? There is a class of cases in which it has been
held that when a power is given to be exercised by certain
persons upon conditions precedent, the existence of which they
are authorized to ascertain and declare, and they exercise the
power, a holder for value of negotiable securities issued
thereunder need not go behind the authority; but in all of
them there was express legislative authority to issue the bonds
upon those conditions. Of this class are the following cases:
Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall et al., 21 How.
539 ; Bissell et al. v. City of Jeffersonville, 24 id. 287 ; 3ioran
v. Commissioners of !lfiami County, 2 Black, 722; Mercer
County v. Hackett, 1 Wall. 83; Gelpee v. City of Dubuque,
id. 175; Von ifostrop v. Mkladison City, id. 291; Rogers v.
Burlington, 3 id. 654; Supervisors v. Sehenck, 5 id. 772; Lee
County v. Rogers, 7 id. 181.
The distinction between those cases and that now before the
court is, that these bonds were not "issued by the body intrusted to do so."
lir. Edwin iH. Abbot, contra.
The recital in the bonds estops the town from setting up
any defect of execution which does not destroy their genuineness.
Verke's signature as clerk nuno pro tune was a purely ministerial act, which speaks truly from and at the date of the bond.
It lacks every essential element of forgery. He was clerk at
the date of the bonds. The coupons bore his genuine fac-simile,
affixed while he was clerk, and accepted by the town as his
signature before his resignation. No one else could have completed, according to commercial usage, the formal certification
of them as the obligations of the town.
Yet even if Verke's signing, under the circumstances stated,
amounted to forgery, the delivery of the bonds by the proper
chief executive officer of the town was such an adoption of the
signature as genuine, as ever afterwards estopped the town from
impeaching it. Beaman v. Duck, 11 Mee. & W. 251; Levy v.
Bank of United States, 4 Dall. 234; Banc of the United States
v. Banc of Georgia, 10 Wheat. 332; 2 Daniel, Negotiable

Oct. 1878.]

TOWN OF WEYAUWEGA

v. AYLING.

Instruments, sect. 1351; Woodruff v. .M7unroe, 33 Md. 146;
Casco Bank v. Keene, 53 Me. 104; Leach v. Buchanan, 4 Esp.
226 ; Greenfield Bank v. Crafts, 4 Allen (Mass), 447 ; Union.
Bank v. 11fiddlebrook, 33 Conn. 95; Howard v. -Duncan,3 Lans.
(N. Y.) 174; Brook v. Hook, Law Rep. 6 Ex. 89; Williams
v. Bayley, Law Rep. 1 H. L. 200, 221; WTilkinson v. Stoney,
1 Jebb & S. 509; Bobarts v. Tucker, 16 Q. B. 577; Arnold v.
Cheque Bank, Law Rep. 1 C. P. D. 578; ]Meacher v. Fort,
8 Hill (S. C.), 227; Hortsman v. Henshaw, 11 How. 177;
Price v. Neal, 3 Burr. 1354; Cooper v. Meyer, 10 Barn. &
Cress. 468; s. c. 5 Mann. & R. 387; Young v. Grote, 4 Bing.
253; -ngham v. Primrose, 7 C. B. N. s. 82; Greenfield Bank
v. Stowell, 123 Mass. 196; Bigelow, Estoppel, 397; Baxendale
v. Bennett, Law Rep. 3 Q. B. D. 525, 530.
The directions of the Wisconsin statute are mandatory. The
town cannot set up its own neglect to comply with them, in
order to defeat its just debt by denying the obligation.
The acts of a municipal officer within the scope of his authority in delivering a bond, ministerially defective in its execution, estop the municipal corporation from setting up mere
defects in execution when his authority extended to the delivering of a valid obligation of substantially the same form. The
same rule of agency applies to towns and individuals.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The first question certified in this case is answered in the
affirmative. The legal voters of the town, by a vote duly
taken pursuant to statutory authority for that purpose, directed
the issue of the negotiable bonds in controversy. As soon as
this vote was given, it became the duty of the chairman of the
board of supervisors and the clerk of the town to cause the
bonds to be made out and delivered to the railroad company.
Such was the requirement of the statute under which the vote
of the town was taken. The designated officers had no discretion in the premises.
After the vote, an appropriate form of bond and coupons
was lithographed and printed, with blanks in the bond for the
signatures of the chairman and clerk. As printed, the bonds

TOWN OF

rEYAUWEGA V. AYLING.

[Sup. Ot.

bore date June 1, 1871. At that time Fenelon was chairman
and Verke clerk. The signatures of these officers were lithographed and printed on the coupons. Before the bonds were
actually signed by Verke, he had resigned his office and moved
out of the town. Another clerk had been appointed and qualified in his place. Apparently to save the expense of a new
lithograph and another printing of the bonds, Verke, after
going out of office, affixed his signature to those which had
been printed. These bonds so signed by Verke and by FeneIon, who actually was chairman at the time, were taken by
Fenelon and delivered to the railroad company. This having
been done, Ayling, the defendant in error, purchased the bonds
to which the coupons sued on were attached, and paid their
full value without notice of any claim of defence to their due
execution. Under these circumstances, we think the town is
estopped from proving that Verke in fact signed the bonds
after he went out of office.' If Ayling had put himself on
inquiry when he made his purchase he would have found,
1, that the town had authority to vote, the bonds; 2, that the
necessary vote had been given; 3, that at the date of the
bonds Verke was clerk and Fenelon chairman; 4, that their
signatures were genuine; and, 5, that the bonds had actually
been delivered to the railroad company by Fenelon, who was
at the time chairman. If a bank puts out a note for circulation bearing the signature of one who was in fact president of
the bank when the note bore date, no one will pretend that
it could be shown as a defence to the note when sued upon
by a bona fide holder, that the signature of the person purporting to be president was affixed after he went out of office. So
if one puts out a note purporting to be signed by himself, but
which was in fact signed by another having at the time no
authority from him, he cannot prove the forgery or want of
authority in the signer as against a bona fide holder. The
reason is obvious. The bank by issuing the note, and the
individual by delivering the paper which purported to be his
obligation, adopted what they thus put out as their own, and
became bound accordingly.
The same principle applies in this case. There is no pretence that the obligation of these bonds is other or different

Oct. 1878.]

CASE

v.

BEAUREGARD.

from that authorized by the voters. So far as the record
shows, the town has received and retains the consideration for
which they were voted. No bad faith is imputed to any one.
It is true the chairman alone made the actual delivery to the
railroad company; but the presumption is, that what he did
was assented to by the clerk in office at the time. Certainly
it could not have been contemplated that, to make a binding
obligation, both the chairman and clerk must have been present when the delivery to the railroad company was made; and
as the presumption always is, in the absence of any thing to
the contrary, that a public officer while acting in his official
capacity is performing his duty, it must be assumed for all
the purposes of this case that the bonds were delivered to the
railroad company by the chairman with the assent of the clerk,
and, therefore, that they were issued as negotiable instruments
by the proper officers of the town. If the fact was otherwise,
it was incumbent on the town to make the necessary proof.
It is unnecessary to answer any of the other questions certified, further than has already been done. The answer to the
first question is decisive of the case.
Judgment affirmed.

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.
A member of a firm assigned and transferred in good faith his interest in the

partnership property in payment of a just debt for which he was solely liable.
The creditor took possession of it and sold it to A., who, by an act of sale, in
which the other member of the firm united, transferred it for a valuable consideration to B. The firm and the members of it were insolvent. C., claiming
to be a simple-contract creditor of the firm, then filed his bill to subject the
property to the payment of his debt. Held, that C. had no specific lien on

the property, and there being no trust which a court of equity can enforce,
the bill cannot be sustained.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
This suit -was brought July 10, 1869, by Frank F. Case,
receiver of the First National Bank of New Orleans, against
Gustave T. Beauregard, Thomas P. May, Augustus C. Graham,

