Oct. 1878.]

FosDIoK V. SCHALL.

FOSDICK V.

SCHALL.

On Feb. 1, 1873, a railroad company in Illinois entered into a contract with A.,
whereby he agreed to sell and deliver to it, at a price payable in instalments,
a number of cars, which, until they should be paid for, were to remain his
property. They, when delivered, were numbered, marked, and lettered as his
property, and were thereafter used in the ordinary business of the company.
Prior to said contract the company had mortgaged to B., as trustee, its franchises, issues, and profits, and all the property it then possessed or might thereafter acquire, either in law or in equity, to secure the payment of certain
bonds. B. filed, May 20,1875, his bill for foreclosure. The receiver appointed
by the court to take charge of the road, finding that the cars had not been paid
for, and that they were necessary for its use, entered into an arrangement with
A., subject to the approval of the court, by which they were valued at 420
each; and it was agreed that a monthly rent of $7 should be paid for each,
with interest on the deferred payments, until the amount so paid should equal
the value of the cars. They were then to become the property of the company. A., in January, 1876, intervened in the foreclosure suit, and after averring the payment of the rent during the period the receiver had used the
cars, prayed that, out of any funds standing to the credit of the cause not
otherwise appropriated, he should be paid for the use of the cars from October, 1874, when the last instalment of the purchase-money therefor had been
paid, and that the cars be returned to him. B. and certain intervening bondholders, claiming that the cars, the title thereto having passed to the company under the contract, were, as after-acquired property, subject to the lien
of the mortgage, denied that A. was entitled to payment for said use from
the income of the road or from the proceeds of the sale, or to a return of the
cars. The court, Dec. 6, 1876, ordered the sale of the mortgaged property,
not including the cars. It was thereupon sold, the sale confirmed, and a conveyance to the purchasers ordered. Subsequently the court decreed that as
A. had not parted with his title, the cars should be returned to him, and that
the clerk should, out of the funds standing to the credit of the cause, pay to
him $14,568.75 as rent for the period the cars were in use before the appointment of the receiver. It does not appear that there were any funds in court
to the credit of the cause except such as arose from the sale. Held, 1. That
the lien of the mortgage did not attach to the cars upon their delivery to the
company so as to defeat A.'s reclamation of them as against the mortgagee.
2. That the payment out of the earnings of the road for rent of the cars for
the time they were used by the receiver was proper. 3. That prima fade the
fund to the credit of the cause belonged to the mortgage creditors, and that
A., being only a general creditor, is not entitled to payment therefrom.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The Chicago, Danville, and Vincennes Railroad Company,
an Illinois corporation, on the 10th of March, 1869, executed a
mortgage to William R. Fosdick and James D. Fish, trustees,

FoSDICK V. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

to secure an issue of $2,500,000 of bonds. This mortgage
covered all the franchises, issues, and profits of the company,
and all the property it then owned or possessed. or might thereafter acquire, either in law or equity. Provision was made to
the effect that, in case of default in the payment of interest on
the bonds continuing for six months, the trustees in the mortgage, on demand of the holders of at least one-half the bonds
then outstanding and unpaid, might take possession of all the
mortgaged property, together with all the books, records,
papers, accounts, and money of the company, and enter into
the management and control thereof, paying all the expenses
of taking, holding, managing, and operating the property from
the income and profits thereof, or, if the property should be sold,
from the sale thereof. The property might be sold as an entirety,
and the proceeds, after deducting the expenses of sale, applied
to the payment of the interest and principal of the bonds.
On the 12th of March, 1872, a second mortgage was executed
to the same trustees, to secure a further issue of bonds to the
amount of $1,500,000.
On the 1st of February, 1873, after both these mortgages
were executed, the railroad company and Michael Schall
entered into a contract in writing, a copy of which is as follows : "N1Ew YoRr, Feb 1, 1873.
Schall, of York, Penn.,
Mr.
Michael
of
"Sold this day for account
"To the Chicago, Danville, and Vincennes Railroad Co.
"Office 38 Pine Street, New York:
"Two hundred (200) eight-wheel gondola coal-cars, as per specifications and agreement made by J. E. Young, and herewith
attached.
"Price, delivered on the track at Pittsburg, at depot of P. C. &
St. L. R. R., seven hundred dollars per car. Cars to remain the property of Michael Schall until paid for.
"Delivery to commence, and cars to be taken, on or before
Mlarch 1, and at least twenty-five (25) cars in each week thereafter until all are delivered, the seller having the option of increasing the number of cars to be delivered per week, if desired.
"Settlement to be made on delivery of each twenty-five (25)
cars or more, at the option of sellers, with the notes of the Chicago,
Danville, and Vincennes Railroad Company, payable in the city of

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

New York, and adding interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum. The first notes are to be drawn at sixty days from date
of delivery, and for twenty (20) dollars on each car, and the balance
for a like amount and payable monthly thereafter.
"Cars to be lettered and numbered as per directions of Mr.
Young.
"Invoice and shipping receipts to be sent to the railroad company's office, No 38 Pine Street, New York.
" It is understood the sellers shall not be responsible for the acts
of Providence, strikes of workmen, or other causes beyond their
control, which may retard and delay the manufacturing and delivery
of the said cars as above stated.
"Shipping receipts to be evidence of delivery.
MICHA.L SCMALL.
" (Signed)
"I hereby accept the above proposition for the R. R. Co.
J. E. YOUNG, Gen. Xanager."
"(Signed)
Under this contract two hundred and twenty-five ears were
delivered into the possession of the railroad company by Schall,
numbered from 0141 to 0365, both inclusive, and lettered, "This
car is the property of Michael Schall, York, Pa." Notes were
executed by the company, according to agreement, for the price
of the cars as they were delivered. Of these notes $44,323.43
have been paid by the company, and $110,334.04 are outstanding. The cars were used by the company in the usual course
of business.
On the 22d of February, 1875, Stephen Osgood, who held
$9,000 of the bonds secured by the mortgage of 1869, and $2,000
of those secured by that of 1872, filed a bill in chancery in the
Circuit Court of Will County, Illinois, against the railroad company and Fosdick and Fish, trustees, with others, for a foreclosure of the two mortgages and a sale of the mortgaged property
for the benefit of the bondholders, according to their respective
priorities; and on the same day the court appointed Henry B.
Hammond and John B. Brown receivers in the cause, with
authority to take the moneys, property, and effects of the company into their possession, and run and operate the railroad
under the orders of the court until discharged. In the order
making the appointment it was specially provided that out of
the moneys which should come into the hands of the receivers
by reason of the operation of the road, the collection of debts,

FOSDICK V. SCIIALL.

[Sup. Ot.

or the sale of the property, they should pay without further
order as to particular demands1. The necessary current expenses of carrying out the duties
of the trust;
2. "All debts now [then] due and owing by said railroad
company for labor and services rendered in operating the railroad within the [then] last three months, and all indebtedness
for engines, iron, wood, supplies, cars, or other property purchased within said period of three months for the use of the
company;
3. Taxes, insurance, and charges of litigation; and,
4. Liabilities for animals killed by engines or cars upon the
line of the road.
On the 5th of May, 1875, the cause was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois on the application of Fosdick and Fish, trustees, two of
the defendants, and on the 17th of the same month the receivers appointed by the State court filed in the Circuit Court
an account of their receivership for the months of February,
March, and April.
On the 20th of May, Fosdick and Fish, as trustees, filed in the
same Circuit Court of the United States their bill against the
railroad company and certain other defendants, for the foreclosure of the two mortgages of which they were trustees; and
on the same day an order was entered in that court appointing
Adna Anderson receiver, with authority to take possession of
all the books, papers, vouchers, and evidence of indebtedness,
moneys, and assets of the company, and all other effects of every
kind, name, and nature which belonged to the company, or
were held for its use and benefit, or in which it had any beneficial interest. He was also authorized to run, operate, and
manage the road and pay the expenses thereof, and manage and
control all the property and affairs of the company. Authority
was also given him to use the moneys of the company for any
and all the purposes specified in the order, and he was required,
as speedily as possible, to examine into the condition of the
property and assets of the company, its contracts, leases, running arrangements, its business affairs, and take an inventory
of its movable property and make a schedule of its floating

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDIOK V. SCHALL.

indebtedness for labor and supplies, and report the same, as soon
as might be, with his recommendation as to the proper disposition of the same and payment thereof. Under this order Anderson took possession of the property, and on the 11th of June
the receivers appointed by the State court filed their final
accounts, and asked to be discharged from their trust.
The cars delivered under the Schall contract were in use by
the company when the receivers appointed by the State court
took possession. Those receivers also continued to use the cars
during all the time they operated the road, and Anderson took
,the possession of them when he entered upon his receivership.
On the 27th of November, 1875, Anderson having ascertained
what the claim of Schall was, and finding that they were necessary for the use of the road, entered into an arrangement with
him, subject to the approval of the court, by which they were
valued at $420 each; and it was agreed that Schall should be
paid seven dollars a month for each car as rent. The aggregate
of payments at this rate for five years would equal the value of
the cars; and it was further agreed that if the rent was paid
promptly, and in addition an amount which would be equal to
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum on the deferred
instalments, the cars should, at the end of that time, become
the property of the company.
On the 19th of July, 1875, the Circuit Court denied a motion of Osgood to consolidate his suit removed from the State
court with that of Fosdick and Fish, but made an order allowing
him and his associates to intervene in the latter suit for the
protection of their respective interests, upon taking the necessary steps therefor. Accordingly, on the 6th of January, 1876,
Stephen Osgood, Frederick W. Huidekoper, Thomas W. Shannon, John M. Dennison, George W. Gill, Alanson A. Sumner,
Chandler Robbins, and William T. Hickok, owners and holders
of a large amount of bonds secured by the several mortgages
which were in the process of foreclosure, filed, with the permission of the court, their petition of intervention.
On the 27th of January, 1876, Schall filed an intervening
petition, in which, after setting forth the facts of his claim substantially as they have already been given, and averring that
he had been paid at the rate of seven dollars a month as rent

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct

during all the time the cars had been in use by the present
receiver, he asked that the balance, his due, might be paid him
out of any funds to the credit of the cause not otherwise appropriated, and that the cars might be returned to him.
Fosdick and Fish and the intervening bondholders answered
this petition, claiming that the title of the cars had passed to
the company under its contract with Schall, and that consequently the lien of the mortgages bad attached to the cars as
after-acquired property. They denied his right to payment
for the cars out of the income of the road or out of the proceeds
of the sale, and they denied his right to a return of the cars.
On the 5th of December, 1876, the court entered a decree in
the suit of Fosdick and Fish for a sale of the mortgaged property,
not, however, including the cars of Schall; and on the 7th of
February, 1877, the property was sold in accordance with the
provisions of the decree to iHuidekoper, Shannon, and Dennison
for $1,450,000. On the 12th of April the sale was approved
by the court, and the master ordered to convey the property to
the purchasers.
On the 28th of April, 1877, the master, to whom the matter
of the intervening petition of Schall had been referred, reported the facts as they have already been stated, and also
that the cars were necessary for the use of the road, and that
the arrangement which had been made by the receiver was a
beneficial one, whether the road remained in the hands of the
receiver or passed into the possession of other parties.
To this report Fosdick and Fish and the intervening bondholders excepted, in substance, because the master found the
title to the cars to be in Schall, and not in the company. Upon
the final hearing, the court held that Schall had not parted with
his title to the cars, and was entitled to the possession. Accordingly it was ordered that the receiver, if in possession, or the
purchasers at the sale, should restore the cars to Schall, and
that the clerk of the court, out of the funds standing to the
credit of the cause, should pay him the sum of $9,450, as rent
for the cars, at the rate of seven dollars each per month for the
six months preceding the 22d of February, 1875, the date when
the receivers of the State court were appointed and took possession, and the further sum of $5,118.75, for a like rent dur-

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

ing the time the cars were used by the receivers of the State
court. It nowhere appears from the record that there are any
funds in court to the credit of the cause except such as arose
from the sale of the mortgaged property.
From this decree Fosdick and Fish and the intervening bondholders have appealed.
Mr. Henry Crawford and Mr. Ashbel Green for the appellant.
Even should it finally be decided that the title to the cars
has always been in Schall, the court below could not appropriate any part of the proceeds of sale to discharge a liability for
the rent of the cars incurred by the mortgagor, years after the
lien of the mortgage had become fixed and paramount.
The lien of the appellants by the recorded mortgage became
effective March 10, 1869, and a subsequent creditor of the company, who claims under a contract into which he entered without privity of the mortgagee, must hold his rights subject in all
things to that mortgage. Rogers v. Humphreys, 4 Ad. & El.
299 ; Haven v. Adams, 4 Allen (Mass.), 80; Crosby v. Harlow,
21 Me. 499; Ellis v. B. H. J B. Railroad, 107 Mass. 1. The
Statute of Illinois is express. Gross, Stat., c. 24, sect. 19.
The judicial construction of it has with unvarying strictness
charged him with full notice of the rights of the holders of the
first recorded lien, and ruled that it was impossible for him to
acquire any greater interest or equities in the incumbered estate
than the mortgagor possessed. Warner v. Belen, 1 Gilm. (Ill.)
220; Kruse v. Scripps, 11 Ill. 98.
The lien given to a mechanic by express enactment is treated
as an in invitum hypothecation of the premises on which the
work is done or materials are delivered; and if it be subsequent
in date to duly recorded incumbrances, he accepts it with full
notice. He cannot recoup the improvements incorporated in
the mortgaged premises, nor postpone the claim of the mortgagees.
The action of the court below in repudiating this doctrine is
contrary to all the authorities. Reed v. Bank of Tennessee,
I Sneed (Tenn.), 262; Jesup v. Stone, 13 Wis. 466; Otley
v. Haviland, 36 Miss. 19; Priorv. Munn, 4 Cal. 175; Hughes
v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 500; Minnesota Company v. St. Paul
VOL. IX.

16

FosDcK v. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ot.

Company, 2 Wall. 609; Butt v. Ellett, 19 id. 544; Getchell
v. Allen, 34 Iowa, 562.
The governing principles upon which priority of lien is based
are that the vested rights of purchasers or incumbrancers cannot in any manner or to any degree be impaired or displaced,
when once attached, by any rights subsequently accruing to
mechanics. Williams v. Chapman, 17 Ill. 423; M'cagan v.
Brown, 11 id. 519.
In an ordinary foreclosure, it would be conceded that these
principles control, and that the statutory priority of the bondholders cannot be defdated by devoting any part of the proceeds
of the sale to the payment of any junior liability or contract
of the mortgagor.
The only claim to exempt this case from the control of the
rules applicable to real-estate mortgages must be based upon
the exploded hypothesis that mortgages upon railways are in
this respect exceptional in their character. The legislature
gave this corporation power to "mortgage" its property to
secure its bonds. The mortgage, as to its execution, acknowledgment, record, and effect, was determined by those laws
and statutes applicable to mortgages made by natural persons.
On default, it is enforceable by chancery, and the rights of the
creditors secured thereby are protected by the same principles
as to registry and priority which preserve the vested rights of
other mortgagees. The attempt to make a distinction to the
prejudice of the mortgagees of a railroad was repudiated by
this court at a very early period in the history of this class of
securities. Dunham v. Bailway Company, 1 Wall. 268. See
also Palmerv. Forbes, 23 Ill. 248.
The bondholders' right grows out of their lien upon the entire
railroad and appurtenances -whose sale produced the fund.
According to fundamental principles, Schall's claim, arising
years later, is subordinate, and therefore not entitled to any
share of the fund until full payment of the bonds.
No warrant can be found in the legislation of Illinois for a
preference to the car manufacturer. A railroad being a quasi
public work, owned and operated by an artificial person, having only such capacity as the legislature chooses to grant, it is
usual, by express statute, to vest borrowing powers and the

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

authority to create even an express contract lien. In the absence of positive enactment, a railroad company cannot create
a statutory charge upon its road by incurring a liability for
improvements.
Dunn v. North Missouri Railroad, 24 Mo.
493; McAuley v. West ermont Railroad, 33 Vt. 323. The
only statute of Illinois purporting to cover this class of liabilities and authorize a lien upon railroads is that of July 1, 1872
(Rev. Stat. Ill. (1874), p. 671, sect. 51), which embraces, inter
alia, fuel, ties, material, supplies, or any other article or thing
necessary for the operation of the road. We do not ask any
narrow construction of the statute as to the class of claims
included in it. Cars are necessary for the operation of a railroad; should an owner of them, by a contract for rent, lease his
equipment to an Illinois railroad corporation, he might, under a
fair construction of the law, be considered as furnishing a supply or an article or a thing necessary for the operation of the
road, and as entitled to the precise rights and remedies of the
statute.
The nature and extent of this statutory right, and especially
when invoked as against prior and fixed incumbrances, are not
matters of doubtful construction.
In determining whether such a construction is to be put upon
the statutes as would overreach prior incumbrances, very strict
canons of construction are adopted by the courts. Xorgan
v. Cincinnati, 3 Wall. 275; Davis v. Alvord, 94 U. S. 545;
Cook v. Heald, 21 Il. 425; Brady v. Anderson, 24 id. 112;
Stephens v. Holmes, 64 id. 336.
This construction given to the local statute by the highest
judicial authority of the State is controlling on the Federal
courts. Leffingwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Nichols v. Levy,
5 Wall. 433; Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575.
The statute, instead of displacing Prior liens to any extent
whatever, has been cautiously framed to protect them, in precise harmony with the correct principles which we have noted,
and most explicitly defines and bounds the lien. It is "upon
all the property, real, personal, and mixed, of said railroad corporation, as against such railroad, and as against all mortgages
or other liens which shall accrue after the commencement of
the delivery of said articles," &c. Prior mortgages or other liens

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

are left wholly untouched. Their priorities, already assured by
the registry laws, were further designed to be protected by
express legislation, and as against them the material-man has
no lien. His only claim is to take his incumbrance as of the
date when his supplies were first delivered; and, if any surplus
is left after full payment of the precedent mortgages, to assert
it upon that, as against the liens which accrued after his had
become vested.
-Davis v. Bilsland (18 Wall. 659) and _Fox v. Seal (22 id.
424) were decided upon statutes whose provisions are directly
the reverse of those which apply to this case.
The first mortgage which the Circuit Court displaced by this
decree did not accrue after, but five years before, the sale of
the cars or their delivery to the company, and Schall's statutory
charge was wholly inoperative. If he had, in apt time, instituted an equitable action in his own name, to enforce his lien
on the railroad property by reason of his claim, he could only
have obtained a decree limited to the company's title, and to
that of such mortgagees as had accrued after the date when the
delivery of his cars began. His rights cannot be amplified because he seeks to enforce them as an intervener in a pending
foreclosure case. The statute only fixes the lien "provided
suit shall be commenced within six months after such material
shall have been furnished." When Schall filed his petition the
bar of the statute was complete. Green v. Jackson Water Co.,
10 Cal. 874; Green v. Ely, 2 Greene (Iowa), 508; Lunt
v. Stephens, 75 Ill. 512; Arbuckle v. illinoisMidland Railway,
81 id. 431 ; -Pryorv. White, 16 B. Mon. (Ky.) 605 ; Phillips,
Mech. Liens, sect. 281.
The mechanic's lien derives its existence and efficacy from
positive legislation, and not by reason of any superior natural
equity. It can never be enforced, unless he brings himself
within the provisions of the statute.
The whole doctrine was summed up in Ellison v. Jackson
Water Co., 12 Cal. 554. "The plaintiff cannot, therefore,
maintain the lien he asserts under the statute, and outside of
the statute there is no lien which can be enforced. Equity
raises no lien in relation to real estate except that of a vendor
for purchase-money." See also Spencer v. Barntett, 85 N. Y.

Oct. 1878.]

FoSDICK V. SCHALL.

94; Hlc Neil v. Borland, 23 Cal. 144; M3!cCoy v. Quick, 30
Wis. 521 ; Clark v. loore, 64 Ill. 275 ; Croskey v. N. T. M.
Co., 48 id. 480; Brady v. Anderson, 24 id. 112; Stephens v.
Holmes, 64 id. 336; Rothgerber v. Dupy, id. 452; Phillips v.
Stone, 25 id. 80; Cook v. Heald, 21 id. 425; Canal Company
v. Gordon, 6 Wall. 561; _ountain v. Reneval, 17 How. 384.
The charter of the company authorized it to mortgage all
its then existing or after-acquired property. The lien was
thus to be paramount, continuous, and effectual. The power
of sale in that instrument was a part of the security which
mortgage creditors had the right to have enforced. Shaw et
al. v. Norfolk County Railroad Co. et al., 5 Gray (Mass.), 162;
American Bridge Co. v. Heidelbach, 94 U. S. 798; Dows v.
Muller, id. 444; Gilman et al. v. lllinois & Mississippi Telegraph Co., 91 id. 603.
The appointment of a receiver in such cases is equivalent to
an entry by the mortgagees, and thereafter the income of the
property is theirs. American Bridge Co. v. Heidelbach, supra;
Gilman v. Illinois & Mississippi Telegraph Co., supra; Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 482; Noyes v. Rich, 52
Me. 116; Boyd v. Burke, 8 I. R. Eq. 660; Howell v. Ripley,
10 Paige (N. Y.), Ch. 43; Ellis v. Boston, Hartford, & Erie
Railroad Co., 107 Mass. 1.
The Circuit Court had no more authority to take a portion
of the mortgage security and devote it to subsequent creditors,
than to order it paid over to the corporation itself, and then
let it pay its own floating debts. Douglass v. Cline, 3 Cent.
Law J. 659.
An exceptional case of hardship or equity does not authorize
a court to disregard the legal priority of the mortgages. Denniston v. Chicago, .Alton, & St. Louis Railroad Co., 4 Biss. 415;
Ellis v. Boston, Hartford,& Brie Railroad Co., supra; Galveston Railroad Co. v. Cowdrey, supra; Duncan v. Mobile & Ohio
Railroad, 2 Woods, 545; Coe v. Columbus, Peoria, & Indiana
Railroad Co., 10 Ohio St. 404; Dillon v. Barnard,1 Holmes,
394; Dunham v. Railway Company, 1 Wall. 268; Nelson v.
Iowa Eastern Railway Co., 2 Cent. Law J. 741.
Schall cannot lawfully recover possession of the cars, nor
compensation for their use by a receiver, in the foreclosure

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

suit, because the trust-deed became a subsisting and paramount
lien thereon, as soon as they were purchased by and delivered
to the company, and the written contract under which Sehall
claims title is, as against the appellants, void under the laws
of Illinois. Pennock v. Coe, 23 How. 117; .Afinnesota Company v. St. Paul Company, 2 Wall. 609; Shaw v. Bill, 95 U. S.
10 ; Galveston Railroadv. ( owdrey, supra.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in Palmer v. Forbes (23 Ill.
248), announced the same view, holding that engines and cars
were in the nature of chattels real, and, whenever they came
into the possession of the company by purchase, became immediately subject to the mortgage.
This construction of the mortgage was, therefore, at its date,
a fixed rule of property.
The bondholders' title to the cars is based on the fact that
they are described in the mortgage, and that their lien has been
still further ripened and enforced by an actual possession taken
in their interest.
Schall sold the cars to the company. The sale was perfected by actual delivery, and part payment was made. The
title was attempted to be retained in him, but solely by way
of security for the unpaid portion of the contract price. He
had no right of possession, use, or disposition of them, and the
risk of the property was with the company.
The exact legal character of the contract is thus defined by
the Supreme Court of Illinois: "It was a conditional sale with
a right of rescission on the part of the vendor in case the purchaser should fail in payment of his instalments. A contract
legal and valid as between the parties, but made with the
risk on the part of the vendor of losing his lien in case the
property should be levied upon by creditors of the purchaser
while in possession of the latter." Murch v. Wright, 46 Ill.
488.
The transaction is precisely as though the petitioner had
executed a formal bill of sale for the cars, and taken back an
unrecorded chattel mortgage for the deferred payments.
The invalidity of such an unrecorded and unacknowledged
contract for a lien is settled by the Supreme Court of Illinois
interpreting the statute. Ketchum v. Watson, 24 Ill. 591;

Oct. 1878.]

FoSDICK V. SCHALL.

Forest v. Tinkham, 29 id. 141; McCormick v. Hadden, 37
id. 371 ; Sage v. Browning, 51 id. 217 ; Frank v. ilfiner, 50 id.
444.
The whole subject has been recently adjudged by this court
in Hervey et al. v. Rhode Island Locomotive Works, 93 U. S.
664.
11r. B. Biddle Roberts, contra.
The cars furnished by Schall being in the nafure of supplies,
within the meaning of the Illinois statute of July 1, 1872, entitled him to a lien upon all the personal property of the
company for the amount due him. That lien was not lost by
the delay in filing his petition. The possession of the receiver
was for the benefit of all parties who might at the termination
of the suit be found to be entitled to the property, and it prevented the lapsing of the lien by limitation. Wrixon v. Vize,
3 Dr. & War. 104.
A contract of conditional sale of cars to a railway coinpany- by the terms of which the company takes possession,
and the vendor retains the title to and the ownership of them
until full payment for them is made-is, even in Illinois, a
valid contract, without recording it as a chattel mortgage, and
is binding upon the company and its receiver. Under it, as
between the company and its privies and the vendor, the title
to the cars does not pass to or vest in the company until full
payment is made. 1 Parsons, Contr., p. 449; Benjamin, Sales,
sect. 320; Story, Sales, sect. 313; Hilliard, Sales, p. 61;
2 Kent, Com., p. 497; 2 Schouler, Pers. Prop., p. 292; llurch
v. Wright, 46 Ill. 487; Gibbs v. Jones, id. 319; Fawcett, Isham,
, Co. v. Osborn, Adams, d" Co., 32 id. 411.
That such a contract is valid and binding against everybody,
and under it the vendor holds his title absolutely against not
only the vendee and his privies, attaching creditors of the vendee, and sales on execution levied by them, but even against
bona fide purchasers without notice, is sustained by the weight
of authority. Copland v. Bosquet, 4 Wash. 588; Rogers Locomotive Works v. Lewis, 4 Dill. 158; Tibbetts v. Towle, 12 Me.
341; fotchkiss v. Hunt, 49 id. 213; Edwards v. Grand Trunk
Railway of Canada, 54 id. 105; Crocker v. Gullifer, 44 id. 491;
Luey v. Bundy, 9 N. H. 298; Porter v. Pettengill, 12 id. 299;

FoSDICK v.

SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Kimball v. Jackman, 42 id. 242; MIcFarlandv. Farmer,id. 386;
Westv. Bolton, 4 Vt. 558 ; M11anwell v. Briggs, 17 id. 176 ; Bradley v. Arnold, 16 id. 382; Boot v. Lord, 23 id. 568; Davis v.
Bradley, 24 id. 55; Clark v. Wells, 45 id. 4; Armington v. Houston, 38 id. 448; Coggill v. Hartford & lTew Haven Railroad Co.,
3 Gray (Mass.), 545; Sargent v. Mletcalf, 5 id. 306 ; Burbank
v. Crooker, 7 id. 158; Deshon v. Bigelow, 8 id. 159 ; ifirschornv.
Canney, 98 Mass. 149; Day v. Bassett, 102 id. 445; Crompton
v. Pratt,105 id. 255; Barrett v. Pritchard,2 Pick. (Mass.) 512;
Hussey v. Thornton, 4 Mass. 405; Marston v. Baldwin, 17 id.
606; Ballard v. Burgett, 40 N. Y. 314; Keeler v. Field,
1 Paige (N. Y.), 312; Herring v. Hoppock, 15 N. Y. 409;
Forbesv. Marsh, 15 Conn. 384; Hart v. Carpenter, 24 id. 427 ;
Bose v. Story, 1 Pa. St. 190; Agnew v. Johnson, 22 id. 471; Lehigh Company v. Field,8 Watts & S. (Pa.) 232; Sage v. Sleutz,
23 Ohio St. 1; Roland v. Gundy, 5 Ohio, 202; Carmack v.
Gordon, 2 Cin. (Ohio) 408; Thomas v. Winters, 12 Ind. 322;
Shireman v. Jackson, 14 id. 459; Plummer v. Shirley, 16 id.
380; Hanway v. Wallace, 18 id. 377; Dunbar v. Rawles, 28 id.
225; Bradshaw v. Warner et al., 54 id. 58; Parmlee v. Catherwood, 36 iMo. 479; Griffin v. Pugh, 44 id. 326; Little v. Page,
id. 412; Ridgeway et al. v. Kennedy et al., 52 id. 24; Bailey v.
Harris, 8 Iowa, 331; Robinson v. Chapline, 9 id, 91; Baker v.
Hall, 15 id. 277; Owens v. Hastings J Sexton, 18 Kan. 446;
Sumner v. 2Mc!arland,15 id. 600; Hallowell v. Mfilne, 16 id.
65; Couse v. Tregent, 11 Mich. 65; Fifieldv. Elmer, 25 id. 48;
Hunter v. Warner, 1 Wis. 126; Goldsmith v. Bryant, 26 id. 34;
Bradshawv. Thomas, 7 Yerg. (Tenn.) 497; Gambling v. Read,
1 LNeigs (Tenn.), 281 ; Buson v. Dougherty,11 Humph. (Tenn.)
50; Ellison v. Jones, 4 Ired. (N. C.) 48; Parris v. Roberts,
12 id. 268; Patton v. McCane, 15 B. Mon. (Ky.) 555; Chism
v. Woods, Hard. (Ky.) 531; Goodwin v. May, 23 Ga. 205;
litcBride v. Thitehead, 1 Ga. Dec. 165; Thompson v. Bay,
46 Ala. 224 ; 1Mount v. Harris,1 Smed. & M. (Miss.) Ch. 185;
Williams v. Connoway, 3 Houst. (Del.) 63.
The possession of a railroad and its equipments, which is
taken by a receiver under an appointment by a court, changes
no right of ownership of any part of the property, perfects no
title to any part, gives no new or added right to any part,

Oct. 1878.]

FoSDICK V. SCHALL,"

changes no contract regarding the ownership of any part; but
is merely a holding by the same title, subject to the same contracts, limitations, and conditions under which the railroad
company held the property, at the time of such appointment.
Edwards, Receivers, pp. 3, 4, 12, 165; 2 Dan. Ch., 28, sect. 3;
Field, Corp., sects. 419, 420; High, Receivers, sects. 5, 318,
319; Hide v. Lynde, 4 Comst. (N. Y.) 387; Curtis v. Leavitt,
15 N. Y. 1; Skip v. Harwood, 3 Atk. 564; Portman v. Mill,
8 Law J. N. s. 165; Delany v. Mansfield, 1 Hog. 235; Beceivers v. The Paterson Gas Light Co., 3 Zab. (N. J.) 283; In
re Colvin, 3 Md. Ch. 280; Williamson v. Wilson, 1 Bland (Md.),
418; H. K. Chase's Case, id. 206; -Ellicottv. Warford, 4 Md.
80; -Ellis v. Boston & Hartford .Railroad Co., 107 Mass. 1;
Lincoln v. Pitch, 42 Me. 469; Devendorf v. Beardsley, 23 Barb.
(N. Y.) 656; Williams v. Babcock; 25 id. 109.
The company not having acquired the title to the cars, they
never became subject to the lien of the mortgage, and cannot
be held by the receiver or the mortgagees, except upon complying with the conditions of the contract of sale. If he uses
the cars in operating the railroad, and does not comply with
that contract by paying for them, the owner has a just claim
for the use of them, which should be paid out of the earnings
of the trust property while in the hands of the receiver, or out
of the proceeds of the sale of it, if the earnings have been applied to the benefit of it. United States v. New Orleans RailToad, 12 Wall. 362; State of Florida v. Anderson et al., 91
U. S. 667; Williamson v. New Jersey Southern Railway Co.,
28 N. J. Eq. 277'; Ellis v. Boston, Hartford, & Erie Railroad
Co., 107 Mass. 1.
The railroad company never having acquired the title to the
cars, the decree below ordering their delivery to the appellee,
and the payment to him of the $14,568.75 as rent, was proper,
and should be affirmed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented by the assignment of errors in
this case: 1. Did the lien of the mortgages attach to the cars of Schall

FosmcK V. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

on their delivery to the company under his contract, so as to
prevent their reclamation as against the mortgagees if the price
was not paid according to agreement?
2. Was the order for the payment out of the fund in court
of the rent of the cars, during the time they were used by the
receivers appointed by the State court and for six months before, justifiable under the circumstances of this case?
As t6 the first question, it is contended that the mortgage
created a subsisting and paramount lien on the cars as soon as
they were put into the possession of the railroad company under
the contract, and that the reservation of the title was void
under the laws of Illinois, because the contract was not recorded.
It must be conceded that contracts like this are held by the
courts of Illinois to be in effect, so far as the chattel mortgage
act of that State is concerned, the same as though a formal bill
of sale had been executed and a mortgage given back to secure
the price. We had occasion to consider that question in Hervey
et al. v. Rhode Island Locomotive Works (93 U. S. 664), and
there held, following the Illinois decisions, that if such an instrument was not recorded in accordance with the provisions of
the chattel mortgage act (R. S. Ill., 1874, 711, 712), a lien like
that of Schall would have no validity as against third persons.
Whatever may be the rule in other States, this is undoubtedly
the effect of the Illinois statute as construed by the courts of
that State. In Green v. Van Buskirk (5 Wall. 307), this court
also held that "where personal property is seized and sold under
an attachment, or other writ issuing from a court of the State
where the property is, the question of the liability of the property to be sold under the writ must be determined by the law
of that State, notwithstanding the domicile of all the claimants
to the property may be in another State." Hervey v. Rhode
Island Locomotive Works (supra), was also a case of seizure and
sale under judicial process; and the language of the court, as
expressed in its opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Davis, is to
be construed in connection with that fact.
As between the parties, notwithstanding the Illinois statute,
the transaction is just what, on its face, it purports to be, " a
conditional sale, with a right of rescission on the part of the

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDIOK V. SCHALL.

vendor, in case the purchaser shall fail in payment of his instalments, - a contract legal and valid as between the parties, but
made with the risk, on the part of the vendor, of his losing his
lien" if it works a legal wrong to third parties. lffureh
v. Wright, 46 Ill. 488. The question, then, is whether these
mortgagees occupy the position of third parties within the
meaning of that term as used in this statute.
They are in no sense purchasers of the cars. The mortgage
attaches to the cars, if it attaches, at all, because they are
"aftei-acquired" property of the company; but as to that
class of property it is well settled that the lien attaches subject
to all the conditions with which it is incumbered when it comes
into the hands of the mortgagor. The mortgagees take just
such an interest in the property as the mortgagor acquired ; no
more, no less. These cars were "loose property susceptible of
separate ownership and separate liens," and " such liens, if
binding on the railroad company itself, are unaffected by a
prior general mortgage given by the company and paramount
thereto." United States v. New Orleans lailroad,12 Wall. 862.
The title of the mortgagees in this case, therefore, is subject to
all the rights of Schall under his contract.
The possession taken by the receiver is only that of the court,
whose officer he is, and adds nothing to the previously existing
title of the mortgagees. He holds, pending the litigation, for
the benefit of whomsoever in the end it shall be found to concern, and in the mean time the court proceeds to determine the
rights of the parties upon the same principles it would if no
change of possession had taken place.
It follows that the decree ordering, a return of the cars to
Schall was right. Whether, if the property is worth more than
is due upon the contract of purchase, the mortgagees can obtain
the benefit of the overplus, is a question we are not called upon
to consider.
As to the second question, we have no doubt that when a
court of chancery is asked by railroad mortgagees to appoint a
receiver of railroad property, pending proceedings for foreclosure, the court, in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion,
may, as a condition of issuing the necessary order, impose such
terms in reference to the payment from the income during the

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

[Sup. Ct.

receivership of outstanding debts for labor, supplies, equipment,
or permanent improvement of the mortgaged property as may,
under the circumstances of the particular case, appear to be
reasonable. Railroad mortgages and the rights of railroad
mortgagees are comparatively new in the history of judicial
proceedings. They are peculiar in their character and affect
peculiar interests. The amounts involved are generally large,
and the rights of the parties oftentimes complicated and conflicting. It rarely happens that a foreclosure is carried through
to the end without some concessions by some parties from their
strict legal rights, in order to secure advantages that could not
otherwise be attained, and which it is supposed will operate for
the general good of all who are interested. This results almost
as a matter of necessity from the peculiar circumstances which
surround such litigation.
The business of all railroad companies is done to a greater
or less extent on credit. This credit is longer or shorter, as the
necessities of the case require; and when companies become
pecuniarily embarrassed, it frequently happens that debts for
labor, supplies, equipment, and improvements are permitted
to accumulate, in order that bonded interest may be paid and
a disastrous foreclosure postponed, if not altogether avoided.
In this way the daily and monthly earnings, which ordinarily
should go to pay the daily and monthly expenses, are kept
from those to whom in equity they belong, and used to pay the
mortgage debt. The income out of which the mortgagee is
to be paid is the net income obtained by deducting from the
gross earnings what is required for necessary operating and
managing expenses, proper equipment, and useful improvements. Every railroad mortgagee in accepting his security
impliedly agrees that the current debts made in the ordinary
course of business shall be paid from the current receipts before he has any claim upon the income. If for the convenience
of the moment something is taken from what may not improperly be called the current debt fund, and put into that which
belongs to the mortgage creditors, it certainly is not inequitable
for the court, when asked by the mortgagees to take possession
of the future income and hold it for their benefit, to require as
a condition of such an order that what is due from the earnings

Oct. 1878.]

FOSDICK V. SCHALL.

to the current debt shall be paid by the court from the future
current receipts before any thing derived from that source .goes
to the mortgagees. In this way the court will only do what,
if a receiver should not be appointed, the company ought
itself to do. For even though the mortgage may in terms
give a lien upon the profits and income, until possession of
the mortgaged premises is actually taken or something equivalent done, the whole earnings belong to the company and are
subject to its control. Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11
Wall. 459; Gilman et al. v. Illinois & Mississippi Telegraph
Co., 91 U. S. 603; American Bridge Co. v. Heidelbach, 94 id.
798.
The mortgagee has his strict rights which he may enforce
in the ordinary way. If he asks no favors, he need grant none.
But if he calls upon a court of chancery to put forth its extraordinary powers and grant him purely equitable relief, he may
with propriety be required to submit to the operation of a rule
which always applies in such cases, and do equity in order to
get equity. The appointment of a receiver is not a matter of
strict right. Such an application always calls for the exercise
of judicial discretion; an4 the Chancellor should so mould his
order that while favoring one, injustice is not done to another.
If this cannot be accomplished, the application should ordinarily be denied.
We think, also, that if no such order is made when the
receiver is appointed, and it appears in the progress of the
cause that bonded interest has been paid, additional equipment provided, or lasting and valuable improvements made
out of earnings which ought in equity to have been employed
to keep down debts for labor, supplies, and the like, it is within
the power of the court to use the income of the receivership
to discharge obligations which, but for the diversion of funds,
would have been paid in the ordinary course of business. This,
not because the creditors to whom such debts are due have in
law a lien upon the mortgaged property or the income, but
because, in a sense, the officers of the company are trustees of
the earnings for the benefit of the different classes of creditors
and the stockholders; and if they give to one class of creditors
that which properly belongs to another, the court may, upQn

FoSDICK V. SCRALL.

[Sup. Ct.

an adjustment of the accounts, so use the income which comes
into its own hands as, if practicable, to restore the, parties to
their original equitable rights. While, ordinarily, this power
is confined to the appropriation of the income of the receivership and the proceeds of moneyed assets that have been taken
from the company, cases may arise where equity will require
the use of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property
in the same way. Thus it often happens that, in the course
of the administration of the cause, the court is called upon to
take income which would otherwise be applied to the payment
of old debts for current expenses, and use it to make permanent improvements on the fixed property, or to buy additional
equipment. In this way the value of the mortgaged property
is not unfrequently materially increased. It is not to be supposed that any such use of the income will be directed by the
court, without giving the parties in interest an opportunity
to be heard against it. Generally, as we know both from
observation and experience, all such orders are made at the
request of the parties or with their consent. Under such
circumstances, it is easy to see that there may sometimes be
a propriety in paying back to the income from the proceeds
of the sale what is thus again diverted from the current debt
fund in order to increase the value of the property sold. The
same may sometimes be true in respect to expenditures before
the receivership. No fixed and inflexible rule can be laid down
for the government of the courts in all cases. Each case -will
necessarily have its own peculiarities, which must to a greater
or less extent influence the Chancellor when he comes to act.
The power rests upon the fact, that in the administration of
the affairs of the company the mortgage eireditors have got
possession of that which in equity belonged to the whole or
a part of the general creditors. Whatever is done, therefore,
must be with a view to a restoration by the mortgage creditors
of that which they have thus inequitably obtained. It follows
that if there has been in reality no diversion, there can be no
restoration; and that the amount of restoration should be made
to depend upon the amount of the diversion. If in the exercise of this power errors are committed, they, like others, are
open to correction on appeal. All depends upon a proper ap-

Oct. 1878.]

FoSDICK V. SCHALL.

plication of well-settled rules of equity jurisprudence to the
facts of the case, as established by the evidence.
In this case no special conditions were attached to the order
appointing a receiver in the Circuit Court of the United States;
and it is not contended that the intervener has brought himself within the rule fixed by the State court, in respect to the
payment of general creditors. He asks to be paid a rent for
his cars; but he entered into no express contract with the
company which requires such a payment, and there is nowhere
to be found any proof of an implied obligation to make such
compensation. Two years and more before the appointment
of a receiver by the State court, he contracted to sell his cars
to the company at an agreed price, payable in instalments,
secured by what was in legal effect a paramount lien upon the
cars. Payments were made according to the contract until
October, 1874, when they stopped. The cars remained in use
after that, not under a new contract of lease, but under the
old contract of sale. The.price agreed upon not having been
paid in full, the power of reclamation, which was reserved,
has been exercised and sustained. The cars were not included
in what was sold at the foreclosure sale, and consequently
have contributed nothing directly to the fund now in court
for distribution. So far as appears, nio moneys growing out of
the receivership remain to be applied on the bonded debt;
and, if there did, through the rent already paid by receiver
Anderson, full compensation has been made for all additions
to that fund by means of the use of the cars. There is nothing to show that the current income of the receivership or of
the company has been in any manner employed so as to deprive this creditor of any of his equitable rights. In short, as
the case stands, no equitable claim whatever has been established upon the fund in court. Prima facie that fund belongs
to the mortgage creditors, and the presumption which thus
arises has not been overcome. Schall, for the balance, his
due, after his own security has been exhausted, occupies the
position of a general creditor only.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed so far as it
directs the payment of the sum of $14,568.75 to Schall, the
appellee, from the fund in court; but in all other respects it

256

FOSDICK V. CAR CO.

[Sup. Ct.

is affirmed, and the cause remanded with instructions to so
modify the decree as to make it conform hereto. The costs
of the appeal must be paid by the appellee; and it is
So ordered.

FOSDICK V. CAR COMPANY.
The ruling in Fosdick v. Schall (supra, p. 235), that where a contract between A.
and a railroad company for furnishing it cars provides that they shall be his
property until paid for, a pre-existing mortgage by the company of all its then
property, or that which it might thereafter acquire, does not subordinate the
claim of A. for the price of the cars to the lien of the mortgagees, reaffirmed
and applied to this case.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. .Henry Crawford and 111r. Ashbel Greenfor the appellants.
Mr. B. Biddle Boberts, contra.
MR. CHEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This appeal presents another petition of intervention filed in
the suit of Fosdicc p Fish v. The Chicago, Danville, & Vincennes Railroad Company. The general facts appearing in
that suit are stated in the case of -Fosdick v. Schall, supra,
p. 235.
The claim of this intervener, the Southwestern Car Company,
like that of Schall, arises out of a contract for the sale of cars,
made with the railroad company on the 10th of January, 1875,
a few days before the appointment of the receivers in the State
court. The price was secured by the notes of the company on
long time, but the title of the cars was to remain in the vendor
until the notes were paid. The cars all had upon them marks
indicating the ownership of the intervener.
The petition of intervention was filed Jan. 27, 1876. It set
out the particulars of the contract, and asked that the receiver
might be authorized to pay the price and keep the cars, as they

