STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

An order will be entered allowing the plaintiff in error to
amend the writ by inserting the third Monday of the present
term as the return-day, in lieu of the " second Monday in
October," and requiring him to cause a new citation, returnable on the first Monday in May next, to be issued and served
on the defendant in error.
So ordered.

STIIINGFELLOW V. CAIN.
1. Under the act entitled "An Act concerning the practice in territorial courts,
and appeals therefrom," approved April 7,1874 (18 Stat. pt. 3, p. 27), the appellate jurisdiction of this court over the judgment or the decree rendered
by a territorial court in a case not tried by a jury can only be exercised by
appeal.
2. Where the record of a suit is duly certified upon an appeal to a district
court in Utah, and the latter states its findings of fact and its conclusions
of law separately, and appeals from its order refusing a new trial and from
its judgment are taken to the Supreme Court of that Territory, the statute whereof requires a statement, to be settled by the judge who heard the
cause, specifically setting forth the "particular errors or grounds" relied
on, and containing "so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain them, and no more;" and where a statement settled and signed by
him, and annexed to the copy of the order refusing a new trial, contains
all the testimony and written proofs and allegations of the parties certified
up to the District Court, upon which the trial was had, and it was stipulated that the statement might be used on an appeal from the judgment to
the said Supreme Court,- Held, 1. That the proceeding was thus made
to conform to the requirements of the Practice Act of Utah, and that the
latter court was called upon to decide whether the evidence was sufficient
to sustain the findings of fact, and, if it was, whether they would support
the judgment. 2. That if that court reverses the judgment because the
evidence does not sustain the findings, other findings must be made before
the case can be put in a condition for hearing here; but if it has all the
evidence which could be considered below, should the case be remanded,
it may state the facts established by the evidence and render judgment.
On an appeal to this court, the case, if otherwise properly here, will be
determined upon the facts so stated. 3. That if the findings of the District Court be sustained, and its judgment affirmed, or if its judgment be
reversed for the reason that the findings are not sufficient to support the
judgment, such findings are, in effect, adopted by the said Supreme Court,
and they, for the purpose of an appeal here, furnish a sufficient statement
of the facts of the case, within the meaning of the act "concerning the
practice in territorial courts and appeals therefrom," approved April 7, 1874.
Sutpra.

Oct. 1878.]

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

3. A., possessed of a lot in the city of Salt Lake, Utah, died in 1857, leaving a
widow and minor children. Under the act of March 2,1867 (14 Stat. 541),
the mayor, Nov. a, 1871, duly entered at the proper land-office the lands occupied as the site of the city, and received, June 1, 1872, a patent therefor, " in
trust for the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof according to
their respective interests." The legislature of the Territory prescribed, by a
statute approved Feb. 17, 1869, rules and regulations for the execution of
such trusts, and provided that the several lots and parcels within the limits
of the lands so entered should be conveyed to "the rightful owner of possession, occupant, or occupants," or to such persons as might be entitled
to the occupancy or possession. Shortly after A.'s death his *idow relinquished the possession of a part of the lot. She subsequently conveyed
another portion thereof, and removed with her children therefrom. Another portion was sold by the administrator of A., to pay taxes assessed
and debts incurred by making improvements upon the property after the
latter's death. The purchaser paid full value therefor, and has since Dec.
10, 1869, remained in the exclusive possession thereof. Held, 1. That A.
at the time of his death had, by reason of his possession of the lot, an
inchoate right to the benefit of the act of Congress, should under its provisions the lands be entered, and that his right to maintain the possession
as against the other inhabitants of the city descended under the laws of
Utah to his widow and children. 2. That the withdrawal of the widow and
children from parts of the lot, and her voluntary surrender of all control
over them, extinguished her and their rights as to such parts. 3. That,
under the territorial statute, an occupant of a lot could sell and convey
his possessory rights therein, before the lands were so entered. 4. That
the purchaser from the administrator is entitled to a conveyance from the
mayor. 5. That the widow and children of A. are entitled to a deed from
the mayor conveying to them, according to their respective interests, that
part of -the lot whereof they were in possession at the time the lands were
entered.

ERROR to and appeal from the Supreme Court of the Terri-

tory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George W. Biddle and Mr. . L. Rawlins for Stringfellow.
1 r. Robert N. Baskin, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
By the act of Congress "concerning the practice in territorial courts and appeals therefrom," approved April 7, 1874 (18
Stat. pt. 3, p. 27), the appellate jurisdiction of this court over
the judgments and decrees of the territorial courts in cases of
trial by jury is to be exercised by a writ of error, and in all

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

other cases by appeal. It follows that the appeal in this case
was properly taken, and that the writ of e ror must be dismissed.
An important question arising under that part of the Civil
Practice Act of Utah which relates to appeals in a civil action
from the District Court to the Supreme Court of the Territory
has been elaborately discussed in the argument, but in the
view we take of the case it need not be decided. This is a
special statutory proceeding, instituted in a Probate Court to
settle disputes between claimants as to their respective rights
under the trust created through the purchase, by the mayor of
Salt Lake City, of the lands on which the city stands, pursuant
to the authority for that purpose granted by the act of March
2, 1867 (14 Stat. 541), "for the relief of the inhabitants of
cities and towns upon the public lands," and the several acts
amendatory thereof. The territorial statute under which this
trust is to be carried into execution (Comp. Laws Utah, 1876,
379) requires parties interested to sign a statement in writing
containing the particulars of their claim, and deliver it to the
clerk of the Probate Court of the county. If there are conflicting claimants, it is made the duty of the probate judge to call
them before him, "and proceed to hear the proof adduced and
the allegations of the parties, and decide according to the justice
of the case." The statements filed stand in the place of pleadings. The court is required to cause full minutes of the testimony to be kept, which must be preserved with the papers, and
entered on the record with the decision at length. If either
party is aggrieved by the decision, he may appeal to the District
Court, as in other cases, and upon the perfection of an appeal
the Probate Court must "cause the testimony and written
proofs adduced, together with the statements of the parties and
the judgment of the court, to be certified to the District Court,to be there tried anew, without pleadings, except as above provided."
This case was heard in the District Court on the record certified up in accordance with these requirements, and in giving
its decision the court stated its findings of fact and conclusions
of law separately. In this it followed the rule prescribed by
the Civil Practice Act of Utah, on a trial by the court of an

Oct. 1878.]

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

issue of fact in a civil action. After the decision had been
made, the present appellees moved for a new trial, on the ground
that the evidence was not sufficient to support the findings.
This motion was denied, and appeals were thereupon taken
to the territorial Supreme Court, both from the judgment and
the order refusing a new trial. Such appeals are allowed by
the Practice Act. When an appeal is taken to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, the law requires a statement to be settled and signed by the judge who heard the cause, which shall
set forth " specifically the particular errors or grounds" relied
on, " and contain so much of the evidence as may be necessary
to explain the particular errors or grounds specified, and no
more." This statement is annexed to the copy of the judgment
roll or order appealed from and furnished to the Supreme Court.
Comp. Laws Utah, 1876, 493, 494.
The statement settled and signed in this case, annexed to
the copy of the order refusing a new trial appealed from, contained all the "testimony, written proofs, and statements of
the parties " certified up from the Probate Court, and upon
which the trial was had; and it was stipulated that the statement on the appeal from this order might be used, so far as
applicable, on the appeal from the judgment. Thus, the proceeding was made to conform to the regulations of the Practice
Act in reference to appeals in civil actions, and the court was
called upon to decide whether the evidence -was sufficient to
sustain the findings of fact, and, if it was, whether the facts as
found would support the judgment. In short, the Supreme
Court of the Territory was called upon to determine whether,
according to the justice of the case as shown by the record, the
judgment of the District Court was right.
The act of April 7, 1874 (supra), provides that on appeals
to this court from the territorial courts, in cases where there
has been no trial by jury, instead of the evidence at large, a
statement of the facts of the case in the nature of a special
verdict, and also the rulings of the court on the admission or
rejection of evidence when excepted to, shall be made and certified by the court below, and transmitted to this court withithe
transcript of the proceedings and judgment or decree. Under
this act, if the findings of the District Court are sustained by

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

[Sup. Or.

the Supreme Court, and a general judgment of affirmance rendered, the findings of the District Court, thus approved by the
Supreme Court, will furnish a sufficient "statement of the facts
of the case" for the purposes of an appeal to this court. The
same will be true if there is a reversal, for the reason that the
facts as found are not sufficient to support the judgment. But
if, as in this case, the judgment is reversed because the evidence
does not sustain the findings, other findings must be made before the case can be put in a condition for hearing in this court
on appeal. Without undertaking to decide what would be the
proper practice in an ordinary civil action when a judgment is
reversed because a new trial was refused in the District Court,
we are clearly of the opinion that in a suit like this, where all
the evidence is before the Supt'eme Court that could be considered by the District Court if the case should be sent back,
it is proper for the Supreme Court itself to state the facts established by the evidence and render the judgment which ought
to have been rendered by the District Court. To remand the
case for a new trial would be in substance only to direct the
District Court to state the facts as found by the Supreme Court
and adjudge accordingly. This would make another appeal to
the Supreme Court necessary in order to put the case in a sitnation for a review in this court, the probabilities being that
on such an appeal the Supreme Court would be called upon
to do no more than affirm its former judgment. There is no
statute of the Territory which in express terms creates the
necessity for such a circuity of action, and we do not think the
Practice Act, when fairly interpreted, requires it. Upon a
new trial no new testimony could be introduced. The District
Court could do no more than find the facts which, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, should have been found before, and
the judgment which should follow from those facts may just as
well be settled by the Supreme Court on the first appeal as on
a second. We conclude, therefore, that the case is properly
here for decision upon the facts stated by the Supreme Court,
and this brings us to the inquiry whether, upon these facts, the
judgment appealed from was right.
The act of March 2, 1867 (supra), provides that the "land
so settled and occupied" for a town site may be entered at the

Oct. 1878.]

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

land-office, "in trust for the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof according to their respective interests," and
that the execution of the trust shall "be conducted under such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the legislative
authority of the State or Territory." The legislature of Utah
enacted that the lands so acquired in trust should be conveyed
to the "rightful owner of possession, occupant, or occupants,"
or to such persons as might be entitled to the occupancy or
possession. Comp. Laws, 381.
In Cofield v. McClelland (16 Wall. 331), this court decided
that the act of Congress created the trust in favor of those who
at the time the entry was made were occupants, or entitled to
the occupancy.
In Hussey v. Smith (supra, p. 20), we held that a non-resident
might, by purchase from an occupant, acquire such a right to
the occupancy as would entitle him to a judgment for a conveyance under the trust. The power of an occupant to sell
and convey his possessory rights is clearly recognized by the
territorial statute.
It is expressly found that the appellees were not in the
actual possession of any part of the lot, except that which was
adjudged to them by the District Court, when the entry was
made by the corporate authorities. Joseph Cain died in 1857,
leaving his widow, Elizabeth Cain, and two minor children,
Elizabeth, now Mrs. Crimson, aged nine years, and Joseph M.,
aged seven. He then occupied the whole of the east half of
the lot in.question as his homestead. Soon after his death,
Brigham Young set up a claim to the north half of the premises,
and the widow, without recognizing his right, submitted to his
demand. Young afterwards assumed to control the property,
and transferred a part of it by deed to Jennings, who went
into possession, claiming the right of occupancy, and under his
occupation improvements were made by himself or his tenants.
Young was never himself an actual occupant, but it is found
that when the testimony was taken the Co-operative Company
was in possession, paying him rent. It does not, however, distinctly appear from the findings whether either Jennings or
the company were occupying the property when the entry was
made at the land-office.

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

[Sup. Ot.

At some time after the death of Cain, his widow sold and
conveyed to Charles King all "her right of claim, interest, and
possession " in that part of the south half of the premises in
controversy which was claimed by Jennings and adjudged by
the District Court to him. When the testimony was taken in
the case, the Co-operative Mercantile Company was in actual
possession of this part of the lot, paying rent to Jennings. It
is not stated definitely when this conveyance was made by Mrs.
Cain or when the tenants of Jennings went into possession,
though it is found that Jennings himself was never an actual
occupant of the property.
On the 10th of December, 1869, the Stringfellow Brothers
went into the possession of that part of the premises claimed by
them, under a sale made by the administrators of Cain to pay
taxes assessed upon the property after his death, and to pay
debts incurred for improvements also made after his death.
They paid for the property its full market value at the time,
and were in the actual occupation when the entry was made
by the corporate authorities at the land-office. The children
of Cain were not made parties to the proceedings in the Probate Court to obtain an order for the sale, but from the time
the sale was made until the statements were filed in the office of
the clerk of the Probate Court, neither they nor their mother
had possession of the premises which were sold.
Upon this state of facts it is apparent that the real question
to be settled is whether the children of Cain retain the benefit
of their father's occupancy of that part of the lot in qontroversy
not in their actual possession when the town site was entered
at the land-office by the corporate authorities. All the interest
their father had in the lot when he died was an-inchoate right
to the benefit of the town-site law in case the property should
be purchased from the United States by the corporate authorities under the provisions of that law. All lie could do was to
maintain, his occupancy, and claim the statutory trust in his
favor in case that trust should be created. He held the position of one seeking to acquire a title by a possession adverse to
all the other inhabitants of the town. His right to maintain
this adverse possession descended under the laws of Utah to his
widow and children. There can be no doubt that the possession

Oct. 1878.]

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

the children thus acquired, if continued, would have ripened
into a perfect title under the trust.
The infants could not bind themselves by contract to sell
And convey their possessory rights, but they might lose their
rights by a failure to keep possession. They need not maintain
an actual occupancy, but they must in some form retain control of the property to the exclusion of an adverse entry.
When Cain died, the mother became the head of the family
and by the laws of Utah the natural guardian of the children.
In this way she had by law the control of their persons. If
she remained in the possession of the property she necessarily
did so for the benefit of her children and herself in proportion
to their respective interests in the inheritance; but if she
voluntarily withdrew from the property and gave it up to
others, the rights of the children as well as herself, which depended upon keeping the possession, were gone. The adverse
possession commenced by the father might in this way be
abandoned.
Applying these principles to the facts as stated we think it
clear that the rights which the children had as occupants on
their father's death were given up by their mother, except as to
that part of the lot they had in actual possession when the
corporate authorities purchased the land from the government.
Soon after the death of the father the mother yielded up the
possession of the north half of the lot on the demand of Mr.
Young, the leader of the Mormon Church, to which she and
her husband during his life belonged. It matters not for the
purposes of this inquiry whether this was rightfully or wrongfully done. In point of fact it was done many years before the
purchase from the government. After that Young assumed
the control of the property so surrendered and deeded some
part of it away. Subsequently the mother sold and conveyed
to King that part of the south half which is now claimed by
Jennings. From the facts as stated it may fairly be presumed
that this was done to save or improve the remainder. Her
husband when he died owed no debts, and so far as appears
had no considerable amount of property except his possessory
rights in this lot. To raise the means to pay taxes which
accrued after his death, and to pay debts incurred for improve-

STRINGFELLOW V. CAIN.

[Sup. Or.

ments also made after his death, his administrators sold that
part of the south half now claimed by the Stringfellows, and
received its full value in money. When these several sales
were made the mother withdrew with her children from th
occupancy, and the Stringfellows made an actual entry in
December, 1869, which they have kept up until the present
time. If the mother was not technically the guardian in socage
of the children, she occupied under the circumstances the
place of such a guardian, and Mrs. Crimson, who was then
unmarried, must have been of full age when the Stringfellows
took their possession. We cannot see how there could be an
abandonment if this is not, and it seems clear to our minds that
it must have been made by the mother in an honest effort on
her part to save all she could of that which the father by his
original occupancy had endeavored to secure.
We are, therefore, of the opinion, from the facts as they are
stated by the Supreme Court : 1. That the surrender of the north half of the lot by Mrs.
Cain on the demand of Young was such an abandonment of the
possession as deprived her and her children of the right to
claim title to that part of the lot without a subsequent entry,
which is not shown.
2. That the conveyance by Mrs. Cain to King operated in
the same way in respect to that part of the south half of the lot
embraced in her deed to him.
3. That the administrator's sale had the same effect as to
that part of the lot bought by George and Samuel Stringfellow,
or one of them.
4. That George and Samuel Stringfellow are entitled to a
conveyance of that part of the lot described in the administrator's deed, and claimed by them in their statement filed with
the clerk of the Probate Court.
5. That the appellees are entitled to a conveyance of all that
part of the south half of the premises not embraced in the deed
of Mrs. Cain to King and in that of the administrators to
Stringfellow, and no more.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory will
therefore be reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions :
1. To enter or cause to be entered in the proper court a judg-

Oct. 1878.]

CANNON V. PRATT.

ment in favor of George Stringfellow and Samuel Stringfellow
for that part of the lot purchased by them at the administrator's sale. 2. To enter or cause to be entered a judgment
in favor of the appellees, according to their respective interests
under their inheritance from Joseph Cain, for that part of the
south half of the premises in controversy not sold to Stringfellows and King, and dismissing their claim as to all the rest
and residue of the lot. 3. To rehear the case upon the evidence sent up from the District Court in respect to the claims
of Jennings and Young as against the corporate authorities of
Salt Lake City, and decide according to the justice of the case.
The appellees will pay the costs of this appeal.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY did not
sit in this case nor take any part in deciding it.

CANNON V. PRATT.
1. The doctrine in Strbngfelow v. Cain (supra, p. 610) reaffirmed.
2. The Probate Court of Utah has jurisdiction to determine the conflicting rights
of claimants to lots forming part of the lands in that Territory entered as
a town site under the act of Congress of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 541), and an
appeal may be taken from the judgment of that court to the District Court,
within one year after it has been rendered.
3. A judgment will not be reversed for error in excluding testimony which is
cumulative only, if it is apparent that if received it would not affect the

result.

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

APPEAL

Mr. George W. Biddle and Mr. J L. Bawlins for the appellants.
Hr. Robert .L. Baskin, contra.
MR. CIHEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This, like Stringfellow v. Cain (supra, p. 610), was a statu-

