Oct. 1878.]

BANK V. PARTEE.

what the Supreme Court says was meant by the Constitution
of 1848; but if it was, it took a deal of change in the language
when the framers of the new constitution and of the new tax
law came to express the same idea. We cannot come to the
conclusion that they were intended to mean the same, but that
the later law was designed to limit the more enlarged power
of the earlier one.
If our construction of the Constitution of 1848 is sound, the
judgment of the Supreme Court must be reversed; for the
stipulation of facts on which the case was tried says that "it
is admitted that all the lots and lands mentioned and described
in the objections filed in said proceeding for judgment, whereon said taxes are levied, excepting improvements on the same,
are leased by said university to different parties for a longer
or shorter period, and that all said lots and lands are held for
sale or lease, for the use and support of said institution and
the objects contemplated by said charter."
We are of opinion that such use and such holding bring the
lots within the class of property which by the Constitution of
1848 the legislature could, if it deemed proper, exempt from
taxation, and that the legislature did so exempt it.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State will be
reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY did not
sit in this case nor take any part in deciding it.

BANx v. PARTEE.
A., a married woman, offered to pay one-half of her indebtedness in land in B.
County, Mississippi, at $10 per acre, and give her notes secured by mortgage
on her land in C. County, in that State, for the remainder. A large number
of her creditors having accepted the offer, she conveyed her land to D. in
trust, but provided in the deed that if any of them should fail within ninety
days from its date "to signify in writing their acceptance of the terms of settlement and payment of their claims or debts," they shouild "be considered as
refusing the same," and be debarred from the benefits of the deed. Among

BANK v. PARTEE.

[Sup. Ct.

the creditors accepting the offer was E., who surrendered the notes held by
him and took the new ones. After the ninety days had expired, A. expressed
her hope that all her creditors would come in, and authorized her agent, in
case they did, to receive her old notes and deliver the new ones in exchange
therefor. At the time of said offer, A. represented that the land was incumbered only by a small annuity, and concealed the fact that a judgment by
default had been obtained in C. County by P. against her and her husband.
On execution sued out on that judgment. G., her son, and said F. purchased
her land in that county. E. thereupon filed his bill to set the judgment aside,
or to obtain leave to redeem the land. Held, 1. That E. having acted in pursuance of the original offer of A., the condition in her deed as to a written
acceptance within ninety days did not apply to him. 2. That the condition
being only in the nature of a penalty against the creditors, not assenting in
the prescribed way, could be, and in fact was, waived by A. 3. That - following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Mississippi on the code of that
State- unless a married woman has a separate estate there situate, she is,
as to her contracts, subject to the disability of coverture, and that a creditor suing her there must aver in his bill or declaration that she has such

an estate, and that his debt is a charge upon it, or ought to be paid out of it.
4. That, as the record of the judgment in satisfaction of which the land was
sold does not disclose the fact that A. had such an estate, and that it was liable for her debts, the judgment was void. 5. That F. and G. were not innocent
purchasers.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.

Mr11. Tilliam A. iMaury for the appellants.
No counsel appeared for the appellees.
1M1R. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In July, 1866, the defendant, Sarah D. Partee, wife of
William B. Partee, then a resident of Mississippi, being indebted in the sum of $125,000, and unable to pay the amount,
submitted to her creditors a proposition in writing for settlement. She represented that the late war had caused her a loss
of over $300,000, leaving her indebted as mentioned, with no
resources except lands, which would not then sell for half of
their value, or for half of her indebtedness. In order, therefore,
to place all her creditors on the same footing, some of them hav-

ing brought suits for sums amounting to about $14,000, she
offered to pay one-half of her indebtedness in lands in Tallahatchie and Sunflower counties, Mississippi, at 810 per acre;
and, for the remaining half, to give her notes in equal sums,

payable in January, 1867, 1868, 1869, 1870, and 1871, with

Oct. 1878.]

BANK V. PARTEE.

interest at eight per cent per annum, secured by a mortgage on
the residue of her lands in Yazoo' County, then under cultivation. This proposal was afterwards modified so as to postpone
for one year the maturity of the several notes.
To secure confidence in the papers to be drawn to close the
transaction, she selected gentlemen well known in Yazoo City
to see to a proper execution of a deed of trust, and to act as
trustees, or to select proper persons for that position. And she
stated that Messrs. Hyams and Jonas, lawyers of high character in New Orleans, would attend to any of the business which
the creditors might choose to place in their hands, and to the
distribution of the new notes after they *ere executed. Accordingly, in November, 1866, a deed was executed by Mrs.
Partee and her husband to one Robert Bowman, conveying to
him the lands mentioned, upon the following trusts: 1st, to
hold the lands in Tallahatchie and Sunflower Counties for the
benefit of such creditors as should accept the same at $10 an
acre in payment of one-half of her indebtedness to them, or if
a majority of the creditors should desire it, to sell the same and
divide the proceeds, or to convey to each of such creditors his
proportion of the lands; and, 2d, in case of default in the payment at maturity of the notes executed upon the settlement, to
sell the lands lying in Yazoo County, or so much as might be
necessary to pay them, and apply the proceeds to their payment.
The deed contained a .clause providing that if any of the
creditors should fail within ninety days from its date " to
signify in writing their acceptance of the terms of settlement
and payment of their claims or debts," they should "be considered as refusing the same," and be debarred from the benefits
of the deed.
The instrument was properly executed, stamped, and registered. After its registration, it was delivered with the new
notes, signed by Mrs. Partee and her husband, to Messrs.
Hyams and Jonas, for the purpose of carrying out the proposed
settlement and securing the acceptance of its terms. Many of
the creditors had previously assented to its terms, and after the
deed was executed they surrendered their old notes for the
new notes. Other creditors came in afterwards, and in a simi-

BANK V. PARTEE.

[Sup. Ct.

lar way gave up their old notes and took the new paper. It
does not appear, however, that any of them signified in writing
their acceptance of the terms of the settlement within the
ninety days mentioned in the deed.
It appears, also, that before the deed was executed, namely,
in April, 1866, one James Stewart had brought suit against
Mrs. Partee and her husband on a promissory note made by
her, and in June following had obtained judgment by default
against them for a sum exceeding $6,000. Upon this judgment
execution was issued, and in January, 1869, the lands in Yazoo
County embraced by the trust-deed were sold and purchased
by Stewart and a son of Mrs. Partee. When the settlement
was proposed, the existence of this judgment was concealed
from Messrs. Hyams and Jonas, who acted, as already stated,
for Mrs. Partee in securing the assent of creditors. The
representation then made was that the lands were incumbered
only by a small annuity.
The present suit is brought to set aside this judgment of
Stewart, or to obtain leave to redeem the land sold under it ;
to remove the trustee, who is charged with certain fraudulent
practices in connection with the trust property, and to have a
new trustee appointed; and to enforce the trusts of the deed.
It is unnecessary for the disposition of the present appeal to
state in detail the various allegations of the bill or of the several answers of the defendants, as the case appears to have been
decided upon the supposed impediment to the relief prayed by
reason of the provision excluding creditors from the benefits of
the deed, who failed, within ninety days from its date, to indicate in writing their acceptance of the terms of settlement;
and by the sale of the property in Yazoo County under the judgment of Stewart. Our consideration is limited, therefore, to
the effect of that provision upon the rights of the complainants,
and to the validity of that judgment.
1. With reference to the provision, it is to be observed that
it was not mentioned in the proposition for settlement made in
July, 1866. That prescribed no period within which its terms
should be accepted; and before the execution of the deed, as
already stated, and as recited in it, many of the creditors had
assented to them. To such creditors -and they embrace the

Oc.i878.]

BANK V, PARTEE.

complainants in this suit- the provision could not have been
intended to apply. No purpose could have been subserved in
requiring from them any further expression of assent to the
settlement. As to them nothing further was necessary to complete the transaction than the surrender of the old notes and
the acceptance of the new notes in their place; and this, as
stated, was done.
As to the creditors who had not then acceded to the proposed
settlement, it was important to fix some period within which
they should come in. To quicken their action the provision
was inserted. Their acceptance in writing was not a condition
precedent to the vesting of the property in the trustee for their
benefit, nor was it a condition upon which the trust was to be
executed. It was at best only a condition subsequent in the
nature of a penalty against creditors not assenting in the prescribed way, and could be waived by the grantors; and was in
fact waived by them. Long after the lapse of the period prescribed they expressed to their agents a hope that all the creditors would come in; and they authorized them to receive from
creditors their old notes and to deliver in exchange new notes
in their place for one-half of their amount; and when this was
done they permitted the creditors to repose upon the new security furnished until the Statute of Limitations had barred a
right of action upon the old notes, without any suggestion that
the deed was inoperative because of their failure to accept in
writing the terms of the proposed settlement within ninety
days. Their approval of, or at least acquiescence in, the conduct of their agents estops them in equity from enforcing the
provision as to the acceptance in writing, so as to debar from
the benefits of the deed any of the creditors who accepted the
settlement by surrendering the old notes and taking the new
ones. A married woman cannot be permitted, any more than
an unmarried one, to retain the benefits of a transaction which
she has solicited, and at the same time to disavow it. She cannot in this case retain the surrendered notes and repudiate the
consideration upon which their surrender was made. 2 Story,
Eq., sect. 1536.
2. As to the Stewart judgment, it is to be observed that the
record shows it was rendered in an ordinary action of assumpsit

BANK V. PARTEE.

[Sup. Ct.

upon a promissory note of 'rs. Partee, without mention in the
pleadings of any separate property belonging to her, or, indeed,
of her being a married woman. The plaintiff Stewart knew
that she was not a feme sole, and therefore neither he nor
her son, who were the purchasers under the judgment, can
claim any advantage from the omission.
The judgment is
simply a personal one; and a judgment of that character against
a married woman is a nullity under the laws of Mississippi.
At common law, a married woman is incapable, except in a

few special cases, of contracting a personal obligation. Her
disability in this respect, by reason of her coverture, cannot be
overcome by any form of aeknowledgment or mode of execution, or by her uniting with her husband in the contract. The
special cases in which the disability does not exist are those
where she is compelled from necessity to act as a feme sole,
as when her husband is imprisoned for life or for years, or has
fled the country or been exiled. In such cases the husband is
considered as civilly dead, and the wife as in a state of widowhood. Her disability also ceases when she is permitted to act
as a sole trader, as in England by the custom of London; and
in this country by special legislation. Equity, too, will sometimes impose as a charge upon her separate estate a debt incurred by her for its benefit, or for her benefit on its credit;
but this is a different matter from a contract by which a personal obligation is created. Except in the cases mentioned,
the general rule is that she cannot be personally bound; nor
can she be subjected on her contract to a personal judgment.
Various reasons are assigned for this latter exemption, some of
which would be destitute of force under our altered laws.
Reeves, in his treatise on Baron and Feme, says, "that no
action at law can be maintained against her, for the judgment
in that case would subject her person to imprisonment; and
thus the husband's right to the person of his wife would be infringed, which the law will not permit in any case of a civil
concern." "And for the same reason," he adds, "there can
be no personal decree against her in chancery. It must be one
which reaches her property only." p. 171.
This doctrine,
whatever reasons may be assigned for it, has, with few exceptions, been recognized in the several States; and, in many

Oct. 1878.]

BANK v. PARTEE.

instances, personal judgments against married women upon their
contracts, rendered upon defaults or by confession, have been
held void. Griffith v. Clark, 18 Ind. 457; Morse v. Toppan,
3 Gray (Mass.), 411; Dorrancev. Scott and Wife, 3 Whart.
309. See also Wallace v. Bippon and Wife, 2 Bay (S. C.),
112, and Norton v. Header, 4 Sawyer, 620-624.
The doctrine of the common law has, however, been greatly
modified in most of the States by legislation, and the extent to
which a married woman may contract, and the manner in which
her contracts shall be authenticated and enforced, are definitely
prescribe&. In Mississippi such modification has been made.
The Code of 1857 enacted that the property owned by a woman
at the time of her marriage, or which shall subsequently come
to her, shall be her separate property, and not be subject to the
debts -of her husband, but shall be liable for her own debts contracted before marriage. At the same time, it authorized a
married woman, either by herself or conjointly with her husband, to contract with reference to her separate property, for
its lease, use, and improvement, and the construction of buildings upon it; also, for the support of herself and children, and
for many other things; and provided that such contracts shall
be binding on her, and that satisfaction for them may be had
out of her separate property. It also declared that, in addition
to the remedies then existing by the common law by and
against married women, "the husband and wife may sue
jointly, or if the husband will not join her, she may sue alone
for the recovery of her property or rights, and she may be sued
jointly with her husband on all contracts or other matters for
which her individual property is liable; and if the same be
against husband and wife, no judgment shall be rendered
against her unless the liability of her separate property be first
established." Code of 1857, p. 335.
In several cases which have arisen under these provisions,
it has been held by the Supreme Court of Mississippi that
unless a married woman has a separate estate she is subject, as
to her contracts, to the disability of coverture, and that a creditor suing her must, in his bill in equity or declaration at law,
aver that she has such an estate, and that the debt is a charge
upon it or ought to be paid out of it. It was so held in Choppin

BANK V. PARTEE.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Harmon, decided in 1872, when the court added that every
suit in the State, whether in law or in equity, founded upon
her contracts, "takes the shape and direction of reaching a
specific fund." 46 Miss. 307. And in Bank of Louisiana
v. Williams and Wife (46 id. 629), decided in the same year,
the court said, speaking of a suit against a married woman,
"The condition precedent to a right of recovery, either at law
or in equity, is that there be a separate estate out of which
satisfaction may be had. Our jurisprudence does not realize
the possibility of a personal judgment against a married
woman." In Casey v. Dixon (51 id. 593), decided in 1875, a
personal judgment was rendered against a married woman and
her husband, and her land sold under execution issued upon the
judgment. The purchaser at the sale brought ejectment for
the premises. It was held that the judgment was void and the
sale under it invalid; the court saying, citing language used in
a previous case not then reported, that in order to authorize
a judgment against a married woman, her liability must be
shown by averment and established by evidence; that a married
woman is incapable of being bound either by contract or judgment, except in the special cases authorized by law; and that
by the code of the State, if the suit is against her and her husband, no judgment can be rendered against her, "unless the
liability of her separate property be first established."
In iliallet v. ParTam (52 id. 921), also decided in 1875, the
court, speaking of the power of a married woman to contract
for supplies for her plantation, said: "It is only in consequence
of the existence of her separate estate that the statute authorizes her to make the contract, and that the separate estate alone
is bound by the contract. The enforcement of the contract is
in the nature of a proceeding in ren. No general judgment
can be rendered against her so as to reach on execution any
other property."
There are other adjudications of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi to the same purport. Those cited are sufficient to
establish the invalidity of the Stewart judgment. The allegation essential under those decisions in every suit against a
married woman, that she has separate property which is liable
for the debts alleged, is wanting in its record. That discloses

Oct. 1878.]

BANK V. PARTEE.

no ground of action upon which a personal judgment can be
rendered against her under the law of the State. The coverture of Mrs. Partee at the time the judgment was rendered is
averred in the bill and is admitted. That fact going to the
jurisdiction of the court could be shown by competent proof.
There was no question of innocent purchasers without notice
in the case, the judgment creditor and the son of Mrs. Partee
being the purchasers.
The decree of the court below must be reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings ; and it is
So orgfered.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case, and
especially front that part of the opinion which holds that the
judgment against Mrs. Partee and her husband, under which
the land in question was sold, was absolutely void.
It is to be remembered that the question is not whether such
a judgment would be held erroneous on an appeal from that
judgment, but whether it can be held absolutely void when
assailed collaterally in another action, where it is relied upon
as the foundation of a title based on a sale under execution
issued on the judgment.
Mrs. Partee was sued jointly with her husband. Both by
the common law and by the law of all the States, a married
woman could sue or be sued by joining her husband with her.
The statutes of Mississippi, where this judgment was rendered,
largely increased the liability of married women to be sued
beyond what it was at common law. It made her liable, out
of her separate estate, for supplies to the farm owned or cultivated by her, for any debt contracted with reference to her
own property, whether the contract was made with the consent
of her husband or not. In the case in which the judgment is
held void, she signed a joint note with her husband, her name
being signed before his; and she was sued with him on that
note, and personally served with process. She has never denied
the validity of that judgment, or sought to set it aside or vacate
its force. Other persons, not parties to that suit, now come
into court and say that all that was done was void because it

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

does not appear affirmatively, by the record, that the note on
which the suit was brought was a contract concerning her private property.

That was a matter which, if it were true,

should have been pleaded as a defence. She was subject personally to the jurisdiction of the court. Her contracts were
subjects of which the court had jurisdiction. It had jurisdiction
to enforce those contracts by sale of her individual property.
The note on which she was sued had every indication that it
was her individual contract, as it no doubt was, and that her
husband's name was placed there to show his consent.
To hold that persons not interested in that contract, nor
parties to the suit, can now come in and treat the judgment as
absolutely void, on its face, is such a departure from all the
principles on which the jurisdiction of the court is determined,
that even the authority of the courts of Mississippi should not,
in my opinion, control us in the matter.

SAGE, V. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMIPANY.
1. In the mortgage of a railroad it was covenanted and agreed by all the parties thereto, that, in case of a foreclosure sale of the mortgaged property
under a decree, the trustee named in the mortgage should, on the written request of the holders of a majority of the then outstanding bonds
thereby secured, purchase the property at such sale for the use and
benefit of the holders of such bonds, and that the right and title thereto
should vest in him, no holder to have any claim to the proceeds except
his pro rata share thereof, as represented in a new company or corporation, to be formed for their use and benefit; and that the trustee might
take such lawful measures to organize a new company for their benefit,
upon such terms, conditions, and limitations as the holders of a majority
of the bonds should in writing request or direct, and lie should thereupon
reconvey the premises so purchased to such new company. On default
of payment a suit was brought by the trustee against the mortgagor and
subsequent mortgagees, praying for a foreclosure of the first mortgage,
and for general relief. Held, 1. That such an agreement inures equally
to the benefit of such bondholders, and that each holds his interest subject to the controlling power given to the majority of them. 2. That the
trustee, the cestai qze trust, and the trust itself being before the court, and
it appearing that the holders of a majority of the bonds had in writing
requested and directed the trustee, if he became the purchaser of the prop-

