Oct. 1878.]

DENVER V. ROANE.

legislatures, has been asserted in several cases by this court,
although against this doctrine there have been earnest protests
by individual judges. But though this power is recognized, it
is accompanied with the qualification that the intention of the
legislature to grant the immunity must be clear beyond a
reasonable doubt. It cannot be inferred from uncertain phrases
or ambiguous terms. The power of taxation is an attribute of
sovereignty, and is essential to every independent government.
Stripped of this power, it must perish. Whoever, therefore,
claims its surrender must show it in language which will admit
of no other reasonable construction. If a doubt arise as to
the intent of the legislature, it must be solved in favor of the
State.
It follows that the decree of the court below must be reversed,
and the cause be remanded with directions to dismiss the suit;
and it is
So ordered.

DENVER v. R OANE.
1. A., B., and C., who were partners as attorneys and counsellors-at-law, agreed
that the general partnership between them should terminate March 18,
1869 ; that thereafter no new business should be received by the firm, and
that any coming to it through the mails should be equitably divided. It
was also stipulated that the business then in hand should be closed up
as rapidly as possible by them "as partners, under their original terms of
association and in the firm name." They agreed, Aug. 13,1869, that in case
of the death of either of them, his heirs or personal representatives should
receive one-third of the fees in cases nearly finished, and twenty-five per
cent in other Partnership cases. A. having died, his executor filed his bill
against B. and 0. for a discovery, and to recover A.'s share in the fees
received by them out of the partnership business which remained unfinished when the firm was dissolved. Held, 1. That a court of chancery had
jurisdiction to entertain the bill, and power to decree the relief asked so
far as the fees had been collected. 2. That the partners having by the
agreement of August 13 provided for the division of the fees in case of
the death of either of them, the survivors were entitled to no allowance for
winding up the business, other than their share of the fees as specified in
said agreement.
2. Where an attorney-at-law refuses to act as a partner, or to perform the functions of such in the prosecution of a cause which has been intrusted to his
firm, and repudiates his obligations, he is not entitled to any part of the fees
subsequently earned by his partners in the cause.

DENVER V. ROANE.

[Sup. Ct.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Afr. Albert .Pike for the appellants.
Mr. Joseph H. Bradley and Mr. S. S. ifenkle, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill filed in this case was not an ordinary bill for the
settlement of partnership accounts. James Hughes, the complainant's testator, and James W. Denver and Charles F. Peck
were in partnership as attorneys and counsellors-at-law from
1866 until the 18th of March, 1869. On that day it was agreed
between them virtually that the general partnership should terminate; that thereafter no new business should be received in
partnership, and that any coming to the firm through the mails
should be equitably divided. The agreement, however, contained a stipulation that the business of the firm theretofore
received and then in hand should be closed up as rapidly as
possible by the members of the firm "as partners, under their
original terms of association and in the firm name."
Soon after, on the 13th of August, 1869, a further agreement
was made to the effect that in case of the death of any one of
the partners, his heirs or personal representatives, or their duly
authorized agent, should receive one-third of the fees in cases
nearly finished, and twenty-five per cent in other partnership
cases. Denver acceded to this second agreement, with the
understanding that before any such division should be made, at
any time, all partnership obligations should be first satisfied,
proposing no new terms, only stating the legal effect. We
think this was a closed contract.
It is upon these two agreements the bill is founded. Hughes
died on the 21st of October, 1873, and Roane, the executor of
his will, has brought the present suit for a discovery, and to
recover from the surviving partners the share of the testator in
the fees received by them out of the partnership business which
remained unfinished when the general partnership was dissolved.
A decree having been entered against the defendants in the
court below, they have appealed to this court, and have assigned
numerous errors. Of most of them it will be necessary to say
but little, and, indeed, in regard to most of them there has

Oct. 1878.]

DENVER v. ROANE.

been hardly any controversy between the parties during the
argument.
It is first insisted by the appellant that the court below had
no competency or jurisdiction to entertain a bill for such relief
as is prayed for, nor to give such a decree as the court gave,
whereby it attempts to settle and close the affairs of a partnership by decreeing specific sums as legally due, and if so demandable at law, and providing for the further continuance of
the partnership and collection by virtue of its decree of other
like sums until the business of the partnership may end. Such
is the first assignment of error. The .objection misapprehends
the nature of the case made by the bill, overlooks the facts, and
does not state accurately the decree. That a bill in equity may
be maintained by the personal representatives of a deceased
partner against the survivors to compel an account, so far as an
account is possible, and for a discovery of the partnership property which came to their hands, is undeniable, and such was the
object of the present bill. When the firm was dissolved in
March, 1869, for general purposes, the agreement of dissolution
stipulated that, as to the business then in hand, the members
of the firm should continue partners, and should close it up.
What that business was, the present defendants only could
know, after the death of Hughes, for it was then left in their
hands, and they only could know what fees had been received
on account of it. A bill for discovery, as well as for distribution of the fees received, was, therefore, plainly within the
province of a court of equity. And as the partners had agreed,
as they did by the agreement of August, 1869, to divide those
fees in certain proportions, it was quite competent for the court
to enforce fulfilment of the contract, so far as was possible
when the decree was made. The court did not attempt to
make a complete settlement of the affairs of the partnership.
In the nature of the case that was impossible. Some of the
partnership business remained unfinished, and fees uncertain in
amount were yet to be collected. But -so far as fees had been
collected, the right to immediate distribution was complete.
The agreement did not contemplate that all the fees collected
might be held by the surviving partners until all the partnership business should be brought to an end, and it was, there-

DENVER v. ROANE.

[Sup. Ct.

fore, quite proper to reserve consideration of the fees yet to be
received after they shall have been earned.
An objection raised by several other assignments of error
(particularly the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, eighteenth, and
nineteenth) is, in substance, that the court erred in applying to
a partnership between lawyers and claim agents the principles
of the law of commercial partnerships, in regard to the modes
of settlement of the same after the death of a partner, and in
regard to the neglect of the business of such a firm by a partner; that by the decree no compensation is allowed to the
survivors for carrying on the unfinished business, but that they
are required to continue it as well for themselves as for the
benefit of the deceased partner's estate. We think these objections to the decree ought not to be sustained. We are not convinced that during his life Hughes (except perhaps in reference
to a single case in charge of the firm) was guilty of such neglect, or violation of his duty to his partners, as should deprive
him or his personal representative of a right to share in the
profits of the partnership. In regard to the work done and
the fees received after his death, the parties, by their agreements, prescribed the rule for determining their rights as
against each other. Having jointly undertaken the business
intrusted to the partnership, all the parties were under obligation to conduct it to the end. This duty they owed to the
clients and to each other. And as to the unfinished business
remaining with the firm on the eighteenth day of March, 1869,
the duty continued. The agreement provided for that. Now,
in reference to this duty the law is clear. "As there is an
implied obligation on every partner to exercise due diligence
and skill, and to devote his services and labors for the promotion of the common benefit of the concern, it follows that he
must do it without any rewards or compensation, unless there
be an express stipulation for compensation."
Story, Partn.,
sects. 182, 331; Caldwell v. Leiber, 7 Paige (N. Y.), 483. So
it is held that where partnerships are equal, as was true in the
present case, and there is no stipulation in the partnership
agreement for compensation to a surviving partner for settling
up the partnership business, he is entitled to no compensation.
Brown v. lFe arlam, -Executor, 41 Pa. St. 129; Beatty v.

Oct. 1878.]

DENVER v. ROANE.

IFray, 19 id. 516; Johnson v. ffartshorne, 52 N. Y. 173.
This is the rule in regard to what are commonly called commercial partnerships, and the authorities cited refer to those.
There may possibly be some reason for applying a different
rule to cases of winding up partnerships between lawyers and
other professional men, where the profits of the firm are the
result solely of professional skill and labor. No adjudicated
cases, however, with which we are acquainted, recognize any
such distinction. And in the present case, as we have said,
the parties made arrangements for the work and results of work
after the death of any of their number. The agreement of
Aug. 13, 1869, provided that in case of the death of any partner, one-third of the fees in cases nearly finished, and onequarter of the fees in other partnership cases, should belong to
the representatives of the decedent. Of course, it -was contemplated that the surviving partners should finish the work, and
that no allowance should be made to them beyond the share of
the fees specified in the agreement.
The most important objection to the decree which has been
urged by the appellant is that it adjudged to the complainant
one-third of the fee collected by the defendants in the case of
Gazaway B. Lamar against the Tjited States, including the
claim of D. A. Martin. That case was in charge of the firm
before the agreement of March 18, 1869, was made, and was
commenced in 1868. It was, therefore, one of the cases within
the purview of the agreement of Aug. 13, 1869. Hughes's
name appeared on the record as attorney and counsel with the
appellants for the claimant. But on the 9th of January, 1873,
he came into court and asked that his name be erased as such
attorney, and that he have leave to withdraw his appearance
and sever his connection with the cause. His motion was
allowed, and his appearance was then withdrawn. The appellants, however, went on with the case. Briefs were filed for
the claimant on the 21st of March and the 22d of April, 1873,
the case was argued on the 20th of May, and on the 2d of June
next following the court entered a judgment for the claimant.
An appeal was then taken to this court, which was subsequently
dismissed. After the withdrawal of his appearance and the
severance of his connection with the cause, Hughes took no

DENVER v. ROANE.

[Sup. (Jt.

part in prosecuting the claim, neither in the Court of Claims
nor in the Supreme Court, and he paid no attention to it. He
quarrelled with Lamar, and about the time lie withdrew from
the cause he denounced the claim privately to one of the judges
of the Court of Claims as altogether without merit and a fraudulent case, or words to that effect, and said that he had decided
not to be involved in a case of so scandalous a character, and
for so worthless or unworthy a client. In regard to the question of fees in the case, the judge testifies, "he declined to have
any interest in the case, or to take fees, because he believed the
case was a corrupt one, and not likely to succeed, and that he
would not lose much by his withdrawal from the case."
The question presented by this state of facts is whether, inasmuch as the case was afterwards conducted by the appellants
to final success, and they received a fee from Lamar, the claimant, Hughes would be entitled to any part of the fee were lie
now living. If not, certainly his personal representative cannot
be now. The recovery of the claim was undertaken by the firm
without any agreement respecting fees. By undertaking it the
firm and each member of it assumed to conduct the case to a
final conclusion, and with all fidelity to the client. Such was
the contract of Hughes with Lamar, as completely as if he had
been the sole attorney and counsel employed. And as the con
tract was entire, he could not have abandoned it after a partial
performance, and still have held the other party bound. Much
less could he have accompanied his abandonment by denouncing
the honesty of the claim to one of the judges of the court whose
province it was to find the facts and adjudicate upon its merits,
and yet claim compensation for services rendered. Such conduct on his part was not merely a renunciation of his engagement to the client. It was a flagrant breach of professional
duty. It was not in his power to refuse performance of his
part of the implied contract with Lamar, take action hostile to
the claim, and still hold Lamar bound. Certainly he could not
hold Lamar directly liable. And we do not perceive that, in
equity, his, situation is any better because he had contracted
with the client jointly with his copartners.
If, then, by abandoning the case and denouncing it as fraudulent, he lost all the right which he had against Lamar, how

Oct. 1878.]

DENVER v. ROANE.

can he claim from his copartners any of the compensation they
obtained for conducting the case after his abandonment to final
success? His action was a breach of his duty to those partners,
as well as of his obligation to Lamar. By the agreement of
copartnership he had undertaken to share in the labor, and to
promote the common interests of the firm, and that was the
foundation of his right to share in its earnings. It may be
that mere neglect of his duty would not have extinguished that
right, but a repudiation of his obligations, refusing to act as a
partner, or to perform the functions of a partner, is quite a
different thing. It may well be considered as a repudiation of
the partnership. It was said in Wilson v. Johnstone (16 Eq.
Ca. Abr. 606), "He who acts so as to treat the articles as a
nullity as it regards his own obligations, cannot complain if
they are so treated for all purposes." It may, therefore, very
justly be held that by his action Hughes became a stranger to
the case, and repudiated any relation he had previously held to
it as a partner in the firm. The partnership ceased as respects
that claim. The other partners who continued to attend to the
case could charge the client nothing for his services, for as the
contract was contingent on success, nothing was due to any
partner until success was attained. They certainly could claim
nothing for services rendered by him after he severed his connection with the case, for he rendered none; and if he had any
just claim on a quantum meruit for services rendered before, it
was against Lamar, and not against his copartners.
We think, therefore, the decree of the court below was erroneous, in so far as it allowed to the complainant any part of the
fee collected from Lamar or from Martin, who owned a part of
what was recovered in the Lamar suit.
We discover no other fault in the decree, but for this the
case must be sent back for correction.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District will be
reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to enter
another decree in conformity with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

