Oct. 1878.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

CLARK

V. UNITED STATES.

A. residing in New Orleans and B. in Mobile during the whole rebellion, consigned cotton which they owned to C., a supervising special agent of the
Treasury Department. It arrived at Mobile on the last of July or the first
of August, 1865, when it was claimed by them. It was consigned to him to
facilitate its arrival, as the government had at that time charge of the railroads. C. having received orders from the Treasury Department to ship all
cotton received by him, shipped in the latter month that of A. and B. to
New York, where it was sold. The net proceeds were paid into the treasury.

A. and B. brought suit for them against the United States in the Court of
Claims, March 27, 1872.

Held, that the suit was barred by the Statute of

Limitations.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. Matt. H. Carpenter and Mr. John J. Weed for the
appellant.
Mr.Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The facts of
the case cannot be more clearly or compactly stated than they
are presented in the findings of the court.
The findings are as follows: "In July and August, 1865, the petitioners, James S. Clark
and Edward Fulton, were merchants and copartners doing business at New Orleans, under the firm name and style of J. S.
Clark & Co., and Joseph C. Palmer was a merchant at
Mobile.
" In said July and August the petitioners were the owners
jointly of nine hundred bales of cotton, whidh arrived at
Mobile in the last part of said July or the first part of said
August, consigned by them to T. C. A. Dexter, supervising
special agent of the Treasury Department for the department
of Alabama.
" At the times above stated the government had charge of
the railroads, and the cotton was consigned to Mr. Dexter to
facilitate its arrival at Mobile, and on its arrival there it was
claimed of him by the petitioners.
MR.JUSTICE SwAYKE

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

"In August, 1865, Mr. Dexter having received orders from
the Treasury Department to ship all the cotton received by
him, shipped the said nine hundred bales to New York, where
it arrived and was sold by the United States, and the net
proceeds thereof, amounting to $127,350, were paid into the
treasury.
"The said Clark and Fulton resided in New Orleans, and
said Palmer in Mobile, during the whole rebellion, and this
petition was filed March 27, 1872."
The United States rely upon two defences :1. That the petitioners did not, within two years after the
suppression of the rebellion, prefer their claim in the Court of
Claims.
This limitation is prescribed by the "Act for the collection
of abandoned property, and for the prevention of frauds in the
insurrectionary districts of the United States," passed March 3,
1863. 12 Stat. 863. It is confined to cases arising under that
act.
2. That the petition was not filed in the Court of Claims
within six years after the cause of action accrued.
This limitation is found in the tenth section of the act relating to the Court of Claims, also of March 3, 1863. 12 Stat.
765. That section enacts :"That every claim against the United States cognizable by the
Court of Claims shall be for ever barred unless the petition setting
forth a statement of the claim be filed in the court, or transmitted
to it under the provisions of this act, within six years after the
claim first accrues: -Provided,that claims which have accrued six
years before the passage of this act shall not be barred, if the petition
be filed in the court or transmitted as aforesaid within three years
after the passage of this act: And providedfurther, that the claims
of married women first accrued. during marriage, of persons under
the age of twenty-one years, first accruing during minority, and of
idiots, lunatics, insane persons, and persons beyond seas at the
time the claim accrued, entitled to the claim, shall not be barred if
the petition be filed in the court or transmitted as aforesaid within
three years after the disability had ceased; but no other disability
than those enumerated shall prevent any claim from being barred,
nor shall any of tife said disabilities operate cumulatively."

Oct. 1878.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

In the Revised Statutes of 1874, sect. 1009, the first proviso
was dropped. It was then needless, the time of the saving
thereby created with respect to the claims to which it related
having before expired.
The counsel of the appellants have contended, in an argument of unusual research and ability, that the cotton in question was not captured or abandoned property within the meaning
of the act upon that subject, and that hence the limitation in
that act has no application to this case. Our view renders it
unnecessary to consider this point. We therefore pass from
it without further remark. The only question to be considered
is whether the action is barred by the limitation of six years in
the Court of Claims act before referred to.
Nothing can be clearer than the terms of the limiting
section.
It begins by declaring that every claim cognizable by the
court "shall be for ever barred" unless the petition "shall be
filed within six years after the claim first accrued." Then
follows the proviso naming the disabilities which shall arrest
the running of the statute, and either of which shall give three
years for the filing of the petition "after the disability has
ceased." Finally, it is enacted that "no, other disability shall
prevent any claim from being barred, nor shall any of said
disabilities operate cumulatively."
It is not claimed that any of the disabilities named affected
either of the appellants.
In the early part of April, 1862, New Orleans was captured
by the naval forces of the United States under the.command of
Admiral Farragut. On the 1st of May following the national
military forces under the command of General Butler took
possession of the city. It was never afterwards in possession
of the insurgents. Desmare v. United States, 93 U. S. 605.
The appellants resided there. It is a part of the public history
of the country, of which we are bound to take judicial notice,
that from the time last mentioned communication between that
place and the seat of the national government was constant
and uninterrupted.
In the case just referred to, this court said: "Upon the issuing of General Butler's proclamation, the legal status of New

SHERRY V. MICKINLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Orleans and its inhabitants with respect to the United States
became changed. Before that time the former was enemy's
territory and the latter were enemies. .

. General Butler's

proclamation was proof of the subjugation of the city and the
re-establishment of the national authority. The hostile character of the territory thereupon ceased, and the process of rehabilitation began. The inhabitants were at once permitted to
resume, under the regulations prescribed, their wonted commerce with other places, as if the State had not belonged
to the rebel organization. The enice, 2 Wall. 258. But
they were clothed with new duties as well as new.rights."
The cotton was shipped to New York in August, 1865, and
there sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury of the
United States. The claim then first accrued. The petition
was filed on the 27th of March, 1872. This was at least six
months in excess of the six years limited by the statute.
During all this period the appellants could easily have put
the proper machinery of the law in motion. The delay is
unaccounted for.
The supplementary briefs filed by the parties since the argument at the bar do not, we think, call for any special remarks.
The case is clearly within the bar of the statute, and we are
constrained to hold accordingly.
JTudgment affirmed.

SMR-RY v. McKnEY.
The rulings in De Treville v.Smalls (98 U. S. 517) and in Keely v. Sanders (supra,
p. 441) reaffirmed.

D'nROt to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
This is a bill filed by McKinley and others in the Chancery
Court of Shelby County, Tennessee, and for the purposes of the
case it was conceded that they were the owners of two lots of
ground near Memphis, in that county, prior to the tax sale
thereof, June 22 and June 25, 1864, under the act of Congress
for the collection of direct taxes in insurrectionary districts

