NATIONAL BANK V. CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

demanded. As the corporation cannot die or retire from the
office it holds, the writ cannot abate as it did in Boutwell's
case. The decisions in the State courts in which this, practice
is sustained are numerous. Maddox v. Graham, 2 Mete. (Ky.)
56; Soutter v. The City of Madison, 15 Wis. 30; Pegram v.
Commissioners of Cleaveland County, 65 N. C. 114; The People
v. Collins, 19 Wend. (N. Y.) 56.
This disposes of the only question which has been argued
here. It is not contended that the law of 1876 presented any
valid objection to the levy of the tax. Von Hoffman v. City
of Quincy (4 Wall. 535) and Butz v. City of Iuscatine (8 id.
575) are decisive of this point.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, but as
during the pendency of this writ the time has gone by when
by the terms of the order for the peremptory writ the board
was directed to levy the tax in question, the cause will be remanded with authority, if necessary, to so modify the order
which has been entered, in respect to the time for the levy and
collection of the tax, as to make the writ effective for the end
to be accomplished; and it is
So ordered.

NATIOxAL BANK V. CASE.
1. A party who, by way of pledge or collateral security for a loan of money,
accepts stock of a national bank which he causes to be transferred to himself on its books, incurs immediate liability as a stockholder, and he cannot
relieve himself therefrom by making a colorable transfer of the stock, with
the understanding that at his request it shall be retransferred.
2. A national bank which had so accepted, and caused to be transferred to it,
shares of stock of another national bank, was, on the latter becoming insolvent, sued as a stockholder. Held, that a loan of money by a national bank
on such security is not prohibited by law; and, if it were, the defendant
could not set up its own illegal act to escape the responsibility resulting
therefrom.
3. The order of the Comptroller of the Currency prescribing to what extent the
individual liability of the stockholders of an insolvent national bank shall
be enforced, is conclusive.

AMPPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Distr et of Louisiana.

Oct. 1878.]

8.NATIONAL BANK V. CASE.

'This, is a bill brought by Frank F. Case, receiver of the
Crescent City National Bank of New Orleans, against-the stockholders of that institution, .to pay him seventy per cent of the
par value of the stock owned by, them severally at the time
when their respective. liabilities, were fixed by its insolvency,
without regard to any pretended transfers of, such stock as they
may have, attempted to make after the insolvency occurred.
As to some of. the defendants the bill was dismissed; as to
others, a decree was .rendered. conf9rmably to the prayer of the
bill, and a writ of execution awarded against them and their
property~to enforce the payment of the sums adjudged to be
due by them respectively. Among the defendants .against
whom the decree was rendered was the Germania National
Bank of New Orleans, Alcus, Scherck, & Autey, The Crescent
Mutual Insurance Company, and Benjamin J. West. They
thereupon appealed here.
The facts, are istated:in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by, Mr. homas J. Durant for the
appellants, and by .Mr.. Charles Case for the appellee.
-

MR. J-UsTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The Crescent City National Bank of New Orleans was
organized. under the national banking law in 1871. On, the
13th.of February, 1873, its London correspondents failed, and
the bank lost heavily by the failure, - nearly the entireamount
of its capital. ,This loss was almost immediately known in the
community where the .institution was located, and necessarily
affected its credit. On the 14th of March, 1873, payment of
checks drawn upon it by its depositors was suspended, and on
the 17th of the same month its circulating notes went to
protest.
In reference, to the alleged ownership by the Germania
Bank (one of the appellants) of shares in :the Crescent City
Bank, the facts appear to be, as follows: On the fourteenth
day of December, 1872, it loaned to Phelps, McCullough, &
Co. $14,000 on a, note of the firm dated Dec. 7, 1872, payable
in ninety days, and to secure the payment of the loan -the
borrowers pledged to the bank one hundred shares ofthe -stock
of the Crescent City]Bank, with .power, on °non-payment~of the,
-

NATIONAL

BANK V. CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

note, to dispose of the stock for cash, at public or private sale,
without recourse to legal proceedings, and to this end to make
transfers on the books of the coNporation whose stock it was.
At the same time a power of attorney was given to Mr. Roehil,
empowering him to transfer the stock to the Germania Bank,
of which he was cashier. The note fell due on the 10th of
March, 1873, and was not paid, and on that day a transfer of
the one hundred shares to the Germania Bank was made on
the transfer books of the Crescent City Bank. The Germania
then caused seventy-six of the shares to be transferred to
William A. Waldo, one of its clerks, and on the next day
transferred to him the remainder. It has ever since stood in
his name. Waldo acquired by the transfer no beneficial interest in the stock, and there was an understanding between him
and the officers of the bank that he should retransfer it at their
request. The cashier has testified, in answer to the question,
" Was not the transfer made (to Waldo) with the view to
avoid the liability under the National Bank Act in case of suspension of the Crescent City Bank? " that it was not exactly in
that -way. " We simply transferred," says he, "because we are
not in the habit of holding any bank stock. We did not want
to have any bank stock in our name. That was the object."
When further asked whether he was well aware of the fact
that the stockholders of national banks were liable to contribute to the payment of their debts in case of insolvency, he
replied in the affirmative. When asked whether he did not
have that in contemplation at the time of this transfer, he
answered, "That may be one of the reasons why we did not
want to own any stock." And when further asked, " Was
not that one of the principal motives of this transfer to Waldo?"
his reply was, "Yes."
From this testimony, as well as from other in the record, it
is evident that Waldo held the stock as a cover for the Germania Bank; that notwithstanding the transfer to him, it
remained subject to the bank's control, and that the transfer to
him was made to evade the liability of the true owners. It
was not a sale. The bank continued after it was made a
pledgee with the legal title in itself or in its representative, and
Phelps, McCullough, & Co. were no longer the owners.

Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK V. OASE.

Such being the facts of the case, there can be no serious controversy respecting the principles of law applicable to them.
It is thoroughly established that one to whom stock has been
transferred in pledge or as collateral security for money loaned,
and who appears on the books of the corporation as the owner
of the stock, is liable as a stockholder for the benefit of creditors. We so held in Pullman v. Upton (96 U. S. 328); and
like decisions abound in the English courts, and in numerous
American cases, to some of which we refer: Adderly v. Storm,
6 Hill (N. Y.), 624; Roosevelt v. Brown, 11 N. Y. 148; Holyoke
Bank v. Burnham, 11 Cush. (Mass.) 183; M1.agruder v. Colston,
44 Md. 349; Crease v. Babcock, 10 Metc. (Mass.) 525; Wheelock
v. Kost, 77 Ill. 296; Empire City Bank, 18 N. Y. 199; Hale
v. Walker, 31 Iowa, 344. For this several reasons are given.
One is, that he is estopped from denying his liability by voluntarily holding himself out to the public as the owner of the
stock, and his denial of ownership is inconsistent with the
representations he has made; another is, that by taking
the legal title he has released the former owner; and a third
is, that after having taken the apparent ownership and thus
become entitled to receive dividends, vote at elections, and
enjoy all the privileges of ownership, it would be inequitable
to allow him to refuse the responsibilities of a stockholder.
This subject is well treated in Mr. Thompson's recently published work on "The Liability of Stockholders," where may
be found not only a full collection of authorities, but a careful
analysis of what the authorities contain. Vide c. 13.
When, therefore, the stock was transferred to the Germania
Bank, though it continued to be held merely as a collateral
security, the bank became subject to the liabilities of a stockholder, and the liability accrued the instant the transfer was
made. At that instant the liability of Phelps, McCullough,
& Co. ceased. We have, then, only to inquire whether the
bank succeeded in throwing off that liability by its transfer
to its clerk, Waldo. It certainly did not thereby divest itself
of its substantial ownership. It is not every transfer that releases a stockholder from his responsibility as such. While
it is true that shareholders of the stock of a corporation generally have a right to transfer their shares, and thus disconnect

NATIONAL BANK v. CASE.

[Sup, Ct.

themselves from the corporation and from any responsibility
on account of it, it is equally true that there are some limits
to this right. A transfer for the mere purpose of avoiding his
liability to the company or its creditors is fraudulent and void,
and he remains still liable. The English cases, it is admitted,
give effect to such transfers, if they are made (as it is called)
"out and out;" that is, completely, so as to divest the transferrer of all interest in the stock. But even in them it is held
that if the transfer is merely colorable, or, as sometimes coarsely
denominated, a sham, -if,
in fact, the transferee is a mere
tool or nominee of the transferrer, so that, as between themselves, there has been no real transfer, "but in the event of
the company becoming prosperous the transferrer would become
interested in the profits, the transfer will be held for nought,
and the transferrer will be put upon the list of contributories."
Williams's Case, Law Rep. 9 Eq. 225, note, where the transfer
was, as in the present case, made to a clerk of the transferrer
without consideration; Payne's Case, id. 223; .Kintrea'sCase,
Law Rep. 5 Ch.95. See also Lindley on Partnership (2d ed.),
p. 1352; Chinnoek's Case, 1 Johns. (Eng.) Ch. 714; Hyam's
Case, 1 De G., F. & J. 75; Budd's Case, 3 id. 296. The American doctrine is even more stringent. Mr. Thompson states it
thus, and he is supported by the adjudicated cases: "A transfer of shares in a failing corporation, made by the transferrer
with the purpose of escaping his liability as a shareholder, to
a person who, from any cause, is incapable of responding in
respect to such liability, is void as to the creditors of the company and as to other shareholders, although as between the
transferrer and the transferee it was out and out." Nathan
v. Whitlock, 9 Paige (N. Y.), 152; Mc Claren v. Franciscus, 43
Mo. 452; Marcy v. Clark, 17 Mass. 329; Johnson v. Laflin, by
Dillon, J., 6 Cent. Law Jour. 131.
The case in hand does not need the application of so rigorous a doctrine. While the evidence establishes that the Crescent City was in a failing condition when the transfer to Waldo
was made, and leaves no reasonable doubt that the Germania
Bank knew it and made the transfer to escape responsibility,
it establishes much more. The transfer was not an out and
out transfer. The stock remained the property of the trans-

.Oct. 1878.]

NATIONAL BANK V. CASE.

ferrer. Waldo was bound to retransfer it, when requested,
and all the privileges and possible benefits of ownership continued to belong to the bank. No case holds that such, a
transfer relieves the transferrer from his liability as a stockholder. We are, therefore, compelled to rule that the decree
of the Circuit Court against the Germania. Bank was correct. Its case, no doubt, is a hard one; but it is not. in iour
power to give relief, without a sacrifice of the well-established rules of.law and equity both.in this country.and in
England.
There is nothing in the argument on behalf of the appellant that the bank was not authorized to make a loan with
the stock of another bank pledged as;collateral security. That
is an ordinary mode of loaning, -and there-is nothing in the letter or spirit of the National Banking Act that prohibits it. But
if there were, the lender could not set up its own violation
of law to escape the responsibility resulting from its illegal
action.
In support of the other appeals which were taken from the
decree of the court below, no argument has been submitted,
and they require only brief remarks.
Alcus, Scherck, & Autey in their first answer to the bill,
after setting forth several matters perfectly immaterial, admit
that they were at one time the owners of seventy shares of the
stock of the Crescent City National Bank, but aver that on
the [blank] day of [blank.]; 1873, they sold them- all to one
Julius Fox, a white person, about twenty-one years old, and
a clerk by occupation; that 'the, price paid to them by Fox
for the stock was five dollars, and that they never, offered to
Fox any money or other valuable consideration or. promise to
induce him to accept the stock. Th6 utter worthlessness of
this as a defence sufficiently appears in what we have, said
respecting the appeal of. the Germania Bank., Subsequently
what is called a supplemental and amended- answer was filed,
quite inconsistent with the one first made. It -admits the
ownership of' the stock by the respondents at the time -of the
bank's insolvency- and suspension, and merely denies any unlawful confederacy. That no defence was shown by this supplemental answer we need spend, no time to prove.

NATIONAL BANK V. CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

The only material averment in the answer of the Crescent
Mutual Insurance Company was, in substance, that they had
owned shares of the stock of the Crescent City Bank before it
became a national bank, and that though the State bank had
become a national bank with their consent, and they had received dividends, they had not received new certificates. The
stock ledgers of the bank, however, show that one hundred
and thirty shares stood in their name when the bank failed,
and, therefore, taking their averment to be true, it is impossible to find any reason why they are not subject to the liabilities
of stockholders.
The appeal of Benjamin J. West is equally without merit.
It was admitted by his answer and proved by his own testimony that on the 13th of March, 1873, the day before the
bank ceased paying its depositors, he was the owner of fiftyeight shares of its stock. On that day he transferred it to one
Vincent, whom he describes as a white man, about thirty-five
years old, a salesman by trade, for the price of about ten dollars
a share. Nothing more than the testimony of Mr. West himself is needed to show that this is what is called in the English
books a sham sale, made to conceal his liability. Vincent was
West's clerk at the time, and, so far as it appears, without any
pecuniary responsibility. No certificate of the stock was issued
to him. He paid nothing at the time of the alleged transfer,
and never has paid any thing since. He gave no note or other
written acknowledgment of indebtedness, and West continued
to pay his salary as a clerk six or eight months after the transfer, without deducting any thing for the price of the stock.
Indeed, the price of the stock was never charged against Vincent in West's books. Add to this the fact plainly visible in
his testimony, that the alleged transfer was made when Mr.
West had become alarmed about the condition of the bank,
and nothing more is needed to show that it was inoperative, as
against the creditors of the bank, according to the doctrine of
the cases hereinbefore cited.
There are some other averments in the answer of the appellants of which it is hardly necessary to say any thing. Fovmer
decisions of this court have ruled that the determination of the
Comptroller of the Currency and his order to the receiver are

Oct. 1878.]

TRANSPORTATION

CO. V. CHICAGO.

conclusive of the extent to which the liability of stockholders
of insolvent banks may be enforced in suits against such stockholders.
-Decree affirmed.

TRANSPOn.TATION' COMPANY V. CHICAGO.
1. That which the law authorizes cannot be a nuisance such as to give a commonlaw right of action.
2. A municipal corporation, authorized by law to improve a street by building
on the line thereof a bridge over, or a tunnel under, a navigable river,
wherd it crosses the street, incurs no liability for the damages unavoidably
caused to adjoining property by obstructing the street or the river, unless
such liability be imposed by statute.
3. If the fee of the street is in the adjoining lot-owners, the State has an easement to adapt the street to easy and safe passage over its entire length
and breadth. When making or improving the streets within its limits, in
the exercise of an authority conferred by statute, a city is the agent of the
State, and, if it acts within that authority, and with due care, despatch, and
skill, is not at common law answerable for consequential damages.
4. Acts done in the proper exercise of governmental powers, and not directly
encroaching upon private property, although their consequences may impair
its use, are not a taking within the meaning of the constitutional provision
which forbids the taking of such property for public use without just compensation therefor.
5. The owner who makes excavations on his land is liable, if he thereby deprives that of adjoining proprietors of its lateral support, while it is in its
natural condition; but their right to such support does not protect whatever they have placed upon the soil increasing the downward and lateral
pressure.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is an action of trespass on the case by the Northern
Transportation Company of Ohio against Chicago, Ill., to recover damages sustained by reason of the construction by that
city of a tunnel under the Chicago River along the line of La
Salle Street. The company offered evidence tending to prove
that it possessed a certain lot in Chicago, with dock and wharfing rights and privileges; that it owned a line of steamers
running between Ogdensburgh, New York, and Chicago, and
touching at intermediate points; that during 1869 and 1870 it

