LANGE V. BENEDICT.

LANIGE

v.

[Sup. Ct.

BENEDICT.

This court having in Ex parte Lanqe (18 W"all. 163) held that the judgment
against him, rendered Nov. 8, 1873, was not authorized by law, he brought
an action against the judge who pronounced it. The court below decided
that even though the judgment was unauthorized, the defendant having, in
pronouncing it, acted in his judicial capacity, and it not being so entirely in
excess of his jurisdiction as to make it the arbitrary and unlawful act of a
private person, was not liable in damages. Held, that such decision does not
present a Federal question.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York.
This action was brought by Edward Lange in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, to recover damages for his
alleged unlawful imprisonment by Charles L. Benedict, District Judge of the United States for the Eastern District of
New York, who as such, by virtue of an act of Congress, held
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York at the October Term thereof, 1873.
At that term, so held by said Benedict, Lange was tried upon
an indictment consisting of twelve counts; some of them charging him with having feloniously stolen certain mail-bags in use
by the Post-Office Department; others with having, for lucre
and gain, feloniously appropriated certain other such mail-bags;
and others with having knowingly and unlawfully, for lucre and
gain, conveyed away certain other such mail-bags, to the hindrance and detriment of the public service. The indictment was
found under sect. 290 of the act of June 8, 1872 (17 Stat. 320),
which provides that the prisoner, on conviction of the offence,
if the value of the property be less than $25, shall be imprisoned not more than one year, or be fined not less than ten nor
more than $200. The jury found Lange guilty, and the valuc
of the property to be less than $25. The court during the
term sentenced him, November 3, to be imprisoned for the term
of one year and to pay a fine of $200. On the following day
there was paid into the registry of the court $200, in full satisfaction of the fine imposed by the sentence; and on the 7th of
that month the clerk of the court deposited it at the office of

Oct. 1878.]

LANGE v. BENEDICT.

the Assistant Treasurer in New York City, to the credit of the
Treasurer of the United States. On the same day a writ of
habeas corpus was granted in favor of Lange, returnable the
ensuing day; and during the same term of the court he was
produced in obedience to the writ, whereupon, after hearing,
the court, on November 8, vacated and set aside the sentence
pronounced against him on the third day of that month, and,
proceeding to pass judgment anew, resentenced him to be imprisoned for the term of one year.
On the seventeenth day of December, an order for a rule
returnable before said Circuit Court, to show cause why a writ
of habeas corpus should not issue, was granted by Judge Woodruff. On the 24th of that month the rule was discharged.
Thereupon a writ of habeas corpus was issued by Judge Blatchford, returnable December 29 before Judge Benedict. The latter, upon the return-day, ordered that the prisoner be remanded
and the writ dismissed.
On the 13th of January, 1874, writs of habeas corpus and
certiorariwere granted by this court, and it subsequently adjudged that the sentence pronounced on the 8th of November,
1873, under which Lange was then held a prisoner, had been
pronounced without authority. It was thereupon ordered and
directed that he be discharged.
The imprisonment complained of was that suffered by Lange
from the time of the second sentence until his discharge.
To the complaint, which set up the foregoing matters, the
defendant demurred, upon the ground that it appeared on its
face that: 1. The court bad no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant. 2. The court had no jurisdiction of the subject
of the action. 3. The complaint did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
The demurrer was overruled at the special term of the Supreme Court, but the judgment was reversed at the general term.
Lange appealed to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment
at the general term was affirmed and the complaint dismissed.
He thereupon sued out this writ of error.
Mr. B. P. Tracy for the defendant in error, in support of the
motion.
I. It would be a work of supererogation to cite authorities in

LANGE

v.

BENEDICT.

[Sup. Ct.

support of the settled doctrine, that, in order to give this court
jurisdiction to re-examine the judgment of a State court, it
must appear affirmatively from the record that a Federal question was necessarily involved in the determination of the matter
in controversy, a. It is quite manifest that the Court of Appeals may have disposed of the whole case by holding that
the act complained of was a judicial act, and, for that reason,
entailed no liability upon the judge. b. That the court decided
no Federal question is shown by its opinion incorporated in the
record. This court, in some instances, looks to the opinion
below, for the purpose of ascertaining whether, in point of fact,
a Federal question was decided. MfcManus v. O'Sullivan, 91
U. S. 578. c. The Supreme Court, at general term, decided:
1. That the act complained of was lawful, because authorized
by the decision of this court in Basset v. United States, 9 Wall.
88. 2. That, whether lawful or not, it was a judicial act, for
which no liability was incurred. The Court of Appeals limited its action to determining the last question upon grounds
of public policy and general law, without reference to any principle of Federal jurisprudence.
II. Even if there had been drawn in question the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States, or the defendant had claimed an immunity under a commission derived from
such authority, the decision, to give this court jurisdiction,
must have been against such authority or such immunity. Rev.
Stat. 709.
.1r. William ff. Arnoux, contra.
I. The judgment of this court in .Ex parte Lange (18 Wall.
163) is in rem, and conclusive upon every one to the extent it
was made. This action is based upon it precisely as a creditor's bill is based upon a preceding judgment.
If full faith and credit are not given to that judgment,which means that, if whenever it comes in question complete
effect is by construction withheld from it, - this court can
review, and has jurisdiction.
The imprisonment for which Lange seeks redress was under
the second judgment, which this court declared to be void.
It was without authority of law, and beyond the scope of the
defendant's official power. It was, therefore, a trespass. A

Oct. 1878.]

LANGE V. BENEDICT.

subordinate court, by declaring it to be a judicial act, has practically disregarded the decision of this court, and refused to
acknowledge its binding effect.
II. Any case that draws in question the power of a United
States officer raises a Federal question.
In regard to the jurisdiction of this court, it cannot be material whether the defendant had no judicial power whatever,
or none to render the judgment which has been held void.
In either case, it raises the question whether, so far as that act
is concerned, he was not a judge, but a trespasser.
This is properly a question for determination here, and cannot
have a valid ultimate decision from any other tribunal.
MR. CHrEF JUSTICE, WAIF delivered the opinion of the
court.
In E-x yarte Lange (18 Wall. 163) we decided that the
present plaintiff in error must be discharged from imprisonment, because the sentence under which he was held was not
authorized by law. In the present case, the Court of Appeals of
New York held that even though such was the law the defendant in error is not liable in damages for the false imprisonment,
because in pronouncing the judgment under which the imprisonment was had he acted as a judge, in his judicial capacity,
and not so entirely in excess of his jurisdiction as to make it
the arbitrary and unlawful act of a private person. This is not
a Federal question, and it was the only question decided.
The writ must, therefore, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction; and it is
So ordered.

