TERHUNE V. PHILLIPS.

[Sup. Ct.

This disposes of the case, and without answering specifically
the questions that have been certified, we affirm the judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -In County of facon v. Huidekoper, error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of -issouri, which was argued at the
same time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case, a. CHIEF
JUSTICE VAITE announced the judgment of the court, as follows: A majority
of the court adheres to the decision in United States v. County of Clark (96 U. S.
211), and I am directed to announce the affirmance of this judgment upon the
authority of that case.

TERHUNE V. PHILLIPS.
The court will take judicial notice of a thing which is in the common knowledge and use of the people through the country. It therefore holds that
reissued letters-patent No. 6748, granted to Matthias Terhune Jan. 27, 1874,
for an alleged new and useful improvement in corner sockets for showcases, are void for want of novelty.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This was a bill in equity by Matthias Terhune against John
Phillips and Wellington Phillips, praying for an injunction restraining them from using or vending, or in any manner putting
into practical operation or use, the corner sockets for show-cases
for an improvement in which reissued letters-patent No. 5748
had been granted to the complainant by the United States, Jan.
27, 1874.
It appears by the specification forming a part of the letterspatent that the invention fQr which they were granted "has for
its object to provide a means for connecting the ends of the horizontal and vertical members of a show-case frame; and to that
end it consists in a metallic corner-piece, provided with sockets
adapted to receive the ends of the different members, whereby
the same are firmly connected at the corners of the case."
The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon the complainant brought the case here.
Mr. L. L. Coburn for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
-

