Oct. 1878.]

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

which was taken out of the street, that is, from the pit, the
defendants were not liable. If they were satisfied that if the
wall had not stood upon the plaintiffs' lot where it did there
would have been no change in the level of the ground there,
but that the change in the level which caused the deflection of
the wall was due to the weight of the wall resting upon the
earth after the excavation was made, then the defendant was
not liable for that.
We think this instruction was entirely right. The general
rule may be admitted that every land-owner has a right to
have his land preserved unbroken, and that an adjoining owner
excavating on his own land is subject to this restriction, that
he must not remove the earth so near to the land of his neighbor that his neighbor's soil will crumble away under its own
weiht and fall upon his land. But this right of lateral s-port extends only to the soil in its natural condition. It does
not protect whatever is placed upon the soil increasing the
downward and lateral pressure. If it did, it would put it in the
power of a lot-owner, by erecting heavy buildings on his lot,
to greatly abridge the right of his neighbor to use his lot. It
would make the rights of the prior occupant greatly superior
to those of the latter. Wyatt v. Harrison,3 Barn. & Adol.
871; Lasala v. Holbrook, 4 Paige (N. Y.), 169; Washburn,
Easements, c. 4, sect. 1.
Judgment affirmed.

SPRING COMPANY V. EDGAR.
1. This was an action against the proprietor of a park, to recover for injuries
sustained by A. from an attack by a male deer which, with other deer, was
permitted to roam in the park, and which the declaration charged that the defendant knew to be dangerous. At the trial, evidence was introduced to show
that the park was open and accessible to visitors; that A. was in the habit
of visiting it, and when lawfully there was attacked by the deer and severely
injured; that she had often seen deer - about nine in number, three of whom
were bucks, the oldest four years old - running about on the lawn, and persons playing with them,-and that she had there seen the sign, "Beware of
the buck;" that the park contained about eleven acres ; that notices were
put up in the park a year or two before, cautioning visitors not to tease or
worry the deer; that she had no knowledge or belief, prior to the attack

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

[Sup. Gt.

upon her, that the deer were dangerous, if not disturbed. Experts testified that in their opinion the male deer, at the season when the injury was
sustained by A., was a dangerous animal. The bill of exceptions does not
show that all the evidence for A. is set forth in it, or that the defendant
introduced any. Held,that a motion to dismiss the action, nonsuit the plaintiff, and to direct the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, was properly
denied.
2. The court called attention to the testimony of the experts, and instructed the
jury that it was for them to determine its weight. fHeld, that the instruction was proper.
3. The jury were also instructed not to believe any extravagant statement of
the injuries received by the plaintiff, and that, when they had made up their
minds as to the amount really sustained, they should not be nice in the award
of compensation, but that it should be liberal. The defendant did not request the instruction to be qualified or explained, or a different one given.
Held, that the charge in that respect furnishes no ground for reversing the
judgment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
This is an action by Ann P. Edgar to recover from the Congress and Empire Spring Company $20,000 for personal in-

juries inflicted on her by a buck deer, the property of that
company, in the Congress Spring Park at Saratoga Springs,

New York.
The declaration charges that on and for a long time prior to
Oct. 20, 1870, the defendant had been and was the owner and
proprietor of " Congress Spring," from which the defendant
has realized, and does realize, great gains and profits; that said
spring has for a long time been kept open and accessible to

the public generally, and all people have been invited to patronize its waters, in various forms, by the defendant; that, to make
it more inviting and attractive, the defendant opened in connection therewith an extensive park, ornamented with fountains, trees, shrubbery, and flowers, through which extensive
gravelled walks are made for the comfort of those who indulge
in the use of the mineral waters and enjoy the landscape; that
further to enhance the attractions of said park, the defendant
obtained and in some degree domesticated several wild deer,
among them a large and powerful buck, with large and dangerous horns, but of vicious character and habits, known as the

"Ugly Buck;" that the defendant, its officers and agents, well
knowing that the said buck was vicious, and dangerous to be

Oct. 1878.]

SPRING 0O. v. EDGAR.

permitted to run at large in said park, did permit him to run
at large in said park, and, while the plaintiff had on that day
visited said springs to partake of the waters, and was in the
day time, peaceably proceeding along one of the walks in said
park, constructed by the defendant fot the comfort of visitors,
he did fiercely attack the plaintiff with his horns, head, and
feet, and did bite, bruise, and greatly lacerate her in various
parts of her person.
The' company, in addition to the general issue, interposed a
plea that the damage and injury complained of by the plaintiff
was occasioned by her own fault ind negligence, and by her refusal to obey the reasonable rules and regulations of the company, and by her voluntary disregard of the express notice
given her to keep off the grass in the grounds, and not to interfere with or molest the buck.
At the trial, the plaintiff testified that on the morning in
question, after drinking at the spring, she walked through the
grounds, and met a deer which attacked her, goring and striking her with his head and horns, and greatly injuring her. On
her cross-examination, she testified, in substance, that before
the occurrence she had frequently been in the habit of going
to Congress Spring Park to enjoy the water and the pleasure
of a walk'; that she noticed the deer in the park as early as
1866, and had often seen them running about on the lawn;
that she had' seen persons fondling the deer and playing with
them on different occasions; and that she had noticed signboards through the park containing the notice, "Beware of
the buck."
A witness for the plaintiff, introduced as an expert, testified
that he was a dentist, and resided in Albany; that he was to
some extent acquainted with the habits and nature of the deer,
and -had hunted them ; that in his opinion the buck deer are
not generally considered as dangerousi but-that in the fall they
Another expert
are more dangerons than, at other seasons.
testified that he was a taxidermist, and had made natural history a study, and had read the standard authors in regard to
the general characteristics of deer; that from his reading he
was of opinion that the male deer, after they have attained
their growth and become matured, are dangerous, and that dur-

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

ing the rutting season - from the middle of September to the
middle of December-the buck deer are generally vicious.
The defendant objected to all the testimony of the experts, on
the ground that the witnesses had not shown themselves competent as experts, and that it was improper, immaterial, and
incompetent; but the court overruled the objection, and the
defendant excepted. Another witness for the plaintiff testified
that the park contained about eleven acres ; that in 1870 there
were nine deer in the park, among them three bucks, the oldest
of which was four years old; that he first learned that this
buck was ugly when the plaintiff was knocked down; that in
1868 notices were put up in the park cautioning visitors not to
tease or worry the deer; that such notices were posted at different places in the park ; that the park was frequented by a
great number of people, with the consent of the defendant, all
through the season ; that the object of keeping deer in the park
was their beauty; that up to the time of the accident he had
no knowledge, information, or belief that a deer or buck, or
this buck in the rutting season, or any other, ever attacked a
person that was not disturbing or interfering with him.
The testimony having closed, the defendant moved that the
action be dismissed, the plaintiff nonsuited, and that a verdict
be directed in favor of the defendant, on the following grounds:
1. The evidence does not establish a cause of action.
2. It appears that the place where the accident happened
was the private grounds of the defendant; that the plaintiff
knew that the defendant kept in those grounds this buck and
other deer, and went there with full knowledge of all the circumstances.
3. That the plaintiff is chargeable with the same knowledge
of the character of the buck as the defendant.
4. That no knowledge by the defendant of the vicious character of the buck has been shown.
5. That if any negligence existed, the plaintiff was guilty of
negligence equally with the defendant.
The court denied the motion, and the defendant duly excepted.
The court thereupon charged the jury, and among other
things stated as follows: "Sdme testimony has been produced

Oct. 1878.]

SPRING

Co. v.

EDGAR.

here by witnesses who have stated to you the result of their
reading in natural history, and the result of the opinion expressed by hunters and sportsmen, as to the general characteristics of the deer; and it is for you to say how much is proved
by that evidence. The plaintiff claims to show by that evidence
that the deer at a certain season of the year is a dangerous an.
imal. It is for you to say whether, after the cross-examination
o
of the witnesses, you can arrive at that conclusion."
Upon the question of damages, the court, among other things,
charged as follows: "In these cases, while, upon the one hand,
a jury should guard themselves against the exaggeration which
so frequently, and I may say generally, characterizes the statements of the parties in regard to their injuries, and in regard
to the damages they have sustained, upon the other hand, when
you make up your mind as to the amount really sustained, you
are not to be nice in the award of compensation. It should be
liberal." To the concluding portion of the charge the defendant excepted.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff for $6,500; and judgment having been rendered thereon, the defendant sued out this
writ of error.
Mr. Charles S. Lester for the plaintiff in error.
The liability of the owner of an animal of any description
for an injury committed by it is founded upon his negligence,
actual or presumed. Earl v. Van Alstyne, 8 Barb. (N. Y.) 630;
Wharton, Negligence, sects. 918-926; Earhart v. Youngblood,
27 Pa. St. 327; Shearman & Redfield, Negligence, sect. 185;
Munn v. -eed, 4 Allen (Mass.), 431; Ilott v. Wilkes, 3 Barn.
& Ald. 304.
The owner of a domestic animal is not liable for injuries
committed by it, unless he had notice that it was accustomed
to do mischief. Buller's Nisi Prius, 77; 3 Bla. Com. 153;
Jrooman v. Sawy/er, 13 Johns. (N. Y.) 339; Fan Leuven v.
Jyke, 1 N. Y. 515.
The distinction in the liability of the owner of different
classes of animals does not always depend upon their being
ferce naturae or mansuetce naturce. Deer, when reclaimed and
domesticated, cease to be ferce naturce. 2 Kent, Com. 348,
849.

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

It follows, therefore, that if the deer was a domesticated
animal, there was no cause of action made out, because there
was no evidence that it had ever before committed any injury,
or exhibited any disposition to commit one, nor that the defendant had any knowledge that it possessed a dangerous disposition. The court should have directed a verdict for the
defendant.
But if it be claimed that a deer belongs to the same class as
lions, bears, and tigers, then, as the plaintiff is chargeable with
the same knowledge of its dangerous character as is the defendant, her negligence in going into the enclosure where she knew
this deer was confined was such contributory negligence as
barred her from recovering. Wharton, Negligence, sect. 926;
Earhartv. Youngblood, supra; Brock v. Copeland, 1 Esp. 203;
1lott v. Wilkes, supra.
The evidence of so-called experts admitted to prove the
general character of deer was either inadmissible, because the
plaintiff was presumed to have knowledgr of such character, or
it was incompetent.
The character and disposition of a wild or domestic animal
is a fact to be ascertained by experience.
It is only upon questions of science, skill, or trade that
opinions of experts are admissible. 1 Green]. Evid., sect. 440;
Dewitt v. Bailey, 9 N. Y. 375; Rewlet v. Wood, 55 id. 634;
Bristow v. Sequeville, 5 Exch. 275; _Nelson v. Sun M~utual Insurance Go., 71 N. Y. 453.
The books of natural history which a witness has read are
not of themselves competent evidence. Commonwealth v. Wilson, 1 Gray (Mass.), 337; Mforris v. Lessee of Harmer's Heirs,
7 Pet. 554; XeKinnon v. Bliss, 21 N. Y. 206; Collier v. Simpson, 5 C. & P. 73.
The statements of what a -witness has read in relation to living animals well known to many people is the merest hearsay.
The court below, in charging the jury that when they make
up their minds as to the amount of damages really sustained,
they were not to be nice in the award of compensation, but
that it should be liberal, in effect told them that the plaintiff
was entitled to something more than actual compensation, that she was, in fact, entitled to exemplary or punitive dam-

Oct. 1878.]

SPRING Co. v. EDGAR.

ages. The word "liberal" means, profuse, :generous,',amplei
something more than strict and' just compensation, and it was
so understood by the jury. That the word is frequently.used
by courts and' in text-books as synonymous with exemplary,
see Tullidge v. Wade, 3 Wils. 18; Whipple v. Walpole, 10 N. H.
130; Tillotson v. Cheetham, 3 Johns. (N. Y.) 64; Taylor v.
C0hureh, 8 N. Y. 463; Sedgwick, Damages, p. 40.
Exemplary damages are only awarded where there has been
wilful misconduct, or a positive intention to injure. Milwaukie
& St. Paul Railway Co. v. Arms, 91 U. S.,489; Cleghorn v.
New York Central & Hudson River Railroad Co., 56 N. Y. 44;
Hamilton v. Third Avenue Railroad Co., 53 id. 25; Wallace v.
Mayor of New York, 18 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 169. They are never
recoverable against the owner (of an animal for injuries done
by it. Keightlinger v. Egan, 65 Ill. 235.
Mr. George W. Miller, contra.
delivered the pinion of the court.
Animals ferce naturme, as a class, are known to be mischievous;, and the rule is owell ;settled, that whoever undertakes to
keep such an animal in places of public resort is or may be
liable for the injuries inflicted by it 'on a party who is not
guilty of negligence, and is otherwise -without fault.
Compensation in such a case may be claimed of the owner or
keeper for the injury ; and it is an established rule of' pleading
that it is not .necessary to aver negligence in the owner or
keeper, as the burden is upon the defendant to disprove that
implied imputation. Cases have often arisen, where no such
averment was contained in the declaration, and the uniform
ruling has been that the omission constitutes no valid objection to the right of recovery. May v. Burdett, Law Rep.
9 Q. B. 99.
Negligence was not alleged in that case. Trial was had, and
the verdict being for the plaintiff, the defendant moved in
arrest of judgment that the declaration was bad:for not alleging
negligence or some default of the defendant in'not properly or
securely keeping the animal. .Attempt was made by a very
able counsel to support the motion, upon the, ground that even
if the declaration was true, still the injury might have been
MR. JUSTICE CLiFFORD

SPRING

Co. v.

EDGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

occasioned entirely by the carelessness and want of caution on
the part of the plaintiff; but Lord Denman and his associates
overruled the motion in arrest, and decided that whoever keeps
an animal accustomed to attack and injure mankind, with
knowledge that it is so accustomed, is prima facie liable in an
action on the case at the suit of the person attacked and injured, without any averment of negligence or default in securing or taking care of the animal; and the Chief Justice added,
what it is important to observe, that the gist of the action is
the keeping of the animal after knowledge of its mischievous
propensities.
Precedents both ancient and modern, it seems, were cited in
the argument and were examined by the court, and the learned
Chief Justice remarked, that with scarcely an exception they
merely state the ferocity of the animal and the knowledge of
the defendant, without any allegation of negligence or want of
care. Jackson v. Smithson, 15 Mee. & W. 563 ; Popplewell v.
Pierce, 10 Cush. ( Mass.) 509.
Injuries of a serious character inflicted by a mischievous
deer, which the defendant company kept in their park, were
received by the plaintiff at the time and place alleged, for
which she claims compensation of the company. By the
declaration it appears that the company is the owner and proprietor of the Congress Spring at Saratoga in the State of New
York, whose waters have become celebrated for their medicinal
qualities and the source of great gains and profits to the company. Among other things the plaintiff alleges that the spring
had for a long time been kept open and accessible to visitors,
the public being invited in various forms to patronize its
waters, and that to make it more inviting and attractive the
company had opened in connection therewith an extensive
park, ornamented with fountains, trees, shrubbery, and flowers,
through which extensive gravelled walks have been constructed
for the use and comfort of those who resort there to use the
mineral waters and to enjoy the landscape; that the company,
in order further to enhance the attractions of the park, had
obtained and in some degree domesticated several wild deer,
and among them a large and powerful buck, with large horns
and of vicious character and habits, which were well known

Oct. 1878.]

SPRTNG CO. V. EDGAR.

to the defendant company, their officers and agents, and the
residents of the village.
Actual knowledge by the company of the mischievous
character of the animal is alleged by the plaintiff, and she
avers that the vicious animal on the day named, to wit, the
18th of October, 1870, was permitted- to run at large in the
park, and that she on that day visited the spring to -partake of
its waters, and that while she was peaceably proceeding along
one of the walks in the park she was fiercely attacked by the
mischievous buck and greatly injured, bruised, and lacerated,
as more fully set forth in the declaration.
Service was made; and the defendant company appeared and
pleaded: 1. The general issue. 2. That the damage and
injury suffered by the plaintiff were occasioned by her own
fault in neglecting to obey the rules and regulations' of the
company. On motion of the plaintiff a jury was impanelled,
and the parties went to trial, which resulted in a verdict and
judgment in favor of the plaintiff. Exceptions were filed by the
defendant company, and they sued out the pending writ of error.
Since the cause was entered here the defendant company has
filed the following assignments of error: 1. That the court, in
view of the evidence, should have directed a verdict for the
defendant. 2. That the court erred in admitting the questions
to the two witnesses called by the plaintiff as experts. 8. That
the court erred in the instructions given to the jury in respect
to the question of damages.
Certain animals ferce nature may doubtless be domesticated
to such an extent as to be classed, in respect to the liability
of the owner for injuries they commit, with the class known as
tame or domestic animals; but inasmuch as they are liable to
relapse into their wild habits and to become mischievous, the
rule is that if they do so, and the owner becomes notified of
their vicious habit, they are included in the same rule as if
,they had never been domesticated,,the gist of the action in
such a case, as in the case of untamed wild animals, being not
merely the negligent keeping of the animal, but the keeping of
the same with knowledge of the vicious and mischievous propensity of the animal. Wharton, Negligence, sect. 922; Decker
v. Gammnon, 44 Me. 322.

SPRING

Co. v.

EDGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Three or more classes of cases exist in which it is held that
the owners of animals are liable for injuries done by the same
to the persons or property of others, the required allegations and
proofs varying in each case. 2 Bla. Com., per Cooley, 390.
Owners of wild beasts or beasts that are in their nature
vicious are liable under all or most all circumstances for injuries
done by them ; and in actions for injuries by such beasts it is
not necessary to allege that the owner knew them to be mischievous, for he is presumed to have such knowledge, from
which it follows that he is guilty of negligence in permitting
the same to be at large.
Though the owner have no particular notice that the animal
ever did any such mischief before, yet if the animal be of the
class that is ferce nature the owner is liable to an action
of damage if it get loose and do harm. 1 Hale P. 0. 430;
IForth v. Gilling, Law Rep. 2 C. P. 3.
Owners are liable for the hurt done by the animal even
without notice of the propensity, if the animal is naturally
mischievous, but if it is of a tame nature, there must be notice
of the vicious habit. Mason v. Keeling, 12 Mod. Rep. 332;
Rex v. Huggins, 2 Ld. Raym. 1574.
Damage may be done by a domestic animal kept for use or
convenience, but the rule is that the owner is not liable to an
action on the ground of negligence, without proof that he knew
that the animal was accustomed to do mischief. T7"ooman v.
Sawyer, 13 Johns. (N. Y.) 339; Buxendin v. Sharp, 2 Salk.
662; Cockerham v. Nixon, 11 Ired. (N. C.) L. 269.
Domestic animals, such as oxen or horses, may injure the
person or property of another, but courts of justice invariably
hold that if they are rightfully in the place where the injury is
inflicted the owner of the animal is not liable for such an
injury, unless he knew that the animal was accustomed to be
vicious; and in suits for such injuries such knowledge must be
alleged and proved, as the cause of action arises from the keeping of the animal after the knowledge of its vicious propensity.
Jackson v. Smithson, 15 Mee. & W. 563 ; Van .Leuven v. Lyke,
1 N. Y. 515 ; Card v. Case, 5 C. B. 632 ; Hfudson v. Roberts,
6 Exch. 697; Dearth v. Baker, 22 Wis. 73; Cox v. Burbridge,
13 C. B. N. s. 430.

Oct. 1878.]

SPRING CO. v. EDGAR.

It appears by the bill of exceptions. that the, plaintiff on the
morning of the day of the injury entered the park belonging
to the defendant company; that after drinking of the water of
the spring she walked through the grounds and that she met
the mischievous deer; that he attacked her, goring and striking
her with his head and horns, whereby she was thrown down and
greatly injured and put to great suffering and expense, as more
fully set forth in her testimony. On her cross-examination she
testified that she had been in the habit of visiting the park ,to
enjoy the water and the pleasure of the walk; that she had
noticed the deer at an earlier period and had often seen them
running about on the-lawn; that she had seen persons playing
with them on different occasions; and that she had noticed the
signboard posted in the park containing the notice," Beware of
the buck." Another witness called by the plaintiff testified
that the park contains about eleven acres ; that there were
nine deerin the park, among which were three bucks, the oldest
being four years old; that, he first heard that the buck was
ugly when the plaintiff was attacked and knocked down; that
notices were put up at different places in the park a year or
two before, cautioning visitors not to tease or worry the deer;
and that he had no knowledge or belief prior to the accident
that the buck or any other of the herd would attack any person
if they were not disturbed. Expert witnesses were called by
the plaintiff, and they gave it as their opinion that the male
deer in the fall of the year is a dangerous animal.
Five witnesses were examined in behalf of the plaintiff; but
the bill of exceptions does not show that the defendant company
gave any evidence in reply, nor is it stated that the whole
testimony introduced by the plaintiff is reported. When the
evidence was closed, the defendant, moved that the action be
dismissed, that the plaintiff be nonsuited, and that the court
direct the jury to return a verdict in favor of the defendant.
Discussion of the first two propositions involved in themotion
is wholly unnecessary, for two reasons: 1. Because the jurisdiction of the court was beyond doubt, and the record shows that
the suit was well brought. 2. Because it is not competent
for the Circuit Court to order a peremptory nonsuit in any
case.

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Circuit courts cannot grant a nonsuit, but the defendant at
the close of the plaintiff's case may move the court to instruct
the jury that the evidence introduced by the plaintiff is not
sufficient to maintain the action, and to direct a verdict for the
defendant. In considering the motion the court proceeds upon
the ground that all the facts stated by the plaintiff's witnesses
are true, and the rule is that the motion will be denied unless
the court is of the opinion that in view of the whole evidence,
and of every inference the law allows to be drawn from it, the
plaintiff has not made out a case which would warrant the jury
to find a verdict in his favor. Merchants' 1National Bank v.
State National Bank, 3 Cliff. 205; Same v. Samze, 10 Wall. 655.
Tested by that rule, which is everywhere admitted to be
correct, it is clear that the motion of the defendant was properly
denied, for several reasons: 1. Because the proof of injury was
overwhelming. 2. Because the allegation that the animal was
vicious and mischievous was satisfactorily proved. 3. Because
the evidence to prove that the defendant company had knowledge of the vicious and mischievous propensity of the animal
was properly left to the jury, and it appearing that the Circuit
Court overruled the motion for a new trial, the court here cannot disturb the verdict except for error of la-w. 4. Because
the cause of action in the case arises not merely from the keeping of the animal, but from the keeping of the same after
knowledge of its vicious and misehievoas propensities. 5. Because the evidence is plenary that the plaintiff was rightfully
in the place where she was injured, and that the owners of the
vicious animal, inasmuch as the evidence tended to -show that
they had knowledge of its mischievous propensities, are justly
held liable for the consequdnces. Stiles v. NMavigation Conzpany,
33 L. J. N. s. 311; Oakes v. Spaulding, 40 Vt. 347; Sarch v.
Blackburn, 4 C. & P. 297; Same v. Same, 1 Moo. & M. 50.3;
Besozzi v. Harris,1 Fos. & Fin. 92.
Whoever keeps an animal accustomed to attack or injure
mankind, with the knowledge of its dangerous propensities,
says Addison, is prima facie liable to an action for damages at
the suit of any person attacked or injured by the animal, without proof of any negligence or default in the securing or taking
care of the animal, the gist of the action being the keeping of

Oct. 1878.]

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

the animal after knowledge of its mischievous disposition. Addison, Torts (ed. 1876), 283; Dickson v. Mcoy, 39 N. Y. 400;
Applebee v. Percy, Law Rep. 9 C. P. 647; Lead. Cas. Torts, 489.
Witnesses are not ordinarily allowed to give opinions as to
conclusions dependent upon facts not necessarily involved in
the controversy; but an exception to that rule is recognized
in the case of experts, who are entitled to give their opinions
as to conclusions from facts within the range of their specialties, which are too recondite to be properly comprehended and
weighed by ordinary reasoners. 1 Wharton, Evid., sect. 440.
Men who have made questions of skill or science the object
of their particular study, says Phillips, are competent to give
their opinions in evidence. Such opinions ought, in general, to
be deduced from facts that are not disputed, or from facts given
in evidence; but the author proceeds to say that they need not
be founded upon their own personal knowledge of such facts,
but may be founded upon the statement of facts proved in the
case. Medical men, for example, may give their opinions not
only as to the state of a patient they may have visited, or as to
the cause of the death of a person whose body they have examined, or as to the nature of the instruments which caused the
wounds they have examined, but also in cases where they have
mot themselves seen the patient, and have only heard the symptoms and particulars of his state detailed by other witnesses at
the trial. Judicial tribunals have in many instances held that
medical works are not admissible, but they everywhere hold
that men skilled in science, art, or particular trades may give
their opinions as witnesses in matters pertaining to their professional calling. 1 Phil. Evid. (ed. 1868) 778.
It must appear, of course, that the witness is qualified to
speak to the point of inquiry, whether it respects a patented
invention, a question in chemistry, insurance, shipping, seamanship, foreign law, or of the habits of animals, wvbetherferce
naturce or domestic.
On questions of science, skill, or trade, or others of like kind,
says Greenleaf, persons of skill, sometimes called experts, may
not only testify to facts, but are permitted to give their opinions
in evidence. 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 400; Buster v. iewkirk,
20 Johns. (N. Y.) 75.
VOL. IX.

42

SPRING

Co. v.

EDGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Whether a witness is shown to be qualified or not as an expert is a preliminary question to be determined in the first
place by the court; and the rule is, that if the court admits the
testimony, then it is for the jury to decide whether any, and if
any what, weight is to be given to the testimony. Cases arise
where it is very much a matter of discretion with the court
whether to receive or exclude the evidence; but the appellate
court will not reverse in such a case, unless the ruling is manifestly erroneous.
.
C. Steam Towboat Co. v. Starrs, 69 Pa.
St. 36; Page v. Parker,40 N. H. 48; Tucker v. Massachusetts
Central Railroad, 118 Mass. 546.
Experts may be examined, says Justice Grier, to explain the
terms of art, and the state of the art at any given time. Speaking of controversies between a patentee and an infringer, he
says that experts may explain to the court and jury the machines, models, or drawings exhibited in the case. They may
point out the difference or identity of the mechanical devices
involved in their construction, and adds, that the maxim "encique
in sua arte credendum" permits them to be examined in questions of art or science peculiar to their trade or profession.
Winans v. New York J- Erie Railroad Co., 21 How. 88; Ogden
v. Parsons et al., 23 id. 167.
Even if the witnesses are not properly to be regarded as experts, the court is of the opinion that the testimony was properly admitted as a matter of common knowledge.
Well-guarded instructions were given to the jury on the
subject, as appears from the transcript. Their attention was
directed to the testimony, and they were told that it was for
them to determine its weight, which shows that the defendant
has no just ground of complaint.
Complaint is also made by the defendant that one sentence of
the charge of the court in respect to the damages is erroneous.
When you have made up your mind, said the judge, as to the
amount really sustained, you are not to be nice in the award of
compensation. It should be liberal.
Exception was taken to that remark without request for a
different instruction, or that it should be qualified or explained
in any way. Before that remark was made the judge cautioned
the jury against giving credence to any extravagant statement

Oct. 1878.]

SPRING CO. V. EDGAR.

of the injuries received, and then told them that when they had
made up their minds as to the amount, meaning the amount of
the injury really sustained, they should not be nice in the award
of compensation, adding, as if to qualify the antecedent caution
given in favor of the defendant, that it should be liberal.
In examining the charge of the court for the purpose of ascertaining its correctness in point of law, the whole scope and
bearing of it must be taken together. It is wholly inadmissible
to take up single and detached passages, and to decide upon
them without attending to the context, or without incorporating
such qualifications and explanations as naturally flow from
other parts of the instructions.
fagniac and Others v. Thompson, 7 Pet. 848.
Instructions given by the court at the trial are entitled to a
reasonable interpretation, and if the proposition as stated is
not erroneous, they are not as a general rule to be regarded as
incorrect on account of omissions or deficiencies not pointed
out by.the excepting party. Castle v. Bullard, 23 How. 172.
Appellate courts are not inclined to grant a new trial on
account of an ambiguity in the charge to the jury, where it
appears that the complaining party made no effort at the trial
to have the matter explained. Locke v. United States, 2 Cliff.
574; Smith v. iicNamara,4 Lans. (N. Y.) 169.
Requests for such a purpose may be made at the close of the
charge, to call the attention of the judge to the supposed error,
inaccuracy, or afiibiguity of expression; and where nothing of
the kind is done, the judgment will not be reversed, unless the
court is of the opinion that the jury were misled or wrongly
directed. Carver v. Jackson, ex dem. Astor et al., 4 Pet. 1;
White v. McLean, 57 N. Y. 670.
None of the exceptions can be sustained, and there is no error
in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

