PARSONS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

the amount recoverable by the United States in the present
suit, but it may have an important effect on future claims
against the company for the five per cent, and it has upon the
claims of the United States against the other companies to
which the sixth section of the act of 1862 was applicable.

PARSONS V. JACKSON.
Certain bonds of a railroad company in Louisiana, promising to pay to the
bearer either X225 sterling in London, or $1,000 in New York or in New
Orleans, declared that the president of the company was authorized to fix
by his indorsement the place of payment. On their back were printed the
following words: "I hereby agree that the within bond and the interest
coupons thereto attached shall be payable in -.
" The blank for the
place of payment was not filled. The bonds were never issued by the company, but were seized and carried off during the late war. They, and the
past-due coupons thereto attached, were purchased in New York for a very
small consideration. Held, 1. That, in the absence of the required indorsement, the uncertainty of the amount payable is a defect which deprives the
bonds of the character of negotiability. 2. That the purchaser was affected
with notice of their invalidity, and does not sustain the position of a bonafide
holder without notice.

ArprnAAL from the Circuit Court of the United States'for the
District of Louisiana.
This is an appeal by Edwin Parsons, George Parsons, E. G.
Pearl, Charles Parsons, and Scott, Z6rega, & Co., from the decree of the court below, confirming the report of the master

disallowing as a charge on the mortgage executed by the
Vicksburg, Shreveport, and Texas Railroad Company certain

bonds held by the appellants and purporting to have been issued
by that company.
The bonds, which are mentioned by the master as forming
a part of schedule BB, are ninety-seven in number, and each
for $1,000.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. N. A. Cowdrey for the appellants.
The instruments, although under seal, were negotiable instruments. 21Mereer Count 1 v. ifacket, 1 Wall. 83; Marion Count]

.Oct.1878.]

*

PARSONS V. JACKSON.

v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278. If any one must suffer, it should be
the railroad company, and not the bona fide purchaser of them
without notice. Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110.
The record shows that the appellants are the lawful holders
for value of the bonds, and that they purchased them in open
market, without actual notice or knowledge of any defects or
irregularities in their issue. This gives to them a good title to
the bonds. Murray v. Lardner,supra; County of Ray v. Vansycle, 96 U. S. 675; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How. 343; Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459; Hotchkiss v. National
Bank, 21 id. 354; Cromwell v. County of Sac, 96 U. S. 51;
San Antonio v. M1ehaffy, id. 312.
One who has given a note currency cannot impeach its legality. In this case the makers do not attempt so to do. Henderson v. Anderson, 3 How. 73; Morgan v. Railroad Company,
96 U. S. 716.
Other bondholders cannot make a defence that the maker
of the obligation is precluded from making.
The validity of the bonds is not impaired by the fact that
their place of payment was left blank. Any holder was authorized to fill the blank. The president of the company had
signed it in blank for that purpose. Mc Grath v. Clark, 56
N. Y. 34; Chitty, Bills (9th ed.), 151.
It is the practice of railroad companies in Louisiana to leave
the place of payment blank, so that the holder may insert it.
Where a party to a negotiable instrument intrusts it to another for use as such, with blanks not filled, it carries on its
face an implied authority to complete it by filling the blanks.
Angle v. Northwestern Life Insurance Co., 92 U. S. 330; Bank
of Pittsburg v. Neal, 22 How. 96; Bedlich v. -Doll, 54 N. Y.
235, and cases there cited; Garrardv. Haddan, 67 Pa. 82;
MYontague v. Perkins, 22 Eng. L. & E. 516; Fleckner v. United
States Bank, 8 Wheat. 338.
Mr. John A. Campbell, contra.
A negotiable instrument is a writing containing a promise
to pay, unconditionally, a certain sum of money to a person
determined by the instrument.
These bonds show an obligation to pay a certain number of
pounds sterling, or a certain number of American dollars,

PARSONS V. JACKSON.

° [Sup. Ct.

whether the one or the other, or any, according to the terms of
the bonds, was to be declared by the indorsement of the president of the railroad company. No such declaration is to be
found. He did not negotiate these bonds, nor intrust them to
another for negotiation. They were carried away from the custody of the company amid tumult and violence, without its consent or privity, and without its fault or neglect. The absence
of a negotiable quality - for a floating contingent promise is
not negotiable - and the fact that they were never negotiated
disprove the validity of the appellants' title to them. Story,
Prom. Notes, sects. 19, 20, 22; Chitty, Bills, 152; Floyd's
Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666.
On the face of the bonds an act is imposed upon the president of the corporation, without which the bonds as negotiable
securities are incomplete. The absence of his indorsement
indicated to the holders and buyers that he had a duty to perform, and that the bonds in their then condition had not the
constituents of negotiable paper. Goodman v. Simonds, supra;
Chitty, Bills, 206, 225.
There was no trust or confidence on the part of the corporation or of its president reposed in any other party whereby
these bonds reached the New York market.
The corporation not being blameworthy for the circulation
of the bonds is not responsible thereon. Foster v. iHecKennon,
Law Rep. 4 C. P. 704; Nance v. Lary, 5 Ala. 37; .fcGrath
v. Clarke, 56 N. Y. 34; Angle v. Northwestern Life Insurance
Co., 92 U. S. 330 ; Tayler v. The Great Indian Peninsula Tailway Co., 4 De G. & J. 558; lffichigan Bank v. Eldred, 9 Wall.
544.
M

. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises out of the supplementary proceedings which
took place in the case of Jackson et als. v. The Vicksburg,
Shreveport, & Texas Railroad Co. and Others (reported under
the name of Jackson v. Ludeling, in 21 Wall. 616), after our
decision therein. In pursuance of the mandate issued in that
case, the court below made a further decree on the twentysecond day of March, 1875, directing, amongst other things, as
follows, that is to say: -

Oct. 1878.]

PARSONS V. JACKSON.

" 8. It is ordered that F. A. Wollfley be appointed special
master to take the proofs of the bonds bona fide issued by the
said Vicksburg, Shreveport, and Texas Railroad Company, and
to report the names of the owners and the amounts due to the
holders of such bonds so issued ...
"I He will give notice to the holders of bonds bona fide issued
for twenty days by publication in one of the city papers that
he is ready to receive proofs of the debt aforesaid, and that he
shall hold sessions for thirty days each day, Sunday excepted,
from the date of his first publication in the paper for that
purpose."
In pursuance of this decree the master gave the required
notice, and received proofs adduced by those claiming to hold
bonds entitled to the benefit of the decree rendered by this
court. By his report, filed the seventeenth day of January,
1876, it appears that there were then outstanding seven hundred and sixty-one bonds bona fide issued by the said raih'oad
company, of which schedules were annexed to his report. He
further reported a schedule of certain other bonds executed by
the company, and presented to him as issued under the mortgage mentioned in the decree; but which the testimony taken
by him proved were never issued by the said company, its
officers or agents, but were carried off by persons belonging to,
or taking advantage of, a raid upon the town of Monroe, La.,
during the late war, in the month of April, 1864. As to these
bonds, the master further reports as follows: " None of the parties presenting these bonds, or the coupons
on them, have proved at what time, for what consideration, or
under what circumstances they acquired them, except Francis
T. Willis, Charles Parsons, E. G. Pearl, Edwin Parsons, George
Parsons, and Scott, Z6rega, & Co. in liquidation. In reference
to this class, if the bonds were complete in all their parts and
no circumstances of suspicion appeared on their face,. the proof
that they had not been issued bona fide under the authority of
the corporation, and other facts relative to the issue, would
have required the parties to prove that they were bona fide
holders for a valuable consideration.
"In reference to the claims of Francis T. Willis, Charles
Parsons, E. G. Pearl, Edwin Parsons, and Scott, Z6rega, & Co.

PARSONS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. CE.

in liquidation, I report that in addition to the fact that the
bonds were not issued bona fide, but were taken by force from the
custody of the company, that there appears on the indorsement
of the bonds a material deficiency and an incompleteness which
deprives them of the character of commercial instruments fit
for circulation. I also report that the railroad was at the date
of their purchase in a damaged condition, it having been under
the control of the military power of the Confederate States
and the United States, which had been used to partially
destroy it. That there were several years of unpaid coupons
on each of the bonds, in the most of cases being contemporaneous with the execution of the mortgage; that these bonds were
sold for an insignificant sum, and apparently purchased at a
hazard, without any -,iew to their character as commercial
instruments fit for circulation, and that neither from the date
of this suit, the 1st of December, 1866, nor in any proceedings
antecedent thereto, did the holders, or any of them, appear to
maintain any claim for protection.
"I therefore report that the said bonds mentioned in the
schedule BB were not issued bona fide by the said railroad
company, and ought not to be allowed as a charge on the
mortgage."
The parties above named excepted to this report; but after
hearing thereon, the cou t confirmed the same, and made a
decree disallowing the said last-mentioned bonds, and from that
decree the present appeal was taken.
From the evidence taken by the master it appears that the
appellants purchased the bonds held by them, in the city of
New York, in November and December, 1865, at from ten to
fifteen cents on the dollar, without any actual knowledge that
they were not issued by the company. But it further appeared
that none, or very few, of the coupons had been cut off from
the bonds, and that the latter were imperfect in form.
Each bond, on its face, certifies "that the Vicksburg, Shreveport, and Texas Railroad Company is indebted to John Rar,
or bearer, for value received, in the sum of either Y225 sterling
or $1,000 lawful money of the United States of America; to
wit, X225 sterling if the principal and interest are payable in
London, and $1,000 lawful money of the United States of

Oct. 1878.]

PARSONS V. JACKSON. -

America if the principal and interest are payable in New
York or New Orleans," &c. This is the obligatory part of the
instrument, and is necessarily indeterminate in its character
without some further designation of the place at which it is to
be paid. Each bond, further, on its face declares that "the
president of said company is authorized to fix, by his indorsement, the place of payment of the principal and interest in
conformity with the terms of this obligation." And on the
back of the bonds is indorsed a printed blank in the following
words, to wit: "I hereby agree that the within bond and the
"
interest coupons thereto attached shall be payable in -.
On the bonds, which are conceded to be genuine and bona fidcZ
issued, this blank is filled up with the name of some place, as,
for example, "the city of New York;" or, in some cases, "New
Orleans, at the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana," &c. All the indorsements have the signature of the president of the company;
bat on the bonds in question the above blank for the place of
payment is not filled up. The mortgage under which the bonds
purport to be issued, and which is referred to in the body
thereof, contains the same provision with respect to the place
of payment. After referring to the bonds to be issued under
and secured by it, its language is as follows: "The principal
and interest of said bonds being made payable in New Orleans,
New York, or London, as he, the said president, by his indorsement, may determine." The resolutions of the board of directors, authorizing the execution of the mortgage and the issue of
the bonds, which resolutions are copied in the mortgage, contain the same provision; namely, "The principal and interest
of said bonds being made payable in New Orleans, New York,
or London, as the president, by his indorsement, may,determine." These resolutions, being the authority by virtue of
which the mortgage and bonds were executed and issued, would
seem to be mandatory, and to require that the place of payment
should be indorsed by the president on the bonds independently
of the necessity of such indorsement for the purpose of fixing
the amount payable thereon.
The uncertainty of the amount payable, in the absence of
the required indorsement, is of itself a defect which deprives
these instruments of the character of negotiability. As they

PARSONS V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

stand, they amount to a promise to pay so many pounds, or
so many dollars, -- without saying which. One of the first
rules in regard to negotiable paper is that the amount to be
paid must be certain, and not be made to depend on a contingency. 1 Daniel, Neg. Inst., sect. 53. And although it is held
that id certum est quod certum reddi potest, - a maxim which
would have given the bonds negotiability in this instance, had
the requisite indorsement been made, yet, without such indorsement, the uncertainty remains, and operates as an intrinsic
defect in the security itself.
Now it is shown by the master's report, and if it were necessary to go behind the report, the evidence shows, that these
bonds were never issued by the railroad company at all, but
were seized and carried off by a raid of soldiers during the war.
They afterwards turned up in New York, and were purchased
by the appellants; and the question is, whether the fact that
the past-due coupons were still attached, and that no place of
payment was indorsed on the bonds, as required to be done by
the bonds themselves, was sufficient to put the appellants upon
inquiry as to their validity, and as to the bona ftides of their
issue; - these marks of suspicion being supplemented by the
further fact, that the bonds were offered for a very small consideration.
Our opinion is, that the appellants bad abundant cause to
question the integrity of these bonds, that they were affected
with notice of their invalidity, and cannot be allowed to sustain
the position of bona fide holders without notice. The presence
of the past-due and unpaid coupons was itself an evidence of
dishonor, sufficient to put the purchasers on inquiry. The imperfection as to the place of payment is another strong evidence of want of genuineness. Of course, it is not necessary to
the validity of a bond that it should name a place of payment;
but these bonds expressly declare that they are to be payable
at the place which should be determined by the president's
indorsement, and that the sum payable should depend on that
indorsement; and yet no indorsement appears thereon. We
do not say that this defect would have invalidated the bonds if
they had in fact been issued by the company, and the amount
had been certain; but it was a pregnant warning to the pur-

Oct. 1818.]

KEELY V. SANDERS.

chasers to inquire whether they had been issued or not. These
facts, taken in connection with the price at which the bonds
were offered, were abundantly sufficient to affect the purchasers
with notice of any invalidity in their issue. The case is so plain,
that it is hardly necessary to cite any authorities on the subject. "A person who takes a bill," said this court in Andrews
v. Pond et al. (13 Pet. 65), "which upon the face of it was
dishonored, cannot be allowed to claim the privileges which
belong to a bonafide holder without notice." The same doctrine is reaffirmed in Fowler v. Brantley et al. (14 id. 318),
and, indeed, is elementary law. The circumstances in this
case went farther than merely to cast a shade of suspicion
upon the bonds: they were so pointed and emphatic as to be
prima facie inconsistent with any other view than that there
was something wrong in the title. See 1 Daniel, Neg. Inst.,
sect. 796.
Decree affirmed.

KEELY v.

SANDERS.

1. The court reaffirms the doctrine in De Treville v. Smalls (98 'U. S. 517), that
the certificate given by the commissioners to the purchaser of lands at
a sale for a direct tax, under the act of June 7, 1862 (12 Stat. 422),
as amended by the act of Feb. 6, 1863 (id. 640), is prima facie evidence
of the regularity of the sale and of all the antecedent facts essential
to its validity and to that of his title thereunder, and that it can only
be affected by establishing that the lands were not subject to the tax,
or that it had been paid previously to the sale, or that they had been
redeemed.
2. The sale may be valid, although, when it and the assessment were made, the
lands belonged to a non-resident and were in custodia legis, the State court
in which the is was pending having enjoined all creditors from interfering
with or selling them, and they were sold as an entirety, notwithstanding the
fact that the tax bore but a small proportion to their value.
3. A description of the lands in the notice of sale, which identifies them so that
the owner may have information of the claim thereon, is all that the law
requires.
4. The word "district," where it occurs in the sixth section of the said act of
1862, signifies a part or portion of a State. The city of Memphis, Tenn.,
where the lands in controversy are situate, was, therefore, a district within
the meaning of that section.

