Oct. 1878.]

YULEE V. VOSE.

compelled to restore it, be allowed for their expenditures and
alleged improvements, there will be an added incentive to
plunder.
I therefore dissent from so much of the decree of this court as
allows for expenditures upon property the possession of which
the defendants did not obtain in good faith.

YULEE V. VOSE.
A., a citizen of Florida, with other persons, some of whom were citizens of New
York, was sued by a citizen of the latter State, in a court thereof. The plaintiff, in his petition, alleged that the defendants held all the franchises and
property of a certain railroad company, and prayed that they he required to
hold the income of the railroad in trust for the payment of a judgment theretofore rendered in his favor in that court against the company, and that they,
be directed to pay him the amount thereof, and for other relief. He averred
that A. was indorser on part of the notes on which the judgment had been
rendered. There was a judgment in favor of all the defendants, which the
Court of Appeals affirmed, except as to A. The cause was remanded for a
new trial as to him, solely on account of his alleged liability as such indorser.
After the remittitrwent down to the court of original jurisdiction, and before
such new trial, A. filed his petition in due form, accompanied by the necessary bond for the removal of the suit as against him to the proper Circuit
Court of the United States, under the act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 306. Held,
that the matter in dispute being sufficient, A. was entitled to a removal of
the suit.

to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York.
This was a suit commenced Feb. 16, 1868, in the Supreme
Court of New York, by Francis Vose against the Florida Railroad Company, David L. Yulee, Edward N. Dickerson, Marshall
0. Roberts, and Isaac K. Roberts. The prayer of the complaint
was that Edward N. Dickerson, Marshall 0. Roberts, and all
other associates of Edward N. Dickerson, who, when discovered,
should be made parties, might be required to pay a judgment
which had been rendered in favor of Vose against the Florida
Railroad Company in the Supreme Court of New York, on
which there was due $136,534.63, and interest from Feb. 1,
1867; that Dickerson, Yulee, Marshall 0. and Isaac K. Roberts,
and their associates, who it was alleged held all the franchises
ERROR

YULEE V. VOSE.

[Sup. Ct.

and property of the company, might be required to hold the
income of the railroad, in trust for the payment of the amount
of the judgment; that certain securities alleged to be in the
hands of Yulee might be also subjected to the payment of the
debt; and for other relief. It further appeared from the averments in the complaint that Yulee was liable as indorser on
part of the notes on which the judgment was rendered; and this
allegation was not denied in his answer, but no judgment was
specifically asked against him on that account.
On the trial of the cause, the complaint was dismissed as to
all the defendants. This judgment was affirmed in all respects
by the Supreme Court in general term; but in the Court of Appeals it was reversed as to Yulee, and the cause remanded for a
new trial as to him, on account of his liability as indorser of the
notes. As to all the other defendants and all other relief asked
there was an affirmance.
On the 5th of June, 1873, after the mandate went down
from the Court of Appeals, Yulee filed in the trial court his
petition, accompanied by the necessary bond, for the removal
of the suit as against him to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, under the act of
July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 306. That statute provides that if in
any suit already commenced, or which might thereafter be commenced, in any State court against an alien, or by a citizen of
the State in which the suit is brought against a citizen of another State, a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
is or shall be a defendant; and if the suit, so far as it relates to
the alien defendant, or to the defendant who is the citizen of a
State other than that in which the suit is brought, is one in
which there can be a final determination of the controversy so
fax as it concerns him, without the presence of the other defendants as parties, "then and in every such case the alien
defendant, or the defendant who is a citizen of a State other
than that in which the suit is brought, may, at any time before
the trial or final hearing of the cause, file a petition for removal
of the cause as against him into the next Circuit Court of the
United States to be held in the district where the suit is pending, . .. and it shall thereupon be the duty of the State court
to proceed no further in the cause as against the defendant

Oct. 1878.]

YULEE V. VOSE.

so applying for its removal." The petitioii for' femoval set
forth, in sufficient form and with sufficient particularity, the
citizenship of Vose in New York, and of Yulee in Florida, both
then and at the time of the commencement of the suit; but it
made no mention of the citizenship of the other defendants. In
all other respects the petition met fully the requirements of the
statute. The accompanying bond was also correct in form, and
no objection was made to its sufficiency. Notice of an intention to make the application for the removal was served on the
attorneys of Vose on the 17th of April, 1873. Accompanying
the petition was an affidavit of Dickerson, under date of June
4, 1873, to the effect that he, Dickerson, and the defendants
Roberts were citizens of the State of New York.
The cause came on for trial June 9, 1873, and a jury was
sworn, when the counsel for Yulee called the attention of the
court to the proceedings which h~d been taken for the removal,
and moved to dismiss the complaint for want of jurisdiction.
This motion was overruled, and the trial proceeded, resulting in
a verdict, by order of the court, against Yulee for $168,589.30,
on which judgment was rendered. Exception to the ruling of
the court on the question of removal was duly taken. Upon
this state of the record, the case was taken by proper proceedings to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment was affirmed,
on the ground that the suit was not removable under the act of
1866 when the petition for removal was filed, because the defendant Yulee was then the only defendant. This ruling of the
Court of Appeals is now assigned for error.
Mr. Edward X. Dickerson and Mr. William H. Merrc for
the plaintiff in error.
All the essential facts which entitled Yulee to a removal
-being presented by the petition, and the requisite bond filed,
there was no jurisdiction in the State court to try and determine the suit. That jurisdiction was absolutely ousted by the
petition, and any further action there was coram non. judice.
The petition is ipso facto a removal of that cause. Any dispute as to the truth of its averments must be tried not in the
State court, but in the Circuit Court of the United States, on
a motion to remand the cause or otherwise, as that court may
direct. If this were not the law, the right of removal might

YULEE V. VOSE.

[Sup. 0t.

be defeated by the State court, upon its alleged disbelief of
the facts proved by the petitioner, or its misconstruction of the
statute. Bell v. Dix, 49 N. Y. 236. See also JFisk v. Union
Pacific 1ailroad Co., 6 Blatchf. 862; s. c. 8 id. 243; Hatch v.
Chicago, Bock Island, Pacific Bailroad Co., 6 id. 105; Dennistoun v. -Draper,5 id. 836 ; Insurance Company v. Pechner, 95
U. S. 188; Gold Washing and Mining Company v. eeyes, 96 id.
202; Bailway Company,v. Ramsey, 22 Wall. 826.
By the terms of the act of July 27, 1866, the right of removal attached to the plaintiff in error at the commencement
of the suit, and ran throughout its existence. It was, therefore, not within the power of that court, by its judgment, to
make a several case against him, so as to deprive him of a
right which e-xists only where the case assumes a form in
which it is capable of a final determination, "so far as it
concerns him, without the presence of the other defendants as
parties to the cause." It appears, therefore, to be within the
very spirit, if not the letter, of the statute for a defendant to
wait until, by the judgment of the court or by the alterations
of the record, a case is presented which dispenses with the
presence of the other defendants. In that light the act of
severance performed by the judgment of the court below should
have been regarded as removing the only impediment to a
change of tribunals, instead of being erected into a bar to such
change.
Where the right of removal once attaches, a subsequent event,
or an amendment of the pleadings, or a change of the parties
cannot divest it. Clark v. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 164; Morgon v.
Morgon, 2 Wheat. 290; Kanouse v. Martin, 15 How. 198.
1
1r. Philip Phillips for the defendant in error.
It is claimed by the plaintiff in error that if the petition for
removal, on its face, be in accordance with the statutory requirement, it is a complete bar to all further proceedings in the State
court, and that whether the facts stated in the petition are
true or not in the record or dehors the record cannot be determined by that court.
Under the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 it must
appear to the satisfaction of the State court that the defendant
is an alien, or a citizen of some other State than that in which

Oct. 1878.]

YULEE

V. VosE.

the suit is brought, and that the matter in controversy exclusive
of costs exceeds the sum of $500. Gordon v. Longest, 16 Pet.
97. It must also determine the sufficiency of the bond.
The act of July 27, 1866, differs only from that of 1789 in
providing for the case where there are several defendants of
different States.
In view of that decision, it necessarily follows that, under
the act of 1866, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court
that the petitioner is one of several defendants, and within the
description of the act.
The principle contended for by the plaintiff in error is, that
the statement in his petition that he is one of several defendants and that his cause can be determined without the presence
of the others binds the State court, although the record of the
case in which the petition is filed shows that he is the sole
defendant.
In Sewing-Maehine Companies (18 Wall. 553), the State court
refused the application, under the act of March 2, 1867 (14
Stat. 558), made by two of the non-resident defendants, there
being another defendant who was a citizen of the same State
as the plaintiff. The form of the application was in all things
regular; but that court held that the parties were not legally
entitled, and on writ of error this court affirmed the judgment.
The same question was again made in the Superior Court of
Massachusetts; the same ruling was there made, and the judgment was affirmed in Vannevar v. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41.
It is therefore well established that the State court had authority to determine whether, in the case as made by Yulee, he
was entitled to the removal of the cause.
The suit in its original constitution being incapable of removal, the plaintiff in error made no attempt to remove it
until the question of the joint liability of all the defendants
had been eliminated from it by the court of final appeal as
to all the defendants except him, against whom only the judgment of the subordinate court was reversed, and a new trial
ordered. Thus the suit had utterly ceased to exist as to all
the other defendants. Nothing remained of it except an aetion in favor of Vose against Yulee on a special averment in
the complaint of a particular liability against him, distinct

YULEE V. VOSE.[

[Sup. Or.

from -the equitable liability charged against them all jointly.
The judgment of the tribunal of last resort put the other defendants out of court, or determined that the suit as to them
no longer existed.
The act of 1866 provides only for a case where there are
other defendants of the same State with the plaintiff. Yulee's
case was not, therefore, within its provisions, and the court of
original jurisdiction rightfully proceeded with the trial.
MR. CmJF JUSTICE WAITrE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
When this suit was commenced in the State court, Vose, the
sole plaintiff below, was a citizen of New York, and Yulee a
citizen of Florida. If there had been no other defendant but
Yulee, he could then have removed the cause to the Circuit
Court, under sect. 12 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat.
79), on filing his petition to that effect, and giving the necessary
security at the time of entering his appearance. His joinder
with other defendants, however, prevented this at that time;
and as the suit then stood, it was impossible for him to proceed
under the act of 1866, because, although his liability as indorser, in which his co-defendants had no interest, was shown,
he was united with them in respect to other matters where there
-could be no final determination of the controversy, so far as it
concerned him, without their presence. When the Court of
Appeals decided that there could be no relief in the action,
except so far as it related to the liability of Yulee as indorser
of the notes, the other parts of the case were disposed of, and
that which related to Yulee alone left for final determination.
This action of the Court of Appeals separated the controversy
in which Yulee was alone concerned as defendant from the rest
of the case, and put him for the first time in a condition to invoke the aid of the act of 1866. It is true he was then the
sole remaining defendant, but it was in a suit which had been
commenced against him and others, and which was still pending undisposed of as to him. Under these circumstances, we
are clearly of the opinion that the case was removable, notwithstanding the final judgment in favor of all the other defendants
in respect to all the other matters in controversy.

Oct. 1878.]

YULEE V. VOSE.

-,545

This disposes of the question on which the Court of Appeals
based its decision ; but as the State court was not bound to surrender its jurisdiction until a case had been made which, upon
its face, gave Yulee a right to the transfer, it remains to consider whether the record shows that what was done had that
effect.
The petition and accompanying affidavits and bond were filed
in court June 5, 1878. This was before the trial and thus in
time, under the act of 1866, which in this respect differs from
the act of 1789. When the cause was called for trial and after
the jury was sworn, the counsel of Yulee directed the attention
of the court to the petition for removal, and asked that the
complaint be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. This was
in effect asking the court to proceed no further in the cause, as
it had been withdrawn from the jurisdiction by reason of the
proceedings for removal. As no objection was made specifically to the bond which was offered, we are to presume that
the security was satisfactory, and that the court refused to withhold further proceedings because a case for removal had not
been made.
We think the application was made in time. The trial had
not commenced. The most that can be said is that preparations were being made for a trial.
The petition and the affidavits which accompanied it are to
be taken together as part of the same instrument. They are
also to be considered in connection with the other parts of the
record to which they belong.
The evident purpose of the act of 1866 was to relieve a person sued with others in the courts of a State of which he was not
a citizen, by one who was a citizen, from the disabilities of his
co-defendants in respect to the removal of the litigation to the
courts of the United States, if he could separate the controversy,
so far as it concerned him, from the others, without prejudice
to his adversary. In view of the fact that sometimes in the
progress of a cause circumstances developed themselves which
made such a transfer desirable, when at first it did not appear
to be so, the right of removal in this class of cases was kept
open until the trial or final hearing, instead of being closed
after an entry of appearance, as was the rule under the act of
VOL. IX.

3,

YULEE V. VOSE.

1789.

[Sup. Ct.

We think this gives such a party the right of removal

at ai~y time before trial, when the necessary citizenship of his
co-defendants is found to exist, and the separation of his interest
in the controversy can be made. There is nothing in the act
to manifest a contrary intention, and this construction does no
more than give the party to whom this new privilege is granted
an opportunity of availing himself of any circumstances that
may appear in his favor previous to the time when he is called
upon finally to act. In Insurance Company v. Pechner (95
U. S. 183), we held that the act of 1789 clearly had reference to
the citizenship of the parties when the suit was begun, because
the party entitled to the removal -was required to make his
But here a party
election when he entered his appearance.
otherwise entitled to a removal is embarrassed by the presence
of those whom he cannot control. In view of this, the time of
making his election is extended until he is brought to trial;
and it is not at all in conflict with that case to say that he
may avail himself of his release from the operation of the disabilities growing out of his joinder in the action with other
defendants, whenever that release occurs, if before trial or final
hearing as to him.
When the application for removal was made, it appeared on
the face of the record that Yulee, a citizen of Florida, had been
sued with other defendants by Vose, a citizen of New York, in
the courts of the State of New York, and that a part of the
other defendants with whom he had been joined were then
citizens of the State of New York. It also appeared that the
controversy, so far as it concerned Yulee, not only could be,
but actually had been by judicial determination, separated from
that of the other defendants. This, as we think, gave Yulee a
right to the transfer of his part of the suit to the Circuit Court,
and required the State court to proceed no further. Inasmuch
as the Court of Appeals has sustained the judgment given after
the refusal to permit the transfer to be made, the judgment of
the Court of Appeals will be reversed, and the cause remanded
for such further action in accordance with this opinion as may
be necessary; and it is
So ordered.

