Oct. 1878.]

HALE v. FROST.

that time, as regards the future, it ceased to be a factor to be
considered, and was in all respects as if it had never existed.
In this state of things the appellee acquired its title, and that
title is indefeasible.
Newhall v. Sanger applies only where the adverse claim is
undisposed of when the grant would otherwise take effect. It
has no application as to the future after the claim has ceased
to exist.
-Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTIcE HARLAiN concurred in the judgment, because
Ryan, upon the face of his bill, was not entitled to any relief
from a court of equity. The bill should have been dismissed
without any consideration of the merits of the case, about
which he expressed no opinion.

HALE v. FRoST.
1. Mortgages of the road and present and subsequently acquired property of a
railroad company, executed to secure the payment of its bonds, are, while
it retains possession, a prior lien upon the net earnings of the road.
2. The net earnings, while the road is in possession of a receiver appointed by
the court, may be applied to the payment of claims having superior equities
to that of the bondholders. So held, where from such earnings payment
was made to parties who had, before his appointment, furnished the company with car-springs, and spirals and supplies for its machinery department, which he continued to use in carrying on the business of the road.

AFPrAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
Between 1867 and 1873, The Burlington, Cedar Rapids, and
Minnesota Railway Company, a corporation duly organized
under the laws of Iowa, built and put in operation its main
line from Burlington, via Cedar Rapids, to Plymouth; the
Pacific Division, extending west from the main line at Vinton;
the Muscatine Division, extending from Muscatine west across
the main line; and the Milwaukee Extension, extending from

HALE v. FROST.

[Sup. Ct.

the main line near Cedar Rapids to Postville. The main
line was mortgaged May, 1869; the Pacific Division, September, 1871; the Milwaukee Extension, January, 1872; and the
Muscatine Division, July, 1872. The mortgages were made to
trustees to secure the bonds of the company, and covered the
road, all rights of way, rolling-stock, and equipment; all implements, fuel, and materials for the construction, operating, repairing, or replacing the road or any of its branches; and also
all franchises connecting with or relating to the road, which
were then held or might thereafter be acquired by the company; and also all rights, claims, and benefits in and to all
leases, contracts, and agreements then made or which might
thereafter be made with any parties whomsoever, together
with all and singular the tenements and appurtenances thereunto belonging, and the reversions, remainders, tolls, incomes,
rents, issues, and profits thereof, and also all the estates, rights,
titles, and interests whatsoever, as well at law as in equity, of
the company. The mortgages were authorized by statute, and
were in due time and in the proper offices recorded.
The company, Nov. 1, 1873, made default in paying interest
due for the preceding six months. The bondholders funded
their interest coupons due respectively at that date and at six
and twelve months next thereafter, and allowed the company
to retain the possession of the road. The company, May 1,
1875, again made default in the payment of interest; and on
the 19th of that month the trustees filed a bill against the
company, to foreclose the several mortgages. A receiver was
thereupon appointed by the court, who took immediate possession of the road and its branches. The company has never
since had possession of them, or received any of the rents or
profits thereof.
When the company first made default in the payment of interest, there was a " floating debt" of about $1,600,000, for equipment, construction, repairs, wages, taxes, &c. Between Nov. 1,
1873, and lay 1, 1875, the gross earnings of the main line-and
branches were about $1,772,249.74; and the net earnilgs during
the same time, over and above operating expenses, taxes, &c.,
were about $550,000, all of which were disbursed in the payment of the" floating debt." The company owed, Nov. 1,1873,

Oct. 1878.]

HALE V. FROST.

for back wages to employgs, taxes, and current supplies then on
hand and subsequently used by it, about the sum of $150,000.
When the receiver was appointed, May 19,1875, there was due
for back wages to employ6s, $81,250.02, and for current supplies, about $60,000. The records of the court below show that
while the railway and branches were under his control their
net earnings, over all operating expenses, for eight and onethird months, were $337,540.35.
The Union Car-Spring Manufacturing Company, Dec. 6,1875,
and the firm of Hale, Ayer, & Co., Aug. 18, 1875, intervened
and filed their respective petitions. Each prayed for an order
upon the receiver to pay its claim.
The facts were agreed upon, and it appears therefrom that
the car company sold and delivered to the railway company
during the month of April and the last of March, 1875, carsprings and spirals of the value of $469.42, which the receiver
after his appointment continued to use, and for which nothing
had been paid; that Hale, Ayer, & Co., Aug. 1 and 10, 1873,
had an accounting and settlement with the railway company,
in which it appeared that it was then indebted to them, including interest, in the sum of $21,738.92.
At sundry times and in various amounts the sum of $12,295.74
was paid on account of the notes given in settlement of said
indebtedness of $21.738.92, of which $5,919.25 was for supplies
to machinery department, $14,944.24 for materials for construction purposes, and $875.43 interest.
Another settlement was made Jan. 20, 1874, for $6,955.63
due from said company to them, being $4,422.99 for invoices of
supplies for machinery department, $2,208.75 for material for
construction purposes, and $323.89 interest.
The company's note for $1,552.78, given to them for supplies
for machinery department in August, 1872, matured Feb. 13,
1874, and the total amount due them was $17,951.59, for which
they held the overdue notes of the company. No mechanic's
lien was claimed. The judges below were opposed in opinion
upon the following points claimed by the interveners: 1. That the railway mortgage is a prior lien only upon the
net earnings of the road, after the payment of all the operating
expenses, while the road is in the possession of the company.

HALE v. FROST.

[Sup. Ct.

2. That after the default in the payment of the interest
Nov. 1, 1873, the fact that the mortgagees funded their coupons and left the company in possession of the road constituted the company their agent and trustee in equity, and they
are now estopped from objecting to the payment from the
earnings of the road of all legitimate debts contracted by the
company for operating expenses.
3. That the net earnings of the road, while in the possession
of the court, and operated by its receiver, are not necessarily
and exclusively the property of the mortgagees, but are subject to the disposal of the Chancellor in the payment of claims
which have superior equities, if such shall be found to exist,
and that these intervening petitioners' claims have superior
equities to those of the mortgagees.
The petitions were dismissed, and the interveners appealed
here.
Mr. Charles A. Clark and Ir. .. f. Hubbardfor the appellants.
Mr. James Grant for the appellee.
MiT. CHMF JuSTICE WAITE announced the decision of the
court.
The first question certified in this case is answered in the
affirmative, upon the authority of Fosdilc v. Sc/Tall, supra,p. 235.
The third question is answered in the same way upon the
same authority. The Union Car-Spring Manufacturing Company is entitled to payment in full, and Hale, Ayer, & Co.
to payment of so much of their claim only as is for supplies to
the machinery department. There is nothing in the case to
show any special equities in their favor in respect to that
part of their account which is for material for construction
purposes.
An answer to the second question is unnecessary.
The several decrees appealed from will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to enter decrees in favor of
the appellants for the amount due them respectively from the
fund in court, upon the principles settled by the answers which
are given to the questions certified; and it is
Sqo ordered.

