HUSSEY V. SMITff.

[Sup. Ot.

court below, and that the suspension by the supervisor of internal revenue, and the action of the Secretary of the Treasury
directing him to continue in the office until a successor to the
suspended officer was appointed and qualified, created such a
vacancy, within the meaning of the act of Congress, for all
practical purposes in the administration of the duties of the
office as entitles the claimant to that compensation. Assume
that to be so, and it follows that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

Huss=Y

v. SMITH.

An incorporated town in Utah was situate on public lands, which were duly
entered at the proper land-office by the mayor, to whom a patent was issued
under the act of MNarch 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 641). The legislature of the Territory, as authorized by that act, enacted the requisite rules and regulations
for the disposal of the lots in the town, and provided that the party who
was the rightful owner of possession, or occupant, or was entitled to the
occupancy or possession of a lot, should on certain conditions be entitled to
a deed therefor from the mayor. A mode whereby contesting claims should
be determined was prescribed. A., before the lands were entered, was in the
possession of a lot, and mortgaged it to B., but thereafter remained in possession. In a foreclosure suit brought in the proper court against A., wherein
the process sued out was served by the marshal of the United States for that
Territory, a decree was rendered whereunder he, still acting as the ministerial
officer of that court, under the decision of the local courts that he was entitled so to do, made sale of the lot to C. The sale was confirmed by the
court, and C. conveyed the lot to D., a non-resident. A. and D. respectively
claimed a deed from the mayor. Held, 1. That A.'s interest in the lot, before
the lands were entered, could be the subject of a sale or mortgage. 2. That
although this court subsequently decided that the marshal could act only
in cases where the United States was concerned, his doings in the premises
were those of an officer de facto; that by his service of the process the court
acquired jurisdiction of the person of A.; that the sale under the decree extinguished A.'s right to the lot; and that D. was entitled to a deed therefor
from the mayor.

APP.EAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The act of March 2, 1867, entitled " An Act for the relief
of the inhabitants of cities and towns upon the public lands,"
approved March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 541), provides: Whenever

Oct. 1878.]

.HUSSEYv. SMITH.

any portion of the public lands of the United States have been
or shall be settled upon and occupied as a town site, and therefore not subject to an entry under the agricultural pre-emption
laws, it shall be lawful, in case such town shall be incorporated,
for the corporate authorities thereof, and if not incorporated,
for the judge of the county court for the county in which such
town may be situated, to enter at the proper land-office and at
the minimum price, the land so settled and occupied, in tust
for the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their respective interests, the execution of which trust,
as to the disposal of the lots in such town and the proceeds of
the sales thereof, to be conducted inder such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the legislative authority of the
State or Territory in which the same may be situated, &c.
In accordance with this act the legislature of Utah, by an
act approved Feb. 17, 1869, made the necessary "rules and
regulations;" and in November, 1871, Daniel Wells, as mayor
of the city of Salt Lake, entered certain lands in that Territory
as "the town site" of said city, wherein was included the lot
which is in controversy in this suit. On the thirtieth day of
September, 1868, Job Smith, then and for many years prior
thereto in possession of the lot, and the owner thereof, subject only to the paramount title of the United States, executed
to one Bernhisel a mortgage of all "his right of possession,
claim, and interest in and to the lot," to secure the payment
of a certain sum of money in one year thereafter. In September, 1869, Smith executed another mortgage of the lot to
one Linforth, to secure the sum of $1,058.43, payable twelve
months from that date. On the third day of December, 1870,
Bernhisel filed his bill of foreclosure in the District Court
of the third judicial district of that Territory against Smith
and Linforth. The process sued out was served by the marshal of the United States for the Territory. A decree was
rendered by default in favor of Bernhisel. Pursuant thereto
the marshal sold the lot, and on the thirteenth day of March,
1871, the court, on his report of his doings, approved and confirmed the sale to William Jennings, to whom the marshal
made a deed for the lot. Jennings conveyed it, March 9, 1872,
to Hussey, a resident of the State of Ohio.

HUSSEY V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Smith remained in possession of the lot, and Dec. 11, 1872,
filed in the Probate Court his written statement, pursuant to
said act of the Territory, claiming that he, under its provisions, was entitled to a deed, and praying that he be adjudged
to be the lawful owner. Hussey filed a similar statement,
which was amended May 24, 1872.
It was adjudged that Smith was entitled to a deed from the
mapyor of the city of Salt Lake, and that a certificate of title
should issue to him therefor. To the same effect was the
judgment of the District Court and that of the Supreme
Court. Hussey then appealed here.
Mr. Samuel A. lMerritt in support of the decree below.
1. Hussey, being a non-resident of Salt Lake City, was not
one of the beneficiaries of the legislation of Congress. Long
before and at the time the lands were entered "in trust for
the several use and benefit of the occupants thereof," Smith
was in the actual occupation of the lot, and has since remained
in possession of it. He is, therefore, justly entitled to the
benefits which Congress designed to bestow.
2. The decree by default in the foreclosure suit was a nullity.
The service of process by the marshal of the United States
conferred upon the court no jurisdiction of the defendants.
He can only act in cases where the United States is concerned (Clinton et al. v. Englebreet, 13 Wall. 434), and his
sale of the lot under the decree passed no title.
,41r. Z. Snow and 31r. -. D. JHoge, contra.
MR . JusTice SwAYn delivered the opinion of the court.

There can be no question that under the act of Congress of
March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 541), Smith had an equitable interest
in the premises in controversy which he could sell and convey.
Phyfe v. Wardell, 5 Paige (N. Y.), 268; Armour v. Alexander,
10 id. 571 ; Tredgill v. Jintard,12 How. 24. Until the mayor
of Salt Lake City made the entry at the proper land-office,
which he was authorized to make, the legal title was in the
United States. By the entry it became vested in the mayor.
He held the entire tract so entered "in trust for the several
use and benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their
respective interests." Such is the language of the statute.

Oct. 1878.]

HUSSEY V. SMITH.

The act does'not prohibit a sale, but is silent upon the subject.
Smith mortgaged to Bernhisel, and subsequently to Linforth.
Bernhisel foreclosed, making Smith and Linforth defendants.
Under a decree of the proper court, the premises were sold by
the United States marshal. Jennings became the purchaser,
and thereafter sold and conveyed to the appellant, by deed
bearing date March 9, 1872. On the 24th of May, 1872, the
appellant filed her claim pursuant to law in the proper probate
court, for a judgment to enable her to obtain a deed from the
mayor for the premises. Smith had before filed a claim also.
On the 10th of July, 1872, the Probate Court decided in favor
of Smith. She thereupon appealed to the District Court. The
decision of the probate judge was affirmed. She then appealed
to the Supreme Court of the Territory. The judgment of the
Probate Court was again affirmed, and she thereupon removed
the case by appeal to this court.
The validity of the mortgage to Bernhisel is not controverted,
nor is it denied that, if the foreclosure and sale divested Smith's
title, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory was
erroneous, and must be reversed.
It was held by that court that the foreclosure proceedings
were void, for two reasons: -irst, That the mortgage was not sufficiently described in
the complainant's petition to warrant the decree pro confesso,
which was taken.
Second, That the United States marshal, by whom the original process in the case was served, the sale made, and the deed
to the purchaser executed, had no authority to act in any wise
in the premises.
The first objection is clearly untenable, and has not been
insisted upon here. We therefore pass it by without further
notice.
The second objection is necessary to be considered.
There were two marshals in the Territory, - one appointed
by the national governmeit, the other under a territorial law.
The former was called the marshal of the United States, the
latter, marshal of the Territory.
A question arose which officer was entitled to serve the
processes issuing from the local courts. A case was brought

HlUSSEY v. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

in the proper district court to settle their respective claims.
On the 12th of May, 1870, that court decided that the right
and authority belonged exclusively to the marshal of the
United States. The Supreme Court of the Territory, at its
October Term in the same year, affirmed this judgment. Such
was then understood to be the law, and the marshal of the
United States proceeded in the performance of his official
functions, having the field to himself, until the subject came
under the consideration of this court in Clinton et al. v. Englebrecht, 13 Wall. 434. It was then held (on the 15th of April,
1872) that the marshal of the United States had such authority
only in cases where the United States were concerned.
It will thus be seen that the period of his recognized right
and of its uninterrupted exercise extended from May 12, 1870,
to April 15, 1872. Within that time all the proceedings in
The petition to
the Bernhisel foreclosure case were had.
foreclose was filed, the process was issued and served upon
Smith, the decree was taken, the sale was made, and the
marshal's deed was executed to Jennings. During all this
time the marshal's acts were valid, as being those of an officer
de facto. They were as much so as if they had been done by
him de jure. These remarks apply with full force to his acts
as a ministerial officer in the Bernhisel case. An officer de
facto is not a mere usurper, nor yet within the sanction of
law, but one who, colore offlcii, claims and assumes to exercise
official authority, is reputed to have it, and the community
Wilcox v. Smith, 5 Wend. (N. Y.)
acquiesces accordingly.
231; Gilliam v. Beddick, 4 Ired. (N. C.) L. 368; Brown v.
LTnt, 37 Me. 423. Judicial as well as ministerial officers may
be in this position. Freeman on Judgments, sect. 148. The
acts of such officers are held to be valid because the public
good requires it.
The principle wrongs no one. A different
rule would be a source of serious and lasting evils.
The marshal's sale and deed to Jennings extinguished the
entire right of Smith to the premises. Thereafter he stood to
them in the relation of a stranger. All the title which he
possessed when the mortgage was executed passed from him to
Jennings, and from Jennings to the appellant.
The territorial law of Utah of Feb. 17, 1869 (Compiled

Oct. 1878.]

Ot ILLS V. SCOTT.

Laws of Utah, 379), authorized to be passed by the act of
Congress before mentioned, gave to the party " entitled to the
occupancy or possession," as well as to the "occupant or occupants," the right to apply for the judgment by the Probate
Court, upon which, when rendered, the mayor was to execute
his deed. If this were not so, the right would be clearly within
the equity of the act of Congress, and conferred by it.
The rejection of the appellant's claim and the adjudication
in favor of Smith, who had not then a shadow of right to the
premises, by the Probate Court was, therefore, a gross error,
and the Supreme Court of the Territory repeated it by affirming
the judgment.
The judgment of the latter court will, therefore, be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to proceed in conformity to this opinion; and it is

So ordered.

NiOTE. - Hussey v. Merritt, appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Utah, was argued at the same time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case. Inu. JUSTICE SwAYN stated that the opinion in that case was decisive
of this. The cardinal question here, as there, was as to the validity of the proceedings touching the sale under the 3ernhisel mortgage, and the result must
be the same.

MILLS V. SCOTT.
1. The statute of Georgia of March 16, 1869, requiring actions for the enforcement of rights of individuals under acts of incorporation or by operation
of law, which accrued prior to June 1, 1865, to be brought before Jan. 1,
1870, does not apply to claims against the estate of a deceased person, so as
to exclude the time which a previous statute allowed to administrators to
ascertain the condition of the estate, and to creditors to file their claims.
2. A court of equity is the proper tribunal to ascertain the proportion of indebtedness chargeable to a stockholder of a bank on his personal liability.
But as by the law of the State, as declared by its highest tribunal, an
action of debt will lie where the amount of the bank's outstanding indebtedness and the number of shares held by the stockholder are known and can
be stated, the extent of his liability in such cases being fixed, and the
amount with which he should be charged being a mere matter of computation, a similar action at law will be sustained in such cases in the Circuit
Court of the United States.

