SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

does not appear affirmatively, by the record, that the note on
which the suit was brought was a contract concerning her private property.

That was a matter which, if it were true,

should have been pleaded as a defence. She was subject personally to the jurisdiction of the court. Her contracts were
subjects of which the court had jurisdiction. It had jurisdiction
to enforce those contracts by sale of her individual property.
The note on which she was sued had every indication that it
was her individual contract, as it no doubt was, and that her
husband's name was placed there to show his consent.
To hold that persons not interested in that contract, nor
parties to the suit, can now come in and treat the judgment as
absolutely void, on its face, is such a departure from all the
principles on which the jurisdiction of the court is determined,
that even the authority of the courts of Mississippi should not,
in my opinion, control us in the matter.

SAGE, V. CENTRAL RAILROAD COMIPANY.
1. In the mortgage of a railroad it was covenanted and agreed by all the parties thereto, that, in case of a foreclosure sale of the mortgaged property
under a decree, the trustee named in the mortgage should, on the written request of the holders of a majority of the then outstanding bonds
thereby secured, purchase the property at such sale for the use and
benefit of the holders of such bonds, and that the right and title thereto
should vest in him, no holder to have any claim to the proceeds except
his pro rata share thereof, as represented in a new company or corporation, to be formed for their use and benefit; and that the trustee might
take such lawful measures to organize a new company for their benefit,
upon such terms, conditions, and limitations as the holders of a majority
of the bonds should in writing request or direct, and lie should thereupon
reconvey the premises so purchased to such new company. On default
of payment a suit was brought by the trustee against the mortgagor and
subsequent mortgagees, praying for a foreclosure of the first mortgage,
and for general relief. Held, 1. That such an agreement inures equally
to the benefit of such bondholders, and that each holds his interest subject to the controlling power given to the majority of them. 2. That the
trustee, the cestai qze trust, and the trust itself being before the court, and
it appearing that the holders of a majority of the bonds had in writing
requested and directed the trustee, if he became the purchaser of the prop-

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.

erty, to convey it to a new corporation, the court might authorize and direct
him to bid at the sale at least the amount of the principal and interest of
the first-mortgage bonds, and might provide for a complete execution of the
trust. 3. That though the specific relief sought was a strict foreclosure, a
decree for a sale of the property and for the enforcement of the agreement
contained in the deed was, under the prayer for general relief, appropriate.
4. That it was not error for the court to require that if a person other
than the trustee became the purchaser at the sale he should pay at once,
in cash, a part of his bid as earnest money. 6. That where some of the
first-mortgage bondholders were permitted to intervene as parties to prosecute, for the protection of their several interests, an appeal from the decree
for a sale of the property, and the appeal not having been made a supersedeas, the decree was executed, they cannot object to orders made prior to
the decree, nor assign for error any part of it which is not injurious to
their interests.
2. Where the decree required notice of the sale of the property to be advertised
in certain newspapers, among which was A., printed in a certain city, and
it appearing that, before such advertisement was made, A. had been merged
into B., or that its name had been changed to B., - Held, that the identity
of the paper remaining, the advertisement in B. was a substantial compliance with the order.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mir. Matt. H. Carpenter and Mr. X. A. 6'owdrey for the appellants.
lfr. Herbert B. Turner, Mr. C. C. Cole, and Mr. B. L. Ashhurst, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This proceeding was commenced by a bill filed at the suit of
Charles Alexander and others, holders of bonds secured by a
first mortgage or deed of trust of the Central Railroad Company
of Iowa, praying for an account, for the appointment of a receiver, and for a foreclosure of the mortgage. The bill was

filed to October Term, 1874, in the Circuit Court.

It made

the railroad company, and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, who were the trustees named in the mortgage, parties defendant. Subsequently, at the same term, the
trustees, who were also trustees under second and third mort-

gages, filed their original bill, as well for the benefit of the
complainants in the first bill as for all other bondholders, praying also for an account, for a receiver, and for a foreclosure.

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAIL-ROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

By order of the court, these two bills were consolidated, and
the hearing of the case proceeded until the 22d of October,
1875, when a final decree was made, directing, inter alia, a sale
of the mortgaged premises. On the 15th of January, 1876,
Russell Sage, James Buell, and N. A. Cowdrey, on their petition, representing themselves to be holders of some of the mortgaged bonds secured by the first mortgage, were permitted to
intervene as parties, to prosecute an appeal to this court, for the
protection of their several interests, against the decree of Oct.
22, 1875. They have accordingly appealed; and as their appeal was not made a supersedeas, and the decree was executed
by a sale, they have entered a second appeal from the confirnation of that sale.
Directing our attention first to the appeal from the decree of
Oct. 22, 1875, it is observable that it raises no question respecting the validity or amount of the debts due by the mortgagors
and secured by the several mortgages, nor any respecting the
order in which they are entitled to payment. There is some
complaint that the court, before the final decree was entered,
directed certain payments to be made by the receiver for locomotives and rent of cars used upon the road, either by the receiver or before his appointment. Whether these orders were
correct or not, we will consider hereafter. The appellants do
not complain that the decree of the court has not determined
correctly the amounts due upon the several mortgages, and
marshalled them in their proper order of priority. Nor do they
insist that it was not proper for the court, in view of the facts
as they appeared, to order a sale of the mortgaged property.
Their complaint is rather respecting the disposition which the
court decreed to be made of the property, in case the trustees
of the mortgage should become the purchasers. To understand
those dispositions, and the reasons why they were ordered, it is
necessary to observe carefully the provisions of the deed upon
which the bill was founded, and which, therefore, properly
affected the decree. Some of them are quite peculiar. The
first mortgage was given to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company of New York, to secure the payment of bonds of the
railroad company to the amount of $3,776,000, with interest
thereon. It covered the entire corporate property of the mort-

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

00.

gagor, constructed or to be constructed, and all its franchises
and privileges, -all its property that might thereafter be acquired, including machinery, locomotives, rolling-stock, tools,
and supplies, as well as the net income of the mortgagor. It
contained also the usual stipulation made in railroad mortgages,
that in case of default in the payment of interest the principal
should fall due ; that the trustee, on the written request of a
majority of the holders of the bonds, should be authorized and
empowered to take possession of the property, and sell it at
public auction. It is unnecessary to refer to the other provisions, except the following, which are special and unusual,
and have a material bearing upon the decree of which the
appellants complain. These we quote at large " And it is further covenanted and agreed by and between the
parties hereto, that in case of any judicial foreclosure sale, or other
sale of the premises embraced in this mortgage, under the decree of
any court having jurisdiction thereof, based upon the foreclosure
of this mortgage, and the holders of a majority of the then outstanding bonds secured by this mortgage shall in writing request
the said trustee or their successor, they are authorized to purchase
the premises embraced herein for the use and benefit of the holders of the then outstanding bonds secured by this mortgage. And
having so purchased said premises, the right and title thereto shall
vest in said trustees, and no bondholder shall have any claim to
the premises or the proceeds thereof, except for his pro rata share
of the proceeds of said purchased premises, as represented in a new
company or corporation to be formed for the use and benefit of
the holders of the bonds secured hereby, and the said trustee may
take such lawful measures as deemed for the interest of said bondholders, to organize a new company or corporation for the benefit
of the holders of the bonds secured by this mortgage. Said new
company or corporation shall be organized upon such terms, conditions, and limitations, and in such a manner, as the holders of a
majority of said outstanding bonds secured by this mortgage shall,
in writing, request or direct, and said trustee so purchasing shall
thereupon reconvey the premises so purchased by them to said new
company or corporation."
It was a mortgage containing these stipulations that the
Circuit Court was called upon to enforce. And the several
VOL. IX.

22

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

bondholders claiming under the mortgage held their interests
subject to this controlling power given to the majority of all
the holders.
There were two subsequent mortgages of the same property,
given by the railroad company to the same trustee, to secure
the payment of other bonds. These were set forth in the bill;
and when the consolidated case was ripe for a decree, it appeared that there was due from the company for principal and
interest of the first-mortgage debt the sum of $4,623,334.99 in
gold, with interest from Oct. 15, 1875; upon the second mortgage, $1,136,246.86; and that there were $420,000 of bonds, secured by the third mortgage, outstanding. The court therefore
decreed that the mortgagors should pay within ten days the sum
due to the bondholders under the first mortgage; and if they
failed to pay, that the mortgagees under the second and third
mortgages and the judgment creditors, or any of them, in the
order of their respective liens, should pay the same; and that in
default of said payment by any of said parties, their equity of
redemption in the premises should be foreclosed.
Had this been all, the result would have been a strict foreclosure. The master to whom the case had been referred had
found and reported that the property would not sell at the date
of his report (Oct. 11, 1875) for more than forty cents on the
dollar of its indebtedness, and this report had been confirmed.
It was therefore manifest that neither the railroad company
nor any of the lien creditors subsequent to those holding under
the first mortgage could or would pay the $4,620,334.99 thereby
secured. But a strict foreclosure was undesirable for all the
parties. Not only would it have cut off entirely the bondholders secured by the second and third mortgages, whose interests
were before the court, and which it was bound to protect as far
as possible, but it would have made the large number of bondholders under the first mortgage practically tenants in common
of the railroad property. The inconveniences of such a result
are obvious enough. A sale, therefore, was for the interest of
all, and to that no one objected. Indeed, it was contemplated
as possible in each of the three mortgages. The bondholders,
through their trustee, had made arrangements in view of such a
contingency. They had agreed what should be the effect and

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

consequence of a judicial sale. All of them had taken their bonds
with knowledge of the agreement and subject to it. What
that agreement was, what purpose it was intended to subserve,
against what mischief it was proposed to guard, and by what
mode it was stipulated the object intended should be accomplished, it is very important to consider. By the agreement,
the entire body of the bondholders consented to place their
interests, to a certain extent, under the control of a majority of
their number. Their trustee was authorized to purchase the
property at the judicial sale, should one be ordered, and convey
it to a new corporation, to be formed for their benefit, provided a
majority of them should, in writing, request such a purchase.
They had agreed to more than this. They had consented that
the new corporation should be organized upon such terms, conditions, and limitations, and in such manner, as the holdirs
of a majority of the outstanding bonds secured by the mortgage should, in writing, request or direct. This consent and
agreement, this deposit of power in the majority, was contained
in the mortgage under which the appellants claim.
The purposes sought to be accomplished by it are manifest.
First, It was designed for protection against the perils of a
forced sale of an unsalable property for cash. It was well
known that at judicial sales of railroads for cash there is little
likelihood of obtaining a bid for a sum at all commensurate
with the value of the property sold, or with the amount of
incumbrances upon it. The amount required is so large usually,
that it is beyond the reach of ordinary purchasers. In such a
case as the present, the first-mortgage bondholders are the only
party that can become the purchasers, and they only, because
they need not pay their bid in cash.
Secondly, The agreement looked farther. It provided for the
contingency of a purchase by bondholders under the mortgage.
But such a purchase could not inure equally to the benefit of
all, unless all were parties to it. There is almost a certainty
that in foreclosure sales of a railroad, especially when the
mortgage debts exceed the market value of the property, as in
this case, the purchaser will be an association of some of the
bondholders secured by the mortgage, who buy with the inteltion of organizing a new company to hold the property for their

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

interests. Where the bondholders are numerous, diversities of
views respecting the new organization may be expected, and
they generally arise. Very rarely do all the bondholders unite
in making the purchase. Frequently there is more than one
combination, and a strife between them to secure the advantage
hoped for from the purchase and consequent control of the
property. The result is that those who do not belong to the
successful combination are excluded from those advantages,
and are not placed upon an equal footing with the others.
Thirdly, Another evil, that observation shows to be very frequent, is that the arrangements for purchasing the mortgaged
property and organizing a new company, desired by the majority
of the bondholders, and which would be for the equal benefit of
all, are resisted by a small minority, unless they, the minority,
are paid in full, or superior advantages are conceded to them,
at the expense of their fellows.
It was in view of all this that the first-mortgage bondholders
entered into the agreements contained in the mortgage, -the
agreements which we have quoted. They provided that there
should be no judicial sale for cash, unless the amount bidden at
the sale should equal the sum due and secured by the mortgage.
Instead of such a sale they provided a method by which all the
bondholders with equal rights might effect a reorganization of the
indebted corporation, and become the owners of the franchises
and property mortgaged. This, mode was the creation of a new
corporation in which the property should be vested, for the
equal benefit of all the holders of the bonds, thus preventing
any minority or any bondholders from demanding that their
wishes and interests should be given a preference to those of
others in like condition, or that they should be paid in whole,
or in part, in cash. So the agreement was in part intended to
guard against the evils resulting from the want of unanimity
among those whose rights were exactly the same, and the
possible necessity of raising money to pay off non-assenting
holders of the bonds. It was to secure the common interests
of all the bondholders, in such a manner that none should
obtain an advantage over the others, that it was agreed the
purchase might be made by the trustee on account of all,
and that the subsequent disposition of the subject of the pur-

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.

chase should be for the common benefit of all. .To carry out
these intentions a majority of the bondholders was empowered
to act "controllingly for the entire body, in matters respecting
the purchase and d*isposition of the property purchased, subject
to the limitation that the purchase, if made by the trustee,
should be for the use and benefit of the outstanding bonds;
that the property should be conveyed to a new company which
should be organized for their benefit, on such terms, conditions,
and limitations as the holders of a majority of the outstanding
bonds should request or direct. The agreement, though unusual, was a reasonable one. While it prevented a small
minority of the bondholders from forcing unreasonable and
inequitable concessions from the majority, it did not empower
that majority to crush out the rights of the minority, or subject
them to any disadvantage. It authorized only such arrangements as would inure equally to the benefit alike of the majority and the minority.
Such was the contract and such the power conferred upon a
majority of the bondholders. It was such a contract which
the bills brought before the Circuit Court for a decree. In
view of its provisions we cannot think it was error to decree,
as the court did, that the mortgaged property should be sold to
the highest and best bidder, and that the trustee should be
authorized and directed to bid at the sale, as trustee for the
first-mortgage bondholders, at least the amount of principal
and interest of the first-mortgage bonds.
The decree went farther. At the time when it was made it
appeared that a large majority of the first-mortgage bondholders had, in writing, requested and directed the trustee, if
becoming the purchaser, to convey the property to a new corporation, organized substantially on the terms, conditions, and
limitations prescribed in the decree which the court made;
The request was an attempted exercise of the power conferred
upon that majority by the mortgage. The trustee, the cestui
que trust, and the trust itself were before the court, and the
court undertook a complete execution of the trust. It decreed
as follows: " That if said trustee, as aforesaid, shall become the purchaser of said property at such sale, the title shall pass abso-

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. Ot.

lutely to said trustee, subject, however, to the trusts herein
indicated on behalf of the several parties in interest, being the
first, second, and third mortgage bondholders, creditors and
stockholders of the Central Railroad Company of Iowa; and
said property shall be conveyed by said trustee to a corporation organized, or to be organized, for the purpose of acquiring
said property, under the provisions of said first mortgage, and
of this decree, and to be approved by a majority of said firstmortgage bondholders, in which said corporation the controlling interest and power of management shall be given to the
first-mortgage bondholders in such manner as the majority of
such first-mortgage bondholders shall indicate and provide, and
in which the second-mortgage bondholders shall receive a
second class of stock for the full amount, principal and interest,
of said second-mortgage bonds; and in which corporation the
tbird-mortgage bondholders and general creditors shall receive
common stock at par for the respective amounts due them;
and in which the stockholders of the defendant shall receive
common stock at the rate of one dollar in the new corporation
for every three dollars of stock held by them in the defendant
corporation."
Against this part of the decree the appellants present several
objections. They urge that it was unauthorized by the prayer
in the bill of complaint, and was not responsive thereto. It is
true the bill contained no specific prayer for such directions ;
but beyond the relief specifically asked the complainants
prayed for such other and further relief as the nature of the
case should require, and as might seem meet to the court. The
specific relief sought was a strict foreclosure; but under the
prayer for general relief it is not questioned that the decree for
a sale was appropriate. And as the deed of trust was made a
part of the bill, and provided what should be done in case the
trustee became the purchaser at the sale, it does not appear to
be going outside of the case to enforce the agreement contained
in the deed, into which the railroad company, the trustee, and,
through the trustee, all the bondholders had entered.
A second objection is that in this part of the decree the
court attempted to force inconsistent duties and trusts upon
the trustee, different from those the parties had established by

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

contract under seal, viz. by the mortgage deed. The meaning of this is, as we understand it, that the decree directs a
disposition of the property variant from the one stipulated for
in the deed of trust. At first sight this objection seems to be
not without merit. But after a careful examination of the deed,
bearing in mind also the purposes sought to be accomplished by
it, the mode prescribed for the accomplishment of those purposes,
the powers vested in the majority of the bondholders, and the
subordination of the trustee to those powers, we are unable
to say that the decree was unwarranted. We cannot say that
the majority transgressed the power they possessed, in their
arrangement for the organization of the new company, and,
consequently, that the decree of the court carrying out that
arrangement directed a disposition of the property *different
from that to which all the bondholders had assented. The
-primary object of the deed was to secure to the bondholders a
prior right to the entire property, - the subject of the trust, so far as it was needed for the full payment of the bonds.
The decree preserves this right in all its entirety. It directs
that in the new corporation to which the trustee is ordered
to convey, the controlling interest and power of management
shall be given to the first-mortgage bondholders in such manner as the majority of them shall indicate and provide. It
subordinates to their rights all the interests of the second and
third mortgagees, as well as those of the general creditors and
the stockholders of the railroad company, foreclosing entirely
the equity of that company.
The agreement in the deed of trust (a similar one being also
in the second and third mortgages) contemplated a substantial
reorganization. It was for this that the power was given to
the majority of the bondholders. The power was coupled with
a large discretion. The majority was authorized to define the
" terms, conditions, and limitations " under which the new
company should be organized. What those should be was
thus left to the discretion of the donees of the power. "Terms,
conditions, and limitations " are broad words. Let it be conceded that the new organization must be for the benefit of the
holders of the first-mortgage bonds, how can we say it is not
for the benefit of those holders that entirely subordinate inter-

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ot.

ests are conceded to junior lien creditors and to the stockholders of the former corporation? How can we say that such a
concession was beyond the discretion with which the agents
of the bondholders, that is to say, the majority, were clothed ?
Such concessions are generally made in reorganizations of railroad companies, and they are regarded as beneficial to the joint
lienholders. They prevent delay and expenditure arising out
of litigation between creditors, which are sometimes almost
ruinous, and they lessen the risk of redemptions. The majority
were empowered to direct the terms and conditions under which
the new corporation should exist, and hold the property conveyed to it, as well as the limitations within which it might
act. It is not intended that the majority could postpone the
rights of any minority of the bondholders to those of other
creditors, or allow any interference with those rights. Nothing of the kind has been done. Under the agreement the
appellants, as well as the other bondholders, had, in case of a
purchase by the trustee, no claim to the property purchased or
to the proceeds thereof, "except for their pro rata share of the
proceeds as represented in a new company," to be formed in
the manner, and upon such terms and conditions, and with
such limitations, as a majority of their associates may direct.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think the decree of the court,
in the particular we are now considering, is consistent with the
agreement of the bondholders contained in the deed of trust,
and, thereforej that this objection of the appellants should not
be sustained.
We see no error in the decree, so far as it required any other
person than the trustee under the first mortgage, if he became
the purchaser at the sale, to pay at once in cash a part of
his bid, as earnest money. Such other purchaser, of course,
must be a cash purchaser, at least to the extent of the sum
due on the first mortgage. It was, therefore, no hardship to
require an immediate payment by him of a part of his bid,
and the order that he should make such payment was a protection against false or unreal bids. That the same requirement was not made of the trustee was very proper, for the
reason that a purchase by the trustee required no payment
of money, beyond a sum sufficient for costs, unless the bid

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD C0.

exceeded the sum due on the first mortgage, the purchase being
made for the first-mortgage bondholders.
The appellants further object to certain orders made by the
court for payment by the receiver to John S. Newberry et al.,
to Isaac M. Gate et al., to Mowery Car Company, and to Haskell, Barker, & Co., for rolling-stock, furnished under lease or
otherwise, for the railroad. These orders were no part of the
decree of Oct. 22, 1875. These orders were made prior to
that time, when the appellants were not parties to the suit,
except through their trustee. They did not intervene and
become parties until after the decree of October 22 was made.
Then they were permitted to become parties "so far as to prosecute, if they so elected, for the protection of their several
interests therein, an appeal to the Supreme Court from the
decree entered Oct. 22, 187"5." They asked for nothing more.
They prayed for no appeal from any prior orders, and certainly
they cannot be permitted now to object to orders made prior
to that decree, - orders from which they have not appealed.
But if this was not so, it would be sufficient to say that the
orders were not erroneous. They were within the rules we
announced in Fosdick v. Schall (supra, p. 235), and it is sufficient to refer to that case for their justification.
The appellants further object that the eighth paragraph of
the decree was erroneous. That paragraph is as follows: ".Eighth, That the right of the several parties to this suit
claiming liens by judgment or otherwise upon the property of
defendants, and of the several parties claiming rights or equities in and to said property, or any property in the use of said
railroad company, or any part thereof, by virtue of contracts,
or cases whereby material, labor, or property has been furnished for or placed upon said defendant's road, shall not be
affected by this decree, the same being taken subject to the
rights and equities of said parties as the same may be established and declared hereafter by this court."
This order relates to the effect of the decree, and not to the
effect of a sale made under it, as the appellants seem to think.
It reserves certain rights claimed for further adjudication. It
cannot well be understood without reference to the nature of
the claims and their condition when the decree was made.

SAGE V. OENTRAL RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ot.

This appears in the report of the master, to which there was no
exception in these particulars. The claims were judgments
amounting in the aggregate to about $13,000, recovered against
the railroad company for injuries to persons and property, and
which were liens prior to the mortgages. From some of these
appeals had been taken. There were also judgments inferior
to the liens of the three mortgages, and other judgments not
claimed to be liens at all, and there was a floating debt. It
was impossible to determine definitely the extent of the rights
of these various claimants, when the sale was ordered, and no
one could have been injured by reserving them for subsequent
adjudication. This objection, therefore, has no weight.
One other remains. The appellants assign for error that the
decree is in one particular illegal, incongruous, and contradictory, in this: that while in the first paragraph the right of redemption is barred as to the railroad company, the defendant,
the second and third mortgage bondholders, and the judgment
creditors, it is given in the seventh paragraph to the second and
third mortgage bondholders, the general creditors, and the
stockholders of the defendant company, "thus apparently denying the right of redemption to the railroad company and to the
judgment creditors." The assignment does not complain that
a right of redemption was given to those to whom it was accorded. It rather complains that it was denied to the railroad
company and to the judgment creditors. If such be the meaning
of the decree, how can the appellants complain of it? To them
it works no injury, and those who might complain have not
appealed. Besides, if the other portions of the decree are correct, as we have endeavored to show, redemption by anybody
is, to say the least, extremely improbable, if not impossible.
We cannot avoid the conviction that this assignment of error is
not the assertion of a real grievance.
The appellants are the holders of about six per cent of the
first-mortgage bonds. They are endeavoring to overturn an
arrangement agreed to by a large majority of the bondholders
appointed by themselves to make an arrangement for the reorganization of the debtor company, - an arrangement sanctioned
by the court, which does not lessen their security or postpone
them to any other bondholders, but which preserves to its fullest

Oct. 1878.]

SAGE V. CENTRAL RAILROAD

CO.

extent all the rights assured to them by the mortgage. They
ought not to succeed without the most substantial reasons. We
do not find such reasons in the record, and the decree of the
Circuit Court is affirmed.
Of the second appeal, that taken from the decree of August
31, 1877, confirming the master's report of the sale, little need
be said. The errors assigned to it are substantially the same
as those we have considered in the former case, and held to be
insufficient to justify a reversal of the decree of Oct. 22, 1875.
There are two or three other objections, only one of which, however, requires any notice. The others are wholly without
merit.
It is objected that the decree and order required notice of the
sale to be advertised in a newspaper printed in the city of New
York, called the "Financier," as well as in other newspapers;
that the master did not advertise the sale in that newspaper,
nor report his inability to find any such newspaper to this
court, in which the former appeal was then pending, and therefore did not comply with the order of the court. At the time
when the sale was made there was no supersedeas in existence,
and before the sale was advertised it was represented and made
to appear to the circuit judge that the "Financier" had been
merged into the "Public," or that its name had been changed to
the "Public."
He therefore, on the 8th of January, 1877, ordered that the notice of sale be inserted in the "Public" with the
same effect as if the name of the paper had not been changed,
and he directed the order to be entered of record. The sale
was thus accordingly advertised.
Now, whether the judge had authority to make such an order
in a recess of the court, it is not worth the while to inquire, for
if he had not, advertisement in the "Public " was a substantial
compliance with the original order. If the name of "Financier"
was merely changed, the identity of the newspaper remained,
and the order was to advertise in that newspaper. And so if the
" Financier" was merged into the "Public," its subscribers and
readers, to whom the advertisement was addressed and required
to be addressed, were reached by it, as they would have been
had there been no merger or change of name. The purpose of
the order to advertise in that newspaper was publicity, and to

HlOGE v. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

reach those persons who saw the paper. That purpose was not
defeated by a change of name or a union with another newspaper. This objection, therefore, is formal rather than substantial. The case requires nothing more.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD, M . JUSTICE M lLER, and
JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

HoeG

MR.

v. RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. In 1856, the legislature of South Carolina incorporated the Air Line Railroad
Company, with power to construct a road between certain points, and to
equip, use, and enjoy the same, with all the rights, privileges, and immunities
granted to a certain other company which had been incorporated in 1845
by an act exempting it from taxation for the period of thirty-six years, and
from the operation of the provisions of the act of Dec. 17,1841. The latter
act declares "that it shall become part of the charter of every corporation
which shall, at the present or any succeeding session of the General Assembly, receive a grant of a charter, or any renewal, amendment, or modifica.tion thereof (unless the act granting such charter, renewal, amendment, or
modification shall, in express terms, except it), that every charter of incorporation granted, renewed, or modified as aforesaid shall at all times remain
subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal by the legislative authority."
The act of 1856 also empowered the company to unite with any other, and
consolidate their management, but contained no clause excepting, in express
terms, the charter from the operation of the act of 1841. An amendment,
passed in 1868, authorized it to adopt another corporate name, and it was
consolidated with a corporation of Georgia under the name of the Atlanta
and Richmond Air Line Railway Company. The Constitution of South
Carolina of 1868 having required that the property of corporations then
existing or thereafter created should be subject to taxation, the legislature imposed a tax on such property. A stockholder of the latter company
alleging that it had acquired immunity from taxation for the same period as
the company chartered in 1845, and that such immunity was beyond legislative control, brought suit to enjoin the collection of the tax. Held, 1. That
as the act of 1856, granting the charter, did not expressly exempt it from
the provisions of the act of 1841, they are applicable to it. 2. That the
charter must be read as if it declared that the capital stock of the company and its real estate should be exempt from taxation for thirty-six
years, unless the legislature should in the mean time withdraw the exemption. 3. That if an exemption from future legislative control had been
originally acquired by the company, it ceased when the amendment to the
charter was obtained in 1868.

