GORDON V. GILFOIL.

[Sup. Ct.

v. 31oore, 13 Johns. (N. Y.) 513; Jackson v. Robins, 15 id.
169; s. c.16 id. 537; Fleming v. Griswold, 3 Hill (N. Y.), 85;
Becker v. Van Valkenburgh, 29 Barb. (N. Y.) 319.
When the statute once begins to run, says Angell, it will continue to run without being impeded by any subsequent disability. Smith v. Hill, 1 Wils. 134; Angell, Limitations (6th
ed.), sect. 477; Currier v. Gale, 3 Allen (Mass.), 328; .Durouse v. Jones, 4 T. R. 301; Jackson v. Wheat, 18 Johns. (N. Y:)
40; TWelden v. Gratz, 1 Wheat. 292.
Decisive support to the third conclusion of the Circuit Court
is also derived from the authorities cited to sustain the second.
Continuous adverse possession of the land, say the court in their
third conclusion, having been held by the defendants and their
grantors for. a period of more than five years subsequent to the
time when the statute began to run and before the action was
commenced, the action is barred, as there was no disability to
sue when the cause of action first accrued.
Suppose that is so, then clearly the defendants were entitled
to judgment, and there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

GORDON v. GiLroim.
A. gave his promissory notes, payable Jan. 1, 1868, and Jan. 1, 1869, and to secure
the payment thereof executed a mortgage on certain lands in Louisiana, which
he had held in community with his wife, then deceased. In proceedings upon
an order of seizure and sale, the holder of the note purchased the property,
and brought in a State court a petitory action therefor and for rents and
profits. A. answered, setting up the nullity of the proceedings, by reason of
the non-compliance by the sheriff with the requirements of the statute. B.,
his son, intervened, setting up such nullity, and also claiming one-half of the
property as the heir of his deceased mother. A. having died, the plaintiff filed
a supplemental petition against B., which contained no prayer for a personal
judgment against him, nor did it set up the debt itself as a ground of claim or
action. Judgment was rendered in favor of B., upon the ground that he was
the owner of an undivided half of the property, and that the sale by the sheriff
was void, because he had never had the property in his possession. The holder
of the notes thereupon, Oct. 19, 1876, brought suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States against B., charging him on the notes as universal heir of A.,
averring that he was liable for the debt, because as such heir he had taken

Oct. 1878.]

GORDON V. GILFOIL.

possession of the estate and property of A., and praying a decree for the debt,
with mortgage lien and privilege out of the mortgage property. B. set up the
prescription of five years, and averred that the order of seizure and sale was
a merger of the original debt, and that the executory proceedings were still
pending; that he had taken possession of one half of the property as heir of
his mother, and of the other half as the beneficiary heir of his father; but
denied that such possession made him liable for the debt. He furthermore set
up the said judgment as a bar. Held, 1. That the order of seizure and sale
did not merge the debt, but that it was a judicial demand, continuing in operation until rendered effective by a valid sale of the property, and that the plea
of prescription could not, therefore, be sustained. 2. That the pendency of a
suit in a State court does not abate a suit upon the same cause of action in
a court of the United States. 3. That the said judgment is not a bar to this
suit. 4. That under articles 371 and 977 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, if a
husband after the death of his wife mortgages community property for his
debt, and afterwards dies while their son and heir is still a minor, but after he
has been emancipated, the latter does not render himself liable for the debt
as universal heir of his father, by simply taking possession of the property
and receiving to his own use the rents and profits thereof. 5. That the complainant is entitled to a decree for the sale of one undivided half of the mortgaged property, to pay said notes and interest.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry B. .Kelly and Ar. Henry L. Lazarus for the appellant.
21r. Samuel B. Walker for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In January, 1867, Patrick Gilfoil, of Madison Parish, La.,
being indebted to Gordon & Castillo, of New Orleans, in the
sum of $4,500, or thereabouts, gave them his promissory notes
therefor, payable on the 1st of January, 1868, and 1st of January, 1869, secured by a mortgage on his cotton plantation in
the parish of Madison. The property was in fact community
property, and Gilfoil's wife had died the year preceding this
transaction, leaving a minor son, James H. Gilfoil, as her only
heir-at-law. The notes not being paid, Mary Cartwright Gordon, the holder thereof, in February, 1869, filed a petition in
the District Court for the. parish of Madison for an order of
seizure and sale of the mortgaged premises, and executory
process was issued accordingly, and on the 3d of July, 1869,
the sheriff sold the property to Mrs. Gordon for the sum of

GORDON V. GILFOIL.

[Sup. Ct.

$600, and executed to her a deed therefor; but no possession
was delivered.
In January, 1872, Mrs. Gordon instituted a suit in the District Court of the parish against Patrick Gilfoil, to recover the
land, and the rent thereof from the time of the sheriff's sale.
This suit was known as No. 772.
To the petition in this suit Patrick Gilfoil filed an answer
containing a general denial, and specially denying that the
plaintiff bad any good and valid title. By a supplemental
answer, he particularized the cause of nullity of plaintiff's title
to be, that the executory proceeding was in every'respect illegal; that no service of notice of the order of seizure and sale,
nor any notice of seizure, nor any appraisement, was legally
made, nor any of the forms of law observed by the sheriff in
making the sale; and that no due and valid advertisement was
made.
Patrick Gilfoil died Oct. 2, 1872. Before his death, in May,
1872, his son, James H. Gilfoil, by petition intervened in the
suit, claiming that the property was community property, and
that he was the legal owner of one undivided half thereof by
inheritance from his deceased mother; and praying judgment
accordingly.
In April, 1874, Mrs. Gordon filed an amended and supplemental petition, alleging the death of Patrick Gilfoil, and that
James H. Gilfoil had possessed himself of the property, claiming to be the legitimate heir of Patrick, and refused to deliver
possession thereof. Wherefore the petitioner prayed that
James H. Gilfoil be made a party to the suit; and that petitioner recover of him judgment as prayed for in her original
petition, and the rents since the death of Patrick Gilfoil; and
for general relief. She also filed an answer to James H. Gilfoil's petition of intervention.
James H. Gilfoil filed an answer to the supplemental petition,
as well as to the original petition, denying all the allegations
thereof, and specially denying any legal sale of the land. By
a further answer he pleaded prescription of three and five years,
and prescription generally; alleging that the debt was prescribed when Patrick Gilfoil acknowledged it.
The case having gone to trial in November, 1874, the District

Oct. 1878.]

GOiIDO14

v.

GIIFOIL.

Court decided in favor of the plaintiff, Mrs. Gordon, as to one
half of the property, and as to the other half, decided in favor
of the defendant; but on appeal to the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, the judgment in favor of the plaintiff was reversed,
the court deciding that the sale by the sheriff under the executory process was void, because the sheriff at no time had the
mortgaged property in his possession. They held that an actual corporal possession of property seized must take place in
order to make a sheriff's sale valid, and to render a compliance
with the law complete; that the sheriff must have the property
in his own possession and under his own control, or in the possession and under the control of some person duly authorized
by him. The judgment in favor of the defendant was affirmed,
and judgment was given in his favor generally. The case is
reported in 27 La. Ann. 265.
This judgment of the Supreme Court was kendered March 8,
1875.
Thereupon, on the 19th of October, 1876, the present suiit
was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States,
against James H. Gilfoil, charging him on the notes as universal heir of Patrick Gilfoil, and praying judgment for the
amount of the debt, with mortgage lien and privilege out of
the mortgaged premises.
The defendant pleaded as follows: "1: That the said petition discloses no cause of action against this respondent.
2. That this court is without jurisdiction, for the reason that
said plaintiff, having elected to sue in the court of the State
of Louisiana, the thirteenth district court, in and for the parish
of Madison, and jurisdiction of this cause has already vested in
the said State court. 3. That the obligations sued on are prescribed by the lapse of more than five years."
The court, upon argument, ordered that the plea of prescription be referred to the merits, and that the plaintiff be allowed
to amend her petition- by setting up the facts upon which she
relied to interrupt prescription.
This she did by setting up the order of seizure and sale; and,
she claimed that James H. Gilfoil was liable for the debt,
because he, as heir of Patrick Gilfoil, took possession of his
estate and property.

GORDON

v.

GILFOIL.

[Sup. Ct.

The defendant filed an answer, denying the supplemental
petition generally, denying the plaintiff's ownership of the
notes, and setting up the order of seizure and sale as a merger
of the original debt; and further, that as said proceedings had
never been discontinued, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction.
By a supplemental and amended answer he set up his ownership in one undivided half of the mortgaged property as heir of
his mother; and as to the other half he averred that, as administrator and sole beneficiary heir of his father (Patrick Gilfoil),
he became possessor thereof as belonging to his father's succession; but denied that he had taken such possession as would
make him liable personally for any debt or mortgage claim
against the property, or for any of the rents and revenues
thereof. He again set up the order of seizure and sale as a
merger of the debt; and averred that the said executory proceedings were still pending in the District Court. He also set
up and annexed to his answer the proceedings and judgment in
the suit No. 772, by virtue of which he insisted that the matters
in controversy in this suit had become res adjudicata; and the
cause came on for trial upon the issues thus presented by the
pleadings.
The proceedings on the order of seizure and sale, and in the
suit No. 772 in the District Court and in the Supreme Court
of Louisiana, as also the mortgage and sheriff's deed, were either
admitted or proved. Certain evidence taken in the latter case,
and certified with the other proceedings, was also admitted by
stipulation of the parties. This was all the evidence adduced
at the trial in the Circuit Court.
The evidence admitted by stipulation was to the effect,
amongst other things, that James H. Gilfoil resided with his
father on the property in question at the time of the latter's
death, and still resided there in November, 1874, and had possession of the said property; that Patrick Gilfoil died Oct. 2,
1872; that Catharine his wife died April 18, 1866; that the
defendant was her son and only heir; that he was fifteen years
of age in 1867; but that he was emancipated before his intervention was filed in the suit No. 772 (being a minor).
The Circuit Court gave judgment for the defendant, but on

Oct. 1878.]

GORDON V. GILFoIL.

what ground does not appear. The ground taken in this court
by the appellee in support of the judgment is, first, the point of
res judicata; and, secondly, the prescription of five years. The
appellant attempts to controvert these grounds of defence by
showing, as to the first, that the question presented in the present suit is not the same question which was decided between
the parties in the suit No. 772, and that the order of seizure
and sale is no merger of the original, debt; as to the second,
that the alleged prescription was interrupted and suspended by
the order of seizure and sale, and the subsequent proceedings
in reference thereto.
The first matter to be considered, therefore, is whether the
question endeavored to be raised in this suit was or was not
passed upon or necessarily involved in suit No. 772.
The object of the present suit is to charge the defendant, as
universal heir of his father, Patrick Gilfoil, with the entire
debt, on the ground that the defendant as such heir possessed
himself of his father's interest in the plantation. Was this
question passed upon or necessarily involved in suit No. 772?
From the recital of the pleadings in that case it is apparent that
the primary and main object was to maintain the plaintiff's
title to, and to recover, the land itself under the sheriff's sale,
made by virtue of executory process in 1869. The defence of
Patrick Gilfoil, prior to his death, was that the sale was absolutely void by reason of non-compliance with the forms of law
required in such cases. The defence of James H. Gilfoil, as
intervener, was, as to one undivided half of the land, that it
belonged to his mother by right of community, and was inherited by him from her; and as to the other undivided half,
that the sheriff's sale was void for want of possession, and that
the debt for which it was sold was prescribed. The decision
of the Supreme Court was with the defendant on both points;
namely, first, that the defendant was owner of one undivided
half of the land by virtue of his inheritance from his mother,
who was decreed to have been the undivided half owner or
partner in community with her husband; secondly, that the
sheriff's sale was void for want of actual service and possession.
From all that appears by the record, there was no adjudication
on the question of defendant's liability as arising from his tak-

GORDON V. GILFOIL.

[Sup. Ct.

ing and keeping possession of one undivided half of the property as heir of his father, unless such adjudication is to be
implied from the pleadings. A more particular examination
of these is necessary to determine this matter.
The original petition simply claimed ownership of the property, alleged that Patrick Gilfoil was in unlawful possession of
it as a trespasser, and prayed that the petitioner's title might
be recognized, that she might have judgment for the property,
and a judgment against Patrick Gilfoil for the rents and revenues. It was almost the exact equivalent of the common-law
action of ejectment, or rather of a real action involving the
question of title only.
After the intervention of James H. Gilfoil, and the death of
Patrick, the plaintiff answered the intervener's claim by denying that he was the legal heir either of Patrick or his wife, and
denying any right of community in the latter, alleging that the
property was the separate property of Patrick; but if there
was any community, alleging that the debt for which the property was sold was a community debt, and as such the property
was liable for it, and was properly and legally sold to pay the
same.
By her supplementary petition against James, the plaintiff
alleged that he was then in possession of the property, and
claimed to be the legitimate heir of Patrick, and refused to
deliver the possession; and that if Patrick left any succession
at his death, it was taken possession of by James without any
process of law, and used for his own purposes, whereby he
became an intermeddler, thereby rendering himself liable for
all the debts of the succession, and especially personally bound
for the rents and revenues of the property in question from the
date of the unlawful possession thereof by Patrick. But the
prayer was only that the petitioner might recover of James
judgment as prayed for in the original petition, and the rents
and revenues since the death of Patrick. The petition contained no prayer for a personal judgment against him; and the
debt itself was not set up as a ground of claim or action, in
either the original or supplemental petition.
It seems plain, therefore, that the character of the suit was
consistently maintained throughout as a petitory suit for the

Oct. 1878.]

GORDON v. GILFOIL.

property, and for an account of its rents and revenues. No
judgment was sought by the plaintiff against the defendant for
the debt. His supposed liability for the debts of the succession
on account of possessing himself thereof without any process of
law was only stated incidentally, by way of rebutting his pretension of being other than a mere trespasser on the property.
His liability for the debt was not put in issue by the pleadings,
and was not considered by the court. The question of the title
alone was the burden of the action, and was all that was decided in the judgment.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the plea of res judicata is
not maintained.
We are also of opinion that the order of seizure and sale
effected no merger of the debt. That order was made upon the
act of mortgage as an authentic instrument importing confession of judgment. Code of Practice, arts. 732, &c. The order
was a mere award of executory process, and did not affect in
the slightest degree the nature or dignity of the primary securities for the debt. If seizure -and sale of mortgaged property do not result in full satisfaction of the debt, suit has to
be brought on the primary security in order to recover the
balance. Harrod v. Voorhies's Adn'x, 16 La. 254; Humphireys
v. Brown, 19 La. Ann. 158.
The next question is, whether the plea of prescription has
been sustained in this case. Five .years is the regular time of
prescription against bills of exchange and promissory notes
payable to order or bearer. Civ. Code, art. 3540. And this
prescription runs against minors and interdicted persons. Art.
The last of the notes upon which the defendant is
3541.
sought to be made liable matured on the 1st of January, 1869.
The claim, therefore, became prescribed on the 1st of January,
1874, unless the prescription was interrupted by some lawful
cause. A legal interruption takes place by a judicial demand
made upon the debtor. The plaintiff alleges that prescription
in this case was interrupted by service of notice of the order of
seizure and sale upon Patrick Gilfoil, on the twenty-fifth day
of March, 1869, and that such interruption continued at least
until the death of Patrick Gilfoil, Oct. 2, 1872, because the
plaintiff could at any time, after the writ had expired, or after

GORDON V. GILFOIL.

[Sup. Ct.

the sale under it had been set aside, issue an alias writ without
a new order. The plaintiff contends, in other words, that an
order for seizure and sale, served on the debtor, is a judicial
demand, the same as an ordinary suit; and that it continues in
operation as such until it has been rendered effective by a valid
sale. This position seems to be sustained by several decisions
of the Supreme Court of Louisiana. Stanbrough v. McCall,
4 La. Ann. 322 ; Fortierv. Zimpel, 6 id. 53 ; ]?hea v. Taylor,
8 id. 23; Walker v. Lee, 20 id. 192; Boupe v. Carradin,
id. 244; Hfebert v. Chastant, 22 id. 152; 23 id. 687. In
Iloupe v. Carradin (20 id. 244), the note matured in January, 1858, and an order of seizure and sale was made and
served in June, 1858, a writ was issued and a levy was made,
but no sale took place. In 1867 (nine years afterwards), a new
writ was issued on which an injunction was obtained on two
grounds: first, a claim of homestead; secondly, prescription.
Both of these grounds were overruled. As to the latter, the
court say: "The plea of prescription cannot avail; it was interrupted by the order of seizure and sale, duly notified to the
plaintiff, as we have recently decided in Walker v. Lee."
Numerous authorities also show that the setting aside of a
sale for irregularity does not affect the order of seizure and sale,
but a new writ may issue upon it. In Citizens' Bank v. Diixey
(21 id. 32), the court say: "This is an appeal from an order of
seizure and sale. It is well settled that on such an appeal the
only question is, whether there was before the judge a quo
sufficient evidence to authorize the fiat. The order cannot be
set aside on appeal, on account of subsequent irregularities in
the execution of it, as by not notifying the proper parties or
otherwise. .Dodd v. Crain and Another, 6 Rob. (La.) 60." In
Fortierv. Zimpel (6 La. Ann. 54), there were three successive
writs issued upon the same order. The first was stayed by the
plaintiff, and an alias issued. This was annulled, on the ground
of being issued for too large a sum. Plaintiff, considering the
original petition still in court, then applied for a pluries writ,
which was granted. A sale made under this writ, though
strenuously contested, was homologated and confirmed. In
Biddel v. Ebinger (6 id. 407), the sale was sought to be annulled. The court, amongst other things, say: "The writ

Oct. 1878.]

GORDON V. GiLFOIL.

under which the sale was made was an alias, and it is contended that the order of seizure was a judgment only so far as
the original writ was concerned; that it expired when the writ
was returned, and that no other writ could issue without a new
order of court. This objection has so often been held unfounded
by our predecessors and ourselves, that we deem it unnecessary
to do more than to refer to some of the cases in point." The
court then referred to Ursuline Nuns v. Depassau, 2 Mart.
X. s. (La.) 646; Mader v. Fox, 15 La. 159; Hfarrodv. Voorhies, 16 id. 254; Fortierv. Zimpel, 6 La. Ann. 53. In Stanborough v. McCall (4 id. 327), the court explain the reason why
proceedings on an order of seizure and sale interrupt the prescription of the personal action for the same debt. They say:
"The rule harmonizes with the theory of prescription, which
has its basis in the presumption of renunciation on the part of
him who neglects his rights, and which presumption cannot be
entertained against a party who is struggling to collect a debt,
and is not sui juris contemptor. The interruption, then, created
by the institution of one species of action must also be considered as continuous, and as preserving the personal action while
the hypothecary action is in course of prosecution.
These cases, with others that might be cited, seem fully to
establish the position of the plaintiff, and we think that the
position is clearly applicable to the present case. In 1869, soon
after the debt became due, the plaintiff filed her petition for an
order of seizure and sale. The order was granted and served
on the debtor, then in possession of the mortgaged premises,
and the property was sold. From that time to the debtor's
death in October, 1872, and afterwards, until judgment was
given against her in March, 1875, she was engaged in a continuous struggle in the courts to obtain the fruits of that order
and sale. The sale was held to be void by the irregular proceedings of the sheriff; and according to the decisions of the
State courts, her petition and the order made thereon were still
in force, and, if she pleased, she could have applied for the issue
of another writ thereon. It may be that it would have been
necessary to have the petition and order amended; but that
would not disaffirm the pendency of the proceedings or the
jurisdiction of the court.
VOL. IX.

12

GORDON V. GILFOIL.

[Sup. Ct.

We think, therefore, that the proceeding for seizure and sale
interrupted the prescription of the personal action on the notes;
and that this interruption continued up to the time when the
final judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana was rendered against the plaintiff. The present action was commenced about a year and a half afterwards; and therefore,
in our judgment, the plea of prescription must fail.
It may be proper here also to observe, although the point
was not pressed in the argument, that the exception to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is destitute of foundation.
The suggestion was, that, as the proceedings in the order of
seizure and sale were still pending in the District Court, the
debt could not be prosecuted in the Circuit Court of the United
States. But it has been frequently held that the pendency of
a suit in a State court is no ground even for a plea in abatement to a suit upon the same matter in a Federal court. What
effect the bringing of this suit, via ordinaria,may have had on
the order of seizure and sale, it is not necessary to determine.
It is possible that it superseded it. But the pendency of that
proceeding, when the suit was commenced, cannot affect the
validity of the proceedings in this suit, nor the jurisdiction of
the court in respect thereof.
The only remaining question is, whether the defendant has
rendered himself liable for the notes by taking possession of
the plantation and receiving to his own use the rents and revenues thereof. At the time of his father's death the defendant
was only nineteen, or, at most, twenty years of age. Art. 97T
of the Civil Code declares that "it shall not be necessary for
minor heirs to make any formal acceptance of a succession that
may fall to them; but such acceptance shall be considered as
made for them with benefit of inventory by operation of law,
and shall in all respects have the force and effect of a formal
acceptance." Heirs having the benefit of inventory are called
beneficial heirs, and are not personally liable for the debts of
the succession. This shows that the defendant, though he
took possession of his father's property, did not thereby make
himself personally liable for the notes in suit, unless the fact
that he was emancipated before his father's death, and while
yet a minor, renders him so liable. Art. 370 of the Code

Oct. 1878.]

GORDON V. GILFOIL.

declares that "the minor who is emancipated has the full
administration of his estate, and may pass all acts which are
confined to such administration, grant leases, receive his revenues and moneys which may be due him, and give receipts for
the same." But art. 371 adds, that "he cannot bind himself
legally by promise or obligation for any sum exceeding the
amount of one year of his revenue." The position of the plaintiff is, that the defendant, by taking possession of his father's
undivided half of the mortgaged property, made himself liable
for the whole debt in suit. It seems to us that this would be
in contravention of the spirit, if not the letter, of arts. 371 and
977 of the Code.
Besides, the defendant was owner of one undivided half of
the property as heir of his mother; and he could not possess
himself of his own property without, at the same time, possessing himself of the other half. Under these circumstances,
considering his status as a minor at the time of his father's
death, the sort of possession which he assumed ought not to be
turned to his disadvantage as any evidence of an intention to
accept his father's succession as universal heir.
The conclusion to which we have come is, that the plaintiff
cannot have any personal decree against the defendant for the
amount of the debt; but that she is entitled to a decree for the
foreclosure and sale of one undivided half part of the plantation covered by the mortgage. The decree of the Circuit Court
is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court, with directions to render a decree inaccordance with this opinion.
Each party will be decreed to pay his and her own costs,
both in this court and in the Circuit Court; and it is
So ordered.

