F. L. GRANT SHOE CO. v. LAIRD.
•212 U. S.

Syllabus.

properly be said there never has been a decision in a real contest about the subject-matter of inquiry. False testimony or
forged documents even are not enough, if the disputed matter
has aotually been presented to or considered by the appropriate
tribunal. United States v. Throckn'orton, 98 U. S. 61; Marquez v. Frisbie, supra. The decision of~the proper officers of
the department is in the nature of a judicial determination of
the matter in dispute."
The cases adduced by plaintiff are consistent with that principle. They only declare the general doctrine that the holder
of a patent may be declared to hold the same as trustee for
another when he has procured it by an error of law committed
by the Land Department, the facts being undisputed, or by
fraud or imposition upon that Department. Of the character
of the fraud and in what way or under what circumstances
exerted in order to be a ground of relief, the cases we have
cited are examples.
Decree affirmed.
FREDERIC L. GRANT SHOE COMPANY v. W. M. LAIRD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 35.

Argued December 2, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

The time within which a writ of error may be brought to review an adjudication of bankruptcy of the District Court is two years as regulated by k§ 4, 5, of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 827,
and not thirty days, the time fixed for appeals by general order of
this court- in bankruptcy, No. 36. Allen. v. Southern Pacific Co., 173
U. S. 479.
A bill of exceptions is not necessary when it adds nothing to the record.
C. H. Nichols Lumber Co. v. Franson, 203 U. S.278.
The objections to a double resort to review decisions of the lower courts
to both the Circuit Court of Appeals and this court do not apply where
the proceeding in the Circuit Court of Appeals is merely revisory as

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

it is under § 24b of the Bankruptcy Act; and a merely interlocutory
decision in such a proceeding cannot prevent a case otherwise proper
to be brought here, froni being taken to this court after final judgment.
Provable claims, on which a petition to have the debtor adjudicated a
bankrupt under J 59b of the Bankruptcy Act can be based, are claims
that can be proved in the proceedings, and a liquidation may be ordered on the filing of the petition to ascertain whether the petition is
based on a provable claim.
A provable claim may be based on the breach.of an express warranty.

THE facts: are stated in the opinion..
Mr. P. M. French for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Hiram R. Wood for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES deliveredthe opinion of the court.

This case comes up on a certificate concerning the jurisdiction, of the District Court on the following facts: The W. M.
Laird Coinpany, filed a petition in bankruptcy against the
Frederic L. Grant Shoe Company, alleging acts of bankruptcy
and setting up a claim for $3,732.80 for the breach of an express warranty of shoes sold to it by the latter. The Shoe
Company answered, denying the foregoing allegations, and denying that the claim alleged was a provable claim. The case coming on to be tried before a jury, it moved the court to dismiss
the proceeding for want of jurisdiction. The motion was denied, and insolvency and acts of bankruptcy being admitted,
the claim was liquidated at $3,454, the Shoe Company offering
no evidence. The Shoe Company was adjudged a bankrupt,
and at the same time the judge certified that the jurisdiction
of the court to-make such an adjudication on a claim for unliquidated damages was the only question in issue. Afterwards
this writ of error was brought, the taking of jurisdiction.being
the only error assigned.)
It already has been decided between these parties that a writ
of bringing the
of error, not an appeal, is the proper means

F. L. GRANT SHOE CO. v. LAIRD.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case here. 203 U. S. 502. But the defendant in error moves
to dismiss on the grounds that the writ. was not sued out in
time, because General Order 36 (2), allows only thirty days
for appeals; and that no bill of exceptions was filed. Neither
reason is good. The statutes fix the time within which writs
of error may be brought. Rev. Stat. § 1008. See Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, §§ 4, 5; 26 Stat. 826, 827; Allen v.
Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 173 U. S.479, 486. A bill of exceptions was not necessary, as it would have added nothing to
what is patent on the face of the record. C. H. Nichols Lumber Co. v. Franson,203 U. S. 278.
Perhaps it should be mentioned that a motioi to
dismiss,
overmade
and
was
we
have
mentioned,
the
one
earlier than
ruled, 125 Fed. Rep. 576, and that thereafter, on a petition for
review, the decision was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 130 Fed. Rep. 881. Although in the report the case is
headed "In Error to the District Court," it appears by stipUlation that the proceeding was a revisory one under § 24b of the
Bankruptcy Act, the order having been interlocutory. It is
suggested that the plaintiff in error is concluded by the action
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. But notwithstanding the objections to a double resort, we do not perceive how such an interlocutory decision, even of the higher court, can prevent a
case, otherwise proper to be brought here, from being taken
up after a final judgment is reached.
Coming to the question certified, we are of opinion that the
decision of the courts below was right. The argument to the
contrary is based on the letter of the statute, and is easily
stated and understood. By §59b petitions to have a debtor
adjudged a bankrupt may befiled only by creditors who have
provable claims. By § 63b, "Unliquidated claims against the.
bankrupt, may, pursuant to application to the court, be liquidated in such a manner as it shall direct, and may thereafter
be proved and allowed against his estate." The word "thereafter" shows, it is said, that they are not yet proved to exist
when merely presented and sworn to. Therefore it does not

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

yet .appear that there is any foundation for the proceeding, in_
the requisite. amount or even the existence of the claim. But
there must be a proceeding in court before a liquidation can'
take place, and, therefore, the claim cannot be liquidated until
a proceeding is started in some other way., In short, the claim
upon which the petition is based must be provable when the petition is filed, and this claim was not provable then since by
the express words of' the act it had to be liquidated before it
,could be proved.
On the other hand, by the equally'express Words of § 63a,
among the debts that may be proved are those founded upon
a contract, expressor implied. Again, by § 17, the discharge
is of all "provable debts", with certain exceptions, and it would
not be denied that this claim Would be barred by a discharge.
Tindle v. Birkett, 205 U. S. 183. If the argument for the plaintiff in error is, sound a creditor for goods sold on a. quantum
vabant would be as badly off as the petitioner, and both of
them might be postponed in reducing their claims to judgment
until it was too late. The intimation in Tindle v. Birkett, sup.
and Crawford v' Buike, 195 U. S. 176, are adverse to such a result. The whole argument from the letter of the statute depends on reading "provable claims" in § 59b as meaning claims
that may be proved then and there when the petition is filed.
But if it can be seen then and there that the claims are of a
kind that can be proved in the proceedings the words are satisfied; and ftirther, no reason appears why a liquidation may
not be ordered on the filing of the petition to ascertain whether
it is filed rightly or not.
It is said that an unfounded claim of this sort 'might be used
as a weapon to enforce an unjust demand or to make a solvent
but struggling debtor bankrupt. In re Big Meadows Gas Co.,
113 Fed. Rep. 974. But an unjust demand may be made for a
liquidated sum also, and we have mentiofned the injustice on
the other side. Again it has been suggested that a cause of action for a breach of warranty really is for deceit and sounds in
tort, claims for torts not being mentioned among the "Debts

CARIIO v. INSULAR GOVERNMENT.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

which may be proved" in § 63a. In re Morales, 105 Fed. Rep.
761. No doubt at common law a false statement as to present
facts gave rise to an action of tort, if the statement was made
at the risk of the speaker, and led to harm. But ordinarily
the risk was not taken by the speaker unless the statement was
fraudulent, and. it was precisely because it was a warranty,
that is, an absolute undertaking by contract that a fact was
true, that if a warranty was alleged it was not necessary to lay
the scienter. Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wall. 359; Norton v. Doherty, 3 Gray, 372. In other words, a claim on a warranty as
such necessarily Was a claim arising out of a contract, even if
in case of actual fraud there might be an independent claim
purely in tort.
Judgment affirmed.

CARINO v. THE INSULAR GOVERNMENT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

No. 72.

ISLANDS.

Argued January 13, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Writ of error is the general, and appeal the exceptional, method of bringing cases to this court. The latter method is in the main confined to
equity cases and the former is proper to bring up a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands affirming a judgment of the
Court of Land Registration dismissing an application for registration
of land.
Although a province may be excepted from the operation of act No. 926
of 1903 of the Philippine Commission which provides for the registration and perfecting of new titles, one who actually owns property
in such province is entitled to registration under act No. 496 of 1902,
which applies to the whole archipelago.
While, in legal theory and as against foreign nations, sovereignty is
absolute, practically it is a question of strength and of varying degree; and it is for a new sovereign to decide how far it will insist upon
theoretical relations of the subject to the former sovereign and how
far it will. recognize actual facts.

VOL. ccxii-29

