OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

plainly indicated in Motes v. United States, 178 U. S. .458, that
this is the view taken of these sections by the Supreme Court.
It cannot be doubted that it was within the power of Congress
to deal with such a conspiracy and impose- such punishment
therefor as it should deem proper; and, having such authority,
it was competent to take notice of such incidents of violence
and wrong as were likely to happen in the prosecution of such
combinations, and to measure the punishment by that which is
prescribed by the local law for such acts when made, of themselves, the subject of punishment.. Though measured by those
laws, the penalty is imposed by the law of the United States."
Nor can -we see that the case involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, or drew in
question the constitutionality of a law .of the United States,
because no definite issue was raised in regard thereto, and,
while in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error it was suggested
that § 5509 was unconstitutional, that contention, however
presented, was long' since put at rest. Motes v. United States,
178 U. S. 458; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263; In re
Quarles, 158 U. S. 532. And assertion of errors of construction
furnishes no basis for jurisdiction on constitutional grounds
under § 5,of the act of March 3, 1891.
Writ of error dismissed.

PRESIDIO COUNTY, TEXAS, v. THE NOEL-YOUNG
BOND & STOCK COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued December 4, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909.

Where the officers having statutory authority to issue bonds have also

the statutory authority to determine whether conditions precedent
have been performed, certify by recitals therein that the bonds are
issued in virtue of the statute, such recitals import compliance with

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO. 59
212 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

the statute upon which a bona fide purchaser can rely, and the obligor
cannot against such a purchaser assert the contrary. Evansville v.
Dennett, 161 U. S. 434.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary the presumption is that a
third party producing a genuine negotiable instrument is a bona fie
purchaser for value.
The doctrine of lis pendens has no application to commercial securities.
Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 676, 682.
In respect to the doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence,
while courts of the United States, in questions balanced with doubt,
will, for the sake of harmony, lean towards an agreement with the
state courts, as a general rule they will exercise their. independent judgment uncontrolled -by decisions based on local statutes and
usage; and so in this instance as the state court proceeded in part on
grounds inconsistent with the decisions of this court in such cases,
its decision should not be followed. Ball, Hutchings & Co. v. Presidio County, 88 Texas, 60, not followed.
Although a coupon is for interest to become due on-the bond the promises to pay are as distinct as though expressed in different instruments,
and, as the bond and the coupons are capable of separate ownership,
a suit on the bonds.and a suit on the coupons are based on different
causes of action.
A bona fide purchaser for value before maturity of bonds is not precluded or affected by an adverse judgment in a suit on the coupons
of those bonds to which suit he is not a party and of which he had no
notice.
000 Fed. Rep. 000, affirmed.

facts, which involve the validity of bonds issued by the
petitioner, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. T. J. Beall for petitioner:
The judgment of the District Court of Presidio County,
rendered in March, 1893, and affirmed by the Supreme Court of
Texas, in which the bonds in this case were held void, was a
bar to plaintiff's action, and the court should have so instructed
the jury. Lewis v. Brown Township, 109 U. S. 162, 168; Ball,
Hutchings & Co. v. Presidio County, 88 Texas, 60.
'A judgment is conclusive, not only upon those who are actual
parties to the litigation, but also upon all persons who are in

60

OCTOBER TE4M, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

212 U. S.

privity with them, in law or estate, and a person is bound by
a judgment as a privy to one of the parties, when he has succeeded to some right, title or interest of that party in the
subject-mAtter of the litigation. 2 Black on Judgments, § 549;
Calderwood v. Brooks, 28 California, 151; Thompson v. Clarke,

4 Hun, 164.
The bonds sued on were issued without lawful authority, not
being supported or authorized by any order of the Commissioners' Court of Presidio County, Texas. 88 Tex. Rep. 60;
Caruthersv. The State, 67 Texas, 182; Francisv. HowardCounty,
50 Fd. Rep. 62.
The bonds were issued and delivered for the illegal purpose
of furnishing a courthouse already constructed. They were
issued without any lawful authority, the power of the county
to issue bonds to erect a courthouse and jail having been exhausted, as appears from the order of the Commissioners' Court
recited on, the face of the bonds, and the contracts mentioned
in said order of the court and the registry of said bonds affected
with notice the purchasers of the bonds in this suit, that said
bonds were issued without authority of law. Caruthers v. The
State, 67 Texas, 132; Nolan County v.. The State, 83 Texas, 183;
Francisv. Howard County, 50 Fed. Rep. 62; Francisv. Howard
County, 54 Fed. Rep. 487; Davies County v. Dickinson, 117
U. S. 657; City of Brenham v. Bank, 144 U. S. 173; Nesbitt v.
Independent District, 144 U. S. 610; Dickson County v. Field,
111,U. S. 83; Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539; Ogden v.
Davis County, 102 U. S. 634; Sutliff v. Board, 147 U. S. 230;
Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 675; Buchanan v. City of
Litchfield; 102 U. S. 278; Clabourne County v. Brooks, 11 U. S.
400; Lewis v. City of Shreveport, 180 U. S. 283; Dill. Mun. Corp.,

§546.
The order.of December 4, 1886, did not authorize the issuing
of the bonds, and the undisputed evidence shows that blank
lithographic courthouse and jail bonds were filled out and delivered to the contractor, for the unlawful purpose of furnish.ing the courthouse, for which purpose there is no authority of

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO.
2i2 U. S.

61

Argument for Respondent.

law, under the constitution and laws of Texas, to issue bonds.
Revised Statutes, Texas, art. 1527; Holly v. Hopkins, 74 Texas,
147; Brown v. Rease, 57 Texas, 318; Barnitt v. City of Dennison,
145 U. S. 141; Anthony'v. JasperCounty, 101 U. S. 693; School
District v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183; Harchman v. Bates County, 92
U. S. 169; Bates County v. Winters, 97 U. S. 85; Colar v. City of
Cleburne, 131 U. S. 162; Township of Oakland v. Skinner, 94
U. S. 248; Martin v. Nesbitt, 86 Tennessee, 383; Lewis v. Barber
County, 12 Kansas, 186; Well v. Supervisors, 102 U. S. 625.
The recitals of the laws, under which the bonds purport to
be issued, are not the recital of any facts, but only conclusions
of law. Davis County v. Dickens, 117 U. S. 657; Francis v.
Howard County, 54 Fed. Rep. 487.
Mr. Millard Patterson, for respondent, submitted:
The plea of former judgment relied upon by plaintiff in error
being simply as to the alleged. fact that interest coupons had
been held void upon the ground that the' coupons (and bonds)
had been issued for an unlawful purpose, to wit: to buy furni,
ture, this plea as to this collateral fact was not established by
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas, which did not
decide that point, but simply decided that the interest coupons
were void because they had no order of the Commissioners'
Court to support them. City of Aurora'v. West, 7 Wall.. 82107; Russell -i. Place, 94 U. S. 606; Lyon v. P. & G. Mfg. Co.,
125 U. S. 698, 702; Stephens on Pleading, § 353; Field's Estate,
2 Rawle (Pa.), 357; Greeley v. Smith, Fed. Cas. 5,749; Godard v.
Benson, 15 Abbotts' Practice, 191; Sims v. Frankfort, 79
Indiana, 446; Crandell v. Gallup, 12 Connecticut, 373; Texas
Banking Co. v. Hutchins, 53 Texas, 61.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas on certain interest coupons maturing prior to 1893 could under any circumstances only be a bar in this action on the bonds maturing in
1901 as to the point actually litigated and determined.
The cause of action in the suit of Ball, Hutchings & Co. being
certain coupons which matured prior to 1893, and this suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondent.

212 U. S.

being upon the bonds which matured in 1901, the causes of action are different.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas being simply
upon certain coupons which had then matured cannot be binding on defendant in error, as this auit was brought, not upon any
of those coupons, but upon the six bonds themselves more than
ten years afterward, and defendant in error was not a party to
thaV case, and'the subject-matter of this suit was different from
the subject-matter in the former case. Nesbitt v. Ind. District
of Riverside, 144 U. S. 610, 621; Cro~nwell v. Sac County, 94
U. S. 351, 371; Wilmington & W. Ry. Co. v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S.
279, 302; Keokuk & W. R. R. Co. v. Scotland Co., 152 U. S. 314,
315; Ball, Hutchings & Co. v. Presidio Co., 88 Texas, 65.
The Commissioners' Court of Presidio County having power
to issue the bonds; and it being shown that they were issued
under an order of that court, and recited upon their face that
they had been issued for the lawful purpose of building a courthouse, and full value having been paid for them by the original
purchasers without any notice to the contrary, the only issue
raised by he pleadings was whether or not they were void
because in fact issued for the unlawful purpose of furnishing
the courthouse; and the trial court, and the United States Circuit Court of Appeals, did not err in determining that the purchaser of the bonds had a right to rely upon the truth of the
recitals.,
Even if the recital in the bonds as to the date of the order
under which they were issued was false, whether intentional or
inadvertent, would not bind or affect a purchaser with notice of
the' fact that the bonds were issued for an unlawful purpose.
Pickens Township v. Post, 99 Fed. Rep. 650, and cases there
cited; Chaffee County Coms. v. Potter, 142 U. S..355, 366; Nolan
County v. The State, 83 Texas; 182-201; Waite V. Santa Cruz,
184 U. S.302, 329; Evansville v. Dennett, 161 U. S.434,,446;
Stanley County Commissioners v. W. N. Coler & Co., 190 U. S.
442, 444; Venice v. Muirdock, 92 U. S.494, 502; Pine Grove
Tounship v. Talcott,' 19 Wall. 6661 679; Marshall County v.

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO.
212 U. S.

63

Opinion of the Court.

Schenck, 5 Wall. 772, 785; Scotland Co. v. Hill, 132 U. S. 107,
117; Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 676; Board of Commissioners v.
National Life Ins. Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 231; Village of Kent v.
Dana, 100 Fed. Rep. 60.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
By an act of the legislature of Texas approved February 11th,
1881, the County Commissioners' Court of every county that
had no courthouse was. authorized and empowered to issue
county bonds, with interest coupons attached, in such amount
as might be necessary to erect a suitable building for a courthouse
-such bonds to run not exceeding fifteen years, redeemable
at the pleasure of the county, and bearing interest at a rate not
exceeding eight per cent per annum. The ,act provided that
the bonds should be signed by the County Judge, countersigned by the County Clerk and registered by the County
Treasurer before being delivered. It also provided that the
county should not issue a larger number of bonds than a tax
of one-fourth of oneper cent annually would liquidate in ten
years, and that the bonds should be sold only at par value.
General Laws, Texas, 1881, p.- 5.
This act was amended in 1884, at a called session of the
eighteenth legislature of Texas, so as to authorize the Commissioners' Court to issue county bonds (running not exceeding fifteen years) with interest coupons attached'ih-such amount
as might be necessary to erect a suitable courthouse building or
jail, or both. General Laws, Texas, 1884, p. 28.
By another act passed March 27th, 1885, the power given by
the act of 1884 to issue bonds for courthouse and jail purposes,
or both in such amount as might be necessary, was recognized,
and in addition county bonds theretofore issued for jail purposes under the act of 1881, as amended by the act of 1884,
were validated. General Laws, Texas, 1885, p.. 56.
The present action was brought July 26th, 1904, by the NoelYoung Bond & Stock Company, a Missouri corporation, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

holder, owner and bearer, to recover the amount. of certain
bonds--numbered 90, 91, .92, 94, 95 and 96, respectivelywith interest coupons attached.
Each of the bonds sued on is in the name of the county, is
for $1,000 and payable to bearer fifteen -years after date, at
8 per cent per annum interest, on the tenth of April, at the
State Treasury. It recites that it was "issued by virtue of an
act of the Legislature of the State of Texas, entitled 'An act.
to authorize the County Commissioners' Court of the several
counties of the State to issue bonds for the erection of a court-.
house. and to levy a tax to pay for the same,' approved Febmary 11, 1881, and, by virtue of the provisions of chapter 17,
laws of called session of the Eighteenth Legislature, which said
chapter has since been validated by the act of March 27, 1885,
authorizing the County Commissioners' Court of the several
counties of the State to issue bonds for the erection of a county
jail, and by order of the County Commissioners' Court of said
Colnty bf Presidio, on.the 9th day of February, 1886, and is
redeemable before maturity at the pleasure of the county."
To each bond was affixed the seal of the County Commissioners' Court and was signed by the County Judge, countersigned by the Clerk of the County Court and by the County
'Treasurer, the latter certifying that it had been registered.
At the trial the court instructed the jury that the suit on
the coupons was barred by the Texas statute of limitations, but
it directed ^a verdict for the amount of the bonds with interest
from December 6, 1900. That judgment was affirmed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, but without any opinion..
The county. insists that although -the bonds purport to have
been issued by order of the County Commissioners' Court in
virtue of certain legislative enactments referred to on the face
of the bonds, and which authorizes that court to issue bonds
for the eection of- a courthouse or jail, or both, and although
each bond is attested by the seal of the Commissioners' Court
and the signatuires of' the officers who alone could attest and
sign bonds issued for courthouse and jail purposes, the court

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO. 65
212 .U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

exceeded its powers in issuing the present bonds in that by
its order of February 9th, 1886 bonds to the extent of only
$86,000 were authorized-60,000 for a courthouse and $26,000
for a jail; whereas, that amount of bonds for such purposes
had in fact been issued before the bonds in suit. This contention means that the bonds in suit are to be deemed void if
they were in fact in excess of the amount authorized by the
order of February 9th, 1886. But that view cannot be maintained consistently with a long line of decisions.
Whether the Commissioners' Court, which had statutory authority to issue such bonds as were necessary for courthouse
and jail purposes, had previously made the requisite order
therefor was a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of its
officers. They knew whether they had or had not directed
bonds to be issued for such purposes. They knew, or ought to
have known, whether the bonds, ordered to be issued, were in
excess of the amount authorized by the legislature. They had
authority to determine whether the precedent conditions had
been fully performed. When, therefore, the county, acting by
the Commissioners' Court, did issue bonds, attested by the seal
of the court and the signatures of its officers, and reciting that
they were issued under the order of the court, in virtue of the
statute named, and were registered-such recitals fairly importing a compliance, in all substantial respects, with the statute giving authority to issue bonds-a bona fide purchaser was
entitled to accept the recitals as stating the truth, and the
county cannot, as against such purchaser, allege the contrary.
It will not be heard to say that the bonds were in excess of the
amount authorized, or that they were not issued for the purposes contemplated by the statutes referred to. These principles have become firmly established, as will be seen by an examination oi the adjudged cases, some of which are cited in
the margin.'
I Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Buchanan v. Litchfield, 102

U. S. 278; School District v. Stone, 106 U. S. 183; Commissioners v.
Boles, 94 U. S. 104; Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U S.
VOL. CCXII-5

66.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908...
Opinion of.the CoUrt.

212 U. S.

The. county, however, insists that an examination .of the
order of the Commissioners' Court of February 9th, 1886, referred to in the bonds, would have informed any purchaser
(1) that that court on that day ordered only $86,000 in bonds
to be issued-S60,000 fora courthouse and $26,000 for a jail;
(2), that the particular bonds now in suit, dated December 6th,
'1886, and numbered 91 to 96 inclusive, were not covered by that
order and therefore were in excess-of the amount so ordered for
courthouse and jail buildings. Assuming forthe moment, but
only for the-moment, that. the purchaser was bound to ascertain What the order of February 9th, 1886 contained, we observe
that the statutes recited in the bonds did not name a specific
amount beyond which the Commissioners' Court could not go
in issuing bonds for courthouse and jail purposes. They were
authorized to issue for those purposes such an amount in bonds
as was necessary- up to the .point that no more be issued than
could be liquidated in ten years by a tax of one-fourth of
one per cent for any one year.: It was for the Commissioners'
Court
the, first instance to determine what amount of bonds
on thatinbasis'was
required. We observe, also, as did the Civil
Cpurt of Appeals of Texas in a case'to be presently referred to
(27 S. W. Rep. 702; 720), that the order of February 9th, 1886
did not require 'that the bonds issued for courthouse and jail
purposes •should be numbered consecutively from 1 to 86; that
the bonds in Suit bore numbers above 86 was immaterial in
face of the recital in them that they were issued by order of
the Commissioners' Court and in virtue of the statutes conferring the power to issue bonds for courthouse and jail purposes; and that that order gave no information that the bonds.
227, 238-239; Chaffee County. v. Potter, 142 U. S. 355, 364; Gunnison
County Commissioners v. Rollins, 173 U. S. 255, 270; Mercer County V.
Hacket, 1 Wall. 83; Cairo v. Zane, 149 U. S. 122; Town of Venice v. Murdock, 92 U. S494; Marcy v. Town of Oswego, 92'U. S. 637; Wilson v.
Slamanca, 99 U, S. 499; Sherman County v. Simons, 109 U. S. 735,
737; Hackett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86, 95; Ottawa v; National Bank, 105

U. S. 342 and authorities cited in each of the above cases.

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO., 67
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

here in suit were in excess of the $86,000 in bonds' directed by
that order to be issued.
Apart from this view, it is pertinent to inquire 'whether the
purchaser was bound to examine the order of February 9th, 1886,
and, at his peril, to know what that order contained? Was he
not entitled without special or. fuyther'inquiry to accept as
true what the recitals in the bonds plainly imported, namely,
that the bonds were issued for courthouse or jail purposes by
order of the County Commissioners' Court, in conformity with
specified acts of the legislature? Was he not entitled to act
on the belief that the bonds issued under date of December 6th, 1886, were within the limit authorized by the legislature?
These questions find an answer in Evansville v. Dennett, 161
'U. S. 434, 441, 445, 446. That was an action involving the
validity of two series of bonds, issued by the city of'Evansville,
Indiana, for subscription to certain railroads. Each bond of
the two series contained recitals to the effect that the bonds
were issued in pursuance of certain legislative enactments, and
by virtue of certain resolutions and ordinances passed by the
city council. What was the effect of these recitals? This
court said: "It is true that the city charter provided that 'no
stock shall be subscribed or taken by the common council in
such company, unless it be on the petition of two-thirds of the
residents of said city, who are freeholders of the city, distinctly
setting forth the company in which stock is to be. taken, and
the number and amount of shares to be subscribed.' But these
were only conditions which the statute 'required to be performed or met before the power given was exercised. That
there was legislative authority to subscribe to the stock of
these companies cannot be questioned, although the statute
declared that the power should not be exercised except under,
the circumstances stated in the statute. Was a bona fide purchaser of bonds issued in payment of a subscription of stockthe power to subscribe being clearly given-bound to. know that,
the conditions precedent to . the exercise of the power were

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

not performed? If the bonds had not contained any recitals
importing a performance of such conditions before the power
to subscribe was exercised, then it would have been open to
the city to show, even as against a bona fide purchaser, that
the bonds were issued in.
disregard of the statute, and, therefore, did not impose any legal obligation upon it. Buchanan
v. Litchfield, 102 U. S. 278; School District v. Stone, 106 U. S.
183, 187. But the bonds issued on account of subscription to
the stock of the Evansville, Henderson and Nashville Railroad
Company recite that the subscription was 'made in pursuance
of an act of the legislature and ordinances of the city council
passed in pursuance thereof.' This imports not only compliance
with the act of the legislature, but that the ordinances of the
city council were in conformity with the statute. It is as if
the city had declared, in terms, that all had beep done that
was required to be done in order that the powe. given might
be exercised.

.

.

. As therefore the recitals in the bonds

import compliance with the city's charter, purchasers for value
having no notice of the non-performance of the conditions
precedent, were not bound to go behind the statute conferring
the power to subscribe, and to ascertain, by an examination
of the ordinances and records of the city council, whether those
conditions had, in fact, been performed. With such recitals
before them they had the right to assume that the circumstances existed which authorized the city to exercise the authority given by the legislature.

.

.

The city having

authority, under some circumstances, to put these bonds upon
the market, and having issued them under the corporate seal
of the city, and under the attestation of its highest officer,
certifying that they were issued in payment of a subscription
of stock made in pursuance of the city's charter, the principles
of justice demand that the bonds, in the hands of bona fide
holders for value, should bp met according to their terms, unless some clear, well-settled rule of law stands in the way. No
such obstacle exists."
In the same case the court expressed its approval of the de-

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO.
212 U. S.

69

Opinion of the Court.

cision in Van Hbstrup v. Madison City, 1 Wall. 291, 296-a suit
on municipal bonds-in which Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for
the court said: "Another objection taken is, that the proviso
requiring a petition of two-thirds of the citizens, who were
freeholders of the city, was not complied with. As we have
seen, the bonds signed by the mayor and clerk of the city recite
on the face of them that they were issued by virtue of an ordinance of the common council of the city, passed September 2,
1852. This concludes the city as to any irregularities that may
have existed in carrying into execution the*power granted to
subscribe the stock and issue the bonds, as has been repeatedly
held by this court."
In Waite v. Santa Cruz, 184 U. S. 302, 320, which was also
a suit on municipal bonds and involved the effect of recitals
importing compliance with law, the court referred to and followed Evansville v. Dennett. It said: "The city of Santa Cruz
had power, under the constitution and laws of California, to
refund its outstanding indebtedness, evidenced by bonds and
warrants. The nature and extent of such indebtedness were
matters peculiarly within the knowledge of its constituted authorities. When, therefore, the refunding bonds in suit were
issued with the recitals therein contained, the city thereby
represented that it issued them under and-in pursuance of and
in conformity with the act of 1893 and the constitution of the
State. As nothing on the face of the bonds suggested that
such representations were false, purchasers had the right to
assume that they were true, especially in view of the broad recital that everything required by law to be done and performed
before executing the bonds had been done and performed by
the city. As there was power in the city to issue refunding
bonds to be used in discharging its outstanding indebtedness of
a specified kind, purchasers were entitled to rely upon the truth
of the recitals in the bonds that they were of the class which
the act of 1893 authorized to be refunded. They were under
no duty to go further and examine the ordinances of the city to
ascertain whether the recitals were false. On the contrary,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

purchasers could assume that the ordinances would disclose
nothing in conflict with the recitals in the bonds."
In the more recent case of Stanly County v. Coler, 190 U. S.
437, the court reviewed many of the adjudged cases and in
support of the conclusion there reached cited, among other
6ases, that of Evansville v. Dennett. See also the recent case of
Quinlan v. Green County, 205 U. S. 410.
Our conclusion on this branch of the case is that the county
of Presidio is estopped by the recitals in its bonds to deny, as
against a legal holder of the bonds, that they were issued conformably, in all respects, with, the acts of legislation referred
to.
It is, however, contended that this principle only affords
protection to bona fide purchasers for value. But clearly the
plaintiff is to be taken, upon the present record, as belonging
to that class; for, there was no evidence that it had knowledge
or notice of any faots impeaching the validity of the bonds, or
that weie inconsistent with their recitals, nor was there any
evidence showing that the plaintiff was not a bona fide purchaser for value of these bonds. In the absence of such proof
the presumption was that the plaintiff obtained the bonds
underdue, or before maturity, in good faith, for a valuable contideration, without notice of any circumstances impeaching their
validity. The production of a negotiable instrument stied on,
with proof of its genuineness, if its genuineness be not denied,
makes a prima facie case for the holder. In other words; the
possession of the bonds in this case, their genuineness not being
disputed, made a primafaciecase for the plaintiff. These views
are in accordance with accepted doctrines of the law relating
to negotiable securities, Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, 16; Murray
v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110, 121; Chambers County v. Clews, 21
Wall. 317, 323; San Antonio v. Mehaffy, 96 U. S. 312, 314;
Montclair v. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147, 158; 2 Parsons' Bills and
Notes, 9;. Pinkerton v. Bailey, 8 Wend. 600; Story on Promissory Notes, § 196; 1 Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, 5th ed.,
§ 812, and the authorities there cited; Chitty on Bills, 11th

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO.
212 U. S,

71

Opinion of the Court.

Amer. ed. 69; Arbouin v. Anderson, 1 Adolph. & Ellis, New R.
498, 504.
But there is another defense by the county which must be
noticed. It is, that the validity of these bonds', has been. adjudicated by the courts of Texas, and that that adjudication
concludes the plaintiff in the present action. The facts, upon.
which that defense is based are these: On the twenty-eighth
of March, 1893, Ball, Hutchings & Co. sued-Presidio County on
certain coupons of bonds, numbered from 90 to 96, inclusive,
and dated December 6th, 1886-the same bonds here sued on,
except bond numbered 93, which is not involved in -this suit.
The county, among other defenses, alleged that the bonds were
issued and delivered to contractors for the purpose of obtaining
furniture for the courthouse; that the contractors therefore had
.notice of the purpose for which the bonds were issued; that
their issue for the purpose of supplyingthe courthouse with
furniture was illegal, fraudulent and void; and, therefore, no
judgment could be rendered for the amount of the coupons sued
on. The state court rendered a judgment for the county. From
that judgment an appeal was prosecuted to the Civil Court of
Appeals of Texas, which reversed. the judgment and ordered
one against the county. 27 S. W. Rep. 702, 707. That court,
+among other things, held that there was nothing in the order
of February 9th, 1886 indicating that the bonds numbered 90 to
96 were not of the bonds therein ordered to be issued for courthouse and jail purposes; that no question- was made that the
amount of all the bonds issued for building a courthouse-and
jail and for furniture and waterworks was not within the
county's statutory limit for the issuing of bonds for the building of a courthouse and jail; and that it was not inconsistent
with their being part of the bonds ordered for courthbuse and
jail purposes that they were numbered from 90 to 96. That
court further said: "These bonds purport on their face to have
been issued by virtue of the acts authorizing bonds for the
erection of a courthouse and jail, and, by virtue of a certain
order of the proper court,, which was, upon its face, authority

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

for the issuance of a bonded debt for said purpose, in the sum
of $86,000; and there is nothing in the order to indicate to the
mind that there had been an overissue, or that these particular
bonds were'not a part of the $86,000.

.

.

.

In fact, these

bonds would seem to have been prepared and issued in a manner
that concealed their true character and to mislead investors
in that class of securities; and we are of opinion, on the whole
case, that the county is estopped to deny its liability to the
purchasers."
This last observation of the Texas Civil Court of Appeals
had, no doubt, reference to the fact (which evidence in this suit
tended to establish), that although the particular. bonds in
suit were issued pursuant to an order of the Commissioners'
Court made December 4th, 1886 to pay for courthouse furniture
they contained recitals, fairly implying that they were issued
under the order of February 9th, 1886 and the statutes for the
purpose of building a courthouse and jail.
That *case was taken to the Supreme Court of Texas, which
reversed the judgment of the Civil Court of Appeals and
affirmed the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction.
Ball, Hutchings & Co. v. Presidio County, 88 Texas, 60-66.
The Supreme Court of Texas assumed, for the purposes of its
opinion, that the County Commissioners' Court had the power
under the'acts of the legislature to issue bonds -of the county
for courthouse and jail purposes to the full amount of $96,000.
Yet,'it said, the order of February 9th, 1886, referred to in the
bonds, showed that only $86,000 of bonds were authorized by
that order to be issued for such purposes, and, therefore, that
the bonds in suit were issued without any order to support
them; that "the law requires" a dealer in county bonds to
know the provisions of the act of the legislature and the order
of the County Commissioners' Court, under and by virtue of
which such bonds were issued, whether referred to on the face
of the bonds or not; that the facts made known by the order of
February 9th, 1886 were sufficient to put a purchaser on inquiry
as to whether the coupons of the bonds now in suit were in

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO. 73
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

excess of the amount authorized by that order; that the burden of proof being upon Ball, Hutchings & Co. to show. that they
were bona fide holders, it was incumbent on them, as plaintiffs,
to prove that proper diligence had been used to ascertain the
facts; and that having made no such proof, they were not entitled to judgment.
It is apparent that the Supreme Court of Texas proceeded
in part upon grounds inconsistent with the decisions of this
court in cases involving the rights of the holders of commercial
paper. We allude here particularly to that part of its opinion
holding that whatever the import of the recitals in the bonds
a purchaser was bound to ascertain what were the provisions
'of the order of February 9th, 1886, under and by virtue of which
the bonds purport to have been issued. In that view we do
not concur, as what has been said in this opinion sufficiently
indicates. Since the decision in Swift v. Tyson. 16 Pet. 1, 19,
it has been the accepted doctrine of this court that, in respect
of the doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence
the courts of the -United States will exercise their own independent judgment, and in respect to such doctrines will not
be controlled by decisions based upon local statutes or local
,usage, although, if the question is balanced with doubt, the
courts of the United States, for the sake of harmony, "will lean
to an agreement of views with the State courts." To that
effect are Burgess v. Seligman 107 U. S.-20, 33, 34; Pana v.
Bowler, 107 U. S. 529, and Oates v. National Bank, 100 U. S.
239, 246, and authorities cited in each case. But in the present
suit and, upon the particular question now under consideration
it is, perhaps; immaterial that the learned Supreme Court of
Texas did not proceed on grounds consistent with the settled
doctrines of this court on questions of commercial law; for,
that court having jurisdiction of the case before it the question
to be met is whether the judgment actually rendered by that
court in Ball, Hutchings & Co. v. Presidio County, as matter of
law, concludes the plaintiff in this suit.
In determining that question certain facts may be taken as

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

established by the proof introduced by the county and which
it deemed material, namely: 1. That the suit in the state court
was upon interest coupons, and not upon the bonds to which
they were attached. 2. That on December 10th, 1886, after the
bonds were issued, F. M. Ball purchased those here in suit
from the contractor to whom they were delivered on account
of furniture supplied for the courthouse, and on the samer day

one League purchased from Ball four of the bonds. 3. Both
Ball and League purchased, in good. faith, at par and interest,
without notice of any facts impeaching the validity of the bonds.
4. That their purchases were before the action in the state
.court, which was not commenced until August 15th, 1902. 5.
That when that suit was begun, the bonds, so far as appears
from the record, belonged to Ball and League, and remained
under their control during the pendency of that suit and were
not produced in court. 6. Ball, Hutchings & Co., the plaintiffs
in that suit, were only the agents for the collection of the interest coupons. 7. It does not appear from the present record
when the Noel-Young Bond & Stock Co., the present plaintiff,
became the holder and owner of the bonds, whether during
the pendency of the suit in the state court or after the final
judgment on March 4th, 1895 in the Supreme Court of Texas.
The argument in support of the conclusiveness of the judgment necessarily rests on the ground that the suit on the coupons created a lis pendens that prevented any one from purchasing the bonds except §ubject to such judgment as might
be rendered on that suit. But, clearly, the negotiability of the
bonds was not destroyed by the mere bringing or pendency
of the suit on the coupons, although the issue in that suit as to
the validity of the coupons may have incidentally involved an
inquiry as to the validity of the bonds to which they were attached. It may be that the holder of negotiable coupons sued
on, being also, at the time, the holder and owner of the bonds,
may be concluded, as between him and the county, in a subsequent suit on the bonds, by a previous judgment on the coupons in the suit, in which the coupons were held invalid be-

PRESIDIO COUNTY 'v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO.
212 U. S.

75

Opinion of the Court.

cause attached to invalid bonds. But one who became a bona
fide purchaser for value of the bonds, after the institution of
the suit on the coupons; not being himself a party to or having
notice of that suit, will not be concluded by the judgment as
to the coupons. A suit on coupons and a suit on the bonds are
based on different causes of action., The coupons and bonds
were capable of separate ownership and of separate suits.
Judgment might be rendered on coupons without producing
the bonds to which they were originally attached. In Nesbit v.
Riverside Independent District, 144 U. S. 610, 611, 618, which
was an action on county bonds, and in which it was a question
whether a judgment in a former suit on coupons of certain
bonds of the same issue barred an action on the bonds, this
court said: "Now, the present suit is on causes of action different from those presented in the suit at Des Moines. Bonds
16, 17 and 18 were not presented or known in that suit; and
while bonds 14 and 15 were presented, alleged to be the property of plaintiff, and judgment asked upon six coupons attached
thereto, yet the cause of action on the six coupons is distinct
and separate from that upon the bonds or the other coupons.
Each matured coupon is a separable piomise, and gives rise to
a separate cause of action. It may be detached from the bond
and sold by itself. Indeed, the title to several matured coupons
of the same bond may be in as many different persons, and
upon each a distinct and separate'action be maintained. So,
while the promises of the bond and of the coupons in the first
instance are upon' the same paper, and the coupons are for interest due upon the bond, yet the promise to pay the coupon is
as distinct from that to pay the bond, as though the two promises were placed in different instruments, upon different paper."
To the same effect is Edwards v. Bates Co., 163 U. S; 269, 271.
A purchaser, when buying the bonds, was not bound at his
peril to know of the pendency of the suit on the coupons. He
could buy without being concluded by a judgment rendered
on coupons involved in a suit to which he was not a party, and
of the pendency of which he had no notice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

An instructive case on this subject is County of Warren v.
Marcy, 97 U. S. 96. That was an action on coupons attached
to negotiable bonds issued by a county. The facts on'which
the defense was based were these: A taxpayer brought a suit
against a county on behalf of himseif and all other taxpayers
for an injunction to prevent the county from making a subscription to the stock of a certain railroad company. A temporary injunction was granted, which was afterwards dissolved,
and the bill was dismissed. The plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which reversed the judgment and a
decree was ordered to be entered, and was entered, enjoining
the county from making the proposed subscription. Pending
the suit and after the dissolution of the temporary injunction,
and. while the case was pending on appeal, the county made
the subscription sought to be enjoined, and issued and delivered to the railroad company the bonds to which the coupons
there in suit were attached. Marcy purchased some of the
bonds for value before maturity, and without any actual notice of their alleged invalidity, or of any suit in relation thereto.
The question in the case was whether the pendency of the
equity suit to prevent the subscription and an issue of bonds
was constructive notice to all persons of the invalidity of the
bonds issued in payment for the subscription.
This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, held the bonds
tobe valid in the hands of a bona fide plurhaser for value
upon these grounds, saying: "That if a municipal body has
lawful power to issue bonds or other negotiable securities, dependent only upon the adoption of certain preliminary proceedings, such-as a popular election of the constituent body,
the holder in good faith has a right to assume that such preliminary proceedings have taken place, if the fact be certified
on the face of the bonds themselves, by the authorities whose
primary duty it is to ascertain it." On the question of lis
pendes the court said: "'It is a general rule that all persons
dealing'with property are bound to take notice of a suit pending with regard to the title thereto, and will, on their peril,

PRESIDIO COUNTY v. NOEL-YOUNG BOND CO.
212 U. S.

77

Opinion of the Court.

purchase the same from any of the parties to the suit. But
this rule is not of universal application. It does not apply to
negotiable securities purchased before maturity, nor to articles
of ordinary commerce sold in the usual way. This exception
was suggested by Chancellor Kent, in one of the leading cases
on the subject in this country, and has been confirmed by many
subsequent decisions "-citing Murray v. Ballou, 1 Johns.
(N. Y.) Ch. 566; Murray v. Lylburn, 2 Johns. Ch. 441; Kieffer v.
Ehler, 18 Pa. St. 388; Winston v. Westfeldt, 22 Alabama, 760;
Stone v. Elliott, 11 Ohio St. 252; Mims v. West, 38 Georgia, 18;
Leitch v. Wells, 48 N. Y. 585; Durantv. Iowa County, 1 Woolw.
69. The court also referred to City of Lexington v. Butler, 14
Wall. 283, saying: "In that case irregularities had occurred in
the preliminary proceedings, and the city authorities refused to
issue the bonds. A mandamus was applied for by the railroad
company, for whose use the bonds were intended; and judgment of mandamus was rendered compelling the city to issue
them, and it issued them accordingly. Subsequently, this
judgment was reversed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky,
and an injunction was obtained to prevent the railroad company from parting with the bonds. The injunction was not
obeyed; the bonds were negotiated whilst proceedings were
still pending, and were purchased by the plaintiff for value before maturity, without any knowledge of these circumstances.
This court held that the bonds were valid in his hands
Whilst the doctrine of constructive notice. arising from lis
pendens, though often severe in its application, is, on the whole,
a wholesome and necessary one, and founded on principles
affecting the authoritative administration of justice, the exception to its application is -demanded by other considerations
equally important, as affecting the free operations of commerce,
and that confidence in the instruments by which it is carried
on, which is so necessary in a business community." In Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 676, 682, the court said: "The doctrine
of lis pendens has no application to commercial securities."
See also County of Cass v. Gillette, 100 U. S. 585, 593, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, 562, to the same effect.
We hold that upon the present record the plaintiff company
is to be taken as having purchased the bonds here in suit before maturity and for value, without notice of any circumstances indicating that their validity was or could be impeached;
consequently, the judgment in favor of the county in the suit
brought in the state court by Ball, Hutchings & Co. on some of
the coupons of the bonds now in suit-in which suit the present
plaintiff company was not a party and of which it is not shown
to have had-notice-does not preclude a judgment in its favor
against the county on the bonds.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

MOYER v. PEABODY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 55.

Argued January 5, 6, 1909.-Decided January 18, 1909.

What is due process of law depends on circumstances, and varies with
the subject-matter and necessities of the situation.
An officer of a State interfering with an individual's rights in an unconstitutional manner derives no protection from personal liability on
account of -his office.

The declaration of the governor of a State that a state of insurrection
exists is conclusive.
Where the constitution and laws of a State give the governor power to
suppress insurrection by the National Guard, as is the case in Colorado, he may also seize and imprison those resisting, and is the final
judge of the necessity for such action; and when such an arrest is made

