AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. MULLINS.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

which stood in the way of the destruction of the buildings in
question under the circumstances stated in the findings without liability on the part of the United States for their value;
and if that section was not superseded or modified, then the
law is for the United States, because of the absence of any
implied. contract entitling the plaintiff, under the facts found,
to be compensated for the loss sustained by it:
Having noticed all the questions that require consideration
and finding no error in the record, the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MULLINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KENTON COUNTY,

STATE OF

KENTUCKY.

No. 77.

Argued January 14,15, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where in the state court defendant distinctly claimed that a recovery
would be prevented if full faith and credit were given to a judgment
of the courts of another State, and this claim is expressly denied, this
court has jurisdiction to review under ยง 709, Rev. Stat.
The duty of the carrier to safely carry and promptly deliver to the con-'
signee the goods entrusted to it does not require it to forcibly resist
judicial proceedings in the courts of the State into or through which
the goods are carried.
While the carrier may appear and contest the validity of a seizure under
judicial process of goods in its custody, if it seasonably notify the
owner and call upon him to defend, it is relieved from further responsibility; and, in absence of fraud or connivance on its part, it may
plead the judgment rendered against it as a bar in an action brought
by the owner.
Where the state court has sustained a demurrer to an answer which set
forth a complete defense in the absehce of fraud, connivance or consent on defendant's part, this court will determine for itself from the
record whether the record shows any fraud, connivance or consent.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

A judgment is conclusive as to all media concludendi and cannot be impeached in or out of the State by showing it was based on mistake of
law. Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230.
DEFENDANT in. error brought his action in the Circuit Court
of Kenton County, Kentucky, against the plaintiff in error to
recover the value of twenty packages of whisky which he had
delivered to the company at Covington, Kentucky, on March 10,
1904, to carry C. 0. D. to Oswego, Labette County, Kansas.
Each package was consigned to a separate consignee. The petition. alleged that the defendant failed to deliver the whisky,
or to collect -the money therefor, or to return the whisky to the
plaintiff. 'The answer was in effect that the company carried
the whisky to Oswego, where it was seized and taken out of
its possession by the sheriff of the county, under a warrant with
seizure clause attached, duly issued by the District Court of the
county, and that it was destroyed in pursuance of a judgment
duly rendered by that court. It further alleged that the District Court had full jurisdiction in the premises, and was authorized. to issue the warrant, and that it was valid on its face;
that a notice was duly issued out Of the court notifying any
and all persons claiming any interest in the whisky -to appear
at a day and hour named to answer the complaint made. against
the whisky, and show cause why it should not be forfeited and
destroyed; that this notice was served on the company, and a
true copy posted in its office where. the whisky was seized;
that the company promptly notified plaintiff of the seizure,
and served on him a copy of the notice issued by the court, and
that he acknowledged receipt thereof fifteen days before the
day set for answer, and ,advised the company that he intended
to contest the legality of the seizure. A copy of the proceedings
in the Kansas court was, attached to the answer as an exhl'bit.
The answer further claimed that the judgment of the District.
Court of Kansas was. entitled to ,full faith and credit under the.
Constitution and laws of the United States. A demurrer was
sustained to the answer, and' the company declining to plead
further, judgment was rendered against it for the value of the*

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. MULLINS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whisky. The Circuit 'Court of Kenton County is the highest
court of the State in which a decision could be had. Kentucky
Statutes, 1903, ยง 950.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon, with whom Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Junior, and Mr. Lewis Cass Ledyard were on the -brief,
for plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared, nor was any brief filed, for defendant
inerror.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

This court has jurisdiction because of the claim distinctly
made in the Kentucky courf that giving full faith and 'credit
to the judgment of the Kansas court would prevent a recovery
against the company, a claim which was expressly denied by
the Kentucky court. Green v. Van Buskerk, 7 Wall. 139, 145;
Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S.640, 642; St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S.281, 293.
While it is the duty of a carrier to safely carry and promptly
deliver to the consignee the goods entrusted to its care, yet
that duty does not call upon it to forcibly resist the judicial
proceedings in the courts of the. State into or through which
it is carrying them. The company carried the goods to Kansas
in obedience to the terms of the shipment. On arrival in that
State they were taken by judicial process out of its possession
and destroyed, the process being issued ina proceeding in the
nature of one inrem. Undoubtedly, it was authorized to appear in the Kansas court and contest -for the rightfulness of
its possession, but it might also notify the owner of the 'property and call upon him to carry on the litigation. This it did;
notified him in time, and received from him an assurance that
he would contest the legality of the seizure. This relieved the
company from further responsibility, and the owner can no
longer complain of it because the judgment of the Kansas
court seized and disposed of the property. Stiles v. Davis, 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the.Court.

212 U. S.

Black, 101; Wells v. Maine Steamship Company, 4 Cliff. 228;
Edwards v. White Line Transit Company, 104 Massachusetts,
159; Bliven v. Hudson River R. R. Co., 36 N. Y. 403; Ohio &
Mississippi Ry. Co. .v. Yohe, 51 Indiana, 181; Savannah &c.
R. R. Co. v. Wilcox, Gibbs & Co., 48 Georgia, 432; Railroad
Company v. O'Donnell, 49 Ohio St. 489, 501.
In the opinion df the judge of the 'Kentucky- Circuit Court
it was said:
"The court is of the. opinion that the conduct of the defendant in permitting the goods to be seized and d&stroyed under a
judgment by default, as disclosed by its answer, without defending and asserting its rights as a carrier, which its duty as
carrier required it to do, is in effect a fraud, and certainly no
judgment suffered to be rendered by the consent, connivance
or fraud of the carrier can be relied upon to relieve the person
by whose consent, connivance or fraud it was rendered from
a legal obligation."
It is undoubtedly true that if the carrier, through connivance or fraud,, permits a judgment to be rendered against it,
such judgment cannot be invoked by it as a bar to an action
brought by the owner of the goods. But there is nothing in
the answer, a demurrer to which was sustained, indicating any
consent, connivance or fraud, and this court will determine
for itself whether there is anything in the record which shows
any such consent, connivance or fraud, Harris v. Balk, 198
U. S. 215.
It was further suggested in the opinion of the judge of the
Kentucky court that the Kansas judgment was wrong and in
conflict with the decision of this court in American Express
Company v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133. But as held in Fauntleroyv.
Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 237:
"A judgment is conclusive as to all the media concludendi,
United States v. California & Oregon Land Co., 192 U. S. 355;
and it needs no authority to show that it cannot be impeached
either in or out of the State by showing that it was based upon
a mistake of the law."

NIELSEN v. OREGON.
212 U.,S.

Statement of the Case.

We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Kentucky erred,
and its
Judgment is reversed and the case remanded to that court for
further proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.

NIELSEN v. STATE OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 593.

Argued January 18,19, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

The concurrent jurisdiction given by Congress to the States of Oregon
and Washington over the Columbia River, by the acts of March 2,
1853, c. 90, 10 Stat. 172, and of February 14, 1859, c. 33, 11 Stat. 383,
extends to civil as well as criminal matters, and is broadly a grant of
jurisdiction to each State. Wedding v. Meyler, 192 U. S. 573.
In determining the effect of a grant of concurrent jurisdiction this court
confines itself to the precise questions presented.
Where two States have concurrent jurisdiction, the one first acquiring
jurisdiction may prosecute and punish for an act which is malum in sc
and punishable by the laws of both States, and the judgment is a
finality so that the person prosecuted cannot be again tried in either
State. But this rule does not apply to those acts which are prohibited
in only one of the States.
Where two States have concurrent jurisdiction over the same territory
which is partly located in one State and partly in the other, one State
cannot prosecute a person for an act malum prohibitun by its own
laws, and which was committed in territory within the other State by
authority of the latter; and so held, that one holding a purse net license from the State of Washington cannot be prosecuted for using
such net on the Washington side of the Columbia River in the courts
of Oregon for violating the statutes of that State prohibiting the use
of such nets.
Quare, whether such person could be prosecuted in the courts of Oregon
for using such nets on the Oregon side of the river; and quwre whether,
where concurrent jurisdiction exists, prosecutions should be in the
name of both States.
95 Pac. Rep. 720, reversed.
PLAINTIFF

in error was convicted in a justice's court of the

precinct of. Astoria, Clatsop County, Oregon, of maintaining

