THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

interpret it otherwise now. The defendants said they would
take their chances at a time when there were several ways in
which the jury could have been prevented from seeing the
papers or seeing them further. They stopped the court from
even giving the jury instructions. It is too late now to complain.
It is objected that the judge erred in admitting affidavits of
the jurymen that they were not influenced by the reading of
the article. AIattox v..United States, 146 U. S. 140. This error
is immaterial, as the order overruling the new trial was right
on other grounds.
Judgment affirmed.

THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY v. ANDERSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 58.

Argued January 7, 1909.-Decided February 1, 1909.

One in the general service of another may be so transferred to the service of a third person as to become the latter's servant with-all the
legal consequences of the new relation; but to change the relation and
relieve the master requires more than the mere fact that the servant
is sent to do work pointed out by Such third party who has made a
bargain with the master fbr his services.
A winchman employed by the person furnishing the hoisting power to

a master stevedore for loading a vessel, held to remain that person's
servant notwithstanding the hoisting signals were given by the steve-

dore's foreman and not to be a fellow servant of an employ6 of the
stevedore who was injured by his negligence.
152 Fed. Rep. 166, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles W. Fuller for petitioner:
The defendant and the negligent winchman did not sustain.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

212 U. S.

to each other the relation of master and servant in such a sense
that the defendant is liable for the winchman's negligence
within the doctrine of respondeat superior. Hereunder, cases in
which it is held that where a servant who is in the general employment of one person enters the particular or special employment of another, he becomes the servant of the special master,
with relation to the particular service, and, therefore, the fellowservant of the other employ~s of the special master, are in
point, for the reason that they show that in such a case a servant who is thus transferred from the general employment of
one person to the particular employment of another becomes,
for the time being, the servant of the special master. Therefore cases of this character are.cited along with the cases which
involve only the application of the respondeat superior doctrine.
See The Harold, 21 Fed. Rep. 428; Lonergan v. The Island, 28
Fed. Rep. 478; The Elton, 142 Fed. Rep. 367; Brady v. Chicago
&c. Ry. Co., 114 Fed. Rep. 100; Sargent Co. v. Baublis, 215
Illinois, 428; Murray v. Currie (1870), L. R. 6 C. P. 24; Rourke
v. White Moss Colliery Co. (1876), 2 C. P. Div. 205; S. C., 46
L. J. C. P. 283, affirming 1 C. P. Div. 556; Jones v. Scullard
(1898), 2 Q. B. 565; Donovan v. Laing &c. Construction Syndicate (1893), 1 Q. B. 629.
In the state courts, there are decisions to the effect that the
power of the special master to direct and control the servant
is regarded as the decisive factor. The rule applied in these
cases is that when one person lends or hires a servant to another for a particular. employment, the servant for anything
done in the particular employment must be dealt with as the
servant of the man to whom he is lent or hired, although he
remains the general servant of the person who lent or hired
him. Parkhurstv. Swift, 31 Ind. App. 521; Kimball v. Cushman, 103 Massachusetts, 194; S: C., 4 Am. Rep. 528; Johnson
v. Boston, 118 Massachusetts, 114; Clapp v.'Kemp, 122 Massachusetts, 481; Ward v. New England Fibre Co., 154 Massachusetts, 419; Hasty v. Sears, 157 Massachusetts, 123; S. C., 34
Am. St. Rep. 267; Morgan v. Smith, 159 Massachusetts, 570;

THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Reagan v. Casey, 160 Massachusetts, 374; Geary v. Stevenson,
169 Massachusetts, 23; Haskell v. Boston Dist. Messenger Co.,
190 Massachusetts, 189; Ewan v. Lippincott, 47 N. J. L. 192;
S. C., 54 Am. Rep. 148; Delaware &c. R. Co. v. Hardy, 59 N. J.
L. 35; S. C., 4 Am. & Eng. R. Cas. (N. S.) 577; 59 N. J. L. 562;
Norman v. Middlesex &c. Traction Co., 68 N. J. L. 728; Grace
&c. Co. v. Probst, 208 Illinois, 147; Consolidated Fireworks Co.
v. Koehl, 190 Illinois, 145; Coughlan v. Cambridge, 166 Massachusetts, 268; Samnelian v. American Tool &c. Co., 168 Massachusetts, 12; Delory v. Blodgett, 185 Massachusetts, 126; S. C.,
102 Am. St. Rep. 328; Anderson v. Boyer, 156 N. Y. 93; Higgins v.. Western Union Tel. Co., 156 N. Y. 75; Breslin v. Sparks,
97 N. Y. App. Div. 69; Baldwin v. Abraham, 57 N. Y. App.
Div. 67; affirmed, without opinion, 171 N. Y. 677.
Mr. Bertrand L. Pettigrew for defendant in error:
The facts show that the winchman was appointed and paid
by the defendant; that he was not under the control of the contracting stevedore; that the winch which he operated as well
as the dock. upon which it was situated belonged to the defendant, and these facts take the case out of the rules laid down in
the authorities cited by counsel for the defendant. On the
general question see Laugher v. Pointer, King's Bench (1826),
5 B. & C. 547; Quarman v. Burnett, 6 M. & W. 499; Cameron v.
Mystrom (1893), A. C. 308 (Privy Council); Union Steamship
Co. v. Claridge (1894), A. C. 185; St. John Gas Light Co. v.
Hatfield, 23 Can. Sup. Ct. Rep. 164; Hastings v. LeRoy, No. 2,
34 Can. Sup. Ct. Rep. 177.
Plaintiff in error was held liable for the negligence of its
winchman in a similar case. See Sanford v. Standard Oil Co.,
118 N. Y. 571, which was cited and followiL1 in Johnson v.
Netherlands Nay. Co., 132 N. Y. 576; De Maio v. Standard Oil
Co., 68 App. Div. 167; Lauro v. Standard Oil .Co., 74 App. Div.
4. See also The Lisnacrieve, 87 Fed. Rep. 570, and cases cited;
The Slingsby, 116 Fed. Rep. 227; The Gladestry, 128 Fed.Rep.
591; Otis Steel Co. v. Wingle, 152 Fed. Rep. 914.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

212 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The respondent, hereafter called the plaintiff, brought an
action in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of New York to recover damages for personal injuries
alleged to have been suffered by him through the negligence
of a servant of the petitioner, hereafter called the defendant.
The plaintiff was employed as a longshoreman by one Torrence, a master stevedore, who, under contract with the defendant, was engaged in loading the ship Susquehanna with
oil. The plaintiff was working in the hold, where, without
fault on his part, he was struck and injured by a draft or load
of cases containing oil; which was unexpectedly lowered. The
ship was alongside a dock belonging to the defendant, and the
cases of oil were conveyed from the dock to the hatch by hoisting them from the dock to a point over the hatch, whence they
were lowered and guided into the hold. The work was don6
with great rapidity. The motive power was furnished by a
steam winch and drum, and the hoisting and lowering were
accomplished by means of a tackle, guy rope and hoisting rope.
The tackle and ropes were furnished and rigged by the stevedore, and the winch and drum were owned by the defendant
and placed on its dock, some fifty feet distant from the hatch.
All the Work of loading was done by employs of the stevedore,
,except the operation of the winch, which was done by a winchman in the general employ of the defendant. The case was
tried before a jury and the plaintiff had a verdict. The verdict establishes that the plaintiff was in the use of due care
and that his injuries were suffered by reason of the negligence
of the winchman in improperly lowering the draft of cases into
the hold.
The only question presented is, whether the winchman was,
at the time the injuries were received, the servant of the defendant or of the stevedore. If he was the servant of the
defendant, as he was found to be by the courts below, the defendant was resnonsible for his negligence. If not, that is the

THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

end of the case, and it is not necessary to inquire what would
be the measure of liability of the stevedore.
The decision of this question requires us to consider some
further facts which were not disputed. The winchman was
hired and paid by the defendant, who alone had the right to
discharge him. The stevedore agreed to pay the defendant
$1.50 a thousand for the hoisting. The stevedore had no control over the movements and conduct of the winchman, except
as follows: The hours of labor of.the winchman necessarily
conformed to the hours of labor of the longshoremen. The
winch and winchmen were ab a place where it was impossible
to determine the proper time for hoisting and lowering the
draft of cases of oil, and the winchman necessarily depended
upon signals from others. These signals were given by an employ6 of the stevedore, called a gangman, who stood upon the
deck of the ship and gave signals to hoist or lower by the blowing of a whistle which could be heard for a long distance. The
negligence consisted in lowering a draft of cases before receiving this signal.
This case is here by certiorari from the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court, because of the supposed conflict of decision in the lower Federal
courts. Upon a state of facts, much resembling each other,
it was held by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in The Slingsby, 120 Fed. Rep. 748, that the winchman
was -the servant of him who furnished the winch and p ower,
and in The Elton, 142 Fed. Rep. 367, the contrary conclusion
was reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit. In the latter case, it is true, the judgment was rested
upon a question of pleading, and the observations of the court
upon this subject were unnecessary to the decision. It is by
no means certain that both cases do not differ materially from
the case at bar as we view it, and we do not deem it necessary
to question the conclusions reached in them.
-We have examined the authorities selected with discrimination, and pressed upon the attention of the court in the brief,

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.'

compact and otherwise excellent arguments of counsel, though
we do not deem it necessary to refer to all of them.
One who employs a servant to do his work is answerable to
strangers for the negligent acts or. omissions of the servant
committed in the course of the service. The plaintiff rests his
right to recover upon this rule of law which, though of comparatively modem origin, has come to be elementary. But,
*however clear-the rule may be, its application to the infinitely
varied affairs of life is not always easy, because the facts which
place a given case within or without' the rule cannot always
be ascertained with precision. The servant himself is, of course,
liable for the consequences of his own carelessness. But when,
as is so frequently the case, an attempt is made to impose upon
the master the liability for those consequences, it sometimes
becomes necessary to inquire who was the master at the very
time of the negligent act or omission. One may be in the general service of another, and, nevertheless, with respect to particular work, may be transferred, with his own consent or acquiescence, to the service of a third person, so that he becomes
the servant of that person with all the legal consequences of
the new relation.
It is insisted by the defendant that the winchman, though
in its. general employ, had ceased to be its servant, and had
becorhe for the time being, with respect to the work negligently performed, the servant of the master stevedore. This
may be trde, although the winchman was selected, employed,
paid and could be discharged by the defendant. If it is true,
the defendant .is
not liable. The case, therefore, turns upon
the decision of the question, Whose servant was the winchman
when he.was guilty of the negligence which caused the injury?
It will aid somewhat in the .ascertainment of the true Lest
for determining this question to consider the reason and extent
of the rule of a master's responsibility. The reason for the
rule ia.not clarified much by the Latin phrases in which it is
sometimes clothed. They are rather restatements than explanations of the rule. The accepted reason for it is that given by

THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chief Justice Shaw in the case of Farwell v. Boston & Worcester Railroad Corporation,4 Metcalf, 49. In substance, it is
that the master is answerable for the wrongs of his servant,
not because he has authorized them nor because the servant
in his negligent conduct represents the master, but because he
is conducting the master's affairs, and the master is bound to
see that his affairs are so conducted that others are not injured.
It is said in that case that this is a "great principle ofsocial
duty," adopted "from general considerations of policy and
security." But whether the reasons of the rule be grounded
in considerations of policy or rested upon historical tradition,
there is a clear limitation to its extent. Guy v. Donald, 203
U. S. 399, 406. The master's responsibility cannot. be extended
beyond the limits of the master's work. If the servant is doing
his own work or that of some other, the master is not answerable for his negligence in the performance of it.
It sometimes happens that one wishes a certain work to be
done for his benefit and neither has persons in his employ who
can do it nor is willing to take such persons into his general
service. He may. then enter into an agreement with another.
If that other furnishes him with men to do the work and
places them under his exclusive control in the performance of
it, those men became pro hac vice the servants of him to whom
they are furnished. But, on the other hand, one may prefer
to enter into an. agreement with another that that other, for
a consideration, shall himself perform the work through servants of his own selection, retaining the direction and control
of them. In the first case, he to whom the workmen are furnished is responsible for their negligence in the conduct of the
work, because the work is his work and they are for the time
his -workmen. In the second case, he who agrees to furnish
the completed work through servants over whom he retains
control is responsible for. their negligence in the conduct of it,
because, though it is done for the ultimate benefit of the other,
it is still in its doing his own work. To determine whether a
given case falls within the one class. or the other we must in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 b. S.

quire whose is the work being performed, a question which is
usually answered by ascertaining who has the power to control and direct the servants in the performance of their work.
Here we must carefully distinguish between authoritative direction and control, and mere suggestion as to details or the
necessary cobperation, where the work furnished is part of a
larger undertaking.
These principles are sustained by the great weight of authority, to which some reference will now be made. The
simplest case, and that which was earliest decided, was where
horses and a driver were furnished by a liveryman. In such
cases the hirer, though he suggests -the-course of the journey
and in a certain sense directs it, still does not become the
master of the driver and responsible for his negligence, unless
he specifically directs or brings about the negligent act. Quarman v. Burnett, 6 M. & W. 499; Jones v. Mayor &c., 14 Q. B.
D. 890; Little v. Hackett, 116 U. S. 366. Though even in such
cases, if, the exclusive control over the driver be in the hirer,
he may be responsible as master. Jones v. Scullard, 2 Q. B.
(1898) 565.
In the case of Murray v. Currie, L. R. 6 C. P. 24, these facts
appeared: The defendant was the owner of a ship which was
provided with a winch, worked by a donkey engine, which was
used for loading and unloading the cargo. He engaged a
master stevedore to do the work of unloading the vessel, and
agreed to supply him with the winch, the power and such
sailors as the stevedore might need, deducting the amount of
their wages from the agreed 'compensation for unloading. The
stevedore selected the work for the sailors to do and had
control over it and direction over the men. One of the sailors
while operating the winch conducted himself so negligently
that the plaintiff, who was in the employ of the stevedore, was
injtred, and brought this action against the defendant to recover damages, alleging that the winchman was the servant
of the defendant. it was held that the winchman at the time
was not the servant of the defendant but of the stevedore;

THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Bovill, C. J., saying: "The work of unloading was done by
Kennedy (the stevedore) under a special contract. He was
acting on his own behalf, and did not in any sense stand in the
relation of servant to the defendant. He had entire control
over the work, and employed such persons as he thought
proper to act under him. He had the option of using the services of the crew of the ship; but he was under no obligation
to do so. Whether he selected independent laborers or part of
the crew, they were all his servants, and their acts were his
Davis (the
acts, and not the- acts of the owner. ....
and
the
stevedore,
way
by
winchman) was employed in this
was doing his work, and under his control and superintendence." Wiles, J.; added: "The question here is, whether
Davis, who caused the accident, was employed at the time in
doing Kennedy's work or the shipowner's.

.

The lia-

bility of a master for the acts of his servant extends only to
such acts of the servant as are done by him in the course Of the
mnaster's service. The master is not liable for acts done. by the
servant out of the scope of his duty, even though the master
may-have entered into a bargain that his servant should be
employed by another, and is paid for such service, as was done
here." Brett, J., added: "But I apprehend it to be a true
principle of law that, if I lend my servant to a contractor,
who is to have the sole control and superintendence of' the
work contracted for, the independent contractor is alone
liable for any wrongful act done by the servant while so employed. The servant is doing, not my work, but the. work of
the independent contractor."
The case of Rourke v. The White Moss Colliery Co., L. R.
(1876) 2 C. P. D. 205, frequently has been cited and approved
by American courts. The defendant in that-case was the
owner of a colliery and had employed, for an agreed price, a
contractor to sink a shaft. It was stipulated as part of the
agreement that the defendant should provide the contractor
with power, ropes and an engineer to work the engine; but
.with the distinct understanding that the engineer and the en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

gine should be under the control of the contractor. The engineer operated the engine so negligently that he caused injuries
to the plaintiff, a servant of the contractor, who, brought this
action against the defendant to recover damages for his injuries, alleging that the engineer was the servant of the defendant. It was held that the engineer was not the servant of
the defendant, but, for the time being, was the servant of the
contractor. Cockburn, C. J., after remarking that the engineer,
through whose fault the, injury occurred, was undoubtedly
the general servant of the defendant, said: "But these circumstances afford no ground, in point of law, for visiting the defendants with the result of the man's negligence, if he was not,
in point of fact, their servant at the time, in the sense of being
actually employed to do their work." He then proceeds to
say that if the defendants had undertaken thus to do the work
of hoisting by their machinery and servants, then they would
have been liable, "for in that case Lawrence, the engineman,
would have continued to be the servant of the company, and
would have been working as their servant at their work."
And sce Donovan v. Laing, L. R. (1893) 1 Q. B. D. 189, 629,
and Union Steamship Company v. Claridge, Appeal Cases,
1894, p. 185.
The two cases which have just been reviewed are much relied upon by the defendant, and for that reason have been
fully stated. It should be observed that in each of them it
clearly apleared in point of fact that the general servant of
the respective defendants had ceased for the time being to be
their servants, and. had passed under the direction and control
of another person, upon whose work they were engaged.
In the case of Higgins v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 156
N. Y. 75, where a similar question was under consideration,
O'Brien, J., thus expressed the principle: "The question is
whether, at the time of the accident, he wa4 engaged indoing
..the defendant's work or the work of the contractor .
The master is the person in whose business he'is engaged at the
time, and Who has the right t control and direct his conduct."'

THE STANDARD OIL CO. v. ANDERSON.
212 U. S.

225

Opinion of the Court.

In many cases this test has been followed. Among them are
Parkhurstv. Swift, 31 Ind. App. 521; Kilroy v. Canal Co., 121
N. Y. 22; Wyllie v. Palmer, 137 N. Y. 248; Anderson v. Boyer,
156 N. Y. 93; Murray v. Dwight, 161 N. Y. 301; Delaware &c.
R. Co. v. Hardy, 59 N. J. L.. 35; Consolidated Fireworks Co. v.
Koehl, 190 Illinois, 145; Grace &c. Co. v. Probst, 208 Illinois,
147; Kimball v. Cushman, 103 Massachusetts, 194; Johnson v.
Boston, 118 Massachusetts, 114; Delory v. Blodgett, 185 Massachusetts, 126; The Elton, supra.
In many of the cases the power of substitution or discharge,
the payment of wages and other circumstances bearing upon
the relation are dwelt upon. They, however, are not the ultimate facts, but only those more or less useful in determining.
whose is the work and whose is the power of control.
Let the facts in evidence now be considered in the light of
the 'foregoing principles of law. Was the winchman at the
time he negligently failed to observe the signals engaged in the
work of the master stevedore, under his rightful control, or
was he rather engaged in the work of the defendant, under its
rightful control? We think that the latter was the true situation. The winchman was, undoubtedly, in the general employ
of the defendant, who selecte4 him, paid his wages, and had
the right to discharge him for incompetency, misconduct or
any other reason. In order to relieve the defendant from the
results of the legal relation of master and servant it must appear that that relation, for the time, had been suspended
and a new like relation between the winchman and the stevedore had been created. The evidence in this case does not
warrant the conclusion that this changed relation had come
into. existence. For reasons satisfactory to it the defendant preferred to do the work of hoisting itself, and received an agreed
compensation for it. The power, the winch, the drum and the
winchman were its own. It did not furnish them but furnished
the work they did to the stevedore. That work was done by
the defendant, for a price, as its own work, by and through
its own instrumentalities and servant, under its own control.
VOL. CCXII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S,.

Much stress is laid upon the fact thatthe winchman obeyed
the signals of the gangman; who represented the master stevedore, in timing the raising and lowering of the cases of oil.
But when one large general work is undertaken by different
persons, doing distinct parts of the same undertaking, there
must be cooperation and co6rdination, or. there will be chaos.
The giving of the signals under the circumstances of this case
was not the giving of orders, but of 'information, and the
obedience to those signals showed co6peration rather than subordination, and is not enough to show that there has been a
change of masters. The case ol Driscoll v. Towle, 181 Massachusetts, 416, is in point here, In that case the defendant was
engaged in a general teaming business. He furnished a horse,
wagon and driver to the Boston Electric Light Company.
The driver repoited to the electric light company and received
directions as to what to do and where to go from an employ6
of that company, but at night returned the horse and wagon
to the defendant's stable and received pay from the defendant.
While traveling to carry out an order received from the company he negligently injured the plaintiff, who brought an action to recover for the injuries, alleging that the driver was the
defendant's servant. It was held that there was evidence
which would warrant the jury in :finding that the driver con.tinued to be the defendant's servant. It was said in the opinion of the court, delivered by Holmes, C. J. (now Mr. Justice
Holmes):
"But the mere fact that a servant is sent to do work pointed
out to him by a person who has made a bargain with his master
does not make him that person's servant more than that is
necessary to take him out of the relation'established by the
only contract which he has made and to make him a voluntary
subject of a new sovereign,-as the master sometimes was
called in the old books.
"In -this case th'contract between the defendant and the
electric light company was not stated in terms, but it fairly
could have been found to have been an ordinary contract by

CONT'L WALL PAPER CO. v. VOIGHT & SONS CO. 227
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

the defendant to do his regular business by his servants in the
common way. In all probability it was nothing more. Of
course in such cases the party who employs the contractor
indicates the work to be done and in that sense controls the
servant, as he would control the contractor, if he were present.
But the person who receives such orders is not subject- to the
general orders of the party who gives them. He does his own
business in his own way, and the orders which he receives
simply point out to him the work which he or his makster has
undertaken to do. There is not that degree of intimacy and
generality in the subjection of one to the other which is necessary in order. to identify the two, and to make the employer
liable under the fiction that the act of the employed is his act."
We think that the courts below correctly held that the
winchman remained the servant of the defendant. Upon facts
not differing in principle from those before us, the same conClusion was reached in Sanford v. Standard Oil Co., 118 N. Y.
571; Johnson v. Netherlands &c. Co., 132 N. Y. 576; The Victoria, 69.Fed. Rep. 160; The Lisnacrieve, 87 Fed. Rep. 570;
McGough v. Ropner, 87 Fed. Rep. 534; The Gladestry, 128 Fed.
Rep. 591; The City of San Antonio, 143 Fed. Rep. 955.
Judgment affirmed.

CONTINENTAL WALL PAPER COMPANY v.
VOIGHT AND SONS COMPANY.

LOUIS

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 15. Argued April 24, 27,'1908.-Decided February 1, 1909.
Where a number of manufacturers situated in different States engaged
in manufacturing an article sold in different States, organize a selling
company through which their entire output is sold, in accordance with
an agreement between themselves, to such persons only as enter into

a purchasing agreement by which their sales are restricted, the effect

