OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus..

212 U. S.

ment, we are of opinion that the same is true of a law authorizing by implication what was done in this case. As we have
said already, it is unnecessary to consider whether there are
other reasons why the Circuit Court was right in its conclusion.
It is enough that in our opinion the declaration does not disclose a "suit authorized by law to be br6ught to redress the
deprivation of any right secured by the Constitution of the
United States." See Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 158.
Judgment affirmed.
M,1. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of this case.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS
(NO. 1).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 359.

Argued November 2, 3, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909..

The jurisdiction of this court, under § 709 Rev. Stat., to review 'the
proceedings of state courts is limited to specific instances of denials
of Federal rights specially set up in and denied by the state court.
This court does not: review, but accepts as conclusive the findings of
factl made by the state court.
Although the state court may incorrectly charge as to certain provisions
of a statute if the jury finds that defendant has violated those provisions and also other provisions not involving any Federal question,
and only one penalty is assessed, the judgment rests on a non-Federal
ground sufficient to 'sustain it, and this court has not jurisdiction to
review it under § 709 Rev. Stat.
Although an agreement to violate the anti-trust law of a State may be
made outside of the State, if the parties thereto or their agents execute it, or attempt so to do, within the State, they are under the
jurisdiction of the State and their conviction for such acts is not
without due process of law.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

87

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

States having power to prevent unlawful combinations in restraint of
trade may provide the procedure for enforcing the same, subject only
to the qualification that such procedure must not deny or conflict
with fundamental or constitutional rights.
Even though it would be giving a penal statute a retroactive effect to
make it apply to an unlawful agreement executed prior to the passage of. the act by defendant's predecessor in interest, defendant is
subject to conviction for violating the act after its enactment by making itself a party to and carrying out its illegal provisions.
Where defendant has. had a fair trial and the question of liability has
been submitted to a jury and the judgment reviewed and sustained
by an appellate court, this court will not hold that there has been a
deprivation of due process of law because the state statute permitted,
and the court charged, that conviction could be had not only for acts
accomplishing, but also for those tending or reasonably calculated to
bring about, the things prohibited.
The anti-trust laws of Texas :involved in this case are not unconstitutional as depriving any one of due process of law because vague and
indefinite as prohibiting acts which "tend" or are "reasonably cal-culated" to restrain trade and prevent competition.
The fixing of punishment for crime and penalties for unlawful acts is
within the police power of the State, and this court cannot interfere
with state legislation in fixing fines, or judicial action in imposing
them, unless so grossly excessive as to amount to deprivation of property without due process of law.
Where a state anti-trust law fixed penalties at $5,000 a day, and, after
verdict of guilty for over 300 days, a defendant corporation was
fined over $1,600,000, this court will not hold that the fine is so excessive as to amount to deprivation of property without due process
of law where it appears that the business was extensive and profitable
during the. period of violation, and that the corporation has over
$40,000,000 of assets and has declared dividends amounting to several hundred per cent.
106 S.W. Rep. 918, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Moorfield Storey, Mr. E. B. Perkins and Mr. Henry
Samuel Priest, with whom Mr. J. L. Thorndike was on the
brief,, for plaintiff in error:
By the proceedings in the Texas courts delendant has been

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

subjected to the penalties of the act of 1899 by reason of an
agreement made by another company, the old Waters-Pierce
Company, with the Standard Oil Company, confining the business of those two companies to different parts of the United
States. This agreement was made in 1878, many years before
the act was passed. The defendant cannot be so subjected
to penalties without giving a retroactive effect to the act and
depriving the defendant of its property without due process of
law.
The defendant did not by acquiring the business and property of the old Waters-Pierce Company succeed to any of the
liabilities 6f that company. Armour v. Bement's Sons, 123 Fed.
Rep. 56.
The state courts by imposing on the defendant a liability on
account of an agreement made by the old company have undertaken to deprive the defendant of its property without due
process of* law. Woodward v. Central Vermont Ry. Co., 180
Massachusetts, 599; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 102.
But if the defendant is to be regarded as the old company in
a new form, then the question is to be treated in the same manner as if the old company were sued for penalties for having entered into the agreement for a division of territory in 1878 and
remaining a party to it on and after June 1, 1900. WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 36, 39. And in 1878 there
was no law in Texas forbidding such an agreement. Mogul
Steamship Co. v. McGregor, A. C. 1892, 39.
Although the words of the act refer to the future, yet as the
state courts gave it retroactive effect the defendant has thereby
been deprived of its constitutional right. General Oil Co. v.
Crain,209 U. S. 211, 228.
. The agreement was not only made before the act of 1899 was
passed, but it was made outside of the State of Texas, and it
did not provide that either company should do anything in
Texas. By imposing penalties on the defendant by reason of
such an agreement the State is punishing an act done out of its
jurisdiction and so depriving the defendant of its property with-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

89

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

out due process of laW. State v. LancashireIns. Co., 66 Arkansas, 466; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S.332, 341; United States v.
Thayer, 209 U. S. 39, 44; In re Palliser,136 U. S. 257, 266.
The only provision of the agreement that affected Texas was
that the Standard Oil Company should not do business in that
State, which it could not do without carrying its oil into that
State for the purpose and thereby engaging in interqtate commerce. The State had no authority to regulate such commerce
by imposing' penalties for entering into contracts relating to it.
General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 228, 229; Caldwell v. North
Carolina, 187 U. S. 622; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 119;
Rearick v. Pennsylvania,203 U. S. 507.
The defendant has also been subjected to the penalties of the
act of 1899 for the doings of the Standard Oil Company in acquiring shares in the defendant company, in which the defendant itself had no part. Such an imposition of penalties upon the
defendant for the acts of somebody else is a taking of its property without due process of law. Case v. Bank, 100 U. S. 446;
Oliver v. Bank, 1 Ch. 615, 619, 629; Lindley on Companies (6th
ed.), 81; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 102; Hobson v.
Middleton, 9 B. & C. 303.
This acquisition of the shares also took place outside of Texas
and under the laws of Missouri, and was a matter to which the.
State of Texas could not constitutionally extend its jurisdiction. State v. Lancashire Ins. Co., 66 Arkansas, 466.
By the course that has been pursued, the jury have been enabled to convict the defendant and impose penalties upon it on
account of a combination formed outside of the State of Texas
which 'has not bcen found to have regulated any prices in Texas
or even to have had aay effect upon them. As this is a matter
in which the State of Texas has no authority, the defendant is
by this means deprived of its property without due process of
law.

Any combination effected by the acquisition of shares by the
Standard Oil Company was effected when that company first
acquired the shares in the old Waters-Pierce Company, long

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument' for Plaintiff in Error.

2i2 U. S.

before the act of 1899 was passed. The imposition of penalties
on -this ground therefore gives the act the effect of an ex post
facto law.
In like manner the defendant has been subjected to the
penalties of the act of 1903 for what the Standard Oil Company did in acquiring the shares. This has been done on the
ground that defendant thereby entered into a combination,
and that thereby the two companies were placed under the
same management or control, and that the Standard Oil Company had-acquired the shares with the purpose on the part of
its own officers of lessening competition in Texas. The constitutional rights of the defendant have been violated in the
three ways previously mentioned, by imposing penalties on the
defendant for the acts of somebody else, for acts done outside
of Texas, and for acts done before the statute. General Oil
Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211, 228; Kring v. Missouri, 107 U. S.
228.
Both the acts of 1899 and 1903 are too indefinite and uncerta-in in their terms to make it an offense to do what the defendant has been found by the jury to have done, and that the
imposition of penalties for doing that deprives the defendant
of its property without due process of law. Montana v. Rice,
204 U. S. 291, 299; Sullivan v. Texas, 207 U. S. 422; Tozer v.
United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917; Ex parte Jackson, 45 Arkansas,
.158; Louisville & Nashville.R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 132; S. C., 35 S. W. Rep. 129; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. R. R. Commission, 19 Fed. Rep. 679, 691; Railroad
Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 336; United States v. Brewer, 139
U. S. 278.
The penalties that have been imposed upon the defendant are
also so excessive as to constitute a deprivation of its property
without due process of law. While the Eighth Amendment
against excessive bail and fines may not apply' to the different
States, Pervear v. Commonwealth, 5 Wall. 475; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 332, the prohibition is one of fundamental rights
of life, liberty and property, the .observance of which by the

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

91

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

States, as well as by the general government, is essential to due
process of law, and is enforced by the Fourteenth Amendment.
O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 339-341, 370. For instances of
penalties held to be excessive, see State v. Galveston, Harrisburg, San Antonio Ry. Co., 100 Texas, 153, 175; S. C., 97 S. W.
Rep. 71; State v. Whitaker, 48 La. Ann. 527. See also Porter v.
Dawson Bridge Co., 157 Pa. St. 374-379.
The arbitrary admission of evidence that could have no possible connection with the issues in the case and could only confuse
and excite the prejudice of the jury; directing the jury, therefore,
to consider such evidence as tending to prove, some of the issues
in favor of the State, and directing them to bring in a verdict
for the State if they found facts of which there was no evidence
whatever, amounted to a denial of a trial according to law, and
the judgment deprived the defendant of its property without
due process of law.
To bring the case under In re Converse, 137 U. S. 631; Backus
v. FortStreet Union Depot Co., 169 U. S. 566; Smiley v. Kansas,
196' U. S. 453, there must be, not only the form, but the substance, of a trial according to the regular course of procedure,
and not a reckless disregard of defendant's rights. Backus v.
FortStreet UnionDepot Co., 169 U. S. 565; Fayerweatherv. Ritch,
195 U. S. 297; Patterson v. Colorado, 205 U. S. 461.
The trial must be according to the modes of proceeding applicable to such a case, secured by laws operating on all alike,
and not subjecting the individual to the arbitrary exercise of
the powers of government unrestrained by the established principles of private-right and distributive justice. In determining
what is due process of law regard must be had to substance, not
to form. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 234.
The prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment extend to'
all acts of the State, whether done through iAs legislative,
executive or judicial authorities. Scott v. McNeal, 154 U.' S. 45;
Waterworks Co. v. Owensboro, 200 U. S. 45; Londoner v. Denver,
210 U. S. 386.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

It cannot reasonably be said that any of the doings or agreements of the old company had any such fair relation to the
question whether the defendant had violated the Texas antitrust laws, as to make it evidence upon that question. People
v. Cannon, 139 N. Y. 43, 45; Commonwealth v. Anselvitch, 186
Massachusetts, 378, 379.
. The defendant did not succeed to the liabilities or obligations
of the old company, Arnjour v. Bement's Sons, 123 Fed. Rep.
56, and the legislature could not have imposed those liabilities
or obligations upon the defendant. Wobdward v. Central Vermont Ry. Co., 180 Massachusetts, 599.
The permit was a contract with the State for valuable consideration under which the defendant was entitled to do business in Texas for ten years, and the revocation of the permit
without convicting the defendant of misconduct by due process
of law was, like the imposition of the penalties, a deprivation, of
its property without due process of law. American Smelting
Co. v. C6lorado, 204 U. S. 103; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas,
177 U. S. 47.
The order appointing the receiver, being'dependent on the
judgment, must fall with the judgment.
,Upon the reversal of the judgment, the defendant is entitled
to be put in the same position as if there had never been any
such judgment. 2 Wins. Saund. 101 gg; 2 Tidd's Practice I(9th
ed., 1828), 1186, 1187;.Tidd's Forms (1828), 540, 556-558.
After the judgment for penalties had been superseded by the
appeal and bond, the judge had no authority to complete the
appointment of a receiver, and the order completing such appointment deprived the defendant of its property without due
process of law. . A supersedeas stops all sort of proceedings.
Smith v. Nicholson, 2 Stra. 1186; Sampson V. Brown, 2 ,East,
439.

So, by the laws of Texas, as declared, by its Supreme Court,
the ju.dge had no authority to go on and complete the appointment of the receiver" after the original -judgment had been
superseded. In doing so he acted arbitrarily and without au-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

•thority of law, and, if the appointment is allowed to be put in
force, the defendant will be deprived of its property without
due process of law.
The judge and officers of the court in completing the appointment of the receiver acted a representatives of the State, and
their acts were those of the State. Scott v. McNeal, 154,U. S.
45; Waterworks Co. v. Owensboro, 200 U. S.45; Londoner v.
Denver, 210 U. S. 386.
Mr. R. V. Davidson, Attorney General of the State of Texas,
Mr. R. L. Batts and Mr. G. W. Allen, with whom Mr. Jewel P.
Lightfoot, Mr. John W. Brady and Mr. T. W. Gregory were on
the brief, for defendant in error:
No substantial Federal question requiring the exercise of the
jurisdiction of this court is involved in this case. Arkansas
Southern R. R. Co. v. German Bank, 207 U. S. .275; Leathe v.
Thomas, 207 U. S. 98; Stickney v. Kelly, 209 U. S. 422; Thomas
v. Iowa, 209 U. S. 263; Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S.36.
Neither the act of 1899 nor the act of 1903 is an ex post facto
law, nor is either retroactive, nor was either given a retroactive
effect in this case. Glue Co. v. Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611; United
States v. Trans-Missouri Traffic Association, 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. Joint Traffic Ass'n, 171 U. S.505; Pearsall v.
Great Northern R. R. Co., 161 U. S. 646; Louisville & Nashville
Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677; State v. Insiurance Co., 94
U. S.535; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 668; Waters-Pierce Oil
Co. V. State, 44 S..W. Rep. 941; State v. Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co., 91 S. W. Rep. 214; Ford v. Milk Shippers' Assn.,
27 L. R. A. 298.
Neither the act of 1899 nor the act of 1903, as construed by
the highest state courts of Texas, denies to plaintiff in error the
equal protection of the law. National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas,
197 U. S. 11.5; Smitey v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 665; Gundling v; Chicago, 177 U. S. 188;
Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.708; Nutting v. Massachusetts,
183 U. S; 553; Wurts v. Hoagland, 114 U. S. 615;.Duncan v,

OCTOBER TERM, 1968.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

Missouri, 152 U. S. 382; Eldridge v. Trezevant, 160 U. S. 469;
Lowe v. Kansas, 163 U. S. 88;-Missouri Railway Co. v. Mackey,
127 U. S. 209; Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 352;
Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 687; American Sugar Co. v.
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 95; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 429; Capital
City Drug Co. v. Ohio,. 183 U. S. 246..
Neither the act of 1899 nor the act of 1903 deprived plaintiff
in error of its property without due process of law.
There was a petition, filed in a court of c-mpetent jirisdic.
tion, setting0out -in detail the things done by plaintiff in error,
and laws it had violated. An answer was filed setting up the
defenses in-detail, and there was a trial before, the court and a
-jury, lasting ten days, and a great mass of testimony introduced by both sides, and the jury. found the- plaintiff in error
guilty, and the court entered a judgment in accordance therewith. The case was thereupon carried to the Court of Civil
Appeals in the regular way, "nd after a full hearing and careful
consideration by that court, it affirmed the judgment of the
trial court. Simon v. Craft, 182 U. S. 427; Remington PaperCo.'
v. Watson, 173 T.S. 443; New Orleans Waterworks v. Louisi-.J
ana, 185 U. S. 336; Railway Co. v. Missouri,' 156 U. S. 478;
Iowa Central Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S. 389; Murray v. Hoboken
Land Co., 18 How.,272; New Orleans Debenture Redemption Co.
v. Louisiana, 180 U. S. 320;. Rothschild v. Knight, 184 U. S.
334; Consolidated Rendering Company.v. Vermont,, 207 U. S.
541; Cosmopolitan Club v. Virginia, 208 U. S. 384; Caldwell
v6 Texas, 137 U. S. 697; Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 539; Minder
V. Georgia, 183 U. S. 559.
If there was -any error in the charge of the trial court upon
,the matter of stock-ownership the error is immaterial, and any
Federal. question that. might have been predicated of it has
been- eliminated from the case by the actionof the Court of
,Civil Appeals in basing a judgment of affirmance upon. other
..grounds. Missouri, :Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Ferris, 179
U. S. 602; Hammond v. Johnson, 142 U. S. 73; Harrison v.
257; Ken,
Morton, 171 U. S. 38; Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

95

Argument for Defendant in Error.

nard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S. 480; Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316;
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.
226; Glue Co. v. Glue Co., 187 U. S. 611; United States v. TransMissouri Traffic Assn., 166 U. S. 290; State v. Missouri, Kansas
& Texas Ry. Co., 91 S. W. Rep. 214; Baldwin v. Kansas, 129
U. S. 52.
The combination effected between the Standard Oil Company and the Waters-Pierce Oil Company by the acquisition
of the stock of the latter by the former for the purposes for
which the acquisition was made and with the effect intended
violated the laws of Texas and the infliction of penalties therefor would not have given the laws either an extraterritorial effect, or a retroactive effect, or otherwise have violated the Constitution of the United States.
Neither the act of 1899 nor that of 1903. is vague, uncertain
or indefinite., Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375;
United States v. FreightAss'n, 166 U. S. 325; NorthernSecurities
Case, 197 U. S. 244; National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S.
115; Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 474; State of Texas v. Laredo
Ice Co., 73 S. W. Rep. 952; Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v.
State, 91 S. W. Rep. 214; San Antonio Gas Co. v. State, 54 S. W.
Rep. 289; People v. Sheldon, 139 N. Y. 251; Drake v. Seibold, 81
Hun, 178; People v. North River Ref. Co., 121 N. Y. 582.
The jurisdiction of the legislature of Texas to pass laws prohibiting the making of agreements or the forming of combinations in restraint of trade in Texas, or the carrying out in Texas
of such agreements or combinations, is absolute and complete.
Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; National Cotton
Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U.S. 115; Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447;
Addyston Pipe Co. V. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 665; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 63;
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 31; Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 410; United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. State, 44 S. W. Rep., 936;
Anheuser-Busch Brewing Assn. v. Houck, 27 S. W. Rep. 692;
State v. Laredo Ice Co., 73 S. W. Rep. 952; Coal Co. v. Lawson,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

34 S. W. Rep. 919; State v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co.,
91S. W. Rep. 214; People v. Sugar Trust, 121 N. Y. 582; State v.
StandardOil Co., 49 Ohio St. 137; Hardingv. American Glucose
Co., 182 Illinois, 551;Arnot v. Pitison Coal Co., 68 N. Y. 558.
Having complete jurisdiction topass laws prohibiting the making of agreements or the forming of combinations in restraint
of trade in Texas, or the carrying out in Texas of such agreements or combinations, the legislature has the absolute right to
prescribe the punishment-for a violation of such laws, and the
laws under consideration are open to no ,constitutionalobjections oh account of the penalties. National Cotton Oil Co. v.
Texas, 197 U. S. 115; Ripley v.-exas, 193 U. S. 504; Ohio v.
Lloyd, 194 U. S. 445; Marvin v. Trout, 199 U. S. 212; McCray
v. United States, 195 U.-S. 27; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U. S.
302; Railway Co. v. Hume, 115 U. S. 512; Tel. Co. v. Indiana,
165 U. S. 304; Coffey v. Harlan County, 204 U. S. 659; Railway
Co. v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73; N. W. L. I. Co. v. Riggs, 203 U. S.
251; O'Neil v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323.
MR. JusTiE

DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was begun in the state Circuit Court of Travis
County, Texas, to forfeit the permit of the plaintiff in error, the
Waters-Pierce Oil Company, a corporation of the State of Missouri, to conduct business in: the State of Texas, and to assess
penalties against it for violation of the anti-trust laws of that
State. Theprosecution was under two laws of the State, one of
1899 and one of March 31, 1903. The proceeding was brought
by the Attorney General of Texas and the county attorney Of
TravisCounty, to recover penalties, under the act of 1899, from
the thirty-first day of May, 1900, until the' thirty-first day of
March; 1903, at the rate of $5,000 per day, and under, the act
of 1903, from the thirty-first of March, 1903, till the twentyninth of April, 1907, at the rate of $50 per day, and to cancel
the permit of the defendant to do business, other than interstate, in Texas.
The jury returned a verdict against the defendant, and W

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

97-

Opinion of the Court.

sessed penalties, under the act of 1899, from May 31, 1900, to
March 3, 1903, 1,033 days. Such penalties were assessed at the
rate of $1,500 a day during that period, being the total sum of
$1,549,500. The jury also found against the defendant under
the act of 1903, and assessed the penalties for each day, between
April 1, 1903, and April 29, 1907, 1,480 days at the rate of $50
per day, making a total-of $74,000. The jury further found that
the permit of the defendant to-do business in the State of Texas
should be cancelled. Thereupon the court rendered a judgment
for the State of Texas for the sum of the penalties assessed,
$1,623,500, and ordered a cancellation of the defendant's permit to do business in the State except as to its interstate commerce business. This judgment was affirmed upon appeal to
the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas (106 S. W. Rep. 918)-, and
upon application to the Supreme. Court of Texas that court
refused to grant a writ of error, and the case was brought here.
The case was submitted upon oral arguments and elaborate
briefs and a voluminous record. It was argued, in many aspects,
as though this were a proceeding in error to review the weight of
the evidence adduced in the state courts, to reexamine the rulings of the court upon the admissibility of testimony, and to
determine the effect of the statute of limitations in the State.
The jurisdiction of this court to review the proceedings of the
state courts, as we have had frequent occasion to declare, is not
that of a general reviewing court in error, but is limited to the
specific instances of denials of Federal rights, whether those pertaining to the constitutionality of Federal or state statutes, or
to certain rights, immunities and privileges of Federal origin,
specially set up in the state court and denied by the rulings and
judgment of that court. Sec. 709, Rev. Stat. U. S. Nor does
this court sit to review the findings of facts made in the state

court, but accepts the findings of the court of the State upon
matters of fact as conclusive, and is confined to a review of questions of Federal law within the jurisdiction conferred upon this
court. Quimby v. Boyd, 128 U. S. 488; Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S.
188; Dower v. Richards, 151 U. S. 658; Thayer v. Spratt, 189
VOL. ccxi-7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court..

212 U. S.

U. S.,346. We shall not, therefore, undertake to follow counsel
in the consideration of'all the questions argued, but shall limit
our review to questions of a Federal nature which we deem to
be properly made in this record and essential to the decision of
the case.
Epitomizing the Texas anti-trust statutes for the purposes of
his charge the learned judge who presided in the District Court,
speaking first of the act of 1899, stated them as follows:
"For the purposes of this charge you are instructed that this
act made it unlawful for any: corporation transacting or conducting any kind of business in-this State to enter into, or become a party to, any agreement or understanding with any.
other corporation' or individual to fix or regulate the price in
Texas of any article of manufacture or merchandise or to control or limit in Texas the trade in any article of manufacture or
merchandise.
"You are further instructed that said statute also made it
unlawful. for any corporation transacting or conducting any
kind of business in this State to bring about or permit any union
or combination of its capital, property, trade or acts with the
capital, property, trade or acts, of any other person or corporation, whereby the price in Texas of any article of manufacture
or merchandise would be fixed or sought to be fixed, regulated
or sought to be regulated; or whereby the price in Texas of any
*article of manufacture or merchandise would be reasonably
calculated tro be fixed or regulated, or whereby the trade in such
article of manufacture or merchandise in Texas would be sought
to be controlled or limited, or would be reasonably calculated to
be controlled or limited.
"The statute known as the anti-trust law of 1903 became
effective on March 31st, 1903, and has since continued in force.
For the purposes of this charge you are instructed that this statute defines a trust to be a combination of capital, skill or acts, by
two or ,more persons, firms, corporations or associations of persons, or either two or more of them, for either, any or all of the
'following purposes, viz:

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1.)
212 U. S.

99

Opinion of the Court.

"1. To create or which may tend to create or carry out restrictions in trade or commerce in Texas, or to create or carry
out restrictions in the free pursuit in Texas of any business au-.
thorized or permitted by the laws of this State.
"2. To fix, maintain or increase the price of merchandise in
Texas.
"3. To prevent or lessen competition in Texas in the sale of
merchandise.
"4. To abstain from engaging in, business or in the sale of.
merchandise in Texas, or any portion thereof.
"Said statute of 1903 further defines a monopoly to be a combination or consolidation of two or more corporations when
effected in any of the following methods, viz:
"1. When the direction of the affairs of tWo or more corporations is in any manner brought under the same management
or control for the'purpose of producing, or where such common
management or control tends to create a trust, as above defined.
"2. When any corporation acquires the shares or certificates
of stock, franchise or other rights, or the physical properties or
any part thereof of any other corporation for 'the purpose of
preventing or lessening, or where the effect of such acquisition
tends to affect or lessen competition, whether-such acquisition
is accomplished directly or through the instrumentality of trustees or otherwise.
"3. Oil, all other products of petroleum, 'and goods, wares
or merchandise of any character which the .defendant or its
agents, may have purchased or acquired in any manner outside
of the State of Texas and caused to be transprt ed to its agents
or others within the State, are the subjects-of interstate commerce when they enter this State, and so remain until such commodities are removed from the original tanks, vessels or other
packages in which they are imported into theState and become
mixed with the common mass of property of similar character
in this State. The anti-trust laws of Texas have no reference
to agreements or pools or arrangements of any. character concerning subjects of interstate commerce, and no agreement,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

pool or other arrangement, if any, which the defendant may
have entered into with reference to the .sale of any subject of
interstate commerce can be considered by you as violating any
anti-trust law of Texas. But neither oil purchased by the defendant from the Corsicana Refinery or elsewhere in Texas, nor
other merchandise purchased by defendant at points in Texas,
nor such oil or other merchandise purchased by defendant at
points outside of the State and transported into the State and
removed from the original packages or vessels in which 'it was
brought into the State and mingled with other property of similar character in the State, is the subject of interstate commerce,
but on the- contrary is the subject of local commerce, and any
agreement or pool or arrangement entered into by defendant
with reference to such pioperty or the sale thereof, if any such
sale there were, would be unlawful, if in violation of the anti,
trust laws of this State."
The penalties denounced by the act of 1899 were not less than
$200 nor more than $5,000 for each day the defendant might be
found to have violated the law; under the act of 1903 the
.penalty was fixed at $50 for each day, and a forfeiture of the
right to do business within the State of Texas was declared.
The complaint in the case is voluminous, and its averments
contain the history of the so-called conspiracy between the
Watersm-Pierce Oil Company and a number of persons composing
the Standard Oil Company, beginning in January, 1870, for the
purpose of monopolizing and controlling the business of refining
and transporting and selling petroleum and similar products
throughout the United States and in the State of Texas. It
charges that the Waters-Pierce Oil Company, incorporated in
1878, and the predecessor of the defendant company, was a
party to that conspiracy, and for the purpose of carrying out the
same had entered into contracts. with corporations and individuals engaged in the business of selling petroleum and similar
products within the State and suppressed competition therein.
It charges that the Waters-Pierce Oil Company had entered
into an agreement with the Standard Oil Company of New Jer-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. a. TEXAS (NO. 1)..
212 U. S.

101

Opinion of the Court.

sey for the purpose of monQpohizing the trade in petroleum and
for the purpose of carying out certain contracts and conspiracies, entered into for the purposes aforesaid, and permitted the
Standard Oil Company to acquire a majority of the shares of
stock of the Waters-Pierce Company.
The original Waters-Pierce Oil Company, it states, had been
dissolved, and the new company, the present defendant, organized on May 29, 1900, had assumed all the contracts and agreements of its predecessor, and it was averred that the
dissolving
of the old Waters-Pierce Company and the forming of the new
company, the defendant in this case, "was in further pursuance
of the conspiracy for. the purpose .of continuing the monopoly
and control which had been acquired by the old company, and
for the purpose of rendering ineffective the judgments of the
state court and of thiA court (Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas,
177 U. S. 28), wherein'the right of the Waters-Pierce Company
to do business in Texas was forfeited.
It was further averred that the'new corporation was of the
same name as the old one, with the same amount of stock, which
was distributed to the holders of stock in the new corporation
in the same proportion among the shareholders as it was in the
old corporation. It is charged that a major part of the capital
stock, although in fact owned by the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey, stood for a time in the name of H. C. Pierce, but
was in fact owned by the Standard Oil Company. That the
conduct of the business in the new corporation was not changed,
and that it was controlled by the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey in the same manner as the old company had been; that
the old contract, whereby there was a division of territory and
the limitation of the operations of the Waters-Pierce Oil Company to the State of Texas and some other territory, was maintained and enforced. That other concerns had been acquired
in the carrying out of the scheme charged; that said companies
had been put out of business or were used in controlling and
monopolizing the trade and business aforesaid; that the defendant, the new corporation, was a party to these arrange-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

ments, participated in them, and was engaged in carrying them
out.
The things charged were alleged to have the effect to control
the defendant and a large number of other companies by the
same corporation and persons, with the acquiescence and consent of the defendant; that all competition in Texas between
companies was destroyed; that certain sections and parts of the
United States were assigned to the various companies; that the
defendant was permitted to do business in Texas, and that with
its knowledge and consent, upon its instance and demands, all
other companies had been excluded from doing business in the
State of Texas; that by the ag'reement the defendant was obliged
to secure all the oil sold by certain named refiners at prices determined by the Standard Oil Company and those interested in
it, with the effect of monopolizing and controlling the business
in oil and the production of petroleum in Texas by fixing the
prices of such products in that State.
The plaintiff summarizes the unlawful results accomplished
as follows:'
"(1) The plaintiff in error is dominated and controlled by
and its business dictated by the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey.
"(2) A large number of individuals and corporations doing
business in the sale of petroleum products are excluded from
doing business in the State, and competition is lessened.
"(3) The price of oil had been maintained at an exorbitant
figure, being from ten to twenty-five per cent higher than that
of oil sold in the territory not claimed by plaintiff in error.
"(4) Competition had been suppressed and business destroyed in the State by unconscionable and unfair means.
"(5) A substantially complete monopoly in petroleum products bad been established, the plaintiff in error having sold,
during the period of-ten years past, at least ninety-five per cent
of all petroleum products sold."
The defendant answered and filed a large number of special
pleas and exceptions, t .king issue upon the charges made in the

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

petition,. and alleging the unconstitutionality of the acts of 1899
pnd 1903, and alleging that if the petition of the State of Texas
be granted it would be denied the equal protection of the laws,
be subjected to ex post facto laws, deprived of its property without due process of law, and have the obligations of its contracts
impaired, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the
United St ates.
At the trial at the May term of the District Court of Travis
County a verdict was rendered in favor of the State, and penalties were assessedi and the judgment rendered as herein before
stated. In the Court of Civil Appeals of .the State of Texas that
court found the facts to be as found by the verdict in the trial
court, and-in concluding its opinion upon the question of fact
said:
"In appellant's motion for a new trial in the court below, "and
in its presentation of the case here, the Verdict of the jury has
been challenged, the contention being that the testimony fails
to show that appellant has violated any of the anti-trust laws of
this State. The evidence is very voluminous, and it is not-necessary that it be set 6ut or epitomized in this opinion. Ii is sufficient, we think, to show-that from the date of its pernit to do
business in this State, May 31, 1900, appellant has been a party
to an agreement or understanding with the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, one object of which was to create a monopoly and control the price of petroleum oil and prevent competition in its sale in a large and specified territory, including
the State of Texas; and that, to a large extent, such object has
been accomplished. In so far as that agreement related to this
State, appellant, acting by its agents" performed. it within the.
State; and such performance within the limits of the State constitutes violations of Texas laws and renders appellant amenable
to such laws, although the agreement between it and the Standard Oil Company may not have been made in this State. To 4
large extent the case rests upon circumstantial evidence; but
we cannot say that the jury were not warranted in the conclusions drawn from it.. Hence we hold that the verdict is sup.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

ported by testimony, and no error was committed in overruling
the motion for a new trial."
The court left the case to the jury upon a charge which permitted them to find whether the defendant company, acting
through its duly authorized agents, had' entered into or had
become a party to an agreement or understanding with the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey on June-l, 1900, to fix or
regulate the price of oil in Texas, and whether the company
remained or continued to be a party to such agreement, and
carried out the same in Texas on dates subsequent to June 1,
1900, and prior to March 31, 1903, and whether the oil, in reference to which such agreement was made and carried out was
the subject of local as distinguished from interstate commerce.
And the court further charged that if within the time above
stated the defendant had brought about or permitted any combination or union of its capital with that of the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey whereby the price of such oil in Texas
was fouhd to be controlled or limited, fixed or regulated, or
whereby such price would be reasonably calculated to be fixed
or regulated, or whereby the trade in such oil in Texas was
sought to be controlled or limited, they might return a verdict
for the State.
And the court charged that if they should find that the defendant, through its duly authorized agents, had entered into a
combination of its capital with the capital of the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey for the purpose of creating in Texas, or
which tended to create in Texas, or carry out in Texas, restric.tions in the free pursuit of selling oil, or having the effect of increasing the price of such oil in Texas, or to prevent or lessen
competition in selling the same in said State; and that the defendant remained or was a party to and acted under such combination, if such there was on March 31, 1903, and thereafter
prior to April 29, 1907, they might return a verdict of guilty.
The jury was further instructed that if they found from the
evidence that the direction of the affairs of the Standard. Oil
Company of New Jersey and those of the defendant company

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

105

Opinion of the Court.

were under the same management or control after March 31,
1900, and prior to April 29, 1907, and that they were placed un,der such common management or control by their respectively
authorized officers, and if such management or control created.
or tended to create, or to catry but restrictions in the sale of oil
in Texas, as above, stated, or to fix, maintain or increase the
prices of such oil in said State, or to prevent or lessen competition in the sale of such oil, they might return a verdict for the
State.' The jury found each of the issues submitted against the
-defendant. The Court of Civil Appeals affirmed this finding of
fact and we must accept the same as established for the purposes
of this proceeding in error.
Numerous exceptions Were taken to the charge at the trial
and are the subjects of assignments of error in the state court
and in this court. We are concerned with such as relate to the
Federal questions involved in this proceeding. ,
In'the eleventh paragraph of the charge the court instructed
the tj ury as follows:.

"XI. If you find from a preponderance of the evidence that
the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey had on March 31,
1903, or on any date subsequent thereto and prior to April 29th,
1907, acquired a majority of the capital stock of the defendant
corporation and thereby effected a combination of said two.
corporations, and if 'you further find from prepoiderance of the
evidence that said stock was acquired and combination effected,
if any, with-the purpose and intention on the part of the managing officers and directors of said Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey of.preventing or lessening the competition in the sale in
Texas of the character and kind of oil above mentioned, or that
the effect of said combination, if such there were, tended to
affect or lessen the competition in the sale in Texas of said Oil,
you will return a verdict for the State, and say by your. verdict,
we the jury find for the State on the issues -submitted for our
consideration in paragraph eleven of the court's charge. In
this connection you are instructed that if the defendant entered
into a monopoly of the character mentioned in this paragraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

of the charge, each day between March 30,1903, and April 29th,
1907, that it remained a party to such monopoly, if there were
any such days, constituted a separate violation of the anti-trust
laws of Texas."
The judges of the Court of Civil Appeals differed in their
views as to the correctness of this charge, the learned justice
who wrote the opinion holding the view that it was calculated
to mislead the jury to the belief that they might convict upon
this issue regardless of whether the defendant had any knowledge of, participated in or aided the Standard Oil Company in
acquiring the stock of the defendant for the purposes stated.
But the court agreed that if wrong this part of the charge
afforded no ground for reversal, because the jury found that
the appellant had violated other provisions of the act, and assessed but one penalty for each day's violation, and therefore
the judgment would have been the same, and the error, if any,
was harmless.
In thus deciding the Court of Civil Appeals did not determine a Federal question, nor necessarily decide one adversely
to the plaintiff in error, controlling in character, if it appears
upon this record that the verdict and judgment can stand upon
other grounds free from objection, so far as Federal rights are
concerned.
Much of the argument for plaintiff in error is predicated upon
the contention that the acquiring of the stock of the WatersPierce Company by the Standard Oil Company and the making
of the agreement charged were not shown to have been acts
done in Texas. It is contended that such acquiring of stock,
and agreement, if any, were acts beyond the jurisdiction of the
State. But an inspection of the record discloses that the court
charged that no agreement made by the defendant outside of
the State of Texas could be made the basis of forfeiting its permit to do business in the State, unless such agreement was executed, or attempted to be executed, in the State by the duly
authorized agents of the defendant. And in the findings which
we have above quoted as to the evidence the state court has

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. B.

107

Opinion of the Court.

found that the defendant has been since May 31, 1900, a party
to an agreement with the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey
to create a monopoly and to control prices and prevent competition in Texas, and that to a large extent the object has been
accomplished. These findings of facts are conclusive upon us,
and show that the conviction was had, for acts and transactions
committed and carried out within the State of Texas.
The argument to the effect that the rulings of the court as to
the admission of testimony, and.upon questions of general law
deprived the defendant of its property and rights without due
process of law requires us to notice the limitations upon the
authority of this court when dealing with legislative acts and
proceedings to enforce the same in the state courts. That state
legislatures have the right to deal with the subject-matter and
to prevent unlawful combinations to prevent competition and
in restraint of trade, and to prohibit and punish monopolies, is
not open to question. National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197
U. S.115; Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S.447. Having the power
to pass laws of this character, of course the State may provide
for proceedings to enforce the same. The State, keeping within
constitutional limitations, may provide its own method of procedure and determine the methods and means by which such
laws may be made effectual. "The limit of the full control
which the State has in a proceeding of its courts, both in civil
and criminal cases, is subject only to the qualifications that
such procedure must not work- denial of fundamental rights
or conflict with specific and applicable provisions of the Federal Constitution." West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S.258, 263; and
see Davis v. Texas, 139 U. S. 651; Brown v. New Jersey, 175
U. S.172, 175; Allen v. Georgia, 166 U. S.138, 140; In.re Converse, 137 U. S.624, 632, and Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78, decided at this term of court, where the subject is fully discussed, and previous cases in this court cited.
It is contended that the acts in this case were given a retroactive effect in violation of the Federal Constitution. Art. I,
§ 10. This argument is predicated largely upon the contention

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1908..
Opinion of .the Court.

212 U. S.

that the -conviction in this case was because. of the old agreement of the former Waters-Pierce Oil Company,. made long beforethe passage of the, present statutt, .at a time when it was
legal, and before the creation of the defendant company. But
in .view'of the facts found in the state court, to which w .have
already referred, there was ground for conviction, not because
of the making of the old agreement for the division of the territory and the suppression of competition whilethe old company
was in existence, but because the new comp any was found to
have carried out the old agreement and made itself a party
thereto, and by continuing the old arrangement afte the passage of the law, had brought itself' within its terms. Of a
similar contention. this court said in Trans-Missouri Traffic
Association Case, 166 U. S. 290:
"It is said that to grant the injunction prayed for in this case
is to give the statute a retroactive effect.. That the contract'at"
the time it was entered into was not prohibited or declared
illegal by the statute, as it had not then been passed; and to
now enjoin the doing of an act which was legal at the time it
was done would be improper.. We give to the law no. retroactive effect. The agreement in question is a continuing one.
The parties to it adopt certain machinery, and agree to certain
methods for the purpose of establishing and maintaining in the
future reasonable rates for transportation. Assuming suh ac-'
tion to have been legal. at the time 'the agreement was first entered into, the continuation of the agreement, after it had been
declared to be illegal, becomes a violation of the act. The statute prohibits the continuing-or entering into such an agreement
for the future, and if the agreement be continued it then becomes a violation of the act."
It is 'further insisted that the •acts in question are so vague,
indefinite and uncertain as to deprive them of their constitutionality, in that they punish by forfeiture of the right to do
business, and the imposition of penalties, under provisions of
an act which do not advise acitizen or corporation, prosecuted
under them, of the nature and character of the acts constituting

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

109

Opinion of the Court.

a violation of the law. These objections are found in the words
of the act of 1899, denouncing contracts and arrangements
"reasonably calculated" to fix and regulate the price of commodities, etc. And in the act of 1903 acts are prohibited which
"tend" to accomplish the prohibited results. It is insisted
that these laws are so indefinite that no one can tell what acts
are embraced within their provisions. In support of this contention it is argued that laws of this nature ought to be so explicit that all persons subject to their penalties may know what
they can do, and what it is their duty to avoid. And reference
is made to decisions which have held that a criminal statute
should be so definite as to enable those included in its terms to
know'in advance whether the act is criminal or not. Among
others, Tozer v. United States, 52 Fed. Rep. 917, is, cited, in
which the opinion was by Mr. Justice Brewer, then judge of the
Circuit Court, in which it was held that the criminality of an
*act cannot depend upon whether a jury may think it reasonable
or unreasonable. To the same effect is Railway Co. v. Deyi 35
Fed. Rep. 866, also decided by Judge Brewer at circuit. And
also the case of Louisville & Nashville Railway v. Commonwealth,
99 Kentucky, 132, is relied upon, in which a railroad was indicted for charging more than a just and reasonable rate, in
which it was held that the law was unconstitutional, for under
such an act it rests with the jury to say whether a rate is reasonable, and makes guilt depend, not upon, standards fixed by law,
but upon what a jury might think as to the reasonableness of
the rate in controversy. But the Texas statutes in question do
not give the broad power to a court or jury to determine the
criminal character of the act in accordance with their belief as
to whether it is reasonable or unreasonable, as do the statutes
condemned in the cases cited.
Take the act of 1903, which denounces acts which "tend" to
bring about the prohibited results. It is not uncommon in
criminal law t6 punish not only a completed act, but also acts
which attempt to bring about the prohibited result. In United.
States v. Knight,.156 U. S. 1, this court said:" Again, all the au-

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

thorities agree that in order to vitiate a contract or combination
it is not essential that its result be a complete monopoly. It is
sufficient if it really tends to that end, and to deprive the public
of the advantages which flow from a free competition." This
language was quoted with approval in the Addyston Pipe Co.
Case, 175 U. S. 237. And in the Northern Securitdei Case, 193 U. S. 197, while the Sherman Act directly condemnfd conspiracies and combinations in restraint of trade or monopolizing or attempting to monopolize the same, this court said
(page 332):
"That to vitiate a combination, such as the act of Congress
condemns it need not be shown that the combination in fact
results, or will result, in a total suppression of trade, or in a
complete monopoly, but it is only essential to show that by its
necessary operation it tends to restrain interstate or international •trade or commerce, or tends to create a monopoly in
such trade or commerce, and to deprive the public of the advantages that flow from free competition."
As to the phrase, "reasonably calculated," what does it include less than acts which, when fairly considered,. tend to accomplish the prohibited thing, or which make it highly probable.
'that the given result will be accomplished? Again, speaking of
the Sherman Act, this court said in Swift &,Co. v. United States,
196 U. S. 375:
'The statute gives this proceeding against. combinations in
restraint of commerce among the Statps and against attempts
to monopolize the same. ,Intent is almost essential to such a
combination and is essential to such an attempt. Where acts
are not sufficient in themselves to-produce a result which the
law seeks to prevent, for instance, the monopoly, but require
further acts. in addition to the mere forces of nature to bring
that result, to pass, an intent to bring it to pass is necessary in
order to produce a dangerous probability that it will happen.
Commonwealth v. Peaslee, 177 Massachusetts, 267, 272. But
when that intent and the consequent dangerous probability
exists, this statute, like many others, and like the common law

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. TEXAS (NO. 1).
212 U. S.

111

Opinion of the Court.

in some cases, directs itself against that dangerous probability
as well as against the completed result."
It is true that the decisions quoted are in civil cases involving contracts and arrangements held invalid when attacked in
proceedings in equity, and did not involve penalties such as
were imposed in the case now under consideration.
And it is to be remembered that we are dealing with an act
of the legislature, sustained in courts of the State, with reference to its validity in view of the prohibitions of the Federal
Constitution against deprivation by state action of liberty or
property without due process of law. In this case the defendant has had a trial in a court of justice duly established under
the laws of the State, the question of its liability has been submitted to a jury. The judgment has been reviewed in an appellate court, and the correctness of the findings of fact and rulings
of law in the lower court affirmed. We are not prepared to say
that there was a deprivation of due process of law because the
statute permitted, and the court charged that there might be a
conviction not only for acts which accomplished the prohibited result, but also for those which tend or are reasonably calcu,lated to bring about the things forbidden.
Again, it is contended that the fines imposed are so excessive
as to constitute a taking of the defendant's property without
due process of law. 'It is not contended in this connection that
the prohibition of the Eighth Amendment to the Federal Constitution against excessive fines operates to control the legislation of the States. The fixing of punishment for crime or
the police
penalties for unlawful acts against its laws is within
power of the State. We can only interfere with such legislation
and judicial action of the States enforcing it if the fines imposed
are so grossly excessive as to amount to a deprivation of property without due process of law. Co§ey v. HarlanCounty, 204
U. S. 659.
The business carried on by the defendant corporation in
Texas was very extensive and highly profitable, as the record
discloses. The property of the defendant, amounted to more

TERM, 1908.

112 .OCTOBER

Syllabus.

212 U. S.

than forty irillions of dollars, as testified by its president. Its
dividends had been as high as seven hundred per cent per
annum. It was the theory of the State, sustained by the verdict and judgment, that the former course of business was continued, notwithstanding the judgment of ouster in the former
case. Within the bounds of the statute the penalties were left
to the discretion of the jury trying. the case. While the penalties
imposed are large they are within the terms of the statute.
Under the act of 1899 the jury imposed a penalty at the rate
of $1,500 a day; under the act of 1903 at the rate of $50 per day.
Assuming for this purpose that the defendant was guilty of a
violation of the laws over a period of years, and in transacting
business upon so lirge a scale, as shown in this case, we are not
prepared to say, after confirmation of the verdict and judgment
in courts of the State, that there was want of due process of law
in the penalties assessed.
Remembering, as we-have had frequent occasion to say, that
our province in this case is limited to an examination of objections arising under the Federal Constitution, we are unable to
find in this record any ground for reversing the judgment of the
state court.
_

_Afirmed.

WATERS-PIERCE ,OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS

(NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 360.

Argued November 2, 3, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909.

The review of a judgment of a state court is confined to assignments of
error made and passed upon in the judgment brought here for review;
assignments of errors in this court cannot bring new matter into the
recoroI.
When a state court decides a case upon a non-Federal ground which is

