JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

JURAGUA IRON COMPANY, LIMITED, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.,

No. 34.

Argued December 2, 3,1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

No action can be maintMned against the United States for thedestruction or taking of property under the Tucker Act of March 3, 1887,
c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, unless the United States is bound by express or
implied contract to compensate the. owner therefor or unless the case
be one not sounding in tort.
Under the recognized rules of war Cuba, being a part of Spain, was during the war of 1898-9, enemy country; and all persons residing in
Cuba pending the war were to be deeied enemies whatever their
nationality, including citizens of the United States there domiciled
and doing business.
Property of citizens of the United States in Cuba was during the war
with Spain to be regarded as eilimy property subject to the laws of
war, and to be destroyed whenever military necessity so demanded;
nor.could a citizen of the United States invoke the protection of the
Constitution pending the war for his property in Cuba any more than
could a Spanish subject.
A citizen of the United States domiciled in Cuba cannot maintain.an
action against the United States under the act of March 3, 1887, in the
Court of Claims for the value of property destroyed during, and as
the result of, military operations in Cuba by order of the commandinig officer in the field as there is no obligation based on implied contract to compensate for the value of such property. If the order was
not justified by the rules of war it would amount to a tort, and the
action based thereon would be one. sounding in tort, and the action
cannot be maintained.
Qurr, and not decided, whether the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24
Stat. 505, supersedes or modifies § 1066, Rev. Stat:, and § 9 of the act
of llarch *3, 1863, c. 92, 12 Stat. 767, relating to claims against the
Unit d States growing out of, or dependent on, treaty stipulations.
42 C. Cl. 99, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in'the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

212 U. S.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney and Mr. John Spaulding Flannery, with whom Mr. Wayne MacVeagh and Mr. William Hitz
were on the brief, for appellant:
The war with Spain was not against Cuba nor against the
Cuban people, nor against aliens domiciled or found within its
borders and there engaged in the peaceful pursuits of commerce. It was a war solely against Spain, undertaken by the
United States because of the abhorrent conditions which had
been brought about in Cuba by Spain and which could not
longer be endured. It was undertaken by the United States
in the interest of Cuba and on behalf of her peoples, and because those people were and of right ought to be free and independent, and because it was the duty of the United States to
demand that the government of Spain at once.relinquish its
authority and government in the island of Cuba and withdraw
its land and naval forces from Cuba and Cuban waters. See
Neely v. Henkel, 180 U. S. 109.
But even if this were not all so, and if the mere situs of the
claimants' property within the territorial sovereignty of thu
enemy stamped it as "enemy property," nevertheless, under
well-recognized principles of inoder'n international law, as well
as under the modern military law governing the armies of the
United States in the field, and binding as well upon the Govermnent as upon those who become subject to its power, the
Juragua Iron Company became and is entitled to compensation for its property so seized and destroyed. Article 38, § 11,
Ceneral Orders, No. 100; General Orders, No. 101.
'General Orders, No. 101, promulgated through the War Department by President McKinley, did not announce any new
principle either of law or liability. It merely reiterated certain well-understood principles of international law, founded in
equity and moral right and accepted and acted upon by all
civilized nations. It was scarcely more than a reiteration in
condensed form, of Lieber's instructions, as proclaimed by
direction of President Lincoln in 1863 in General Orders,
No. 100; afterwards adopted by the United German Empire

JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

for the government and regulation of its armies; formulated
into a code by Bluntschli; made the basis of the Brussels agreement of 1879; adopted by The Hague convention of 1899 and
latterly reannounced, practically in its original forihi in The
Hague convention of 1907 "with respect to the laws and customs of war on land," to the last two of which conventions the
United States has formally indicated their adherence. See
Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113, 163; Fremont v. United States, 17
How. 542, 557; The Scotia, 14 Wall. 170, 188; Respublica v.
De Longchamps, 1 Dall. 111, 116; Moultrie v. Hunt, 23 N. Y. 394,
396; The Paquete Habana, 175 U. S. 677, 700, 701.
The obligation of a belligerent to pay for private property
taken or destroyed under circumstances not involving actual
military operations-that is, in battle, or the course of bombardment, and the like-is recognized and declared by practically all text-writers who have treated of the subject. Kent's
Commentaries, 92, 93; Hall's International Law, 441, 442; 2
Halleck's International Law, 68; Treatise on International
Law, by Cushman K. Davis, 144-146. See also dissenting opinion of Commissioner Maury (Spanish Treaty Claims Commission) in case of Juragua Iron Co. v. United States; Mitchell v.
Harmony, 13 How. 115; McKenna v. Fisk, 1 How. 241; United
States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623; United States v. Pacific R. R. Co.,
i20 U. S.227; Putegnot Heirs (Mexican Claims Commission), 4
Moore's International Arbitrations, 3718; Grantv. UnitedStates,
1 C. Cls. 41; United States v. Lynah,. 188 U. S.445.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, for appellee:
Under stress of military necessity, invading forces may use
or destroy both public and- private property for purposes of
prosecuting war, provided that they do not commit wanton
damage. The property of a foreigner situated within a state
where military operations are being pressed becomes an element of strength to the state and may be treated as hostile by
an enemy. Hall's International Law (5th-ed.), pp. 471, 472,
474, 481; War Power under the Constitution, by William Whit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

ing (2d ed.), p. 342; 2 Halleck's International Law, pp. 75-77;
The Cheshire, 3 Wall. 233; The Gray Jacket, 5 Wall. 369, 370;
Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 305, 306; Lamar v. Browne, 92
U. S. 187, 194; Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 170; Hijo v. United
States, 194 U. S. 315; United States v. Pacific R. R., 120 U. S.
228; The Venice, 2 Wall. 258; The Venus, 8 Cranch, 277; Bagaley, 5 Wall. 408; Young v. United States, 97 U. S. 60; Hamilton
v. Dillon, 21 Wall. 94.
Any standing this appellant may have in the Court of Claims
or in this court must find its basis and authority in the first
section of what is commonly termed the Tucker Act, of March 3,
1887, to provide for the bringing of suits against the Government of the United States. 24 Stat. 505.
The claim in this case is not founded on the Constitution of
the United States or on any act of Congress; neither does it find
its basis in any regulation of an executive department, nor can
it be said to be founded on a contract, either expressed or implied. Indeed, there is no element of contract in the case, for
nothing was done by the United States nor anything said by
any of its officers from which could be implied an agreement or
obligation on the part of the Government to pay for the property destroyed. See Hijo v. United States, 194 U. S.315.
This appellant company having established a commercial
domicil in Spanish territory, such as has been shown by the
facts in this case, certainly is not entitled to recover under the
plea of implied contract for property destroyed under such
circumstances as set forth in the record.
There is no provision in the act of March 3, 1887, whereby
appellant can successfully maintain its action. The seizure
and destruction may have made a case sounding in tort, but it
is not on(! of contract, cither expressed or implied.
Ma. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Court of Claims to recover
from the United States the alleged value of certain property

JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

301

Opinion of the Court.

destroyed in Cuba, during the war with Spain, by order of the
officer who at the time of its destruction commanded the troops
of the United States operating in the locality of the property.
The case depends altogether upon the facts found by the
court. We cannot go beyond those facts.
The Court of Claims found that the Juragua Iron Company
(Limited) was a corporation of Pennsylvania, having its principal office and place of business in Philadelphia and was and for
many-years had been engaged in the business of mining and
selling iron ore and other mineral products in the United States,
Cuba and elsewhere and in manufacturing iron and steel prod&
ucts; that it was so engaged at the opening of the late war with
Spain; and to enable it to carry on business it owned, leased
and operated mines in Cuba, maintaining offices, works and the
necessary tools, machinery, equipments and supplies for its
business in the Province of Santiago de Cuba, at or near Siboney,
Firmeza and La Crux; that in addition to its mines, works and
their equipments, the company also owned real estate at or near
Siboney, which was improved by 66 buildings of a permanent
character, used for the purposes of its business and occupied by
its employ6s as, dwellings and for other purposes; that in the
year 1898, and "while the war with Spain was in progress, the
* lives of the United States troops who were engaged in military
operations in the Province of Santiago de Cuba, in the belligerent prosecution of the war, became endangered by the prevalence of yellow fever, and it was deemed necessary by the officers
in command, in order to preserve the health of the troops and to
prevent the spread of the disease, to destroy all places of ocupation or habitation which might contain the fever germs;"
that on or about the eleventh of July, 1898, General Miles, commanding the United States forces in Cuba, because of the necessity aforesaid and by the -advice of his, medical staff, issued
orders to destroy by fire these 66- buildings at Sibohey, which
belonged to th6 clai mant and had been used for the purposes
aforesaid; that pursuant to that order such buildings and their
contents were destroyed by fire by the military .authorities of

OCTOBER{ TERM1,
Opinion of the Court.

908..
212 U. S.

the United States; that the reasonable value of the buildings
at the time and place of destruction was $23,130, and the reasonable value of the drills, furniture, tools and other personal
property so destroyed by fire was seven thousand nine hundred
and eighty-six dollars ($7,986), making a total of thirtyone
Thousand one hundred and sixteen dollars ($31,116).
As a conclusion of law the court found that the United States
was not liable to pay any sum to the plaintiff on account of the
damage aforesaid and dismissed the petition.
It is to be observed at the outset that no fact was found that
impeached the good faith, either of General Miles or of his
medical staff, when the former, by the advice of the latter, ordered the destruction of the property in question; nor any fact
from which it could be inferred that such an order was not necessary in order to guard the troops against the dangers of yellow
fever. It is therefore to be assumed that the health, efficiency
and safety of the troops required that to be done which was
(lone. Under these circumstances was the United States under
any legal obligation to make good the loss sustained by the
owner of the property destroyed?
By the act of-March 3d, 1887, providing for the bringing of
suits against the Government of the United States the Court of
Claims was given jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims
"founded upon the Constitution of the United States or any
law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any regulation of
an Executive Department or upon any contract, expressed or
implied, with 'the Government of the United States or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort,
in respect to which claims the party would be entitled to redress against the United States, either in a court of equity or
admiralty if, the United States were suable. 24 Stat. 505, c. 359.
Manifestly, no action can be maintained under this statute
unless the United States became bound by implied contract to
compeisate the plaintiff for the value of the property destrpyed, or unless the case-regarding it as an action to recover
damages-be one "not sounding in tort."

JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

303

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff contends that the destruction of the property
by order of the military commander representing the authority
and power of the United States was such a taking of private.
property for public use as to imply a constitutional obligation,
on the part of the Government, to make compensation to the
owner. Const. Amend. V. In support of that view it refers to
United States v. Great Fills Atfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645, 656; Great
Falls Mfg. Co. v. Attorney General, 124 U. S. 581, 597-8; United
States v. Lynah, 188 U. S.445. Let us examine those cases.
United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645, 656, was
a case of the taking for public use by agents -and officers of
the United States proceeding under the authority of an act of
Congress of certain private property-lands, water rights and
privileges-which were held and used by the Government for
nearly twenty years, without any compensation being made to
the owner. A suit was brought against the United States in the
Court of Claims, and judgment was rendered for the claimant.
This court said: "It seems clear that these property rights have
been held and used by the agents of the United States under the
sanction of legislative enactments by Congress; for the appropriation of money specifically for the construction of the dam
from the Maryland shore to Conn's Island was, all the circumstances considered, equivalent to an express direction by the
legislative and executive branches of the Government to its
officers to take this particular property for the public objects
.contemplatcd by the scheme for supplying the capital of the
Nation with wholesome water. The making of the improvements necessarily involves the taking of the property; Ind if,
for the want of 'formal proceedings for its condemnation to public use, the claimant was entitled, at the beginning of the
work, to have the agents of the Government enjoined from
prosecuting it until provision was miide for securiig in some
way payment of the compensation required by the Constitution-upon which question we express no opinion-there is no
sound reason why the claimant might not waive that right, and,
electing to regard the action of the Government as a taking un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

der its sovereign right of eminent domain, demand just compensation. Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, 374. In that
view we are of opinion that the United States, having by its
agents, proceeding under the authority of an act of Congress,
taken the property of the claimant for public use, are under an
obligation, imposed by the Constitution, to make compensation. The law will imply a promise to make the required cornpensation, where property, to which the Government asserts
no title, is taken, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private
property to be applied for public uses. Such an implication
being consistent with the constitutional duty of the Governnicnt, as well as with common justice, the claimant's cause
of action is one that arises out of implied contract, within the
meaning of the statute which confers jurisdiction upon the
Court of Claims of actions founded 'upon any contract, express
or implied, with the Government of the United States.'"
In reference to the subsequent case of Great Falls Mfg. Co. v.
Attorney General, 124 U. S. 581, 597, it may be said that so far
as it has any bearing upon the present controversy it reaffirms
the principle announced in United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co.,
112 U. S. 645, 656. The court said: "It is sufficient to say that
the record discloses nothing showing that he [the Secretary of
War] has taken more land than was reasonably necessary for
the purposes described in the act of Congress, or that he did
not honestly and reasonably exercise the discretion with which
he was invested; and, consequently, the Government is under
a constitutional obligation to make compensation for any property or property right taken, used, and held by him for the purposes indicated in the act of Congress, whether it is embraced
or described in said survey or map, or not. ...
Even if
the Secretary's survey and map, and the publication of the Attorney General's notice did not, in strict law, justify the former
in taking possession of the land and 'Water rights in question,
it was competent for the company to waive the tort, and proceed against the United States, as upon an implied contract, it
appearing, as it does here, that the Government recognizes and

JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

retains the possession taken in its behalf for the public purposes,
indicated in the act under which its officers have proceeded."
In United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, 464-5, which involved the inquiry whether the injury done to certain lands as
the result of work done on the Savannah River by the United
States was a taking of private property for public use, the court
said: "The rule deducible from these cases is that when the
Government appropriates property which it does not claim as
its own it does so under an implied contract that it will pay the
value of the property it so appropriates.

.

.

So the con-

.

tention that the Government had a paramount right to appropriate this property may be conceded, but the Constitution in
the Fifth Amendment guarantees that when this governmental
right of appropriation-this asserted paramount right- is exercised it shall be attended by compensation.

.

.

. When-

ever in the exercise of its governmental rights it takes property,
the ownership of which it concedes to be in an individual, it impliedly promises to pay therefor."
It is clear that these cases lend no support to the proposition
that an implied contract arose on the part of the United States
to make compensation for the property destroyed by order of
General Miles. The cases cited arose in a time of peace and in
each it was claimed that there was within the meaning of the
Constitution an actual taking of property for the use of the
United States, and that the taking was by authority of Congress. That taking, it was adjudged, created by implication
an obligation to make the compensation required by the Constitution. But can such a principle be enforced in respect of
property destroyed by the United States in the course of military operations for the purpose, and only for the purpose, of
protecting the health and lives of its soldiers actually engaged
at the time in war in the enemy's country? We say "enemy's
country" because, under the recognized rules governing the
conduct of a war between two nations, Cuba, being a part of
Spain, was enemy's country, and all persons, whatever their
nationality, who resided there were, pending such war, to be
VOL. ccxiI-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

deemed enemies of the-United States and of all its people. The
plaintiff, although an American corporation, doing business in
Cuba, was, during the war with Spain, to be deemed an enemy
to the United States with respect of its property found and then
used in that country, and such property could be regarded as
enemy's property, liable to be seized and confiscated by the
United States in the progress of the war then being prosecuted;
indeed, ubject under the laws of war to be destroyed whenever, in the conduct of military operations, its destruction was
necessary for the safety of our troops or to weaken the power
of the enemy.
In Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268, 305, the court,
speaking. of the powers possessed by a nation at war, said: "It
is sufficient that the right to confiscate the property of all public enemies is a conceded right. Now, what is the right, and
why is it allowed? It may be remarked that it has no reference
whatever to the personal guilt of the owner of confiscated pr o perty, and the act of confiscation is not a proceeding against him.
The confiscation is not because of crime, but because of the
relation of the property to the opposing belligerent, a relation
in which it has been brought in consequence of .its ownership.
It is immaterial to it whether the owner be an alien or a friend,
or even a citizen or subject of the power that attempts to appropriate the property. ..In either case the property may be liable
to confiscation under the rules of war. It is certainly enough
to warrant the exercise of this belligerent right that the owner be
a resident of the enemy's country, no matter what his nationality." In Lamar's Ex'r v. Browne, 92 U. S. 187, 194, the court
said: "For the purposes of capture, property found in enemy
territory is enemy property, without regard to the status of the
owner. In war, all residents of enemy country are enemies."
"All property within enemy territory," said the court in Young
v. United States, 97 U. S. 39, 60, "is in law enemy property,
just as all.persons in the same territory are enemies. A neutral
owning property within the enemy's lines holds it as enemy
property, subject to the. laws of war; and if it be hostile prop-

JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty, subject to capture."

Referring to the rules of war be-

tween independent nations as recognized on both sides in the
late Civil War, the court, in United States v. Pacific Railroad
Co., 120 U. S. 227, 233, 239, said: "The rules of war, as recognized by the public law of civilized nations, became applicable
to the contending forces. " . . The inhabitants of the Confederate States on the one hand and of the States which adhered to the Union on the other became enemies, and subject
to be treated as such, without regard to'their individual opinions or dispositions; while during its continuance commercial
intercourse between them was forbidden, contracts between
them were suspended, and the courts of each were closed to the
citizens of the other. :Brown v. Hiatts, 14 Wall. 177, 184.
More than a million of inen.-were in the armies on each side.
The injury and destruction of private property caused by their
operations, and by measures necessary for their safety and efficiency, were almost beyond calculation. For all injuries and
destruction which followed necessarily from these causes no
compensation could be claimed from the Government. By the
well-settled doctrines of public law it was not responsible for
them. ...
The principle that, for injuries to or destruction of private property in necessary military operations during the civil War, the Government is not responsible, is thus
considered established. Compensation has been made in several such cases, it is true; but it has generally been, as stated by
the President in his veto message, 'a matter of bounty rather
than of strict legal right.'" See also The Venus, 8 Cranch, 253,
278; The Venice, 2 Wall. 258, 275; The Cheshire, 3 Wall. 231,
233; The Gray Jacket, 5 Wall. 342, 345, 369; The Friendschaft,4
Wheat. 105, 107; Griswold v. Waddington, 16 Johns. 438, 446-7;
Vattel, b. 3, c. 5, § 70, and c. 4, § 8; Burlamaqui, Pt. 4, c. 4,

§ 20.
So in Hall's International Law, 5th ed., 500, 504, 533: "A
person though not a resident in a country may be associated with
it through having or being a partner in a house of trade as to
be affected by its enemy character, in respect at least of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

property which he possesses in the belligerent territory." In
Whiting's War Powers Under the Constitution, 340, 342, the
author says: "A foreigner may have his personal or permanent
domicile in one country, and at the same time his constructive
or mercantile domicile in another. The national character of a
merchant, so far as relates to his property engaged in trade,
is determined by his commercial domicile. 'All such persons

.

.

.

are de facto subjects of the enemy sovereign,

'being residents within his territory, and are adhering to the
enemy so long as they remain within his territory.'
A neutral, or a citizen of the United States, domiciled in the
enemy's country, not only in respect to his property, but also
as to his capacity to sue, is deemed as much an alien enemy as
a person actually born under the allegiance and residing within
the dominions of the hostile nation."
-In view of these principles-if there were no other reasonthe plaintiff corporation could not invoke the protection of the
Constitution in respect of its property used in business in Cuba,
during the war, any more than a Spaniard residing there could
have done, under like circumstances, in reference to his property then in that island. If the property destroyed by order of
General Miles had belonged at the time to a resident Cuban, the
owner would not have been heard in any court, under the facts
found, to claim, as upon implied contract, compensation from
the United States on account of such destruction. How then
under the facts found could an obligation, based on implied contract, arise under the Constitution in favor of the plaintiff, an
American corporation, which at the time and in reference to
the property in question had a commercial domicil in the
enemy's country? It is true that the army, under General
Miles, was under a duty to observe the rules governing the conduct of independent nations when engaged in war-a duty for
the proper performance of which the United States may have.
been responsible in its political capacity to the enemy government. If what was done was in conformity to those rules-as
upon the facts found we must assume that it was-then the

JURAGUA IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.
212

U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

owner of the property has no claim of any kind for compensation or damages; for, in such a case the Commanding General
had as much right to destroy the property in question if the
health and safety of his troops required that to be done, as he
would have had if at the time the property had been occupied
and was being used by the armed troops of the enemy for hostile purposes. In the circumstances disclosed by the record it
cannot reasonably be said that there was, in respect of the destruction of the property in question, any "convention between the parties," any "coming together of minds," or any
circumstances from which a contract could be implied.. Russell
v. United States, 182 U. S. 516, 530; Harley v. United States,
198 U. S. 229, 234. Again, if, as contended-without, however,.
any basis for the contention--the acts of that officer were not.
justified by the laws of war, then the utmost that could be said
would be that 'what was done pursuant to his order amounted
to a tort, and a claim against the Government for compensation on account thereof would make a case "sounding in tort."
But of such a case the court would, of course, have no jurisdiction under the act of Congress.
In this connection we may refer to Hijo .v. United States, 194.
U. S.'315, 322, in which the United States was sued by a Spanish corporation for the value of the use ,of a merchant vessel
taken by the United States in the port of Porto Rico, When that
citS was captured by our army and navy on July 28th, 1898,
and kept and used by -the Quartermaster's Department for
some.time thereafter. The court said: "There is no element
of contract in the case; for nothing was done by the United
.States, nor anything. said b any of its officers, from which
could be implied an agreement or obligation to pay for the use.
-of the plaintiff's.vessel. According to the established principles
of public-law, the .owners. of the vessel being. Spanish subjects,.
were to be deemed enemies, although not directly connected
with military operations.. The vessel was therefore to be
deemed eneny's property. It was seized as property of that
kind, for the purposes of war, and not for any purposes.of gain."

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

After observing that the case did not come within the principle
announced in United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S.
645, 656, the court proceeded: "The seizure, which occurred
while the war was flagrant, was an act of war occurring within
the limits of military operations. The action, in its essence, is
for the recovery of damages, but as the case is one sounding in
tort no suit for damages can be maintained under the statute
against the United States. It is none the less a case sounding
'in
tort, because the claim is in form for the use of the vessel after
actual hostilities were suspended by the protocol of August 12,
1898. A state of war did not in law cease until the ratification
in April, 1899, of the treaty of peace.

.

.

.

If the Original

seizure made a case sounding in tort, as it undoubtedly did,
the transaction was not converted into one of implied contract,
because of the retention and use of the vessel pending negotiations for a treaty of peace."
In our judgment there is no element of contract in the claim
of the plaintiff. And even if it were conceded that its property
was wrongfully and unnecessarily destroyed under the order of
the general commanding the United States troops, the concession could mean nothing more, in any aspect of the case, than
that a tort was committed by that officer in the interest of the
United States. But, as already said, of a cause of action arising
from such a tort the Court of Claims could not take cognizance,
whatever other redress was .open to the plaintiff.
It may be well to notice one other matter referred to in argument. Section 1066 of the Revised Statutes provided that
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims "shall not extend to any
claim against the Government not pending therein on December
1st, 1862, growing out of or dependent on treaty stipulations
entered into with foreign nations or with the Indian tribes."
Act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 767, c. 92, § 9. We need not
now consider or definitely determine whether that section Was
superseded or modified by the above act of March 3, 1887; for,
if it was, and if an implied contract could in any case arise from
a treaty stipulation, there is nothing in any treaty with Spain

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. MULLINS.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

which stood in the way of the destruction of the buildings in
question under the circumstances stated in the findings without liability on the part of the United States for their value;
and if that section was not superseded or modified, then the
law is for the United States, because of the absence of any
implied. contract entitling the plaintiff, under the facts found,
to be compensated for the loss sustained by it:
Having noticed all the questions that require consideration
and finding no error in the record, the judgment of the Court of
Claims must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. MULLINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KENTON COUNTY,

STATE OF

KENTUCKY.

No. 77.

Argued January 14,15, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where in the state court defendant distinctly claimed that a recovery
would be prevented if full faith and credit were given to a judgment
of the courts of another State, and this claim is expressly denied, this
court has jurisdiction to review under § 709, Rev. Stat.
The duty of the carrier to safely carry and promptly deliver to the con-'
signee the goods entrusted to it does not require it to forcibly resist
judicial proceedings in the courts of the State into or through which
the goods are carried.
While the carrier may appear and contest the validity of a seizure under
judicial process of goods in its custody, if it seasonably notify the
owner and call upon him to defend, it is relieved from further responsibility; and, in absence of fraud or connivance on its part, it may
plead the judgment rendered against it as a bar in an action brought
by the owner.
Where the state court has sustained a demurrer to an answer which set
forth a complete defense in the absehce of fraud, connivance or consent on defendant's part, this court will determine for itself from the
record whether the record shows any fraud, connivance or consent.

