OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

ceivers in such cases and to take possession of the property of
the corporation in the State.
This statute was admittedly in force before the permit of the
Waters-Pierce Company to do business within the State of
Texas was granted. Under this statute, no less than the special
act of April 11, 1907, the courts of the State have held that the
receivership can be maintained under the procedure had in this
case, and that the appeal merely suspended the receivership.
In that view there is no unlawful interference with the rights of
the company to transact interstate commerce business.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that the courts of
Texas had not lost the jurisdiction which they had acquired by
the appointment of the receiver, and that the Federal court
ought not to have appointed a receiver to take possession of the
property. We think the Circuit Court of Appeals was right in
reversing the order of the Circuit Court appointing the receiver.
In that court the costs of the receivership were assessed against
Palmer, the original complainant. The receivership has gone
on pending the proceedings upon appeal and we are of opinion
that justice will be done if the costs of the receivership are paid
out of the fund realized in the Federal court, and it is so ordered;
otherwise the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. CENTRAL STOCK YARDS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY..

No..51.

Argued December 10, 11, 1908.-Decided January 25, 1909.

A provision in the constitution of a State that a carrier must deliver its
cars to connecting carriers without providing adequate protection for
their return, or compensation for their use, amounts to a taking of
property without due process of law within the meaning of the Four-

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 133
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

teenth Amendment; and so held as to §§ 213, 214 of the constitution
of Kentucky.
The law must save the rights of parties and not leave them to the discretion of the courts as such.
Where a general provision in the constitution of a State is void as taking property without due process or compensation, and compensation
has not been provided by statute, the defect cannoL be cured by the
courts inserting provisions for compensation in judgments under such
constitutional provision.
The duty of a carrier to accept goods tendered at its station does not require it to accept cars offered by competing rdads at arbitrary points
near its terminus for the purpose of using its terminal station. A law
requiring the carrier so to do is unconstitutional as taking property
without due process of law.
97 S. W. Rep. 778, reversed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Helm Bruce, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone, Mr. James
P. Helm and Mr. Kennedy Helm were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:

So far as concerns interstate shipments of live stock, the
whole matter is concluded by the judgment of the Federal
court in the former litigation in Central Stock Yards Co. v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 192 U. S. 568, and that judgment is a bar to the relief sought in this case as to such interstate shipments. Dupasseurv. Rocherau, 21 Wall. 130; Embry
v. Palmer, 107 U. S.3; Crescent City Live Stock Co. v. Butchers'
Union Slaughter House Co., 120 U. S. 141; Deposit Bank v.
Frankfort, 191 U. S. 499; Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. St 353;Smith v. Auld, 31 Kansas, 262.

Sec. 213, Kentucky constitution, as construed by the highest state court, in so far as it attempts to control interstate
shipments, is void as attempting to regulate interstate commerce. Central Stock Yards Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 118 Fed. ;Rep.* 120, and cases there cited; McNeil v.
Southern Ry., 202 U. S. 543; Central.of Georgia v. Murphy, 196
U. S. 194; Houston &c. Ry. Co. v. Mayes, 201 -U.S.321.
Sec. 213, as so construed, in requiring plaintiff in error to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

deliver up possession of its cars to another railroad company,
deprives the former of its property without due process of law.
McGehee on Due Process of Law, 291; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Minnesota v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 36
Minnesota, 402; Chicago, Burlington &c. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 266; Lankford v. County of Ramsay, 16 Minnesota, 373,
375. The following cases, cited in opinion of court below,
discussed and distinguished: Peoria &c. Ry. Co. v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 109 Illinois, 135; S. C., 50 Am. Rep. 605;
Burlington &c. Ry. Co. v. Dey, 82 Iowa, 312; S. C., 12 L. R. A.
436; S. C., 31 Am. St. Rep. 477; Jacobson v. Wisconsin Ry.
Co., 71 Minnesota, 519; S. C., 70 Am. Rep. 358.
- Sec. 213, as so construed, in requiring plaintiff in error to
devote its terminals in Louisville tothe use of other railroads
and to mere local transfers not connected with the traffic of
plaintiff in error, deprives it of its property without due process
of law. Atlantic Coast Line Ry. Co. v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1; Wisconsin &c. R. R. Co. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Martin v. District of Columbia, 205
U. S. 135.
Mr. Joseph C. Dodd, with whom Mr. John L. Dodd was on
the brief, for defendant in error:
The provisions of §§ 213, 214, Kentucky constitution, and
§§ 818, 819, Kentucky General Statutes, as construed by the
highest court of that State, do not deny the plaintiff in error
any Federal right or privilege. L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Central
Stock Yards Co., 30 Ky. Law Rep. 18, 39; Lake Shore &c. R. R.
Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 697; Minn- & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Minn.
R. R. & Warehouse Co., 186 U. S. 261; Penn. R. R. Co. v.
Miller, 132 b. S. 75; Louisville Water Co. v. Clark, 143 j. S. 1;'
L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677; S. C., 183 U. S.
513; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Hughes, 169 U. S. 613; Penn. R. R.
Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 489; Houston & Tex. Cent. R. R. Co.
v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321 ; Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. Co. v.
Solan, 169 U. S* 137, 138; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v.

LOUISVILLE Ac. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 135
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Becker, 32 Fed. Rep. 849; Ija v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co.,
33 Fed. Rep. 391, 395; Charter of Louisville Railway Transfer
Company, Appendix, Part III, see § 5.
There is also a contract between the city of Louisville, the
Louisville Railway Transfer Co. and the, plaintiff in' error.
Sherlock v. Ailing, 92 U. S. 99; Nashville, C. & St. L. R. R. Co.
v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299;
N. Y., N. H. & H. Ry. Co. v. New York, 165 U. S. 628.
The police power of the State cannot be bargained away.-or
contracted against and when, within such power, a dity of.a
common carrier -is required by constitutional or statutory'provision the question of inconvenience or expense. is immaterial.
4 Debates of Kentucky Const. Convention, 5118-5162; Butchers'
& Drovers' Stock Yards Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 67 Fed. Rep.
36; Covington Stock Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128; L. & N.
R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 108 Kentucky, 628; S. C., 26 Ky. Law
Rep. 597; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Pittsburgh& Kanawha Coal Co.,
111 Kentucky, 960; S. C., 23 Ky. Law Rep. 1318; L. & N.:
R. R. Co. v. Williams, 95 Kentucky, 109; S. C., 15 Ky. Law
Rep. 548; Burlington, C. R. & N. R. R. Co. v. Dey, 8 Iowa, 336;
Peoria & P. N. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 109
Illinois, 139; Jacobson v. Wisconsin, Minn. & P. R. R. Co., 71
Minnesota, 532; MichiganC. R. R. Co. v. Smithson, 45 Michigan,
221; McCoy v. C., I., St. L. & C. R R. Co.,'13 Fed. Rep. 3;
Coe v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 778; Interstate Stock
Yards Co. v. Railroad Companies, 99 Fed. Rep. 472; L., E. &
St. L. Consolidated Ry. Co.. v. Wilson, 18 L. R. A. 105; Railroad Company v. Goodtidge, 149 U. S. 680; .Inman-v. St. L. S.
W. Railway Co., 37 S. W. Rep. 37; T. & S. F. R. R. Co. v.
Denver & N. 0. R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667; State V. Wabash,
St. L. & P. R. Co., 83 Missouri, 144; Mo. Pac. Railway Co. v.
Wichita Grocery Co,. 40 Pac. -Rep. 899; S.. C.,. 2 Elliott on
Railroads, §§ 1432, 1440; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Jones, 155 U. S.
333; laner v. N. Y. &c. R. R. Co., 50 How. 428; Little Miami
R. R. Co. v. Washburn, 22 Ohio, 330; Parker v. C. S. B. Q. R.,
R. Co., 56 Connecticut; 137; Bosworth v. Chicago Ryl. Co., 37

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 72; RailroadCo. v. ManufacturingCo., 16 Wall. 318;
Vincent v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 49 Illinois, 41; Coe v. L. & N. R.
R. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 778; In re Patterson,3 Fed. Rep. 89; North
v. Transportation Co., 146 Massachusetts, 315; M. S. & I. R.R. Co. v. Day, 20 Illinois, 375; Beers v..Wabash, St. L. & P. R.
R. Co., 34 Fed. Rep. 244; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Odell, 33 S. W.
Rep. 611; Seasongood &c. Co. v. Tenn. & Ohio Transp. Co., 21
Ky. Law Rep. 1144; McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 445;
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North CarolinaCorp. Com., 20
U. S. 1.
Sec. 4 of the contract of plaintiff, in error with the Bourbon
Stock Yards to deliver to it all live stock brought over plaintiff in error's lines to Louisville, is in contravention of the laws
of Kentucky, against public policy and void, and in t.o event
relieves plaintiff in error of the duty imposed by law to receive,
switch, and deliver such stock, destined to the Central Stock
Yards, to connecting carriers for delivery at said Central Stock
Yards. 'L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Central Stock Yards Co., 30 Ky.
Law Rep. 18, 39; Bedford-Bowling Green Stone Co. &c. v.
Oman &c., 115 Kentucky, 369; S. C., 24 Ky. Law Rep. 2274;
L. & N R. R. Co. v. Pittsburgh & Kanawha Coal Co., 111
Kentucky, 960; McCoy v. C. & I., St. L. C. R. R. Co., 13 Fed.
Rep. 5; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 139; Commonwealth v. L. &
N. R. R. Co., 27 Ky. Law Rep. 497; Anderson v. Jett, 89 Kentucky, 375; S. C., 11 Ky. Law Rep. 570; Peoria & R. I. R. R.
Co. v. C. V. M. Co., 68 Illinois, 489; Inter Ocean Co. v. Associated Press, 184 Illinois, 448; Chicago & N. M. Ry. Co. v.
People, 56 Illinois,. 365; Sanford v. Railroad Co., 24 Pa. St.
382; State v. Hartford & N. H. Ry. CD., 29 Connecticut,- 538;
Coe v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 778.
The shipper and owner of property, even after the delivery
thereof to a common carrier, and after the bill of lading has
been signed and delivered, or after the goods have passed from
the possession, of the initial carrier into that of a succeeding
one, may either stop the same in transit or change the destination thereof. Hutchinson on Common Carriers (2d ed.),

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 137
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

§§ 134, 337; Sutherland v. Second National.Bank of.Peoria, 78
Kentucky, 250; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Hartwell, 99 Kentucky,
436; Strahorn v. Union Stock Yards & Transfer Co., 43 Illinois,
424; Benjamin on Sales, § 830; Smith's Mercantile Law,
Pomeroy's ed., § 634; Michigan Southern & Northern Ind. 'Ry.
Co. v. Day, 20 Illinois, 375; Lewis v. Galena & Chicago U. R.,R.
Co., 40 Illinois, 281; London & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Bartles, 7
Hurlston & Norman Reps. 400; Scothorn v. Railway C6., 8
Exch. Rep. 345; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 V. S. 513;
L. & N. R. R.Co. v. Williams, 95 Kentucky, 199; Minn. & St.
Louis Ry. Co. v. Minn. R. & W. Co., 186 U. S.261; Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U. S.113; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.97;
Railroad Commission Cases, 11,6 U. S.307; Mobile County v.
-Kimball, 102 U. S.691; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Cooley v.
Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphia,12 How. 299; Lake
Shore & N. S. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.285; Hennington v..
Georgia, 163 U. S. 299f; Livingston & Fulton v. Van Ingen, 9
Johns. 507; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.
460; Robbins v. Shelby Tax District, 120 U. S.489; Hopkins v:
United States, 171 U. S.578; .N.Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v.
New York, 165 U. S.628; N. Y., L. E. & W. Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 158-U. S.431; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161
U. S.677; S. C., 183 U. S.503; Henderson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S.150; S.C., 183 U. S. 517; Penna. R. R. Co. v.
Miller, 132 U. S.75; Louisville Water Co. v. Clark, 143 U. S.1;
Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S.180; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S.99;
Morgan's L. & T. R. & S. S. Co. v. Louisiana Statu Board of
.Health, 118 U. S.455; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.465; Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Alabama, 128 U. S.9.6; Mo., K. & T.
Ry. Co. v. Haber, 169 U. S.613.
The decisions in. the cases of Central Stock Yards Co. v.
Louisville and Nashville R. R. Co., 192 U. S.568; S. C., 118
Fed. Rep. 113, arc not conclusive of the rights of the parties
hereto. Smith v. Auld, 31 Kansas, 262; Black on Judgments
(2d ed.), § 733; Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351; Fairfield
v. Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47; P6lk's Lessee v. Wendess, 9

OCTOBER TERM, 1908..
Opinion of the Court.

212 U: S.

Cranch, 87; Nesmith v. Sheldon, 7 How. 812; Walker v. State
Harbor Commission, 17 Wall. 648; Elmdorf v. Taylor, 10
Wheat. 152; Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Pet. 291; Lefingwell v.
Warren, 2 Black, 599; Sumner v. Hicks, 2 Black, 532; Olcott v.
The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92
U. S. 575; Rowan &c. v. Runnels, 5 How. 134; Suydam v.
Williamson, 24 How. 427; In re Duncan, 139 U. S. 499; Leeper
v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Bucher v. Railroad Co., 125 U. S. 555;
Louisville &c. Ry. Co. v. Mississippn, 133 U. S. 587; Beauregard
v. New Orleans, 18 How. 499; Western Union Tel. Co. v. James,
162 U. S. 650; Wisconsin &c. Ry. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.
287; Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Smith v.
Alabama, 124 U.S. 465; Sherlock v. AIling, 93 U. S. 99; Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v. Minn. R. R. & W. Co., 186 U. S. 257;
Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S.133.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding in equity prosecuted in the courts of Kentucky, similar in the main to one in the United States courts
between the same parties,.that was decided by the Circuit Court
of Appeals in 118 Fed. Rep. 113, and by this court in 192 U. S.
568. The latter was brought by the Central Stock Yards Company, a Delaware corporation, against the Railroad Company,
a Kentucky corporation, to compel it to receive live stock tendered to it outside the State of Kentucky for the Central Stock
Yards station, and to deliver the same at a point of physical
connection between its road and the Southern Railway, for
ultimate delivery to or at the Central Stock Yards. The Central
Stock Yards station is at the Central Stock Yards, just outside
the boundary line of Louisville, Kentucky, on the Southern Railway Company's line, and by agreement between the two companies the Central Stock Yards were the live stock depot for
the purpose of handling live stock to and from Louisville on the
Southern Railway. The Louisville and Nashville Railroad, by a
similar arrangement, had made the Buu:bon Stock Yards its

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 139
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

live stock depot for Louisville, and declined to receive live stock
billed to the Central Stock Yards, or to deliver live stock destined to Louisville elsewhere than at the Bourbon Yards. There
were physical connections between the Louisville and Nashville
and the Southern tracks at a point between the two stock yards
which was passed by the greater portion of the live stock carried
by the Louisville and Nashville Company, and at another point
that would be more convenient for delivery, a little further to
the northward. In order to deliver as prayed the Louisville and
Nashville would have been compelled either to build chutes or
to hand over. its cars to the Southern Railway. The right was
claimed under the Interstate Commerce Act of February 4,
1887, c. 104, § 3, 24 Stat. 379, and the constitution of Kentucky,
especially § 213, p. 147, Ky. Stats. Carroll, 1903. The Circuit
Court of Appeals and this court agreed that the right was not
conferred by the former act. As to the constitution of Kentucky, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that if it could be given
any such construction as to make it purport to give the plaintiff
a right to the relief sought, it would be making a void attempt
to regulate interstate commerce. This court, on the general
principle that a construction was to be adopted, if possible, that
would save the instrument from constitutional objections, followed the suggestion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, read the
section as not requiring the railroad to deliver its own cars, and
affirmed a decree dismissing the bill.
The material sections of the constitution of Kentucky are as
follows:
"SEc. 2,13. All railroad, transfer, belt lines and railway
bridge companies, organized under the laws of Kentucky, or
operating, maintaining or controlling any railroad, transfer,
belt lines or bridges, or doing a railway business in this State,
shall receive, transfer, deliver and switch empty or loaded cars,
and shall move, transport, receive, load or unload all the freight
in car loads or less quantities, coming to or going from any railroad, transfer, belt line, bridge or siding thei on, with equal
promptness and despatch, and without any discrimination as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

charges, preference, drawback or rebate in favor of any person,
corporation, consignee or consignor, in any matter as to payment, transportation, handling or delivery; and shall so receive,
deliver, transfer and transport all freight as above set forth,
from and to any point where there is a physical connection between the tracks of said companies. But this section shall not
be construed as requiring any such common carrier to allow the
use of its tracks for the trains of another engaged in like business.
"SEC. 214. No railway, transfer, belt line or railway bridge
company shall make any exclusive or preferential contract or
arrangement with any individual, association or corporation,
for the receipt, transfer, delivery, transportation, handling,
care or custody of any freight, or for the conduct of any business'as a common carrier."
The present case was begun by the defendant in error earlier
than the one just stated, and sought similar relief without regard to the place where the stock was received. A preliminary
injunction was issued, and soon led to proceedings for contempt
on the charge that it had been disobeyed. The court of first instance held that the injunction applied to an interstate shipment when the owner had sought to bill it to the Southern Railway at Louisville for delivery to the Central Stock Yards and
had been refused, and thereafter, at the break-up yards, so
called, of the Louisville and Nashville road, by giving notice to
change the destination, had attempted to tring about the desired result. This decision was reversed, by the Court of Appeals, Louisville & Nashville R. R.Co. v. Miller, 112 Kentucky,
464, and thereupon the beforementioned bill in the United
States court was brought, to deal with interstate shipments,
with a prayer, also, that the railroad be required to recognize
changes of destination; while the present proceeding was kept
on foot to cover all that it lawfully might. At a later date the
petition, as it is called, in this case, was amended so as to pray
that the plainitiff in error might be required, upon tender by the
Southern Railway, to receive, at a point of physical connection

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 141
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the Southern Railway, live stock from the Central Stock
Yards, and to deliver the same to the consignee at the Bourbon
Stock Yards or any depot on its line.
After the decision in the other case the Railroad Company
asked leave to plead the decree as a bar to so much of the relief
in the present action as relates to stock shipped or desired to -be
shipped from points outside of Kentucky to points within Kentucky. The trial court, being of opinion that the decree would
not be a bar, refused leave, but ordered the proposed amendment to be made part of the record for the purpose of appeal.
After final hearing a judgment was entered for the plaintiff, the
defendant in error, granting all the prayers of the bill. The Railroad Company was ordered (1) to receive at its stations in Kentucky, and "to bill, transport, transfer, switch and deliver in the
customary way," at some point of physical connection with the
tracks of the Southern Railway, and particularly at one described, all live stock or other freight consigned to the Central
Stock Yards or to persons doing business there. (2) It was
ordered further, to transfer, switch and deliver to the Southern
Railway at the said point of connection, "any and all live stock
or other freight coming over its lines in Kentucky consigned "to
the Central Stock Yards or persons doing business there. (3) It
was ordered further, to receive at the same point and to " transfer, switch, transport and deliver all live stock" consigned to any
one at the Bourbon Stock Yards, "the shipment of which originates at the Central Stock Yards;" with proviso requiring pay
or tender of proper charges for its services, whenever demanded,
at the time such live stock or other freight is offered. (4). Finally the Railroad Company was required, whenever requested
by the consignor, consignee, or owner of the stock, "at any of
the stations, and particularly at its break-up yards in South
Louisville, Kentucky," to recognize their right to change the
destination, and upon payment of the full Louisville freight
rate and proper presentation of the bill of lading duly indorsed,
the iailroad was required to change the destination and deliver
at a point of connection with the-Southern Railway tracks for

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

delivery by the latter to the Central Stock Yards. This judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, whereupon this
writ of error was brought. The points relied upon are that due
credit was denied to the decree by the United States court; that
if the constitution of Kentucky purports to authorize the requirenient in the judgment as to delivery of shipments from
outside the State, it attempts to regulate commerce among the
States; that if the same instrument authorizes the requirement
in the judgment that the Railroad Company should give up
possession of its cars .to the Southern Railway Company it attempts to deprive the railroad of its property without due process of law; and that the same constitutional objection applies
to the attempt to make the railroad do switching work over its
terminal property in Louisville between two points in the city
when the shipment was neither coming into the city nor going
out of the city Over the lines of the plaintiff in error's road.
The Court of Appeals found itself unable to pass over the
bridge laid by this court in its construction of the state constitution, § 213. It held that that section did purport to require the
plaintiff in error to deliver its own cars, under the circumstances
of the case, to the extent of the judgment that it affirmed. It
declined to follow the decision of this court that for the purposes of the case before it, the two stock yards stood on the
same footing as if they were the stations of two railroads placed
side by side. It decided that the state constitution as construed
by it did not attempt to regulate commerce among the States,
and, no doubt for that reason, disregarded the former decree
between the same parties, thinking, we presume, that, as the
former bill dealt only with interstate commerce, the decree
could have no binding effect as against a judgment which it
deemed to affect only matters within the control of the State.
We are surprised that the Court of Appeals should have decided that the judgment appealed from did not deal with commerce among the States. The portion that we have numbered
(2) ordered a delivery to the Southern Railway of all live stock
and freight coming over its lines consigned to the Central Stock

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 143
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Yards, and this includes, of course, that coming from other
States. The same is to be said of the requirement in (4) as to
change of destination. When the live stock reached the point
of connection or the break-up yards the carriage was not at an
end, as appears by the very intent of the judgment, and as was
decided in McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543, 559.
Moreover, that decision icited and approved the language Qf the
Circuit Court of Appeals, to which we have referred already, in
the case between these parties, to the effect that if the Kentucky
constitution could be construed as the state Court of Appeals
has construed it, it would be attempting what it could not do.
Ibid., 562. We think discussion of this part of the case unnecessary, and we should have to hold the provision of the state constitution void as applied, if we followed the construction given
to it by the state court; but we are relieved of that necessity by
the fact that those portions of the judgment of which we are
-speaking are invalid by reason of the previous adjudication of
the United States court.
Aswe have indicated, the decree was pleaded as a bar only
"to so much of the claim for relief as relates to stock shipped
or transported, or .desired to be shipped or transported from
points outside of Kentucky to points within Kentucky." It
was not argued that a decision that certain words in a constitution have a certain meaning, in a suit founded upon them,
is conclusive as between the same parties in another suit upon
the same words, for the same purpose, except that one is to
enforce them with regard to matters outside the control of the
-State, and the other to enforce them with regard to matters
within its control. Therefore we express no opinion upon the
point. It was argued, however, that the requirement that the
plaintiff in error should deliver its own cars to another road was
void under the Fourteenth Amendment as an unlawful taking
of its property. In view of the well known and necessary practice of connecting roads, we are far from saying that a valid
law could not be passed to prevent the cost and loss of time
entailed by needless transshipment or breaking bulk, in case

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

of an unreasonable refusal by a carrier to interchange cars with
another for through traffic. We do not pass upon the question.
It is enough to observe that such a law perhaps ought to be so
limited as to respect the paramount needs of the carrier concerned, and at least could be sustained only with full and adequate regulations for his protection from the loss or undue
detention of cars, and for securing due compensation for their
use. The constitution of Kentucky is simply a universal undiscriminating requirement, with no adequate provisions such
as we have described. The want cannot be cured by inserting
them in judgments under it. The law itself must save the parties' rights, and not leave them to the discretion of the courts
as such. See Security Trust & Safety Vault Co. v. Lexington,
203 U. S. 323, 333; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398, 409; Connecticut River R. R. Co. v. County Commissioners, 127 Massachusetts, 50, 57; Ash v. Cummings, 50 N. H. 591; Moody v.
Jacksonville, Tampa & Key West R. R. Co., 20 Florida, 597;
Ex parte Martin, 13 Arkansas, 198; St. Louis v. Hill, 116 Missouri, 527. It follows that the requirement of the state constitution cannot standl aldne under the Fourteenth Amendment,
and that the judgment in this respect also, being based upon it,
must fall. We do not mean, however, that the silence of the
constitution might not be remedied by an act of legislature or a
regulation by a duly authorized subordinate body if such legislation should be held consistent with the state constitution by
the state court. We should add that the requirement in the
first part of the judgment, which we have been discussing, is
open to the objections mentioned in the former decision so far
as it practically requires-the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
to deliver cars at Louisville elsewhere than at its own terminus.
192 U. S. 570, 571.
There remains for consideration only the third division of
the judgment, which requires the plaintiff in error to receive at
the cofinecting point, and to switch, transport and deliver all
live stock consigned from the Central Stock Yards to any one
at the Bourbon Stock Yards. This also is based upon the see-

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 145
212 U. S.

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

tions of the constitution that have been quoted. If the principle is sound, every road into Louisville, by making a physical
connection with the Louisville and Nashville, can get the use
of its costly terminals and make it do the switching necessary
to that end, upon simply paying for the service of carriage.
The duty of a carrier to accept goods tendered at its station
does not extend to the acceptance of cars offered to it at an
arbitrary point near its terminus by a competing road, for the
purpose of reaching and using its terminal station. To require
such an acceptance from a railroad is to take its property in a
very effective sense, and cannot be justified, unless the railroad
holds that property subject to greater liabilities than those
incident to its calling alone. The Court of Appeals did not put
its decision upon any supposed special liability, but upon the
broad ground that the state constitution requires it and lawfully may require it of a common carrier by rail. Therefore the
judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUsTICE

McKENNA,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court so far as
it applies to the transportation of cattle wholly within Kentucky, The difference between that and interstate transportation is important, for it was conceded at the argument that
at least sixty per cent of the business was of domestic cattle.
This is a second review of the controversy between the parties. It was originally started in one of the courts of Kentucky,
and there, meeting obstacles arising from the want of jurisdiction over interstate commerce, the latter was made the subject
of a suit in a United States Circuit Court, where the Central
Stock Yards Company suffered defeat; its bill being dismissed
for want of equity. This judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals (118 Fed. Rep. 113), and subsequently by this
court. 192 U. S. 568. This is pointed out in the Qpinion, but
it may be well to see what was decided. in the Circuit Court
VOL. CCXn-1O

.OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
McKENNA, J., dissenting.

212 U. S.

of Appeals these propositions were decided: (1) Independently
of statute, the railway could not be required to deliver to the
Southern Railway Company for transportation to the Central

Stock Yards Company the live stock, though shipped to and
ultimately destined to the stock yards company. The Louisville and Nashville Company, the court said, performed its duty
under the common law when it provided a place for disembarkation of the stock at the Bourbon Stock Yards, though that
place was fixed by contract with the latter company. (2) That
the refusal of the Louisville and Nashville Company to make
such transfer of stock to the Southern Railway Company was
not a violation of § 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act. (3) Considering the case more broadly and as involving the right to require one railroad to interchange traffic with another, the position of the Central Stock Yards Company would be untenable,
because, as it Was held at common law, a railroad is only bound
to transport freight at its own terms. (4) If the constitution of
Kentucky could be construed to require such delivery of the
live stock, it was invalid in so far as it affected interstate commerce. The case, therefore, left local commerce untouched.
It declared no principle that precluded a State by legislation,.
constitutional or statutory, to require such transfer of stock if
it applied.only to comnferce within the State. The case came
to this court, and here also it was considered only as it affected
interstate commerce. It is true it was said that "if the cattle
are to remain in the defendant's -cars it cannot, be required to
hand those cars over to another railroad without a contract, and
the courts have no authority to dictate a contract to the defendant, or to require it to make one." This expressed only a
limit upon the power of the courts, not of a legislature or a constitution, for it was also said "there is no'act of Congress that
attempts to give courts a power toTequire contracts to be made
in a case like this." And the cases which were cited sustain
the vidw that the impotency of the courts Was not because of a
right in the railroads, which were exempt from legislative regulation, but a right only exempt from control by the court8 in the

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 147
212 U. S.

McKENNA, J., disenting.

absence of legislation. None of the cases declare otherwise.
They interpreted the then existing legislation, and did not attempt to decide what legislation might be competent. Indeed,
Judge Jackson (afterwards a justice of this court) in Kentucky
& I. Bridge Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 37 Fed.
Rep. 567, 634, strongly intimated that Congress had the power
to da what he, exercising the powers of the Circuit Court, could
not do without legislative authority.
I will assume, therefore, the power of the State to require an
exchange of cars between railroads, and consider only what are
the limitations upon the exercise of the power, not broadly, for
the case has been 'brought into the narrow requirements of provision for compensatibn and security. Must such provisions be
explicit in the law? May notthe principle or rule of regulation
be prescribed by law, statutory or constitutional, and the conditions of its application be ascertained and enforced by the
courts or an administrative body? To what extent a court may
be made an instrumentality in the administration of the laws of
a State I may refer to the VirginiaRailroad Commission Cases,
211 U. S. 210. See also Kohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367.
If the State may so distribute its power of regulation it is
certainly not within the province of this court to say that it has
not done so against a contrary view, expressed or assumed, by
the courts of the State. We can only deal with the result, that
is, the ultimate action of the State, through any of its instrumentalities, as offending the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. The procedure is for the
determination of the State. This principle is conspicuously
illustrated in Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. State of Texas, ante,
p. 86, and is also illustrated by the decisions under the Massachusetts and New Hampshire mill acts, infra. What, then, is
-the effect of the judgment under review?
It will be observed that the constitution puts an obligation
upon railroad companies to "receive, transfer, deliver and
switch empty or loaded cars," and to "move, transport, receive, load or unload all the freight in carloads or less quantities

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

coming to or going from any railroad

212 U. S.
.

.

.

with equal

promptness and dispatch, and without any discrimination as
to charges, preferences, drawback or rebate in favor of any
person

.

.

.

in any matter as to payment, transportation,,

handling or delivering," and to "receive and transport all
freight, from and to any point where there is a physical connection between the tracks of said companies." The constitution, therefore, imposes a duty, it is true, but not a duty to be
Iuncompensated. The special
emphasis of the prohibition of
favor as to charges makes conspicuous and indisputable the
right to make and enforce them if made and enforced without
"favor to -any person." There could be no discrimination "as
to charges," if there were no charges, no drawback or rebate
from them; and the right to require security for the return of
the cars is left untouched. Nor have the constitutional provisions been limited by the decree under review.
It does not adjudge that the service required of the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad should not be compensated. The right
of the railroad company to charge for the use of its cars is declared. The court said that the transfer of the cars was a use
of them in the interest of the public. "If this," the court
further observed, "is in a sense the taking of its property for
private purposes, appellant [defendant in error], as a common
carrier, must submit to it, for it is only a temporary and necessary use of its property. Appellant cannot suffer loss by such
use of its cars. If it delivers its cars to the Southern Railway
Company to be taken to appellee [Central Stock Yards] for the
loading and unloading of stock, that company has no right to
detain them longer than a reasonable time for that purpose,
and must return them. Appellant may charge a reasonable
amount for the use of its cars, and if they are not returned, or if
detained more than a reasonable time, it may sue the delinquent
road for damages, or apply to a court of equity for a mandatory.
injunction to compel the return of cars. Indeed, it can suffer
no loss which the law may not remedy." And the court pointed
out that by regulations between railroads cars were inter-

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 149
212 U. S.

McKENNA, J., dissenting.

changed between them at a fixed charge. It is entirely consistent with the opinion that plaintiff in error may charge for
the delivery of its cars, either when the cattle are shipped or
when their destination is changed, or at the time of delivery to
the Southern Railway Company. It is also entirely consistent
with the opinion of the court that plaintiff in error can exact
such stipulations from the Southern Railway Company as will
protect it fully. The practice of connecting roads should be
regarded, I think, when considering so simple a servitude as
imposed in this case upon property devoted toa public use, and
subject, because of such use, to regulation by the State. In
this every right of plaintiff in error would be preserved. In this
every power of the State would be preserved. I do not stop to
make a comparison between -uch right and such power, but. I
submit this court should put no limit upon the latter that is not
clearly necessary to preserve the other.
Plaintiff in error makes no question of precedent or ultimate
payment for the use of its cars, or the absence of provisions for
their return. It is contended that in some way (in what way is
not pointed out) the State must exercise its right of eminent
domain, and unless the right be exercised through an impartial
tribunal there is not due process of law. It is also contended
that there is an attempted transfer of terminals, and the duty
of a local transfer company imposed on plaintiff in err'or, which
in some way takes its property without due process of law.
The question made then is of an inviolable right, impregnable
in constitutional protection, against a legislative regulation
such as in the case at bar, and to what contemplation does this
bring us? If the right is impregnable in constitutional pr6tection against regulation in the interest of intrastate commerce it
is also impregnable in such constitutional protection against
regulation in the interest. of interstate commerce. Are we prepared to announce that conclusion? The consequences of it are
certainly quite serious.
The act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, provided tlhat
"The term 'transportation' shall include all of the articles, in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

212 U. S.

strumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage," and
further provides that every carrier subject to its provisions shall
"provide and furnish transportation upon reasonable request
therefor, and to establish through routes and just and reasonable rates applicable thereto." (Section 1.)
The act also provides that such carriers, upon the application
of any lateral branch line of-railroad or of any shipper, shall
construct and operate switch connections and shall furnish cars
for the traffic thereover. And the commission is given power to
enforce sudi duty.
The commission is also given the power to divide a joint rate
and establish joint rates and through routes. The commission
further has the power to fix the compensation to be paid to the
owner of property transported for any instrumentality furnished by him.
These are some of the regulations of interstate commerce,
regulations of great reach and consequence, and they are not
miore specific as to compensation or security for the use or loss
of cars than the constitution of Kentucky. And I submit that
the power of a State over its domestic commerce is as great as
the power of the Nation over interstate commerce.
The exigencies of this case do not require me to distinguish
between those sovereign powers. of the State denominated the
power of "eminent domain and the police power. -Both may be
exercised over private property. By the exercise of the first
power property is taken and compensation for it is a necessary
condition; by the exercise of the second power property is subjected -to regulation and a provision for compensation is not
necessary. When regulation is transcended and becomes a taking of property may, at times, be a close question, but the power.
of regulation must not be overlooked or underestimated. It is,
as I have said, an exercise of the police power, and that is the
most absolute of the sovereign powers of the State. We laid in
Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S.311, that it "extends to dealing with
the conditions which exist in a State as to bring out of them the
greatest welfare of its people. " In Otis Co. v. Ludlow Co., 201

LOUISVILLE &c. R. R. CO. v. STOCK YARDS CO. 151
212 U. S.

MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

U. S.140, this court sustained the Massachusetts Mill Act, whicfi7
gave the right of one owner of land on a stream to flow the land
of another, against the charge that it was contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States as
taking property without due process of law, in that it made no
adequate provision for the payment of damages caused by an
exercise of the rights conferred by the act. The provision for
payment was an action for damages. The use of property in
that case was as complete and more enduring than in this, and
we said'of-it: "The right of the lower owner only becomes complete when the land is flowed, and as, even then, it is not a right
to maintain the water upon the plaintiff's land, but merely a
right to maintain the :dam subject to paying for the harm actually done, we see nothing to 6omplain of in that regard." See
Head v. Amoskeag.Mfg. Co., 113 U. S.9. This court, therefore,
has decided that a simple action of damages is sufficient security
for compensation for that use of property, which this court, and
almost every court in the Union, has held to be a taking. Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166.
It is true it is held by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts that the principle upon which the Mill Act is founded
is not the right of ,eminent domain, but the resulting general
good of all or the public welfare. Murdock v. Stickney, 8 Cush.
113. And this court, yielding also to that purpose, has quite
recently declared that a State might, in order to meet new conditions, elevate into a public use of property that which under
other conditions had universally been held'to be a private use.
Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.361; Str'ickley v'. HighlandBoy Mining
Co., 200 U. S.527. See also Offield v. New York & N. H. R. R.
Co., 203 U. S. 372.
Other cases may be adduced for illustration. I think, therefore, that it might easily be contended that the service required
of plaintiffin error cannot be considered in any legal or practical
sense a taking of property. Let us keep steadily in mind what
it is that is required and what the requirement involves of the
cars. It is a use not different from that
use of plaintiff in error's
I,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.-

212 U. S.

they served from the moment of starting, or would serve if the
end of the transportation be the Bourbon Stock Yards. If the
end of the transportation be made the Central Stock Yards,
there is the added element only that a limited and temporary
possession of the cars is given to the Southern Railway Company, a possession, it must be said, not required in the interest
of that company, but in the interest of the commerce of which
it and the plaintiff in error are but instrumentalities, and as aids
'to which they were organized and are permitted to exist.
But I do not have to take this position, strongly supported as
it may be.. It is enough for my purpose that the constitution of
the State provides for compensation for the duty it imposes on
the railroads.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MR.
concur in this dissent.

JUSTICE MOODY

ONTARIO LAND COMPANY v. YORDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF-THE STATE oik WASHINGTON.

No. 59.

Argued January 7, 1909.-Decided February 1, 1909.

Although a description may not be technically correct, if it identifies the
land it will sustain a conveyance, or, as in this case, an.assessment.
for taxes, and notice of.'sale therefor when delinquent; and, if the
owner knows that the property so described is his, he is not, by reason
of the deficient description, deprived of his property without due process of law.
Where, as in the State of Washington, tax proceedings are in rem,
owners are bound to take notice thereof and to pay taxes on their
property, even if assessed to unknown or other persons; and, if an
owner stands by and sees the property sold for delinquent taxes, he is
not thereby deprived of hisproperty without due process of law.
44 Washington, 239, affirmed.

