NIELSEN v. OREGON.
212 U.,S.

Statement of the Case.

We are of opinion that the Circuit Court of Kentucky erred,
and its
Judgment is reversed and the case remanded to that court for
further proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.

NIELSEN v. STATE OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 593.

Argued January 18,19, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

The concurrent jurisdiction given by Congress to the States of Oregon
and Washington over the Columbia River, by the acts of March 2,
1853, c. 90, 10 Stat. 172, and of February 14, 1859, c. 33, 11 Stat. 383,
extends to civil as well as criminal matters, and is broadly a grant of
jurisdiction to each State. Wedding v. Meyler, 192 U. S. 573.
In determining the effect of a grant of concurrent jurisdiction this court
confines itself to the precise questions presented.
Where two States have concurrent jurisdiction, the one first acquiring
jurisdiction may prosecute and punish for an act which is malum in sc
and punishable by the laws of both States, and the judgment is a
finality so that the person prosecuted cannot be again tried in either
State. But this rule does not apply to those acts which are prohibited
in only one of the States.
Where two States have concurrent jurisdiction over the same territory
which is partly located in one State and partly in the other, one State
cannot prosecute a person for an act malum prohibitun by its own
laws, and which was committed in territory within the other State by
authority of the latter; and so held, that one holding a purse net license from the State of Washington cannot be prosecuted for using
such net on the Washington side of the Columbia River in the courts
of Oregon for violating the statutes of that State prohibiting the use
of such nets.
Quare, whether such person could be prosecuted in the courts of Oregon
for using such nets on the Oregon side of the river; and quwre whether,
where concurrent jurisdiction exists, prosecutions should be in the
name of both States.
95 Pac. Rep. 720, reversed.
PLAINTIFF

in error was convicted in a justice's court of the

precinct of. Astoria, Clatsop County, Oregon, of maintaining

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

and operating a purse :net on the Columbia River, contrary to
the. statutes of Oregon. This conviction was, by proper proceedings, taken to the Supreme Court of the State and the
,judgment affirmed. 95 Pac. Rep. 720. From that decision
th6 case has been brought here on error.
According to the agreed statement of facts, plaintiff in error
Was an actual and bona fide resident and inhabitant of the State
of Washington and a citizen of the United States. He had a
license from the Fish Commissioner of Washington to operate
a purse net on the Columbia River, and was on said river,
within the limits of the State bf Washington, operating such
a purse net at the time •he was arrested and prosecuted in the
courts of' Oregon.
By § 1 of the act of Congress of March 2, 1853, c. 90, 10 Stat.
172, all that part of the Territory of Oregon lying north of the
main channel of the Columbia River" was organized into the
Territory of Washington, and by § 21 of the same act it isprovided "that the Territory of Oregon and the Territory of
. Washingtbn shall have concurrent jurisdiction over all offenses
committed on the Columbia River, where said river forms the
common boundary between said territories." Section 1 of
the act of Congress admitting Oregon into the Union (act of
February 14,:1859, c. 33, 11 Stat. 383), after describing in detail the boundaries of the State, provides, "including jurisdiction in civil and criminal cases upon the Columbia River and
Snake River, concurrently with,States and Territories of which
those rivers form a boundary in common With this State."
And in § 2 it.is said "the State of Oregon shall have concurrent
jurisdiction on the Columbia and all other rivers and waters
bordering on the said State of Oregon so far as the same shall
form a common boundary to said State, and any other State
or States now or hereafter to be formed or bounded by the
same."
The.legislative assembly of Oregon passed an act, the first
section of which is as follows:
"SEC. 1. It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or :main-

NIELSEN v. OREGON.
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tam within any of the rivers of this State or of the Columbia
River, or in the Pacific Ocean within three miles of the mouths
of any of the rivers of this State, or of the Columbia River, any
purse net or other like seine for the purpose of catching or taking salmon or other anadromous fish or sturgeon."
The second section makes one violating any of the provisions
of the act guilty of a misdemeanor, and prescribes the penalty.
Sess. Laws Oregon, 1907, p. 154. On the other hand, Washington passed an act (Sess. Laws Wash., 1899, p. 194), the second section of which reads as follows:
"SEC. 2. The use of pound nets, traps, weirs, fish wheels
and other fixed appliances, and purse nets, drag seines, and
ther seines for catching salmon, is hereby authorized in all
he waters of this State wherein the same is not prohibited by
section 1, subject to the regulation and license hereinafter provided for or otherwise required by law, and the use of the set
nets, gill or drift neis, subject to said license and regulation
.for said purpose, is authorized in all the waters of this State,
"
except as otherwise provided by law.
The prohibition in section 1 referred to does not include the
Columbia River. Section 6 of the same act fixes the license fees
for all first-class purse seines at $50 and all second-class purse
semes at $25.
Mr. E. C. Macdonald, with whom Mr. John D. Atkinson,
Mr. C. C. Fulton, Mr. S. H. Piles, Mr. W. P. Bell, Mr. H. M.
Brooks and Mr. J. B. Alexander were on the brief, for plaintiff
inerror:
The term "concurrent jurisdiction," as used in the act of Congress herein involved, means that the two sovereignties have
jurisdiction over common territory when both act in conjunction as to the laws concerning the common territory. That is,
when the two States of. Washington and Oregon pass the same
or similar laws which define what shall be a crime if committed
on either the Washington or Oregon side of the Columbia
River, then they have enacted concurrent legislation, afrd

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

thereupon the authorities of either State are empowered to enforce its laws by arresting any person who commits a crime on
any part of the Columbia River over which the concurrent
jurisdiction of the two States lies. But until the two States
have passed the, same, or similar, laws, neither State can enforce its laws, at least across its boundary, and vct within the
territorial limits of another State. In re Mattson, 69 Fed. Rep.
535, 542; Ex parte Des Jeiro, 152 Fed. Rep. 1004; Roberts v.
Fullerton, 117 Wisconsin, 222 (93 N. W. Rep. 1111); Central
R. R. Co. of N. J. v. Jersey City (N. J.),.56 Atlantic Rep. 239.
The State of Oregon cannot arrest and punish one as an
offender against her laws who was never, until his arrest,
within the State of Oregon, and for an act which he had been
specifically authorized to do. The definition of concurrent
jurisdiction contended for by the State of Oregon in this case
would lead to interminable controversies.
Mr. A. M. Crawford, Attorney. General of the State of Oregon, with whom Mr. I. N. Van Winkle was on the brief, for
defendant in error:
Jurisdiction unqualified, when applied to territory, is the
sovereign authority to make, decide on, and execute laws.
Wedding v. Meyler, 492 U. S. 573, 584, 585, approving Arnold
v. Shields, 5 Dana (Ky.), 23; Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415,
418, holding jurisdiction is only "The right to hear and determine." See also Grignon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How 318, 337;
Cornett v. Williams, 20 Wall. 226, 249; Brown on Jurisdiction,
2d ed., § 2; 11 Cyc., p. 659; 2 Rawle's Revision Bouvier's Law
Diet. 57; Anderson's Law Diet. 580; 1 Abbott's Law Diet. 671.
When a St4te or any sovereign power acquires jurisdiction
over any territory, and that without conditions or limitations,
the sovereign is vested with the authority to make, interpret
and execute the laws for that territory.
The words "concurrent jurisdiction," as used in the act admitting Oregon into the Uni6n, mean like authority conferred
on each sovereign at the same time, over the same place, ob-

NIELSEN v. OREGON.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ject or thing, including the authority to enforce its commands
or decrees over the same. Sections 1 and 2, act admitting
Oregon, 11 Stat. 383; 1 B. & C. Codes, 73; Re The Annie M.
Smull, 2 Sawyer, 226; Fed. Cas. No. 423; Carlisle v. State, 32
Indiana, 55, 56; Sherlock v. Alling, 44 Indiana, 184, 193; Iowa
v. Mullen, 35 Iowa, 199, 201, 204; Minnesota v. George, 60
Minnesota, 503, 505; Wedding v. Meyler, 192 U. S. 573, 581;
Ohio v. Sterens, 2 West. Law Jour. 66, reversed on another
point, 4 Ohio, 386; Arnold v. Shields, 5 Dana (Ky.), 20, 23;
McFall v. Commonwealth, 2 Metcalf (Ky.), 394, 396; Memphis
& CincinnatiPacket Co. v. Pikey, 142 Indiana, 305, 308; Welsh
v. State, 126 Indiana, 71, 74, 75; Rorer on Interstate Law, Ch. 34,
Subd. 3, p. 337; 2 Rawle's Revision Bouvier's Law Dict. 57.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

By the legislation of Congress the, Columbia River is made
the common boundary between Oregon and Washington, and
to each of those States is given concurrent jurisdiction :on the
waters of that river., How that jurisdiction is to be exercised,
what limitations there are, if any, upon the power of, either
State, is not in terms prescribed. It istrue in the first section
of the act admitting Oregon the jurisdiction was apparently
limited to "civil and criminal cases," but in the second section
of that act there was given in general terms "concurrent juris,diction." In Wedding v. Meyler, 192 U. S. 573, 584, construing
the term "concurrent jurisdiction," as given to Kentucky and
Indiana over the Ohio River, this court, reversing the Court
of Appeals of Kentucky, said:
"Concurrent jurisdiction, properly so-called, on rivers is
familiar to our legislation, and means the jurisdiction of two
powers over one and the same place. There is no reason to
give an unusual meaning to the phrase. See Sanders,V. St.
LOuis & New Orleans Anchor Line, 97 Missouri, 26, 30; Opsahl'
v. Judd, 3O Minnesota, 126, 129, 130; J. S. Keator Lumber

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

Company v. St. Croix Boom Corp., 72 Wisconsin, 62, and the
cases last cited.
"The construction adopted by the majority of the Court of
Appea!3 seems to us at least equally untenable. It was held
that the words 'meant only that the States should have legislative jurisdiction.' But jurisdiction, whatever else or more
it may mean, is jurisdictio, in its popular sense of authority to
apply the law-to the acts of men. Vicat Vocab., sub. v. See
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 718. What the
Virginia compact most certainly conferred on the States north
of the Ohio, was the right to administer the law below lowwater mark on the river, and, as part of that right, the right to
serve process there with effect. State v. Mullen, 35 Iowa, 199,
205, 206."
Undoubtedly one purpose, perhaps the primary purpose, in
the grant of concurrent jurisdiction was to avoid any nice
question as to whether a criminal act sought to be prosecuted
was committed on one side or the other of the exact boundary
in the chdnnel, that boundary sometimes changing by reason
of the shifting of the channel. Where an act is malum in se
prohibited and punishable by the laws of both States, the one
first acquiring jurisdiction of the person may prosecute the
offense, and its judgment is a finality in both States, so that
one convicted or acquitted in the courts of the one State can-;
not be prosecuted for the same offense in the courts of the
other. But, as appears from the quotation we have just made,
it is not limited to this. It extends to 'civil as well as criminal
matters, and is broadly a grant of jurisdiction to each of the
States.
The present case is not one of the prosecution for an offense
malum in se, but for one simplymalum prohibitum. Doubtless
the same rule would apply if the act was prohibited _by each
State separatery, lut where as here the act is prohibited by
one State and in terms authorized by the other, can the one
State which prohibits, prosecute and punish for the act done
within the territorial limits of the other? Obviously, the grant

NIELSEN v. OREGON.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of concurrent jurisdiction may bring up from time to time
many and some curious and difficult questions, so we properly
confine ourselves to the precise question presented. The plaintiff in error was within the limits of the State of Washington,
doing an act which that State -interms authorized and gave
him a license to do. Can the State of Oregon, by virtue of its
concurrent jurisdiction, disregard that authority, practically
override the legislation of Washington, and punish a man for
doing within the territorial limits of Washington an act which
that State had-pecially authorized him to do? We are of
opinion that it cannot. Itis not at all impossible that in some
instances the interests of the two States may be different.
Certainly, as appears in the present case, the opinion of the
legislatures of the two States is different, and the one State
cannot enforce its opinion against that of the other, at least as
to an act done within the limits of that other State. Whether,
if the act of the plaintiff in error had been done within the
territorial limits of the State of Oregon, it. would make any
difference we need not determine, nor whether, in the absence
of any legislation by the State of Washington authorizing the
act, Oregon could enforce its statute against the act done%anywhere upon the waters of the Columbia. Neither. is it necessary
to consider Whether the prosecution should be in the names of
the two States jointly. It is enough to decide, as we do, that
for an act done within the territorial limits of the State of
Washington under authority and license from that State one
cannot be prosecuted and punished by the State of Oregon.
There is little authority upon this precise question, but see
In re Mattson, U. S. Circuit Court for the District of Oregon,
69 Fed. Rep. 535, and Ex parte Desjeiro, same court, 152 Fed.
Rep. 1004. See also Roberts v. Fullerton, 117 Wisconsin, 222;
Rorer on Interstate Law, p. 438, and following.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Oregon is
reversed, and .the case remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
VOL. ccxii-21

