RAKES v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Opinion ofthe Court.

prevent the complainant from obtaining a fair return, as already
described, and in that event complainant ought to have the
opportunity of again presenting its case to the court. To that
end we'reverse the decree, with directions to dismiss the bill
without prejudice, andIt is so ordered.

RAKES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 257.

Argued January 4; 1909.-Decided January 18, 1909.

Jurisdiction of this court to review judgments of conviction in criminal
cases under clause 3 of § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat.
827, as amended by the act of July 20, 1897, c. 68, 29 Stat. 492, depends on the sentence which can be imposed, and not on the crime
charged in the indictment; and where the Federal statute prescribes
that the punishment shall be the same as that prescribed .by the state
law and under the state law the punishment is less than capital a
writ of error will not lie.
The suggestion in the brief of counsel of the unconstitutionality of the
statute under which plaintiff in error was convicted, does not raise
an issue involving the construction or application of the Constitution
giving this court jurisdiction to review under § 5 of the act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, 26 Stat.' 827, when the -tontention presented has been
heretofore adversely disposed of; nor does the assertion of errors of
construction furnish a basis for jurisdiction under that statute.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Waller R. Staples for plaintiff in error.
Mr Assistant Attorney General Fowler for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error issued directly from this court to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

District Court of the United States for the Western District of
Virginia under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat.
827, as amended by the act of July 20, 1897, c. 68, 29 Stat. 492,
and cannot be maintained unless this was a case of "conviction
of a Capital crime," or a case involving "the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States," or a case
in which "the constitutionality of any law of the United States
is drawn in question."
Plaintiff in error was indicted under §§ 5508 and 5509 of the
Revised Statutes for conspiracy, and for killing one Ann Hall
in carrying out said conspiracy, and was found guilty of the
conspiracy and of murder in the second degree, the jury fixing
the punishment" for said last mentioned offense at imprisonment in the penitentiary for fifteen (15) years." Judgment was
rendered against him of imprisonment in the United States
Penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia, for a period of fifteen years
and one day, commencing on the day of his committal to the
penitentiary, and he was fined $100.
By § 5508 of the Revised Statutes it is made an offense
against the United States for two or more persons to conspire to
injure, oppress, threaten or intimidate any citizen in the free
exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him
by the Constitution or laws of the United States, the punishment prescribed being a fine of not more than $5,000, imprisonment not more than ten years and ineligibility to any office or
place of honor, profit or trust created by the Constitution or
laws of the United States. And by § 5509 it is provided that
if in committing the above offense any other felony or misdemeanor be committed, the offender shall suffersuch punishment
as is attached to such felony or misdemeanor by the laws of
the State in which the offense is committed.
Section 3664 of the Code of Virginia enacts that "murder of
the second degree, shall be punished by confinement in the
penitentiary not less than five nor more than eighteen years."
Class 3 of § 5 gives the writ directly in "cases of conviction
of a capital crime," and this case does not fall within it, because

RAKES v. UNITED STATES.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the verdict capital punishment. could not be inflicted.
The jurisdiction- of this court, in this regard, does not depend
upon the crime charged in the indictment, and it is clear that
as the accused was found guilty of murder in the second degree,
for which the sentence of death could not be imposed, he was
not convicted of a capital offense.
In Fitzpatrick v. United States, 178 U. S. 304, Fitzpatrick was
indicted for murder in the first degree, and the jury returned'
a verdict of guilty "without capital punishment," as permitted
by the statute. The United States insisted that this was not
"conviction of a capital crime," but Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for the court, said that the qualification "does not make
the crime of murder anything less than a capital offense or a
conviction for murder anything less than a conviction for a
capital crime, by reason of the fact that the punishment actually imposed is imprisonment for life.. The test is not the
punishment which is imposed; but that which may be imposed
under the statute." And see Good.Shot v. United States, 179
U. S. 87. But in the present case the accused, was found guilty
of murder in the second degree, for which the sentence of death
could not be imposed, and it was not a case where the penalty
of death was escaped by qualification of the verdict.
In Davis v. United States, 107 Fed. Rep. 753, the defendant
could have been convicted under the indictment for a capital
offense, but was in fact found guilty only. of a conspiracy, and
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit correctly
held that that court had jurisdiction. And, speaking through
Severens, J., said: "Only the conspiracy is of Federal cognizance,
and it is that offense which is made punishable. If, in the prosecution of it, a thing is done which is a crime by the laws of the'
State the conspiracy is punishable by a measure of punishment
equal to that prescribed by the law of the State for such other
crime. But it is an aggravation merely of the substantive
offense of conspiracy. If the latter is not proven there Can be
no conviction for the offense Which constitutes the aggravating
circumstance, and the proceeding falls to the ground. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

plainly indicated in Motes v. United States, 178 U. S. .458, that
this is the view taken of these sections by the Supreme Court.
It cannot be doubted that it was within the power of Congress
to deal with such a conspiracy and impose- such punishment
therefor as it should deem proper; and, having such authority,
it was competent to take notice of such incidents of violence
and wrong as were likely to happen in the prosecution of such
combinations, and to measure the punishment by that which is
prescribed by the local law for such acts when made, of themselves, the subject of punishment.. Though measured by those
laws, the penalty is imposed by the law of the United States."
Nor can -we see that the case involved the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, or drew in
question the constitutionality of a law .of the United States,
because no definite issue was raised in regard thereto, and,
while in the brief of counsel for plaintiff in error it was suggested
that § 5509 was unconstitutional, that contention, however
presented, was long' since put at rest. Motes v. United States,
178 U. S. 458; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263; In re
Quarles, 158 U. S. 532. And assertion of errors of construction
furnishes no basis for jurisdiction on constitutional grounds
under § 5,of the act of March 3, 1891.
Writ of error dismissed.

PRESIDIO COUNTY, TEXAS, v. THE NOEL-YOUNG
BOND & STOCK COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 41.

Argued December 4, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909.

Where the officers having statutory authority to issue bonds have also

the statutory authority to determine whether conditions precedent
have been performed, certify by recitals therein that the bonds are
issued in virtue of the statute, such recitals import compliance with

