ATKINS v. MOORE.
212 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

E. C. ATKINS & COMPANY v. MOORE, COMMISSIONER
OF PATENTS.
APPEAL FROM AND: IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 86.

Argued January 22, 1909.-Decided February 23-, 1909.

Proceedings under the Trade-Mark Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, 33
Stat. 724, and-the specific provisions of § 9 thereof, are governed by
the same rules of practice and procedure as in the instance of patents;
and decisions of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia on
appeals from the Commissioner of Patents are not reviewable by the
court. Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1, followed;1 Gaines v. Knecht &
Son, 27 App. D. C. 530, approved.
PLAINTIFFS filed their application for a trade-mark on June
12, 1905; in which it was recited that"The trade-mark consists of a symbol composed of the letters
'AAA'
..
.. The trade-mark is usually displayed on the
goods, by. etching, stgnping or otherwise marking the same
1.pon the blade of the saw, and by, inscribing same upon the
packages containing such saws."
This Was amended August 30, 1905, by adding the :sentence"The trade-mark is shown with the letters arranged in the
form of a monogram."
1 The headnote in Fraschv. Moore, 211 U. S.1, is as follows:
A decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in an
appeal from the Commissioner of Patents under Rev. Stat., §§ 4914,
4915, § 9 of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434, and § 780,
Rev: Stat., District of Columbia, is interlocutory and not final and is not
reviewable by this court under § 8 of the act of February 9, 1893, either
by appeal or writ of error. Rousseau v. Brown, 21 App. D, C. 73, approved.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the' Case.

212 U. S.

The examiner suggested that the description of the trademark should be amended so as to read"The trade-mark consists of a monogram composed of the
letters 'A.A.A.'"
Plaintiffs declined to comply with the suggestion, and appealed from, the ruling of the examiner that such amendment
should be made to the Commissioner of Patents, who, on February 20, 1906, overruled the decision of the examiner and held
that the description was sufficient.
April 27, 1906, plaintiffs were notified that their"Application for the registration of a trade-mark for a symbol
composed of the letters 'AAA,' for saws of all kinds, filed
June 12, 1905, Ser. No. 7998, has been examined and passed for
publication, in compliance with section 6 of the act authorizing
the registration of trade-marks, approved February 20, 1905.
The mark will be published in the Official Gazette of May 15,
1906."
The act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, § 1, 33 Stat. 724, provided that the applicant should file an application in writing,
which should contain, among other things:
. "A description of the trade-mark itself and a statement of
the mode in which the same is applied and affixed to go~ds and
the length of time during which the trade-mark has been used.
With this statement shall be filed a drawing of the trade-mark,
signed by the. applicant or his attorney, and such number of
specimens of the trade-mark, as actually used, as may be required
Commissioner of Patents."
This by
act the
was amended by the act of May 4, 1906,
c. 2081,
§ 1, 34 Stat. 168, by inserting after the words "description of
the trade-mark itself," the words "only when needed to express
colors not shown in the drawing."
On June 21, 1906, the Patent Office sent plaintiffs the following communication:
"Attention is directed to the act approved May 4, 1906, providing for a description of the trade-mark itself only when
needed to expres colors not shown in the drawing.

ATKINS v. MOORE.
212 U. S.

Argument for Appellant and Plaintiff in Error.

"Inasmuch as the trade-mark covered by this application
cannot be registered until after July 1, 1906, when said act
takes effect, applicant should direct the cancellation, of the
present description and of all of the preamble to the statement
following the words 'have adopted for my use,' and the substitution therefor of the following words: 'the trade-mark shown in
the accompanying drawing.'
"If colors form a material part of the mark, a brief reference
thereto should follow.
"An amendment as above indicated should be promptly filed
to avoid, delay in the use of the certificate."
Plaintiffs refused to comply with this suggestion, and, on
July 16, 1906, the examiner declined to pass the application for
registration.
A petition was thereupon presented by plaintiffs to the Commissioner, seeking the overruling of the action of the examiner,
and, on November 22, 1906, the petition was denied.
An appeal was prosecuted to the Court of Appeals, which
affirmed the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, and directed the clerk to "certify this opinion to the Commissioner
of Patents, According to law."
An appeal and a writ of error were allowed.
Mr. Chester Bradford, with *hom Mr. Arthur M. Hood and,
Mr. E. W. Bradford were on the brief, for appellant and plaintiff in error:
This court has jurisdiction of this case, which is not governed by the cases of Gaines v. Knecht, post, p. 561, and
Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1. In order that a case may be
brought here from the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, two conditions must concurrently exist: There must
be a final judgment or decree, and a subject-matter defined by
the statute must exist. Both these conditions exist in the case
at bar. They did not exist in the cases above cited, which are
clearly distinguishable. In the Gaines case and Frasch case
there was no final judgment or decree upon the matter sought

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for -Appellee and Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

to be reviewed, and there was therefore no statutory authority
for bringing the cases to this court.
Those cases are not authorities in this case also, because the
decision in this case was final, and there is no other means by
which appellant and plaintiff in error can secure relief if it be
denied here. The decision of the Commissioner, sustaining the
ruling of the examiner, as affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
was final, and binding upon the applicant. There is no other
proceeding known to the law than that which has been adopted
in coming to this court by which these- actions may be reviewed..
When the appeal was taken and the writ of-error sued out, it
was supposed that the case of Steinmetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543,
was sufficient authority for the proceeding. That was a case
brought here from the same tribunal and under the same section
of the statute, and in that case this court expressly held that it
had jurisdiction. See also: Bernardin v. Duell, 172 U. S. 576;
Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50. The cases cited by appellee
and deferidant in error can be distinguished.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for appellee and defendant in error:
This court is without jurisdiction-for two reasons: First. The
judgment of the Gourt of Appeals is not final .within the meaning of § 8 of. the act of February-9, 1893, p27. Stat. 436; Code
Dist. Col., § 233, which'specifies what judgments of that court
may be reyievwed by this court. on appeal or writ of error. The.
manifest purpose of § 9 of the Trade-Mark Act of February 20,
1,905, .33.Stat. 727, was to place appeals to the Court of Appeals from decisions of the Commissioner of Patents in pro:
ceedings arising -under applications for trade-marks, and also
the judgments of that court upon such appeals, upon the same
footing with such appeals to and judgments thereof in applications for patents.. See Frasch v. Moore, -211 U. S. 1, and
Gainesv. Knecht, post, p. 561. Second. Because the matter in
dispute is of no certain value and there is not drawn in question

ATKINS v. MOORE.
212 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"the validity of . . . a statute of, or an authority exercised under the United States."
MR. CHIEF JtJSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
In Frasch v. Moore, 211 U. S. 1, it was held that decisions in
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in appeals
from the Commissioner of Patents under § 9 of the act of February 9, 1893, c. 74, 27 Stat. 434, were interlocutory and not
final, and not reviewable by this court under § 8 of that act,
because not final judgments or decrees within the meaning of
that section. When certified to the Commissioner of Patents,.
they "govern the further proceedings in the case," (Revised
Statutes, § 4914), but are not final judgments or decrees at law
or in equity within the purview of § 8.
In Gaines& Company v. Knecht & Son, post, p. 561, we applied
the same rule to a writ of error to the decision of the Court of
Appeals, rendered on appeal to that court from a decision of
the Commissioner of Patents in proceedings arising under an ap-.
plication for a trade-mark, contenting ourselves with this memorandum, announced December 14, 1908:
"Writ of error-dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Frasch v.
Moore, 211 U. S. 1; see Act of February 20, 1905, for the registration of trade-marks, 33 Stat. 724, c.592, sections 9, 16, 17,
18 et passim."
Section 9, there referred to, provides:
"That if an applicant fox registration of a trade-mark .
is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner of Patents,
he may appeal 'to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, on complying with the conditions required in case of an
appeal from the decision of the Commissioner by an applicant
for a patent, or a party to an interference as to an invention,
and the same rules of practice and procedure shall govern in
every stage of such proceedings as far as the same may be applicable."
VOL. CCXII-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

Gaines v. Knecht was a case of opposition to the registration
of a trade-mark under §§ 6 and 7 of the act of February 20,
1905, the objections being that the act was unconstitutional,
and also that the applicant's mark was so similar to the mark of
opponent that it would be likely to lead to confusion, and enable applicant to perpetrate a fraud. on the public. The examiner of interferences dismissed the opposition,, and from his
decision the cise was appealed to the Commissioner, who affirmed the decision. An appeal was then taken to the Court of
Appeals, and that court affirmed the Commissioner, and "ordered that this decision and the proceedings in this court be
certified to the Commissioner of Patents, as required by law.".
The court said, among other things, that the appeal was "an
appeal from the decision of an officer of the executive department performing a ministerial act. He has treated the statute
as.valid, and so he ought to have treated it until it is otherwise
determined by the courts.

.

.

.

It may be true that the

Commissioner acts in a judicial capacity in determining whether
the applicant is the owner of the trade-mark, and whether it is
one of those marks the registration of which 'is prohibited, but
when he has determined these in favor of the applicant the act
to be performed by him is ministerial merely, and that is the
act which it is claimed he should -have refused to perform, on
the ground that the statute is unconstitutional. Such judicial
. proceedings as. there are issue and culminate in a purely ministerial act-he mereregistration of a mark which, if the statute
is void, cannot possibly prejudice the right of the opponent or
of any one else. It is not as if the culminating act interfered
with the person or property of others.. We sit to review the
action of the officer from the same standpoint which he was
bound to take, Although the case is now before a court, the
case itself is not changed, nor are the rules changed by which
it should be decided. It is for this court to say merely
whether his decision was right or wrong. We think he did not
err in treating the act as valid. When some case shall arise in
which rights of person or property must be affected by the de-

LAUREL OIL CO. v. MORRISON.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

cision it will become necessary to consider the question now attempted to be raised; but to pass upon it now would be to decide a question of theory alone, and this is not the province of
a court." 27 App. D. C. 530, 532.
In the light of the various details of the act of February 20,
1905, and of the specific provisions of § 9, we were of opinion
that proceedings under the act were governed by the same rules
of practice and procedure as in the instance of patents, and the
writ of error was accordingly dismissed. The same result must
follow in the present case.
Under § 4914 of the Revised Statutes no opinion or decision
of the Court of Appeals on appeal from the Commissioner precludes "any person interested from the right to contest the
validity of such patent in any court wherein the same may be
called in question," and by § 4915 a remedy by bill in equity is
given where a patent is refused, and we regard these provisions
as applicable in trade-mark cases under § 9 of the act of February 20, 1905.
Appeal and writ of error dismissed.

LAUREL OIL AND GAS COMPANY v. MORRISON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 198.

Argued October 14, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where a statute provides for an appeal or a.writ of error to a specific
court it must be regarded as a repeal of any previous statute providing
for an appeal or a writ of error to another court. Brown v. United
States, 171 U. S. 631.

Decisions of the Court of Appeals of the United States for the Indian
Territory are final except as made subject to review by some express
statutory provision.
The provisions in § 12 of the act of March 3, 1905, c. 1479, 33 Stat. 1081,
for appeals and writs of error from the United States courts in Indian

