414

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF LOUISIANA v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL 'FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 182.

Argded October 20, 21, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where diverse citizeiship exists complainant xnay assert in a suit in
the Circuit Court of the United States that rates fixed by ordinance
are so low as to be confiscatory under the Fourteenth Amendment or
unreasonable or unjust under the provisions of state law. Rates
fixed by the body having jurisdiction, after investigation based on
reports of -the corporation rendering the 'service, are prima /acie fair
and valid and the burden of proof is on the complainant attacking
them to show that they are confiscatory or unreasonable.
Where a public service' corporation raises more money in a particular
year than required for actual depreciation it cannot carry the excess
to capital for the purpose of estimating the amount on which it is
entitled to pay dividends in determining whether a rate is unconstitutional as confiscatory, and the onus of showing that this has not
been done is on complainant 'where the books show that such an excess has been collected.
Qure, and not decided, whether it would be entitled to dividends on
such excess if invested in extensions and additions.
While in some businesses where increased demand does not involve a
corresponding -increase in expense, increased profits may result from
decreased rates, this rule dbes not apply to a business, such as that of
a telephone company, where expenses are proportionately increased
with increased demand and service.
Although complainant failed to prove its case, the bill will, not be dismissed but a new trial ordered, as the rates have been in force and
the inquiry can be founded upon their actual effect.
156 Fed. Rep. 823, reversed.
THIS case comes here upon appeal by the railroad commis-

sion, which was defendant below, from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for ,he Eastern District of Louisiana,
enjoining the enforcement of certain rates prescribed by the

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. CUMBERLAND TEL..CO. 415
212 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

railroad commission of that State, f6r use by the appellee tele.phone company therein. The appellant was created under
art. 283 of the constitution of the State of Louisiana; and
art. 284 of that constitution authorizes it to adopt just and
reasonable rates, charges and regulations governing and regulating, among other corporations, those qperating the telephone
within the State. The commission has the power to examine
and compel the attendance of and to swear witnesses, and compel the production of books and papers, to take testimony under
commission and to punish for contempt, as fully as provided by
law for the District Courts.
. Article 285 of the constitution provides that if any corporation subject to the commission is dissatisfied with its decision "fixing or adopting any rate, . . . the corporation
thus dissatisfied may file a petition, setting forth the cause of
its objection, in a court of competent jurisdiction at the domicil
of the commission, against. said commission as defendant,
and either party to such action may appeal the case to the
Supreme Court of the State without regard to the amount involved,
By art. 286 it is provided, among other things, that "whenever any rate, order, charge, rule or regulation of the commission is contested in court, as provided for in art. 285 of this
constitution, no fine or penalty for disobedience thereto, or
disregard thereof, shall be incurred until after said contestation
shall have been finally decided by the courts, and then only for
acts subsequently committed."
Under these provisions of the constitution the railroad commission had been created and was in operation, and on or about
August 6, 1906, it established and promulgated certain rates for
the complainant to charge for its services within the State of
Louisiana, to take effect September 1, 1906. The complainant,
immediately after the' promulgation of the order and before
the time when it was to take effect, applied to the commission
for a rehearing before it, which was granted, but no evidence
was taken on such rehearing, and the commission subsequently

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Cae.

212 U. S.

reaffirmed the order and directed that it should take effect on
the twentieth of October, -1906. Thereupon the complainant
commenced this suit for the purpose of enjoining the enforcement of the rates established by the order, which is designated
as, Order No. 552.
In the bill filed by the complainant it was alleged that the
complainant was a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of thd State of Kentucky and a citizen and resident of
that State, and that the railroad commission of Louisiana was
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Lorlisiana and was a rdsident of that State and'of the
district in which suit was brought, viz., in the Eastern District
of Louisiana, Baton Rouge Division.
It was also alleged that prior to August 6, 1906, the complainant had in force and effect a tariff of rates between points
in the State of Louisiana, which had been promulgated and put
into effect by the railroad commission of that State; that such
rates were entirely fair and reasonable in so far as the public is
or was concerned, as under them subscribers were and are able
to use said service at a price which did not and does not afford
complainant a fair, just and reasonable compensation for its
services.

It was also averred that while such rates were in force the
commission, Without making any investigation and without
any evidence in regard to any of the facts necessary to reach a
determination, and without any effoit to obtain evidence in that
direction, made and promulgated, on the sixth of August, 1906,
the order known as Order No. 552, by which order it greatly
reduced the rates in existence up to that time, and the former
rates were thereby changed to the rates specified in the order,
which order was to become effective after the first of September, 1906.,
The complainant further averred that it had asked for a rehearing, which the -commission granted, and, thereafter, being
still without evidence or investigation. justifying 'the same,
the-commission reaffirmed the Order No. 552, and-declared that

LOUISIANA R_ R. COMM. v. CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. 417
212 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the same should become effective within ten days from the date
of the second order, which was dated October 10, 1906.
It was also further averred that the rates which preceded the
rates provided for in Order No. 552 were reasonable, just and
fair to the public and not in any wise excessive, and under
them complainant received for its services only a fair and reasonable return for' the services rendered; that under the tariff
of rates promulgated and sought to be enforced by the commission under Order No. 552 complainant would be required to
render the services therein described at an unreasonable, unjust
and unremunerative rate, which would not afford to it a reasonable return for the services rendered, and that it would thereby
b' deprived of its property without due process of law; that
said proposed tariff was unjust, unreasonable in itself, and was
not justified by any conditions, either concerning the services,
in question or by the financial or physical condition of complainant's property or affairs; that the orders of the commission
complained of were unjust, unfair and unreasonable and unwarranted, not only with regard to the tariff as a whole, but
with regard to .each particular rate charged by said tariff; and
that the tariff of rates, as a whole and in detail, constituted, for
the reasons already set forth, a taking of complainant's property without' due process of law and without compensation
being previously made, contrary to and in violation of ยง 1,
Art. XIV, of the Amendments of the Constitution of the United
States and in violation of certain (named) articles of the constitution of the State of Louisiana of the year'1898.
For answer the defendant denied that there was no inquiry
or proper investigation of thd subject-matter prior to the promulgation of Order No. 552 of the date of October 10, 1906;
it also denied that the rates established were unjust, unreasonable or improper, or that they would result in the taking of
complainant's property without due process of law. Testimony
was taken by depositions and upon the trial the court directed a
final decree enjoining the commission from putting the rates in
force as provided for in Order No. 552, and restraining the com-,
voL. ccxyi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

mission from instituting any suit against the complainant for
the recovery of any penalty by reason of complainant's failure
to put into effect' the rates in the order of the commission; and
it was further adjudged that the tariff of rates specified in the
order should be cancelled and declared to be null and void and
of no effect. An injunction was issued pursuant to the decree.
See opinion of Circuit Court, 156 Fed. Rep. 823.
Mr. E. Howard McCaleb, Jr., with whom Mr. Walter Guion,
Attorney General of the State of Louisiana, was on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. William L. Granbery for appellee.
MR. JUsTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinioh of the court.

The complainant herein is a citizen of the State of Kentucky,
while the -defendant .is a citizen of the State of 'Louisiana, and
a case of divere citizenship therefore appea;rs on the record.
The complainant is transacting its business in several States,
in a territory which is said to be four hundred miles wide and
one thousand miles long, beginning in Indiana and Illinois and
extending through the States of Kentucky, Tennessee, Mississippi and Louisiana to the Gulf of Mexico. Its capital, from the
695,
700. This
time of its~organization, to May, 1898, was $1j
capital was thereafter increased from time to time until February 1, 1907, from and after which it was $20;174,350, represented by stock issued from time to time, to that amount. This
includes the amount invested in Louisiana: The evidence in
the case shows that the company's affairs had been economically administered, and that its business had been conducted
in the State of Louisiana, ever since its entrance into that State,
with great care and economy; that the stock had not been
watered; that its capital was contributed in cash and every
economy possible had been practiced. Adverse criticism wag

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. 419
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

indulged in in the Circuit Court in regard to the price paid by
the complainant for the property of the Great Southern Telephone and Telegraph Company, the price being, as alleged, too
high, but the evidence is strongly to the contrary. And, again,'
the business that complainant is carrying on, the evidence
shows, is regarded as hazardous by those familiar with its
character, and as being still in an experimental stage with regard to the proper methods of operating, -and also as to appliances and other things necessary to the conduct of its business. The property is subject to great and rapid deterioration
from exposure to the weather and other causes. The profits in,
this kind of business are shown to be almost universally low.
The complainant's charges for -rates in Louisiana before the
promulgation of the Order No. 552 were also shown to be as low
as those of any of the companies in the country, and lower than
most of them. Out of more than a dozen companies, which
substantially cover the whole country, there is one which declares dividends of 7 per cent, others 6 per cent, 5 per cent, and
4 per cent, and some nothing, and some are bankrupt. The
dividends of complainant have not been declared on any artificial capitalization or watered stock. Complainant has declared dividends as the result of its business through all the
States, for the last few years; of 7 per cent. While it is contended by-the commission that from the returns made by the
complainant to it the complainant has realized upon its investment in Louisiana from 10 to 15, and even 20 per cent, yet on
the other hand the complainant asserts that the returns on its
investment in Louisian have been less than 6 per cent during
most of the time the complainant has been in the State; and
ending June 30, 1907. It is asserted that complainant had
expended in Louisiana up to June 30, '1906, $4,711,000.00,
in the purchase and construction of exchanges, and toll lines
which amount was still further increased by June 30, 1907, to
$5,394,154.43, and it is upon these totals that the percentage
of net income to. investment is made up.
The president of the company testified that unless things

OCTOBER TERM, 1908:
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

changed and it was permitted to charge the rates which had
been charged prior to the adoption of these rates which are now
in question, it would be unable to continue to pay 7 per cent,
and that the company would necessarily retrograde, and that
while the company had paid 7 per cent to its stockholders for
the past few years, it could not continue so to do if the rates in
question were adopted. That it did not, in fact, receive anything like 7 per cent upon its investment in Louisiana, and that
the average market for money in that State on good securities,
and much more certain than telephone stock, was at least 7 per
cent, and that there was no inducement to investors in the State
of Louisiana, or in the New Orleans money market, to invest
in stock in such a. company as that of the complainant, where
there was more risk and probably less return than in other investments which could be had in that city and State. This
evidence was not, in terms, contradicted, though other contentions are made by the appellants. The differences between
the parties as to the rate of the return upon the investment in
Louisiana arise from the different data taken by them upon
which to calculate the return, and will be referred to later. The
single question before us is as to the character of the rates provided in Order No. 552, whether such rates are confiscatory, or,
if there is any difference, whether the rates are only unreasonable, unjust and inadequate, although not confiscatory, and
therefore not in violation of the Federal Constitution. The
question under articles 284 and 285 of the constitution of
Louisiana, supra, even of the unreasonableness of the rates,
may be inquired into by a Federal court, by reason of the diverse citizenship of the parties to this suit, and the complainant is not confined to a state court upon this question.
Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 391. The
complainant comes into court on both grounds, asserting that
the rates are so low as to take its propefty in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, and also
that the rates are so low as to be unreasonable and unjust under
the above cited articles of the constitution of Louisiana.

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. 421
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Like any other case, the onus rests upon this complainant to
prove the existence of the fact it alleges, viz., that the rates are
so low as to be confiscatory, or at least unreasonable and unjuit.
The court below held that the rates actually established by the
commission were void, because, as was stated by the court,
those rates were not established upon investigation into the
question of their sufficiency, but by a merely arbitrary conjecture by the commission, not based on investigation or the
exercise of judgment and discretion, and the order promulgating
the establishment of the rates was, therefore, illegal and void,
and hence there was no presumption of the correctness of the
rates, such. as generally obtains in relation to rates adopted by
the legislature 'r a commission appointed by it. See Chicago,
Milwaukee &c.,Ry. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 173; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. $:. 123, 165.
We are of op i6h that the court below erred in its conclusion
that there was no presumption in favor of lthe validity of the
rates promulgated by. the Order No. 552. We think the evidence shows that these rates were really not adopted by arbitrary conjecture, nor does it show that they were based on no
investigation or without the exercise of judgment or discretion.
It seems there had been complaints as to the tariff of rates
under Which the complainant was. operating before the Order
No. 552 was made, and the commission had investigated these
complaints so far as to make a careful examination of the returns of complainant made to the commission. These returns.
showed generally the character and operation of the business of
complainant, its income, operating expenses -and investments
in Lbuisiana. The commission, after. examining them, issued
the order to show cause why its rates should not be decreased;
the commission on the final hearing on the return of the order
to show cause took into consideration both the statement presented by the complainant on the return of that order and also
the statements or returns previously filed by th ecompany. The
secretary to the commiesion stated that the items in these returns which had ,Tost weight in causing the commission to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

reach a conclusion that the rates then charged were unreasonable were the earnings and operating expenses and net earnings,
as shown by these reports made to the commission. These reports were annual, and were under oath. It appeared from the
evidence of the secretary that he was aware of the fact that the
taxing authorities adopted a basis of valuation on telephone
property which was not its full market value; that property of
this nature, like all other property, was not assessed in Louisiana at its actual value, but for.an appreciably less amount, and
the valuation as returned to and filed with the commission by
the complainant followed the yaluatipn placed upon its property by the taxing authorities, and that the witness therefore
knew that the valuation in these reports of the complainant's
property in the State of Louisiana was not its real value. He
also said that in fixing a schedule of rates the commission did
not adopt that valuation as a basis. The witness further stated
that the commission, in acting upon the question, was of opinion
that the proof showed that the company was making what the
commission considered were unreasonable earnings, and that
was shown by the annual reports made by it for the years 1904,
1905 and 1906, and the statement filed by the counsel for the
company on his return to the order to show cause. No proof
was offered to the commission in the presence of any one representing the complainant other than the statement of receipts
and disbursements contained in the reports mentioned.
Now it may be true that these returns did not contain all the
data upon which a very close and accurate judgment could be
based as to the rates that ought to be charged by complainant,
under all the circumstances. This is only saying the order may
have been erroneous or based upon insufficient evidence, which
is no more than saying that upon the investigation the commission may have come to a mistaken conclusion by reason of
erroneous' inferences from the evidence furnished by complainant's own returns, but that is far from showing that the
commission had by a merely arbitrary order promulgated certain rates without making the slightest effort to obtain any

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM.'v. CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. 423
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

knowledge whatever upon the subject. It did'not lose jurisdiction by reason of the' mistakes it may hav'e made, and as a
result the rates adopted 1were not merely arbitrary conjectures,
but based on reasons which, while they may have been insufficient, cannot be described as resulting in a decision wholly
without evidence to support it. The rates, therefore, promulgated 'must be regarded as prima facie fair and valid, or, in
other words, the onus was upon the complainant to show that
they were, what it asserts, confiscatory or unreasonable. The
court below did state in its opinion that the evidence established
that the complainant had not then earned under the tariff in
Order No. 488 (which existed prior to No. 552, and the rates
under which were higher than those under Order No. 552), as
much as 7 per cent on its Louisiana business, and it held that
'a profit of 7 per cent on the Louisiana business would be only a
fair return on a business of this character, and therefore any reduction of existing rates would be unreasonable and unjust.
If the conclusion of .the insufficiency of the prior rates were
justified it would probably be an answer to the claim of the commission that the reduced rates provided for in Order No. 552
were sufficient.
There are one or two facts, however, now to be taken into
consideration before the correctness of that conclusion can be
affirmed. In the course of the trial various questions were
argued as to the manner of conducting such a business as this,
with regard to extensions, earnings and disbursements, as well
as questions of depreciation of plant and how to treat the
amount collected therefor, and other questions of that nature.
Exactly how the money which resulted from the rates in actual
operation was used was not in all cases shown in detail, either
from the books or by oral. testimony. Something was left in
doubt and to conjecture. In the course of the opinion of the
Circuit Court the following was said:. "It is urged'bythe--commission that included in the Louisiana investment of complainant is a sum earned from Louisiana business, set aside in
the reserve fund and then used in extending the system in

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

212 U. S.

Louisiana, and now treated as a part of the Louisiana investment by the stockholders. This may be so to some extent-it
is certainly possible. But'it is impossible for me to determine,
from the figures in the record, to what extent, if at all, it is a
fact. Counsel for defendant have not themselves undertaken
to indicate what, even in round figures, they consider is the
sum thus earned in the business and reinvested in the business,
without having been distributed to the shareholders in dividends. It will be time to consider the legal results from such a
state of facts when it shall have been shown to exist in a definite
sum and not in a purely conjectural amount." And again:
"Counsel for the commission argued that the complainant's
property in Louisiana was not all paid for with complainant's
capital, but was partly paid for out of a surplus or reserve, or
depreciation fund, which was accumulated by complainant
from the receipts of its Louisiana business, and was then reinvested, not in repairs and maintenance, but in extensions and
additions to the property. This may be a fact, but it is not
shown to be a fact. The commission has power, if it wishes to
do so, to direct the books of complainant to be so kept as to
show such use of receipts. In the present state of the books
this seems to be impossible. And the floating debt of the complainant would seem to be much greater than any sum which
could possibly have been used from the reserve, or surplus, or
depreciation fund for extensions and additions, after paying
for maintenance and repairs."
If the onus rested upon the commission to show these facts
it is evident that the obligation has not been fulfilled, but it is
just here that the difficulty lies. It was obligatory upon the
complainant to show that no part of the money raised to pay
for depreciation was added to capital, upon which a return was
to be made to stockholders in the way of dividends for the
future. It cannot be left to conjecture, but the burden rests
with the complainant to show it. It certainly was not proper
for the complainant to take the money, or any portion of it,
which it received as a result of the rates under which it was

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. 425
212 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

operating, and so to use it, or any part of it, as to permit the
company to add it to its capital account, upon which it was
paying dividends to shareholders. If that were allowable, it
would be'-collecting money to pay for depreciation of the property, and, having collected it, to use it in another way, upon
which the complainant would obtain a return and distribute
it to its stockholders. That it was right to raise more -money
to pay for depreciation than was actually disbursed for the
particular year there can be no doubt, for a reserve is necessary
io any business of this kind, and so it might accumulate, but to
raise more than money enough for the purpose and"place the
balance to the credit of capital upon which to pay dividends
cannot be proper treatment. The court below said it was impossible to find out from the books how much of this had been
done, and ittreated the fact as one to be explained by the commission and not by the complainant. In other words, while
this fact was a material one the onus was placed upon the commission, and not the complainant, to show it. We think, on the
contrary, that the obligation was upon the complainant. Now,
although the books, it is said, do not show how much money
collected for depreciation has been, in fact, used to increase the
capital of the complainant upon which dividends were paid to
stockholders, yet still, even if the books do not show accurately,
or even at all, what disposition was made of these moneys, at
any rate the officers of the complainant must be able to make
,up some reasonable approximation of the amount, even if it be
impossible to state it with entire accuracy, and this duty rests
with the complainant, in order that it may discharge'the duty
devolving upon it to prove that the rates were not unreasonably
high under Order No. 488, or, in other words, that they were
unreasonably low under Order No. 552 It may be that the
sum, if any, thus used was not enough-to affect the claim that
the rates under discussion were unreasonably low. The evis
dence is insufficient to show clearly that which complainant is
under obligations to show. Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1;
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co. of New.York, 212 U. S.19. W,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

are not considering a case where there are surplus earnings after
providing for a depreciation fund, and the surplus is invested in
extensions and additions. We can deal with such a case when it
arises.
The evidence in this case applied generally to the actual
operation of complainant's business under rates in existence
prior to those contained in Order No. 552, and higher than those
contained in that order, and the evidence, as contended, showed
that even under those rates the profits were not unreasonably
high. It is not such a case, therefore, as looks only to the possible effects of the future enforcement of the rates claimed to be
too low. If higher rates have been in operation, and the result
has shown that they were only reasonable and fair rates, it
would in such a business as this follow, with considerable certainty, that with lower rates the profits would be decreased
and become unreasonably low. We say this because the evidence shows that in the case of telephone companies the general
result of a reduction of rates in some other kinds of business
does not 'always follow, namely, that there would be an increased demand, which could be supplied at a proportionately
less cost than the original business. Such, it is admitted, would
be the case generally in regard to water companies, gas companies, railroad companies, and perhaps some others, where the
rate is a reasonable one. For example, it is said that it would
cost no more, or certainly scarcely an appreciable amount more,
to haul a train of two cars both filled than it would to haul the
same train with both cars half filled, and if the reduction in
rates should result in filling the cars where previously they had
not been half filled, there might be an increased carriage at a
cost very little more than before, and probably an increased
profit. So, in the case of a water company, the reduced rate
might result in furnishing more water to consumers already
existing, and the increased cost of furnishing the same would be
infinitesimal, where there was a supply sufficiently large to fill
the demand. So, also, in furnishing gas at reduced rates, the
reduction in the rate would very probably result in increased

LOUISIANA R. R. COMM. v. CUMBERLAND TEL. CO. 427
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

consumption, not only in increased demands from more consumers, but also an increased consumption by consumers already existing, and the increased cost of furnishing the gas
would be nothing like in proportion to the increase in consumption. In these cases increased profits might be the result
of decreased rates. But with telephone companies, as shown
by the testimony of the president of the complainant, the reduction in toll rates does not bring an increased demand, except upon the condition of corresponding increase in expenses.
As an illustration the witness took a telegraph company which,
as he said, "employs one wire and can send several messages at
the same time over that one wire; it employs its own operators
to send the message, who consult each other's time and convenience in the handling of it, while the telephone company
has to employ two wires, the sender of the message is his own
operator, and the telephone operator simply fashions up the
facilities for him, and the customer sends his own message, and
becomes, therefore, his own operator, hence his convenience
and time must be consulted; we have to be ready, in other
words, with the operators and the appliances to suit the convenience of the customer, whereas in the telegraph business it
is just the other way; the customer brings in his message, and
when it suits the convenience of the company to employ its
operators and its apparatus to send it, they send the message."
The witness then gave further illustration in proof of his contention that the reduction of rates in the telephone business
does not increase the business without corresponding increase
in the expense.
We do not think this case is one where the bill should be dismissed, even without prejudice, for the reasons that we have
stated, that the inquiry has been founded upon the actual effect
of rates higher than those permitted under Order No. 552, and
therefore that it is not merely conjecture as to what the result
of such lower rates would be, the tendency of the evidence being
to the effect that the higher rates are still reasonable, and that
the lower rates would be unreasonably low. But the burden, as

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
212 U. S.

Syllabus.

we have said, rests with the complainant to prQve its case, and
it has not performed its obligation when this fact as to the disposition of the so-called depreciation fund is left so wholly in
doubt. What is the amount reserved for payments for depreciation? 'What, if any. of it, has been carried into capital?
How much of the floating debt would carry interest which
might be charged as against the amount of the depreciation
fund actually used for extensions and additions and charged
to capital? All these are questions not answered by the evidence in the case, and which should be made as clear as possible
before an attempt ought to be made to answer the question as
to rates. The whole case should, therefore, be opened, so that
both sides can, on a new trial, bring out all the material facts
upon which a decision can finally be based.
We, therefore, reverse the decree and direct a new trial.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, not having heard the argument, did not
take part in the decision of the case.

McDANIEL v. TRAYLOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT CqURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

โข

No. 70. Submitted January 12, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where a number of claims are so'tied together by combination or conspiracy as to make the. relief sought in regardthereto one claim, the
aggregate amount of such claims will be the test of jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court; but if the plaintiff fails to prove such combination
or conspiracy each. claim must' be regarded as separate, and, as to
those which are less than $2,000, the Circuit Court has not jurisdiction.

An attorney must bp the agent of all to bind all'; and a plaintiff charging a conspiracy between certain claimants and an administrator

