OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, 562, to the same effect.
We hold that upon the present record the plaintiff company
is to be taken as having purchased the bonds here in suit before maturity and for value, without notice of any circumstances indicating that their validity was or could be impeached;
consequently, the judgment in favor of the county in the suit
brought in the state court by Ball, Hutchings & Co. on some of
the coupons of the bonds now in suit-in which suit the present
plaintiff company was not a party and of which it is not shown
to have had-notice-does not preclude a judgment in its favor
against the county on the bonds.
For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

dissents.

MOYER v. PEABODY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 55.

Argued January 5, 6, 1909.-Decided January 18, 1909.

What is due process of law depends on circumstances, and varies with
the subject-matter and necessities of the situation.
An officer of a State interfering with an individual's rights in an unconstitutional manner derives no protection from personal liability on
account of -his office.

The declaration of the governor of a State that a state of insurrection
exists is conclusive.
Where the constitution and laws of a State give the governor power to
suppress insurrection by the National Guard, as is the case in Colorado, he may also seize and imprison those resisting, and is the final
judge of the necessity for such action; and when such an arrest is made

MOYER v. PEABODY.
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in good faith he cannot be subjected to an action therefor after he is
out of office on the ground that he had not reasonable cause.
Public danger warrants the substitution of executive for judicial process;
and the ordinary rights of individuals must yield to what the executive honestly deems the necessities of a critical moment.
Without deciding other questions as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, held that the declaration of plaintiff in error in this case against
the former governor of Colorado for arrest and detention during a
period of insurrection does not give the Circuit Court jurisdiction
"thereofunder § 629 or § 1979, Rev. Stat., as a suit authorized by law
brought to redress the deprivation of a constitutional right.
148 Fed. Rep. 870, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmund F. Richardson, with whom Mr. Horace N.
Hawkins was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction to
entertain a controversy, arising under § 1979, Rev. Stat., for
the infringement of a guaranty secured by the Fourteenth'
Amendment.
. An allegation in the complaint showing that one has been
deprived of the constitutional guaranty of liberty, without due
process of law, setting up and defining in his complaint what
constitutes due process of law in the state courts, coupled with
an averment that those state courts were in the untrammeled
exercise of their jurisdiction, except in so far as they were inter.fered with by the defendants themselves, gives to the Federal
courts a jurisdiction to determine whether or not the statement
of facts contained in the complaint is true, and if it is true, a
right and duty devolves upon those courts to remedy that
deprivation. Hemsley v. Meyer, 45 Fed. Rep. 283.
It is state action of a particular character that is prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment. Individual invasion of
individual rights is not the subject-matter of the amendment. It does not invest Congress with power to legislate
upon subjects which are within the domain of state legislation, but to provide modes of relief against state legislation or

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

state action of the kind referred to. Virginiav. Rives, 100 U. S.
313; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. 3; Ex parte Plessy, 45 La.
Ann. 80; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263; Hall v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Legrand v. United States, 12 Fed. Rep. .577;
Miller v. New York, 13 Blatchf. 469.
What these defendants did appears to have been done by
them as officers of the State. That action has met the sanction
of the majority opinion of the Supreme Court of the State. If
state action be obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment, the
Circuit Court has jurisdiction to uphold that Amendment and
to maintain the paramount law of the land, and the duty devolves upon it to declare what the Constitution means or to
follow the declarations already made by this court upon that
subject.
The defendants cannot be relieved from the consequences of
their wrongful acts by reason of their being, at the time, officers
of the State. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Ames v. Kansas,
111 U. S. 449, 470; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, 285;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, and cases there cited.
The action of the defendants in imprisoning Moyer under
the circumstances recited in the complaint was in violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment. See Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall.
2; Ex parte Merryman, 9 Am. L. R. 524; S. C., 17 Fed. Cas.
No. 9,487.
No officer can escape liability for causing the arrest and ;mprisonment of a civilian who is not amenable to military law.
The utmost-that he can do in a state of war is to arrest such
civilian and turn him over to the civil authorities, if the civil
authorities are in operation; if not, he must be turned over to
the civil authorities the minute that such authorities are in
operation, axid the first duty of the military is to see that the
civil authorities are placed in operation. McCall v. McDowell,
Deady, 233; McCall v. McDowell, 1 Abbott, 212; Ex parte
Merryman, Taney, 246; S. C., 9 Am. L. R. 524; S. C., 17 Fed.
Cas., No. 9,487; Cochran& Thompson v. Tucker, 3 Coldwell, 186;
Caperton v. Martin, 4 W. Va. 138; S. C., 6 Am. Rep. 270.

MOYER v. PEABODY.
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. Horace Phelps, with whom Mr. William H. Dickson,
Attorney General of the State of Colorado, and Mr. John M.
Waldron were on the brief, for defendants in error:
The judicial power of the United States does not extend to
this controversy. This is not a case arising under the Federal
Constitution nor under any law of the United States. United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; United States v. Harris,
106 U. S. 629; Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 334; Barney v.
City of New York, 193 U. S. 430, 437; St. L., I. M. & S. Ry.
Co. v. Davis, 132 Fed. Rep. 629, 639; City of Dawson v. Trust
Co., 197 U. S. 178; Hodges v. United States, 203 U. S. 1, 14, 15,
16; Carterv. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317; New Orleans v. Benjamin,
153 U. S. 411, 424.
.The amended complaint does not state a cause of action.
The acts complained of were done by-the defendants as officials,
in pursuance of their duty to the State, and well within their
lawful powers. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 45, 46; 2 Hare,
American Constitutional Law, p. 969; Griffin v. Wilcox, 21
Indiana, 370, 38Q; In re Boyle, 6 Idaho, 609; Houston v. Moore,
5 Wheat. 1, 54; Sutherland, Notes on the United States Constitution, pp. 202, 458.
The questions sought to be litigated in this case are purely
political, and Federal courts are not clothed by the Constitution or laws of the United States with any jurisdiction over
such questions. Black on the Constitution, pp. 64, 85, 86;
1 Bryce on American Constitution, p. 262; Phillips v. Hatch, 1
Dillon, 571; Keeley v. Sanders, 99 U. S. 441; In re Moyer, 35
Colorado, 159.
The Governor of Colorado had power to determine the existence of a state of insurrection in a given locality in the State,
and, as an incident thereto, the power to determine what persons within the insurrectionary district are to be treated as
aiders or abettors of such insurrection. This has been determined by the Supreme Court of Colorado, and this construetion is binding upon the Federal courts. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187
U. S. 71; Reetz v. Michigan,188 U. S. 505; Murray v. Louisiana,
VOL. ccxII-Q

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

163 U. S. 101; 1 Kent's Commentaries, p. 283; Story on the
Constitution, § 1491.
No invasion of any right under the Federal Constitution is
shown. Neither the arrest of plaintiff in error nor the adjudi
cation of the lawfulness thereof by the Supreme Court of Colorado constituted an infringement of any guaranty of the Federal Constitution. Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11;
United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. 8. 253, 263; ClearingHouse v.
Coyne, 194 U. S. 497; In re Bergen, 2 Hughes, 513.
MR.

JUSTICE

HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action, brought by the plaintiff in error against
the former Governor of the State of Colorado, the former Adjutant General of the National Guard of the same State, and a
captain of a company of the National Guard, for an imprisonment of the plaintiff by them while in office. The complaint
was dismissed on demurrer, and the case comes here on a certificate that the demurrer was sustained solely on the ground
that there was no jurisdiction in the Circuit Court. 148 Fed.
Rep. 870.
The complaint alleges that the imprisonment was continued
from the morning of March 30, 1904, to the afternoon of June 15,
and that the defendants justified under the constitution of
Colorado making the Governor commander-in-chief of the state
forces, and giving him power to call them out-to-execute laws,
suppress insurrection and repel invasion. It alleges that his
imprisonment was without probable cause, that no complaint
was filed against 6he plaintiff, and that (in that sense) he was
prevented from having access to the courts of the State, although they were open during the whole time; but it sets out.
proceedings, on habeas corpus, instituted by him before the Supreme Court of the State, in which that court refused to admit
him to bail and ultimately discharged the writ. In re Moyer,
35 Colorado, 154 and 1%59. In tjose proceedings it appeared
that the Governor had declared a county to .be in a state of insurrection, had called out troops to put down the trouble, and

MOYER v. PEABODY.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had ordered that the plaintiff should be arrested as a leader of
the outbreak, and should be detained until he could be discharged with safety, and that then he should be delivered to the
civil authorities to be dealt with according to law.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, if it exists, is under Rev.
Stat. § 629, Sixteenth. That clause gives original jurisdiction
"of all suits authorized by law to be brought by any person to
redress the deprivation, under color of any law, -statute, ordi-.
nance, regulation, custom, or usage of any State, of any right,
privilege, or immunity, secured by the Constitution of the
United States, or of any right secured by any law providing for
equal rights of citizens of the United States, or of all persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States." The complaint
purports to be founded upon the Constitution and on Rev.
Stat. § 1979, which authorizes suit tobe brought for such deprivation as above described. Therefore the question whether
the complaint states a case upon the merits under § 1979 in this
instance is another aspect of the question whether it states a
case within the jurisdiction of the court under § 629, cl. 16.
Taken either way, the question is whether this is a suit authorized by law, that is, by § 1979, or the Constitution, or both.
The plaintiff's position, stated in a few words, is that the action of the Governor, sanctioned to the extent that it was by
the decision of the Supreme Court, was the action of the State
and therefore within the Fourteenth Amendment; but that if
that action was unconstitutional the Governor got no protection from personal liability for his unconstitutional interference
with the plaintiff's rights. It is admitted, as it must be, that
the Governor's declaration that a state of insurrection existed
is conclusive of that fact. It seems to be admitted'also that the
arrest alone would not necessarily have given a right to bring
this suit. Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 45, 46. But it is said
that a detention for so many days, alleged to. be without probable cause, at a time when the courts were open, without an
attempt to bring the plaintiff before them, makes a case on
which he has a right to have a jury pass.

O',TOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

We shall not consider all of the questions that the facts suggest, but shall confine ourselves to stating what we regard as a
sufficient answer to the complaint, without implying that there
are not others equally good. Of course the plaintiff's position is
that he has been deprived of his liberty without due process of
law. But it is familiar that what is due process of law depends
on circumstances. It varies with the subject-matter and the
necessities of the situation. Thus summary proceedings suffice
'for taxes, and executive decisions for exclusion from the country. Murray v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How.
272; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 263. What, then,
are the circumstances of this case? By agreement the record
of the proceedings upon habeas corpus was made part of the
complaint, but that did not make the averments of the petition"
for the writ averments of the complaint. The facts that we are
to assume are that a state of insurrection existed and that the
Governor, without sufficient reason but in good faith, in the
course of putting the insurrection down held the plaintiff until
he thought that he safely could release him.
It would seem to be admitted by the plaintiff that he was
president of the Western Federation of Miners, and that, whoever was to blame, trouble was apprehended with the members
of that organization. We mention these facts not as material,
but simply to put in more definite form the nature of the occasion on which the Governor felt called upon to act. In such
a situation we must assume that he had a right under the state
constitution and laws to call out troops, as was held by the
.Supreme Court of the State. The constitution is supplemented
by an act providing that "when an invasion of or insurrection
in the State is made or threatened the Governor shall order the
National Guard to repel or suppress the same." Laws of 1897,
c. 63, Art. 7, § 2, p. 204. That means that he shall make the
ordinary use of the soldiers to that end; that he may kill persons who resist and, of course, that he may use the milder
measure of seizing the bodies of those whom he considers to
stand in the way of restoring peace. Such arrests are not neo-

MOYER v. PEABODY.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

essarily for punishment, but are by way of precaution to prevent the exercise of hostile power. So long as such arrests are
made in good faith and in the honest belief that they are needed
in order to head the insurrection off, the Governor is the final
judge and cannot be subjected to an action after he is out of
office on the ground that he had not reasonable ground for his
belief. If we suppose a Governor viith a very long term of
office, it may be that a case co-!d be imagined in which the
length of the imprisonment would raise a different question.
But there is nothing in the duration of the plaintiff's detention
or in the allegations of the complaint that would warrant submitting the judgment of the Governor to revision by a jury.
It is not alleged that-his judgment was not honest, if that be
material, or that the plaintiff was detained after fears of the
insurrection were at an end.
No doubt there are cases where the expert on the spot may be
called upon to justify his conduct later in court, notwithstanding the fact that he had sole command at the time and acted to
the best of his knowledge. That is the position of the captain
of a ship. But even in that case great weight is given to his
determination and the matter is to be judged on the facts as
they appeared then and not merely in the light of the event.
Lawrence v. Mintirn, 17 How. 100 110; The Star of Hope, 9
Wall. 203; The Germanic, 196 U. S. 589, 594, 595. When it
comes to a decision by the head of the State upon a matter
involving its life, the ordinary rights of individuals must yield
to what he deems the necessities of the moment. Public danger warrants the substitution of executive process for judicial
process. See Keely v. Sanders, 99 U. S. 441, 446. This was admitted with regard to killing men in the actual clash of arms,
and we think it obvious, although it was disputed, that the same
is true of temporary detention to prevent apprehended harm.
As no one would deny that there was immunity for ordering a
company to fire upon a mob in insurrection, and that a st ce
law authorizing the Governor to deprive citizens of life ander
such circumstances was consistent with the Fourteenth Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus..

212 U. S.

ment, we are of opinion that the same is true of a law authorizing by implication what was done in this case. As we have
said already, it is unnecessary to consider whether there are
other reasons why the Circuit Court was right in its conclusion.
It is enough that in our opinion the declaration does not disclose a "suit authorized by law to be br6ught to redress the
deprivation of any right secured by the Constitution of the
United States." See Dow v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 158.
Judgment affirmed.
M,1. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of this case.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. STATE OF TEXAS
(NO. 1).
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 359.

Argued November 2, 3, 1908.-Decided January 18, 1909..

The jurisdiction of this court, under § 709 Rev. Stat., to review 'the
proceedings of state courts is limited to specific instances of denials
of Federal rights specially set up in and denied by the state court.
This court does not: review, but accepts as conclusive the findings of
factl made by the state court.
Although the state court may incorrectly charge as to certain provisions
of a statute if the jury finds that defendant has violated those provisions and also other provisions not involving any Federal question,
and only one penalty is assessed, the judgment rests on a non-Federal
ground sufficient to 'sustain it, and this court has not jurisdiction to
review it under § 709 Rev. Stat.
Although an agreement to violate the anti-trust law of a State may be
made outside of the State, if the parties thereto or their agents execute it, or attempt so to do, within the State, they are under the
jurisdiction of the State and their conviction for such acts is not
without due process of law.

