BAGLEY v. GENPRAL FIRE EXTINGUISHER CO. 477
212

U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

The Brothers, 2 Biss. 104. See S. C., on appeal, Fed. Cas.
No. 9322; Peshtigo, 25 Fed.'Rep. 488.

We answer the question in the first case, No. 87: Equally.
We answer the question in the second case: Equally, the
offending vessel or vessels of .the libellant bearing their proportion of the loss.

BAGLEY v. GENERAL FIRE EXTINGUISHER COMPANY.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 96. Argued Janiuary 27, 1909.-Decided February

23,.1909.-

While the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final under act
of March.3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, 828, where diverse citizenship
exists, if the application of the Constitution of the United States is'
also invoked in the complaint, SpreckelsSugarRefining Co. v. McClain,
192 U. S. 397, the judgment is final'if the constitutional right is raised
for the first time on the trial.
In a suit where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is based on diversity
of citizenship a recital in the petition that a judgment was rendered
in another State does not amount to asserting the constitutional
right that full faith and credit be given thereto so as to deprive the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals of its finality.
The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution doe's riot give any
force to a~judgment against a stranger; and a decision that a defendant 'is not estopped by a judgment by reason of notice given to him
to defend does"not amount', even if wrong, to a refusal to.give effect
to the judgment :witlhih the meaning.of the full faith and credit clause
of the Constitution.
Writ of error-to review 150 Fed.. Rep' 284, dismissed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry B. 'Closson for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Peter B. Oiney for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JusTIcE

212 U. S.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for damage caused by the melting on a hot
day of fusible sprinkler heads in an automatic sprinkler put up
in the plaintiff's building by the defendant for protection
against fire. The complaint alleges, diversity of citizenship,
negligence on the part of the defendant, injury to goods of two
tenants in the*building, suits by or in.the right of the tenants
against the plaintiff, which the plaintiff notified the defendant
,to defend, the recovery of judgments, one of which was affirmed by the Supreme Courf of Michigan, Peerless Manufacturing Co. v. Ba&ly 126 Michigan, 225, and payment of the
same by the plaintiff,, who seeks to recover the sums paid, interest, and the costs of defense. The answer denies many of
the material allegations, and relies'upon the terms of the written contract under which the work was done, alleging 'the same
to have been peiformed and the -work accepted. The contract
*required" the material-to be first class, and all work sliecified to
be done in a thorough and workmanlike manner, and in conformity with the Iinproved Risks Commission standard for
automatic sprinkler installations. It also contained this clause:
"It is explicitly understood and agreed that no obligations
other than herein set forth and made a part of this proposal
and acceptance shall be binding upon either party." The case
was sent to a.referee, and he found that the obligations of
the agreement were fulfilled, that contrary to rulings asked by
the plaintiff the Michigan judgment did not determine that the
defendant was negligent, or bind it, and that the defendant
was entitled to judgment. Upon the referee's findings the com.plaint was dismissed on the merits by the Circuit Court, and
the judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
150 Fed.-Rep. 284.
The first question that arises is whether this court has jurisdiction, and upon that we re of opinion that the plaintiff's
argument fails. When the jurisdiction below depends entirely
upon diversity of citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court

BAGLEY v. GENERAL FIRE EXTINGUISHER CO. 479
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Appeals is final, by the express terms of the Act of March 3,
1891, c. 517, ยง 6. 26 Stat. 826, 828. This, of course, is not
denied, but it is said that this section does not exclude a resort
to this court when the complaint also invokes the application
of the Constitution of the United States. Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397. It is urged that if an
exception is made to the universality of the words when the
constitutional question is disclosed in the complaint, it is unreasonable not to extend it sufficiently to include cases where
the same question is raised at the -trial, as it was in the present
instance, and where the matter might have been'brought at
once from the Circuit Court to this court. Loeb v. Trustees of
Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472. But the difference is plain.
When the constitutional right is claimed in the complaint, the
jurisdiction does nbt depend entirely upon diversity of citizenship, and the exception is not read into the words, but is expressed by the act. When the question is raised at the trial
for the first time the case cannot be taken up from the Circuit
Court of Appeals without-a direct disregard of the words. The
difference is pointed out in both of the cases to which we have
referred. Walsh v. Columbus &c. Railroad Co., 176 U. S. 479;
Spreckels Sugar.Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, 409,
410. See also .Huguley Manufacturing Co. v. Galeton Cotton
Mills, 184.U. S. 290, 295; American Sugar Refining Co. v. New
Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, 282.
Failing the foregoing argument, it is contended that the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Cout did not depend entirely on the
diverse citizenship of the parties. In other words, it is contended that the complaint sufficiently invoked Art. IV, ยง 1, of
the Constitution; by alleging the Michigan judgment, and the
fact that in those cases it was averred and adjudged that one of
the sprinkleF heads was negligently and improperly made of

such material as to fuse at too low a temperature, and that the
sprinkler and pipes were negligently and improperly erected
and placed. But in the complaint there is no intimation, direct
or indirect, of a reliance upon the Constitution. On the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

trary, instead of simply setting forth the defendant's contract,
the suits notice to the defendant to defend, and the judgments,
and thus at least implying that for some reason those judgments
were supposed to establish the defendant's liability, it is most
elaborately alleged, seemingly as issuable matter, that the defendant was negligent in its work and did not do what it had
agreed to perform. The judgments seem on the face of the complaint to be referred to primarily, if not solely, as fixing the
amount of the plaintiff's claim. See further Provident Savings
Life Assurance Co. v. Ford, 114 U. S. 635; Pope v. Louisville,
New Albany & Chicago Ry. Co., 173 U. S.573,'580.
But if the ,plaintiff had set forth in. so many words that he
came into court relying upon full faith and credit being given
to the Michigan judgment under the Constitution, still, on the
face of the complaint, it would have been obvious that the Constitution was not the basis of his claim, as it is obvious, on
-reading the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, that full
faith and credit to-the Michigan judgment has not been denied.
The defendant was no party to that-judgment, and there is
nothing in the Constitution to give it any force as against
strangers. If the judgment binds the defendant it is not by its
own operation, even with the Constitution behind it, but by an
estoppel arising out of the defendant's contract with the plaintiff and the notice to defend. The ground of decision in. both
courts below was that there was no such estoppel, the duty and
responsibility of.the defendant being limited by the words*that
we have quoted from the contract, excluding any obligation
other than those set forth. The decision, in other words, turned
wholly on the construction of the contract as excluding a liability over in the event that happened. Even if wrong, it did
not deny the Michigan judgments their full effect, but denied
the preliminary relation between the defendant and the party
to them, without which the defendant remained a stranger to
them, in spite of the notice to defend.
Writ of error dismissed.

