OCTOBER TERM, 190,3.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

NEW YORK CENTRAL AND HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES (NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF'NEW YORK.
.No. 69.

Argued December 14, 15, 16, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

New York Central R. R. Co. V. United States, ante, p. 481, followed as to
constitutionality of the Elkins act of February 19, 1903, c. 708, 32
Stat. 847, and as to when offenses of giving rebates in violation of
the Interstate Commerce act are complete.
The Elkins act applies to rebates paid after it went into effect although
paid in pursuance of an agreement, and on shipments, made prior to
that date, the agreement being illegal when made.
An indictment which definitely sets forth the elements of the offense of
which it was intended to charge the acctised is sufficient; and in this
court only substantial defects in the indictment are available to reverse a judgment of conviction. Connors v. United States, 158 U. S.
408.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Austen G. Fox and Mr. John D. Lindsay, with whom'Mr.
Albert H. Harriswas on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry L. Stimson, with whom The Attorney General and
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ellis were on the brief, for defendant in error,
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was argued and submitted with No. 57, just decided. In the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southem District of New York the plaintiff in error was convicted
by the verdict of a jury, and sentenced under the Elkins act,
32 Stat. 847, to pay a fine of $18,000. The indictment consisted of .two counts. The first charges the establishment and

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. v. UNITED STATES (NO. 2). 501
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

publication of the tariff rate upon sugar over the line of the
plaintiff in error and other railroads, from the city of New York
to the city of Cleveland, Ohio, at the rate of 21'cents per hundred pounds; that on November 20, 1902, the railroad company
entered into an unlawful agreement with the shipper, the American Sugar Refining Company, whereby its sugar should be
shipped over said lines, and the lawful tariff being paid thereon
the railroad company would give a rebate to the shipper of 6
cents for each hundred pounds of sugar transported to Cleveland, Ohio, for reconsignment to points beyond, and a rebate of
4 cents for each one hundred pounds transported to Cleveland
for'local delivery: The agreement further stipulated that the
shipper should present its claim for rebate under the agreement aforesaid, and the same should be paid by the railroad
company, thereby reducing the published tariff by 6 cents, .or
4 cents for each hundred pounds of, sugar, according. to the
destination thereof. The carriage of sugar under the arrangemen't, was charged, payment of the published tariff rates, -and
the presentation of claims for rebates is also alleged, and it is
charged that on April 3, 1903, the railroad company paid to
the American Sugar Refining Company $26,141.81 by way of
rebate in respect of the transportation of sugar under the agreement.
The second couit is substantially the same as the first, except the allegation of the preliminary arrangement to pay the
rebates is omitted. The record discloses that the plaintiff in
.-error and other railroad companies, during the time covered in
the indictment, had' established and -were operating a fast
freight line from the city of New York to the city of Cleveland;
that the published rate for the transpotation of sugar over
said route from New York to Cleveland -was 21 cents per hundred pounds; that Nathan Guilford and Fred L. Pomeroy, the
general- freight traffic manager and the-assistant freight traffic
manager, respectively; of the defendant were iuthorized to establish rates at which freight was to be carried, and to unite
with other companies in establishing, filing and pdblishinga list

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

of through rates. The record also discloses that the American
Sugar Refining Company was a New Jersey corporation engaged in refining sugar in Brooklyn and Jersey City; that it
made large shipments to Cleveland as well as to other parts of
the country; that the sales department of the company, which
routed the sugar sold to different parts of the country and
transported over different railroads, acted according to instructions received from one Lowell M. Palmer, who was in charge
of the handling of the railroad business of the company, and
furnished the sales department with freight.rates and arrangement of routes for the shipments. It also appears that on the
twenty-fourth day of July, 1902, with an assistant named Riley,
Palmer met Pomeroy at his office, and a memorandum was
thereupon made evidencing an agreement between the parties
as follows:
"Memorandum made July 24, 1902.
"Present-.
"Mr. L. M. Palmer, Mr. T. P. Riley, Mr. F. L. Pomeroy.
"Sugar shipments to Cleveland and beyond:
"1st. Shipments to be billed from New York regular tariff
rate 21 cents per 100 pounds.
"2d. Mr. L. M. Palmer to be allowed as lighterage in regular
monthly settlements 44 cents per 100 pounds.
"3d. Mr. L. M. Palmer to present no claims for cartage or
transfer on sugar consigned under the arrangement to the American Sugar Refining Company, Merwin Street, Cleveland.
"4th. The New York Central to make reclamation against
Mr. L. M. Palmer for a refund of 1* cents per 100 pounds, account lighterage allowed him in regular billing. This amount
to be handed to the New York Central by Mr. L. M. Palmer in
cash.
"5th. Mr. L. M. Palmer to make a special claim under personal cover to F. L. Pomeroy against the New York Central
for overcharge on such shipments of sugar to Cleveland as are
covered by the first clause of this memorandum on the basis of
6 cents per 100 pounds.

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. V UNITED STATES (NO.'2). 503
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"6th. This arrangement to apply to all sugar billed to Merwin Street Warehouse,, whether delivered locally in Cleveland
or reconsigned beyond Cleveland. The question of exactly
what the net basis is to be on shipments under this arrangement delivered locally in Cleveland to remain in abeyance until
Mr. Guilford's return for submission to him as to his understanding of the arrangement. In any event the difference in
the rate between sugar delivered locally and reconsigned not to
exceed 2 cents per 100 pounds."
Afterwards, by an exchange of letters between Palmer and
Guilford, 4 cents a hundred pounds was fixed as the rebate to,
be allowed on sugars delivered 'in thte city of Cleveland, and 6
cents upon shipments reconsigned beyond the city of Cleveland.
.Between July 24, 1902, and -December 6, 1902, the American
Sugar Refining Company shipped a large amount of sugar from
New York to Cleveland, paying thereon the full tariff rate of 21
cents per one hundred pounds. Thereafter claims were. made
up under the direction of Palmer against the New York Central
and Hudson River Railroad Company, purporting to be for
overcharges, and which were made upon the basis agreed upon
in the memorandum aforesaid, and no evidence was introduced
in the case- showing that these rebates had any legitimate
ground to rest upon. These claims were allowed and paid as
hereinafter stated.
Objections as to the constitutionality of the Elkins act were
made in this case, and as they are disposed of in the opinion
announced in No. 57, just decided, the conclusions therein
stated need not be repeated. The point- principally urged for a
reversal of the judgment in this case turns upon the construction of the Elkins act, having reference to the fact that the
property concerning which the agreement for a rebate was
made was transported prior to the taking effect of the Elkins
act, February 19, 1903. In this case the agreement was -made
July 24, 1902, and the goods were actually transported before
the act went into effect. The payment of the rebate was made
on April 2, 1903, after the act went into effect. As we have

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

already had occasion to hold in No. 57, ante, where the legal
tariff rate was, in fact, paid by the shipper to the carrier, the
rebating was not complete until the money was actually refunded. The legal and published rate was the one which the
carrier was obliged to pay, and no arrangement for any different rate could have been enforced at any time against the carrier. Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Gulf
Railroad Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S.98.
Before considering the terms of the Elkins act it is to be noted
that the arrangement for the rebate was an illegal act, for which
the agents of the carrier might have been criminally punished
in accordance with the terms of the Interstate Commerce act
then in force. Sections 6 and 10, 25 Stat. 855. The Elkins act
amended the former law by providing punishment in criminal
proceedings against the corporation as well as its agents for the
offense of making illegal rebates from the published tariff rates.
There was then no vested right in the shipper or the carrier to
have the illegal agreement consummated by the payment of
the rebate arranged for. In this attitude and with the purpose
of making the law more effectual it was amended by the Elkins
act so as. to bring corporations within the provisions of the law
and to make offenses under it punishable by criminal proceedings against corporations.
The Elkins act provides:*
"And it shall be unlawful for any person, persons, or corporations to offer, grant or give, or to solicit, accept or receive any
rebate, concession or discrimination in respect of the transportation of Ahy property in interstate or foreign commence by
any common carrier subject to said act to regulate commerce
and the acts amendatory thereof, whereby any such property
shall by any device whatever be transported at a less rate than
that named'in the tariffs published and filed by such carriers.as
is required by said act to regulate commerce and the acts amendatory thereto, or whereby any other advantage is given or discrimination practiced." C. 708, 32 Stat. 847.
It is the contention of the plaintiff in error that the language

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. o..UNITED STATES (NO. 2). 505
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of this statute addresses itself to the future, and it asks the application of the well-known rule that statutes are presumed to
be prospective in their operation, and contends that this act
has no, reference to property transported in interstate commerce at less than the published rates at any time before the
act went into effect. Reading the latter part of the sentence,
"whereby any such property shall by any device whatever be
transported at a less rate,'" etc., the act would seem to have
reference to future transportations only. But in an earlier part
of the same sentence it has been provided that it shall be unlawful to offer, grant, or give, to solicit, accept or receive any
rebate in respect to property in interstate commerce, transportation "whereby any such property shall be transported at a
less rate than that named jn the tariffs," etc. Taking the sentence altogether it is apparent, that its purpose is to punish
the giving of a rebate, in respect of transportation of property in interstate commerce, which shall have the effect to
give or receive such transportation at less, than the published
ratesManifestly the act does Inot refer alone to the transportation
of the property, although that is an essential element of the
offense, but the thing aimed at is the giving or receiving of a
rebate whereby the property shall be transported at less than
the rates named in the published tariffs. It is the transaction
of giving or receiving the rebate, etc., with the effect that the
goods of the- shipper thus preferred shall be transported at a
reduction from the. published rates, which is penalized..
As we have had occasion to say in No. 57, ante, the giving of
the rebate is complete and the offense committed when a part
of the legal rate already paid has been refunded. The word
shall refers to the happening of the event-the giving of the
illegal rebate-and was'not introduced into the statute for the
purpose of making future transportation illegal. No new legislation was required to make transportation under such an agreement illegal. The object of the statute was to punish rebates
given or received after the passage of the act in respect of prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the-Court.

212 U. S.

erty, the subject of interstate transportation, and to make the
carrier corporation criminally liable therefor.
We think that the Circuit Court was right in holding that
this section of the law applied to the rebate paid in April, 1903,
after the taking effect of the Elkins act:
Objections were taken to the indictment, but we think that
it sets forth with sufficient definiteness the elements of the
offense of which it was intended to charge the plaintiff in error.
At- this stage of the proceedings only substantial defects in the
indictment are available to reverse the judgment of conviction.
Connors v. United States, 158 U. S. 408, 411.
Error is alleged to have been committed in what the court
said to the jury upon their return into court after the charge.
The record upon this gubject is as follows:
"The court thereupon charged the jury further as follows:
"Gentlemen, I have received this paper from the foreman of
the jury: 'Does the payment of rebate after the passage of the
Elkins act on shipments made before the passage of the act
constitute a crime under the law?'
"To that I reply that ii, does, provided the payment :.as
made with a criminal intent. That criminal inteht does not
mean with any wicked intent. The payment of rebates is not
morally a crime. It was made a misdemeanor by statutes, and
if a corporation or officer of a corporation pays a rebate with an
intent thereby to make the.payment in violation of the provisions of the statute prohibiting it, he does it with a criminal
intent.
"There are three provisions in this act under either one of
which, if you find that the evidence supports the charge, you
may :convict. If you find upon the evidenice in this case that
Mr. Guilford or Mr. Pomeroy was guilty of charging, demanding, collecting or receiving from the American Sugar Company
a less compensation for the transportation of the sugar men-.
tioned in the indictment thai the rate specified in the schedule
filed with the commission, you may find the defendant guilty.
"Under another provision of this act if you find that this

NEW YORK CENT. R. R. v.UNITED STATES (NO. 2). 507
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant has, been guilty of a wilful failure to strictly observe
the tariff filed specifying the rates for the transportation of
sugar, you may find them guilty. Or, if you find that this corporation has offered, granted or given any rebate concession or
discrimination upon the property transported in this case,
'whereby any such property- shall by any device whatever be
transported at a less rate than is fixed in the schedule,' you may
find the defendant guilty, provided in each of these cases you
find the criminal intent when the act was done, by which is
meant an intention to do an act which violates this law. You
may retire, gentlemen.
"Mr. LINDSAY: I would like to call your honorls attention to
the fact that you instructed the jury they might find the defendant guilty if they 'offered.' There is no charge in this indictment of offering.
"The COURT: I did not say offer, I think.
"Mr. LINDSAY: .Your honor used the word offer.
"The COURT: I withdraw that expression if I used it. I did
not intend to use it.
"Mr. LINDSAY: I also ask your honor in this connection to
charge as this indictment is framed under the Elkins law they
cannot convict the defendant upon this indictment for anything
which transpired before the going into effect of the Elkins act.
"The COURT: Undoubtedly the payment of the rebate must
have taken place after the passage of the act. The fact that the
property was transported before the passage of the act does not
bar a conviction in this case."
It is 'contended that the -effect of this charge was to permit
the defendant to be convicted of violating the act of 1887 as
amended in 1889, 25 Stat. 855, while the charge in the indictment, framed under the Elkins act, was intended to reach an
offense committed. after it went into effect, and to cover the
unlawful rebate alleged to have been paid in April, 1903, after
the taking effect of that act. But we think this part of the record should be read in connection with the charge of the court
Sto the jury, in which the court gave a history of the previous

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

act to regulate commerce, under ยง 6 'of which it is provided,
that "it shall be unlawful for such common carrier to charge,
demand, collect or receive from any person or persons a greater
or less compensation for the transportation of persons or property, or for any services in connection therewith, between any
points as to which a. jointrate, fqre or charge is named thereon
than is specified in the schedule filed with the commission in
force at the time," and referred in that connection to the amendatory character of the Elkins act and the provisions thereof
making the act, omission or failure of the officer, agent, etc.,
within the scope of his employment, the act, omission or failure
of the carrier as well as such person. This part of the charge
was apparently by way of introduction to the charge covering
the specific requirements of the Elkins act. The judge in his
charge summarized and commented upon the facts proved or
admitted in the case, and in concluding said:
"Now, gentlemen, no evidence has been offered on behalf of
the defendant in the case,'and I understand from the argument
of counsel that the defendant's defense in the case is the denial
of any criminal intent. Gentlemen, intent is essential to the
establishment of any charge of crime. Of course there may be
legitimate overcharges; there may be repayments for money
paid to a railroad company that are perfectly innocent and
proper. Very frequently it occurs that some error or mistake
or claim of injury arises when goods are being shipped, and that
sort of thiiig gives rise to reclamation and claims of that sort,
and the question for you to decide in this case is what was the
intent with which that check for $26,000 and odd was ,paid?
Was it paid as a pure rebate as described in this Elkins act and
in the Interstate Commerce act, or was it paid for some legitimate and proper overcharge or cause? That is the simple question in this case for you to determine, and that question I leave
for yoqu to pass upon on the consideration of all the evidence in
.the case."
This charge, taken in connection with what occurred when
the jury returned, and the colloquy which followed between

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO.
212 U. S.

509

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

court and counsel, does not, we think, leave in doubt that the
court submitted to the jury as a basis of conviction only the actswhich occurred after the passage of the Elkins act. The acts
.amounting to a violation of that law Were specifically charged
in the indictment and 'admitted or proved at the trial.
The charge, taken together, submitted the question of the
intent of the defendant to do, through the acts of its agents
authorized by it,- the things denounced in the statute. The'
charge was as favorable as the plaintiff in error was entitled to,
andwe find no substantial error in the proceedings.

Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of the case.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK 'CENTRAL AND
HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE .CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STA'ES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 285. Argued December 16, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909..

Under the Elkins Law of February 19, 1903, c. 708, 32 Stat. 847, a
carrier can be prosecuted for the offense of rebating where it is a party

to,a joint rate although it has not filed or published the same.
While criminal statutes are not to be enlarged by construction, and a
crime must be clearly defined in its terms, they are to be reasonably
construed with a view to effecting the purpose of their enactment.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H ry L. Stimson, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Ellis was On the brief, fok plaintiff in error:
-The very method of rebating herein charged was prevalent
pnor to 1903;, waa called to the attention of Congress by the

