LAUREL OIL CO. v. MORRISON.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

cision it will become necessary to consider the question now attempted to be raised; but to pass upon it now would be to decide a question of theory alone, and this is not the province of
a court." 27 App. D. C. 530, 532.
In the light of the various details of the act of February 20,
1905, and of the specific provisions of § 9, we were of opinion
that proceedings under the act were governed by the same rules
of practice and procedure as in the instance of patents, and the
writ of error was accordingly dismissed. The same result must
follow in the present case.
Under § 4914 of the Revised Statutes no opinion or decision
of the Court of Appeals on appeal from the Commissioner precludes "any person interested from the right to contest the
validity of such patent in any court wherein the same may be
called in question," and by § 4915 a remedy by bill in equity is
given where a patent is refused, and we regard these provisions
as applicable in trade-mark cases under § 9 of the act of February 20, 1905.
Appeal and writ of error dismissed.

LAUREL OIL AND GAS COMPANY v. MORRISON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 198.

Argued October 14, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Where a statute provides for an appeal or a.writ of error to a specific
court it must be regarded as a repeal of any previous statute providing
for an appeal or a writ of error to another court. Brown v. United
States, 171 U. S. 631.

Decisions of the Court of Appeals of the United States for the Indian
Territory are final except as made subject to review by some express
statutory provision.
The provisions in § 12 of the act of March 3, 1905, c. 1479, 33 Stat. 1081,
for appeals and writs of error from the United States courts in Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

Territory to the United States Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory, and from that court to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit are exclusive; and there is now no appeal
or writ of error in such- cases from the Circuit Court of Appeals of the

Eighth Circuit to this court.
Appei1 from 154 Fed. Rep. 617, dismissed.
THIS case on the merits is reported in sub nomine Morrison v.
Burnelte, 154 Fed. Rep. 617. The able opinion of Sanborn, J.,
speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals, is preceded by the
following statement, which correctly sets forth the facts:
"Pursuant to 'an order of the United States Court in the
Western District of Indian Territory, which has the jurisdiction of a Probate Court, a lease of 160 acres of mineral land
which had been allotted to Edith Durant, a minor Indian, was
advertised for sale on sealed bids by Monday Durant, her
guardian, and on the day of sale, March 5, 1906, the highest
bonus bid for it was $3,490, and this bid was made by Robert W.
Morrison, Charles W. S. Cobb, John E. McKinney, William J.
Breene and Frank M. Breene, who are now the appellants in
this case, and will hereafter be so styled. The Laurel Oil &
Gas Company, a corporation, one of the appellees, bid at the
same time at this sale $2,850 for this lease. On March 7, 1906,
the appellants deposited the $3,490 with the court, and on
March 9, 1906, the guardian executed the lease of the land to
the appellants and they applied to the court for the confirmation of the sale and the approval of the lease. After notice to
all parties in interest and a hearing the court on June 11, 1906,
'ordered, adjudged and decreed that the lease executed by
Monday Durant, guardian of Edith Durant, minor, on the
ninth day of March, 1906, (to the appellants,) be, and the same
is hereby in all things approved, ratified and confirmed.' On
the next day the Laurel Company, the unsuccessful bidder at
the former sale, made a motion for leave to bid again for the
lease of this land, and offered to bid a bonus of $8,000. Thereupon the court set aside the order of June 11, 1906, for the sole
reason that a higher bonus could be obtained, and on June 14,

LAUREL OIL CO. v. MORRISON.
212 U. S.

.293

Statement of the Case.

1906, it sold a lease of 80 acres of this land on the same terms
as the former to the Galbraith Oil & Gas Company for a bonus
of $16,800 and a lease of the other eighty acres on the same
terms to the Laurel Oil & Gas Company for $2,000. The leases
to these parties were subsequently made by the guardian and
the court confirmed these sales and approved these leases. The
appellants then sued out a writ of error from the Court of Appeals of the Indian Territory to reverse the order which set
aside the decree of confirmation of the sale and of approval of
the lease to them, and they also appealed from that order.
The Court of Appeals of the Indian Territory vonsolidated the
two cases, heard them as an appeal in equity and affirmed the
order below because the court was evenly divided in opinion.
The appellants have brought 'the latter judgment here by writ
of error and also by appeal.
"Since the ease came to this court the contr6versy over the
eighty acres leased to the Galbraith Oil & Gas Company has
been settled and the only dispute. remaining relates to the
eighty acres leased to the Laurel Oil & Gas Company under the
second lease."
The question in the case was whether a court of equity during the term at which the confirmation is made may lawfully
avoid an executed judicial sale which it has confirmed, on the
sole ground that a larger price may be obtained by a second
sale, and was answered in the negative, and the decree was that
the decree of the United States Court of Appeals in the Indian
Territory and the decree of the United States court for the
Western District of the Indian Territory be reversed, and that
"this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the United States Court for the Western District of the Indian Territory, with directions to confirm and enforce its order and decree which confirmed the safe and approved the lease to the
appellants (appellees here], and- to take any further proceedings
necessary to. that end." This decree was made' and entered
July 10, 1907. An appeal Was thereupon allowed to this court,
where the record was filed October 31 of that year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

Mr. George A. Murphey,. with whom Mr. William T. Hutch-.
ings and Mr. Win. P. Z. German were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. William J. Breene and Mr. John J. Sheh- with whom
Mr. Edmond C. Breene was on the'brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEFJUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
By the act of Congress, approved March 1, 1.889, c. 333, 25
Stat. 783, there was established a United States court for the
Indian Territory. The act conferred no jurisdiction over felonies, but by the fifth section exclusive original jurisdiction
was conferred over all offenses against the laws of the United States committed within the Indian Territory, not punishable by death or by imprisonment at hard labor. Jurisdiction was conferred in all civil cases between citizens of the
United States who are residents of the Indian Territory where
the value of the thing in controversy amounted to one hundred dollars or more. The final judgment or decree of the
court, where the value of' the matter in dispute, exclusive of
costs, exceeded one thousand dollars, might be reviewed and
reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States
upon writ of error or appeal, in the same manner and under the
same regulations as the final judgments and decrees of a Circuit Court.
By section five of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, as amended, appeals or writs of error might be
taken from the District and Circuit Courts directly to this court
in cases in which the jurisdiction of the court was in issue; of
conviction of a capital crime; involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States; and in which
the constitutionality of any law of the United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty made under its authority,
was drawn in question.

LAUREL OIL CO. v, MORRISON.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By section six, the Circuit Courts of Appeals established by the
act were invested with appellate jurisdiction in all other cases.
The thirteenth section read: "Appeals and writs of error'rnay
be taken and prosecuted from the decisions of the United States
Court in the Indian Territory to the Supreme Court of the
United States, or to the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Eighth
Circuit, in the same manner and under the same regulations
as from the Circuit or District Courts of the United States, under this act."
The act of March 1, 1895,-c. 145, 28 Stat. 693, provided for
the appointment of additional judges of the United States court
in the Indian Territory, and created a Court of Appeals,.with
such superintending control over the courts, in the Indian
Territory as the Supreme Court of Arkansas possessed over
the courts of that State by the laws thereof; and the act also
provided, § 1.1, that "writs of error and appeals from the final
decisions of said appellate court shall be allowed, and may be
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Judicial
Circuit in the same manner and under the same regulations as
appeals are taken frpm the Circuit Courts of the United States,"
which thus in terms deprived that court of jurisdiction of appeals from the Indian Territory trial court, under § 13 of the
act of 1891.
In Harless v. United States, 88 Fed. Rep. 97, the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in a careful opinion by District Judge Shiras, held that in the act of March 1, 1895, creating the Court of Appeals. for the Indian Territory and giving
it full jurisdiction, civil and criminal, the provision of § 11,
that "writs of error and appeals from the final decisions of said
appellate court shall be allowed and may be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Judicial Circuit in the
same manner and under. the same regulations as appeals are
taken from the Circuit Courts of the ,United States," conferred
upon that court full appellate jurisdiction over the final decisions of the territorial appellate court, which jurisdiction was
.not in any way measured or limited by the jurisdiction on ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

peal from or error to the District or Circuit Courts. And we
concur in that view.
The rule was laid dowdi by this court in Brown v. United
States, 171 U. S. 631, that where a statute provides for a writ
of error to a specific court of appeals it must be regarded as a
repeal of any previous statute which provided for a writ of
error to another and different court, and that the decisions of
the Court of Appeals of the United States for the Indian Territory are final, except so far as they are made subject to review
by some express provision of law. It was furthermore there
ruled that the Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory was
analogous to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
and bore the same relation to the trial court in the Indian
Territory as the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
bore to the trial court in the District, and Ex parte Bigelow,
113 U. S. 328; In re Heath, 144 U. S. 92; Cross v. Burke, 146
U. S. 82, 84, were cited to the point that no appeal could be
taken from or writ of error sued out to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia where not specificallyprovided for.
Section 12 of the act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1081, c. 1479,
in force when the proceedings in the present case were had,
provides:
"That hereafter all appeals and writs of error shall be taken
from the United States courts in the Indian" Territory to the
United States Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory, and
from the United States Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory, to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in the same manner as is now provided for in
cases taken by appeal or writ of error from the Circuit Courts
of the United States to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the
United States for the Eighth Circuit."
We find no statute giving an appeal from that Circuit Court
of Appeals to this court, and perceive no reason for concluding
that Congress intended that parties in such cases should be
entitled to three appeals.
Appeal dismissed.

