UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO.
212 U. S.

509

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

court and counsel, does not, we think, leave in doubt that the
court submitted to the jury as a basis of conviction only the actswhich occurred after the passage of the Elkins act. The acts
.amounting to a violation of that law Were specifically charged
in the indictment and 'admitted or proved at the trial.
The charge, taken together, submitted the question of the
intent of the defendant to do, through the acts of its agents
authorized by it,- the things denounced in the statute. The'
charge was as favorable as the plaintiff in error was entitled to,
andwe find no substantial error in the proceedings.

Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the decision of the case.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK 'CENTRAL AND
HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE .CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STA'ES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 285. Argued December 16, 1908.-Decided February 23, 1909..

Under the Elkins Law of February 19, 1903, c. 708, 32 Stat. 847, a
carrier can be prosecuted for the offense of rebating where it is a party

to,a joint rate although it has not filed or published the same.
While criminal statutes are not to be enlarged by construction, and a
crime must be clearly defined in its terms, they are to be reasonably
construed with a view to effecting the purpose of their enactment.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H ry L. Stimson, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Ellis was On the brief, fok plaintiff in error:
-The very method of rebating herein charged was prevalent
pnor to 1903;, waa called to the attention of Congress by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

Interstate Commerce Commission; provisions were inserted
into the Elkins Law for the avowed purpose of. stopping the
practice, and the enactment of these provisions constitutes a
construction of the law to the effect that it covers the precise
offense here charged. Cin., N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Int.
Comm. Comn., 162 U. S. 184, 192. 193; Ann. Rep. Int. Comm.
Comn. 1894, p. 32; Ann. Rep. Int. Comm. Comn. 1898, p. 7;
First Ann. Rep. Int. Comm. Comn. pp. 134, 135, 136; United
States v. Hanley, 71 Fed. Rep. 672; Armour Packing Co. v.
United States, 209 U. S. 56, 72; Int. Comm' Comm. v. Reichman,
145 Fed. Rep. 235, 240.
The provisions of the first section of the Elkins Law expressly
cover and make criminal the transactions set out in this indictment, and other independent clauses of that act, not noticed by
the court below, also penalize the offense. Int. Comm. Comm.
v. Reichman, 145 Fed. Rep. 235; Holmes' Common Law, p. 134;
Williams v. United States, 168 U. S. 382; Wechsler v. United
States, 158 Fed. Rep. 579.
The G6vernment's view of the construction of this law is in
accord with that ' expressed by this court in the Cisco Oil Mill
ease, and has been supported by all reported opinions of lower
courts, while the view of the Court below; if carried to its logical
conclusion, would produce results expressly condemned by this
court in the Cisco case, and necessarily contrary to its decisions in the Armour and Burlington cases.
The ultiihate question to be determined is whether the defendant has established and put in force the tariff from which
it is alleged to have departed. By participating in a joint rate a
carrier establishes that tariff as to its own lines, just as it would
establish it by filing or publishing it. The participation, the
filing, and the publishing are merely different ways in which
the ultimate fact of the establishment of the rate can be shown
as against a carrier, and no one of them is intended by the law
to be 'made the sole condition precedent to .the establishment
of the tariff rate. Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Cisco Oil Mill, 204
U. S. 449, 451; see also Cochran v. United.States, 157 U. S. 286,

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO. 511
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

290. The precise question raised by this demurrer has been repeatedly decided by the courts against the contention of the
defendants. United States v. Wood, 145 Fed. Rep. 405, 409;
Camden Iron Works v. United States, 158 Fed. Rep. 561; C., B.
& Q. R. R. Co. v. United.States, 209 U. S. 90; Armour Packing
Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. 56.
Mr. Austen G. Fox, with whom Mr. John D. Lindsay and Mr.
Albert H' Harriswere on the brief, for defendant, in error:
Even though it were true that the method of rebating charged
by'this indictment was prevalent prior to 1903, Was reported
to Congress by the Interstate Commerce Commission and that
provisions were inserted in the Elkins act for the avowed purpose of stopping the practice, the failure of the framer of the
statute to effect this purpose cannot be ovecome by any judicial addition to its language. Broom's Legal Maxims, 56;
Hobbs v. McLean, 117.U. S. 567, 579; United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95, 102'; Swift v. Luce, 27 Maine, 285; Gardner
v. Collins, 2 Pet. 58; Rex v. Barham, 8 B. & C. 99; Hadden v.
Collector, 5 Wall. 107, 111, 112; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Association, 290 U. S. 318; Alldridge v. Williams, 3
How. 9; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703.
'The provisions of the first section of the Elkins act do not,
expressly or upon any fair construction of its language, cover
or'make criminal the transaction. set out in the indictment.
Withinthe meaning of' the statute a rebate is a different
thing from a concession or discrimination, precisely as the same
differ from each other. Certainly the payment of a rebate is
neither an omission to file or to observe a tariff. The theory
that although it was drawn "with special reference to the rebate clause" the 'indictment can be supported upon any other
provision is therefore quite unsound.
The transaction is not covered by the "rebate clause of the
Elkins act." Interstate Comm. Comm. v. Reichmrn, 145 Fed.
Rep. 235, discussed and distinguished. See United States v.
Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610; Smith v. Townsend, 148 U. S. 490. To

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

sustain the contention of the Government would be to read
into the Statute the words' "whether it had filed that rate or
'Dot, and whether carried by another carrier or by itself."
'A statute which creates a new liability, unknown to the common law, is to be strictly construed, and is not to be extended
beyond the clear import of its terms, Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Whalen, 149 U. S. 157,
There can be no constructive offense; if there be any fair
doubt whether th statute embraces the case of the accused,
it must be resolved in favor of the ac'cuo~d. United States v.
Clayton, 2 Dill. 219; United States v. Biggs, 157 Fed. Rep. 264,
'270.
This rule applies particularly to statutes which create crimes.
United States v. Whittier, 5 Dill. 35, 39; see also Bolles v. Outing
Co., 175 'U. S. 262; United States v. Sheldon, 2 Wheat. 119;
United States v* Morris, 14 Pet. 694; United States v. Clayton,
2 Dill. 226; United States v. Reese, 5 Dill. 413; United States v.
Wiltberg, 5 Wheat 76, 95; Maxwell, Inter. of Stat. .(4th ed.),
p.'397; London Council v. Aylesbury (1898), 1 Q. B. 106.
MR. JUSTICE

DAYdelivered the opinion of the court.

This proceeding is here -under the act of March 2, 1907, c.
2564, 34 Stat. 1246, permitting the Government to bring to this.
cour4 a case where the co'urt 'below sustains a demurrer to the
indictment, in 'which the judgment involves the construction of
a Federal statute upon which the indictment is founded.' The
indictment to which the demurrer was sustained in this case
charges that the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Company, the'
Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company and the
New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company established a joint tariff of rates, fares and charges which was filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission by the Missouri.
Pacific, Railway Company, in which the rate set forth and en'For the.siatute in full see 211 U. S. 398,

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO.
212 U. S.

513

Opinion of the Court.

forced from Poplar Bluff, Missouri, to New York upon cooperage materials was 35 cents for each 100 pounds It is then
charged that in January, 1898, the defendant's traffic manager,
Nathan Guilford, and Lowell M. Palmer, president of and agent'
for the Brooklyn Cooperage Company, entered into an unlawful agreement and arrangement for the shipping of cooperage
material over the through line and route aforesaid from Poplar
Bluff, Missouri, to New York City, providing that for the said
transportation the Brooklyn Cooperage Company should pay
to the aforesaid common carriers the lawful published rates
and charges; that thereafter the defendant, the New York
Central and Hudson River Railroad Company, should pay to
the said Palmer, as agent for the cooperage company, the sum
of 5* cents for each 100 pounds of said cooperage material so
transported, thereby reducing the lawful tariff in that amount,
with the result that such. cooperage material should and would
be transported at a less rate than that named in the published
tariffs. The .indictment then charged a delivery to the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company at Poplar Bluff for shipment
to New York of cooperage -material, which was accordingly
shipped to New York by the connecting carriers, aforesaid, and
over the continuous line and route so established. The indictment charges the payment of certain sums by the defendant to
Palmer for the benefit of the cooperage company for rebates
and concessions in respect to -the carriage of said cooperage
material.. Different counts in the indictment cover specifically
different payments.
The effect of these transactions is charged'to be that the
defendant did thereby unlawfully and willfully give a rebate and
concession in violation of the act to regulate commerce, whereby
the property was transported by said corporation at a less rate
than that named in the tariffs aforesaid, published and filed by
such common carrier, as required by said act to regulate commerce and the acts amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto.
We need- not repeat the discussion had as to the objections
VOL. ccxi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

tothe Elkins act, 32 Stat. 847, which were considered in
Nos. 57 and 69, ante.. The .court below sustained the demurrer
upon the ground that the defendant company, the New York
Central and -Hudson River Railroad Company, is not averred
to "have filed with th6 Interstate Commerce Commission the
through rate at which. the transportation was had, but, as
charged in the indictment, the same was filed by the initial comman carrier., the Missouri Pacific. Company. 157 Fed. Rep.
293. The question then is, Can a carrier be prosecuted under
the Elkins act f6r the offense charged 'in
this indictment where
it is a party to a joint rate but lhas not filed land published the
same? The charge in the indictment is not for the failure of the
New York Central and Hudson River Railroad Company to
publish the joint tariff, if it were required to do so by the act,
but is for the giving of a rebate or concession, and it is contended that the, first section of the Elkins act makes it unlawful
to give or receive any rebate, etc., "whereby any such property
shall by any device whatever be transported at a less "rate
than that named inthe tariffs published and filed by such carter as is required by said act to "regulate commerce and acts
amendatory thereto, or whereby any other advantage is given
or discrimination practiced." The argument is that inasmuch
as the tariff was filed and published by the Missouri Pacific
Company and not by the defendant railroad company, it could
not be' prosecuted for 'the offense alleged in the indictment.
By § 6 of the act of March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855, it is required, concerning the filing of tariffs:
"And in cases where passengers and freight pass over continuous lines, or routes operated by more than one common
carrier, and the several common carriers operating such lines
or, routes establish joint tariffs of rates or fares or charges for
such continuous lines or routes, copies of such joint tariffs shall
also, in like manner, be filed ivith said commission."
It is~said to have been the practice that such joint tariffs
should be filed by the initial carrier. In any event, it was contended and was held by.the Circuit Court that inasmuch as the.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO.
212 U. S.

515

Opinion of the Court.

Elkins act referred only to the tariffs "published and filed by
such carrier," and the rebates in this case had been given by a
carrier who did not publish and file the rate, the latter company
did not come within the terms of the act. We findj-however,
that § 1 of the Elkins act, in which the language quoted is used,
-also contains the foflowing language (32 Stat. 847):
"Whenever any carrier files with the Interstate Commerce
Commission or publishes a particular rate under the provisions
of the act to regulate commerce or acts amendatory thereto,
or participates in any rates so filed or published, that rate as
against such carrier, its officers or agents, in any prosecution
begun under this act shall be conclusively deemed to be the
legal rate, and any departure from such ?rate, or any offer to
depart therefrom, shall be deemed to be an offense under this
section of this act."
The learned judge of the Circuit Court treated this provision
as one- relating to evidence, and not ,as establishing a substantive offense. But we think this is giving too narrow a-construction to the terms of the statute and fails to give effect to
the language used. We recognize the rule which is laid down
in the cases cited by counsel for the defendant in error, that
criminal statutes are not to be enlarged by construction, and
that a crime must be clearly defined in the terms of the act
before it can be held to be embraced within its provisions. But
while this is true, criminal statutes, like other acts of legislation,
are to receive a reasonable construction, with a view to effecting the purpose of their enactment, and we think it entirely
clear that the concluding part of §1 of the Elkins act which we
have above quoted brings all of the carriers who have participated in any rate filed or published within the terms of the act,
as much so as if the tariff had been actually published and filed
by such participating carrier., For the statute specifically provides that the published rate shall be conclusively deemed in
any prosecution under the act to be the legal rate as against
the carrier who files the same, or "participates in any rates so
filed and published;" and the section further provides that any

. 516

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

212 U. S.

departure from such rate, which would include rates either
published or participated in, shall be deemed to be an offense
.under the act. This part of the first section of the Elkins act
was evidently enacted with a view to meeting the very situation
developed in this case, wherein a joint rate has been established
binding upon all who are parties thereto, and has been filed by.
one of the participating carriers.
We think the learned judge was in error in holding that offenses of the character charged in. this indictment could be
prose uted only as against the carrier actually filing and publishing the joint rate. The judgment.of the Circuit Court is
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

took no part in the decision of this case.

MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL- FROM t'HE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 82.

Argued January 20, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

A commissioned officer in the Navy can waive the provisions of art. 60
of § 1624, Rev. Stat., and allow proceedings of a court 'of inquiry to
be evidence on a court-martial the sentence of which may extend to
his dismissal; Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65; and, where, at the
request of such an officer, the Secretary of the Navy convenes a courtmartial to try him on matter which had already been the subject of a
court of inquiry, on condition that the proceedings of such court of
inquiry be evidence, each party having the privilege, however, of
introducing other evidence, the accused is not deprived of any substantial right so that the sentence of the court-martial is invalidated.
Reduction by the President of the United States of the dismissal of an
officer of the Navy from the service to reduction to one-half sea pay
for five years is a mitigation of the sentence within the meaning of
art. 54 of § 1624, Rev.. Stat. Quxwre, whether art. 54 of § 1624 applies to the action of the President.
Civil courts are not courts of error to review sentences of legally or-

