WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Syllabus. •

We are of opinion that the Federal question in this case was
rightly decided, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of

Washington is
Affirmed.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL COMPANY v. DESELMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 62. Argued January 8, 1909.-Decided February 1, 1909.
In the construction of a statute a superfluous negative may be omitted
where the meaning is apparent, as in this ease.
Where the subject is within the power of the State it is not within the
province of the judiciary to disregard statutory standards on the
ground that the legislature did not act wisely in en'acting them.
Provisions for unequal punishment of corporations and individuals for
violations of the same statute, held, in regard to the Oklahoma Territory Oil Inspection Law, to be separable, and, even if. unconstitutional, not to affect the prohibitions contained in the statute against
the use of oil not conforming to the standards fixed thereby.
Under the circumstances of this case, this court will not hold that the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma erred in judicially noticing a custom in
the Territory to use coal oil in kindling fires.
While the burden on the plaintiff is not satisfied by showing an accident
and an injury, where there was adequate proof to show that an explosion occurred which 6ould only have occurred by the unlawful
character of articles sold by defendant, a peremptory instruction for
defendant is properly refused.
Where the original vendor knowingly sells, as coal oil, a mixture of coal
oil and gasoline, of such inflammable character as to be unlawful under the local statute, to a vendee who in ignorance of its unlawful
nature sells it to a third party in like ignorance, the original vendor
is directly responsible to the final purchaser for the consequences of
an explosion, produced solely by reason of such unlawful nature
'while the oil is being used in a legitimate manner. In such a case
the responsibility of the original vendor rests not on contract but in
tort.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

On the facts in this case, and in view of the ignorance of both vendees
in regard thereto, the unlawful character of the articles sold held to
be the proximate cause of plaintiff's injuries; but quare, and undecided, whether the original vendor would have been- relieved of
responsibility if the first vendee had knowledge of the unlawful character of the article.
Held, in a case on error to the Supreme, Court of the Territory of
:Oklahoma, that this court does not possess the power to giant a new
trial solely on the ground that the jury awarded excessive damages.
When the court, at defendant's request, has charged as to the general
rules of ascertaining plaint iff's damages; it is not error to add that the
amount, as in this. case for death of infant children, had not been

fixed by the evidence, and that tle verdict must be the result of the
jury's own judgment,
If an ambiguity exists in the charge counsel should at the time ask the
court to remove it.
18 Oklahoma, 107, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Shartel, with whom Mr. J. D. Johnson, Mr.
James R. Keaton and Mr. Frank Wells were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:
The plaintiff's case is not made by showing the negligent admixture and his purchase of a portion of that mixture. He
also takes the burden of proving it to have been the efficient
cause of the fire; that the accident would not have happened
if the oil had not had the gasoline in it; and that the accident
is the resuli of its super-inflammability. Haff v. Minneapolis
& St. Louis Ry. Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 558; Willoughby v. Chicago
& N. W. Railway, 37 Iowa, 432; Kelsey v. Jewett, 28 Hun,
51; Central R. R. v.. Freeman, 75 Georgia, 331; Harrizan v;
thicago & 1. R. Co., 53 Ill. App. 344; A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co.
v. Aderhold, 49 Pac. Rep. 83; Mobile & 0. R. Co. v. Wilson,
76 Fed.-Rep. 127; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Porter, 73 Texas, 307.;
S. C., 11 S. W. Rep. 324; T. & N. 0. Ry. Co. v. Crowder, 63
Texas,.505; C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Sparrow's Admr., 98 Virginia,
630,641; S. C., 37 S. E. Rqp. 302; N. & W. R. R. Co. v. Cromer's
Admr., 99 Virginia, 763; S. C., 40 S. E. Rep. 54; Southern R. R.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Co. v. Hall's Admr., 102 Virginia, 135; 5. C., 45 S. E. Rep.
867; N. & W. Ry. Co. v. Poole's Admr., 40 S. E. Rep. 627;
Yaggle v. Allen, 48 N. Y. Supp. 827; Grant v. Railroad Co., 31
N. E. Rep. 220; Jueblo Light Co. v. McGinley, 38 Pac. Rep.
425; McBroom v. Putney, 28 Indiana, 353; Connor v. Pacific
Ry., 81 S. W. Rep. 149; Loop v. Litchfield, 42 N. Y. 351; Lbsee
v. Clute, 51 N. Y. 494; Davidson v. Nichols, 93 Massachusetts,
514; Goodlander Mill Co. v. Standard Oil Co., 63 Fed. Rep.
400; Cleveland &c. Rd. v. Ballantyne, 84 Fed. Rep. 937; Standard Oil Co. v. Murray, 119 Fed. Rep. 575.
Section 2, Ch.21, Session Laws of 1899 (Oklahoma), is void,
in that it is utterly unintelligible when it is borne in mind that
the Baume scale for liquids lighter than water is an inverse
scale so that a reading of forty degrees denotes a heavier oil
than a reading of forty-six degrees.
The gravity test cannot be upheld as a police regulation,
because if the statute is read downward on the Baume scale,
it would exclude the Pennsylvania oils; and if this statute is
read upward it would have the effect to exclude everything
from the market of Oklahoma except Pennsylvania oils. This
testimony is uncontradicted, and the law is Void. Priewe v.
Wisconsin State LandCo., 67 N. W. Rep. 918; State v. Santel
(Iowa), 82 N. W. Rep. 445; Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98;
State v. Smith, ,58 Minnesota, 35; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri,
163; Janesville v. Carpenter, 77 Wisconsin, 288; St. Louis v.
Door (Mo.), 41 S.W. Rep. 1094; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623-667; Corrigan v. Gage, 68 Missouri, 541; laines v. Cape
May, 50 N. J. L. 55; Kimmish v. Ball, 129 U. S. 466; Scholenberg v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466;. Reagan v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 154 U. S.362; Railroad
Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; People v. Marx, 2 N. E. Rep. 29;
S. C., 99 N. Y. 377.
The court will take judicial notice of the facts which conclusively show that the gravity test of the act in question is
not a valid police regulation. Sutherland on Stat. Constr.,
§§ 301-306.
VOL. CCXII-I 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error

212 U. S.

Instructions 5, 6 and 7 were clearly erroneous and should
not have been given.
The plaintiff had no right to go to the jury on the question
as to the usual and ordinary purposes for which coal oil is
ordinarily used, nor to have submitted to tle. jury a supposed
custom, because those are matters of pleading and evidence,
and the evidence is entirely silent on the subject, as well as
being unsupported by any allegation in the petition. Mobile
FruitCo. v. Judy, 91 Ill. App. 82; Lindley v. Bank, 76 Illinois,
629; Hayden v. Grillo, 42 Mo. App. 1; Gans v. Palo Pinto Co.,
71 Texas, 99; S. C., 8 S. W. Rep. 634; Hendricks v. Middlebrooks, 44 S. E. Rep. 835.
If the custom had arisen into the dignity of a law of the
land, it was the court's duty to have so instructed the jury as
a matter of law, and not leave the subject to them to deal with.
Buyck v. Schwing, 100 Alabama, 355; S. C., 14 So. Rep. 48;
Robertson v. Wilder, 69 Georgia, 340; Wilson v. Bannan, 80
Illinois, 493; Careby v. Frick, 8 Maryland, 163.
Custom or usage must be proved. The jury's knowledge of
it cannot be availed of. Senluc v. Pritchard;4 Louisiana, 160;
Tryson v. Laidlaw, 18 Louisiana, 380.
It was not a custom dignified with a force the equivalent of
a law of the land. It required pleading and proof, and could not
be submitted to the jury in the absence of appropriate allegations supported by proof. Packard v. Van Scoic, 58 Illinois,
79; Randall v. Koehler, 60 Maryland, 37; S. C., 1i Am. Rep.
169; Murray v. Hatch, 6 Massachusetts, 465; Livingston v.
Maryland, 7 Cranch, 506.
i It was error on the part of the court to tell the jury that the
question of damages could not be fixed by the evidence but
must be the result of their own judgment.
The verdict of the jury for $14,500 for wrongfully causing
the death of the four-year-old child and two-year-old child
would, denote an equivalent of $7,250 for each child, which is
far out of range of what any court has sustained, as appears in
the following cases. Vicksburg v. McLean (Miss.), 6 So. Rep.

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

163

Argument for Defendant in Error.

774; Wells v. Railroad Co., 78 N. Y. Supp. 999; Fleming vi
Loebel (N. J.), 59 Atl. Rep. 27; Little Rock Ry. v. Barker, 33
Arkansas, 350; Myers v. San Francisco, 42 California, 214;
North Chicago R. R. v. Wixon, 51 Ill. App. 307; Parsons v.
Mo. Pac. Ry., 6 S. W. Rep. 464; S. C., 94 Missouri, 286; Riley
v. Salt Lake R. Co., 37 Pac. Rep. 681; S. C., 10 Utah, 428;
Hively v. Webster Co., 91 N. W. Rep. 1041; S. C., 117 Iowa,
672; Rowe v. Telephone Co. (N. J.), 48 Atl. Rep. 523; Connaughton v. Sun Printing Co., 76 N. Y. Supp. 755; Graham v.
Traction Co., 44 Atl. Rep. 964; Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co.
v. Creighton (Ky.), 50 S. W. Rep. 227; West Chicago St. Ry. Co.
v. Nabie, 77 Ill. App. 176; Fox v. St. Ry. Co., 118 California,
55; S. C., 50 Pac. Rep. 25; Con. Trac. Co. v. Graham, 40 AtI.
Rep, 773; McDonald v. Steel Co. (Mich.), 103 N. W.Rep. 829.
Mr. A. H. Huston and Mr. John Devereux for defendant in
error:
The negligence complained of need not be the -only cause,
or the most proximate cause, and negligence to be the proximate cause of an injury must be such that a person of ordinary
caution and prudence would have foreseen that some injury
would likely result therefrom, not that the specific injury
would result. The question of proximate cause, whenever there
is any doubt, must always be submitted to the jury. Bishop
on Rights and Torts, § § 450-455; Baltimore R. R. Co. v. Kemp,
61 Maryland, 74; Terre Haute R. R. Co. v. Buck, 96 Indiana,
346; Scott v. Hunter, 46 Pa. St. 192; Milwaukee R. R. Co. v.
Kellog, 94 U. S. 469, 474; Kansas City v. Gilbert, 65 Kansas,
469; A., T. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Parry, 67 Kansas, 515; Hays
v. Mich. Cent. R. R. Co., 111 U. S. 228.
Where there is no intervening efficient cause the original
wrong must be considered as reaching to the effect and proximate to it. Hays v. Williams, 17 Colorado, 465; The G. R.
Booth, 171 U. S. 450; The Ontario, 37 Fed. Rep. 220; Railroad
Co. v. Elliott, 55 Fed. Rep. 949.
The rule that where there were no eyewitnesses to the origin

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for. Defendant in Error.

212 U. S.

of the explosion and fire, such origin must rest wholly in conjecture, and the case must fail for want- of proof, does not apply
where there is room for balancing the probabilities and drawing reasonable inferences which do account for the injury.
Schoepper v. Chemical Co., 113 Michigan, 582; Gas Co. v. Carter,
65 Kansas, 565; Seybolt v. Railroad Co., 95 N Y. 562; Lutton v.
Vernon, 62 Connecticut, 1; McBride v. Railroad Co., 19 Oregon,
64; Railroad Co. v. Freeman, 48 U. S. App. 757; Toledo &c. Co.
v. Chisholm, 83 Fed. Rep. 652; Stowell v. StandardOil Co., 102
N. W. Rep. 227.
The determination of the question as to whether the injury
resulted from a mere accident wherein no one was at fault, or
was caused by the negligence of the party injured orwhether
it is attributable to the dangerous mixture, is a matter for the
jury. Pittman v. City of El Reno, 2 Oklahoma, 414; Ruch v.
Gas Electric Co., 65 N. J. L. 399; N. Y. &c. R. R. Co. v. New
Jersey, 60 N. J. L. 52; Railroad Co. v. Middleton, 57 N. J. L.
154; Malnken v. Freeholder, 41 Atl. Rep. 921; Schoepper v'.
Chemical Co., 113 Michigan, 582; Toledo R. R. Co. v. Chisholm,
83 Fed. Rep. 1652; Texas C. R. R. Co. v. Gentry, 163 U. S. 353;
Burns v. Chicago &c. R. R. Co., 69 Iowa, 450.
It cannot be said as a proposition of law that the use of coal
oil to kindle fires is contributory negligence. Ives v. Weldon,
114 Iowa, 476; Riggs v. Standard Oil Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 199,
204; Ellis v. Republic Oil Co., 133 Iowa, 11.
A person placing on the market for general use a dangerous
explosive which he represents and sells as a safe illuminant, is
liable for any damages caused by such substance either in the
hands of his immediate vendee or a remote purchaser. The
rule that a seller of an article of commerce not in itself dangerous, is not responsible for consequences to the purchaser of his
vendee resulting from defects in the articles sold, does not apply
in this case. Elkins, Bly & Co. V. McKean, 79 Pa. St. 493;
Judson v. Giant Powder Co., 107 California, 549; Wellington v.
Oil Co., 104 Massachusetts, 64; Rose vi'Stevens &c. Co., I1 Fed.
Rep. 438; Stowell v. Standard Oil Co., 102 N. W. Rep: 227;

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Clement v. Crosby, 111 N. W. Rep. 745; Thomas v. Winchester,
2.Seld. 397.
The burden of proving contributory negligence rests on the
defendant, and it will not save the defendant, unless it has
been established by a preponderance of the evidence. R'ailroad Co. v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291; Hoigh v. Railroad Co., 100 U. S.
213; Railroad Co. v. Gladman, 15 Wall. 401; Railroad Co. v.
Harmon, 147 U. S. 571; Railroad Co. v. Phillbert, 25 Kansasf
583; RailroadCo. v. McCally, 41 Kansas, 639.
The inspection law of Oklahoma is a valid act and must be
interpreted so as to give effect to its intent.
The clear intent of the legislature was to exclude the lighter
and more dangerous illuminants,,and to admit the heavier and
safer ones, and the obscurity in the meaning of the act which
the plaintiff contends for in his brief, arises from confusing
actual specific gravity, with the inverse scale of the Baume
hydrometer.
This was a rightful subject of legislation and the legislature
had full authority to enact it as a police regulation, for the protection of the people. Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501;
Shellabarger v. Commissioners, 50 Kansas, 141; 1 Kent's Com.
461; Henderson v. Robinson, 76 Iowa, 603: State v. Hope, 100
Missouri, 347; Bush v. Indianapolis, 120 Indiana, 476; Bingham
v. Burmingham, 103 Missouri, 345.
The court's instructions on the question of damages were
cori~ct, and the amount of damages given by the verdict was
not 'xcessive. Railroad Co. v. Spence, 23 S. W..Rep. 211;
Railroad Co. v. Barron, 5 Wall. 90; Gas Co. v. Carter, 65 Kansas, 569; Ihl v. Forty-second St. Ry. Co., 47 N. Y. 317; Morris
v. Railroad Co., 71 N. Y. Supp. 321; Austin Rapid Transit Co.
v. Cullen, 29 S. W. Rep. 256.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

Deselms sued the Waters-Pierce Oil Company to recover
damages for the death of his wife and two young children, resulting from an alleged explosion- of a highly inflammable and

166

OCTObAit TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

explosive substance, consisting of a mixture of eoal oil and
gasoline. The mixture, it was alleged, had been bought by
Deselms as coal oil from dealers who supposed it to be such,
although their vendor, the oil company, knew the dangerous
character of the article and yet had sold it as coal oil. The oil
company answered by a generaldenial, and specially pleaded
that if the accident in fact occurred it was caused by the negligence of Mrs. Deselms. Before trial Deselms dismissed the
claim based upon the death of his wife. There was.judgment
on a verdict against the oil company for $14,500, Which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. 18 Oklahoma,
107.
On this writ the errors assigned, speaking in a general
sense,
complain of the action of the court below in- affirming the trial
court in giving, over exceptions of the oil company, certain instructions asked by Deselms, and in refusing to give various
instructions asked by the oil company. For the purpose of
clearness, however, we arrange the assignments under three
headings: first, errors relating to the action of the trial court in
giving and in refusing certain instructions; second, error in refusing at the close, of all the evidence a request of the oil company for a peremptory instruction in its favor, on the ground
that the proof as to negligence was not sufficient to justify submitting the case to the jury, and because, even if there was such
proof, on the facts shown there was no legal right to recover;
third, error in refusing a request concerning the method to be
applied in fixing damages in the event the jury found for the
plaintiff.
To dispose of these assignments it is necessary to take into
view the law of the Territory relating to the inspection of coal
oil, gasoline, etc., and the facts which the evidence tended to
establish. Before coming, therefore, to directly consider the
errors relied on we refer to these subjects.
In 1895 there was enacted in the Territory of Oklahoma a
statute for the inspection "of coal oil, gasoline, or any other
product of petroleum used as illuminating or burning fluids, by

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

167

Opinion of the Court.

whatever name known." The statute specially provided, however, that when once duly inspected in the Territory the fluids
subject to inspection might be shipped to any portion of the
Territory without additional inspection. See Laws, 1895, § 1,
p. 174.
This act was amended in 1899. Session Laws, 1899, p. 186.
Section 2 of the act amended § 8 of the prior act to read as follows:

"All illuminating fluids that flash under the conditions as
prescribed in section one at a less temperature than 120 degrees
Fahrenheit, and have not a specific gravity of not less than
46 degrees Baume, that is, all oils which fail to stand both tests,
shall be branded by the inspector 'Rejected,' and all such oils
that do not flash at a less temperature than 120 degrees Fahrenheit, and which have a specific gravity of not less than 46 degrees Baume, as determined above, shall be branded 'Approved Standard Oil.'"
By § 3 the flash test was not to be applied to gasoline or other
inflammable fluids, but they were to be tested "to determine
the weight or specific gravity in the same manner as required
by § I of this act to oils.?' It was further provided in the section that "All gasoline to be used in vapor stoves and gasoline
lamps shall have a specific gravity of not less than 70 degrees
Baume, and (at) a temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit." It
was made the duty of the inspector to brand all packages, boxes
or barrels of gasoline or other fluid having no fire test with the
words "Highly Inflammable," and the specific gravity found
by him. Where the gasoline was found to have a specific gravity of not less than 70 degrees Baume, at a temperature of
60 degrees Fahrenheit, the inspector was required to mark the
same "Approved Standard Gasoline." By § 4 the sale by any
person of oil or gasoline as approved standard oil or approved
standard gasoline, when in fact the same was not of that grade,
as found by the inspector of oils, was declared to be a misdemeanor punishable by fine and imprisonment. Any company
or corporation furnishing oils or gasoline for sale in the Terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

tory of lower grades than that specified in the act was moreover made amenable to a fine.
The oil company, had a wholesale depot at Guthrie, Oklahoma, for the sale of oil, gasolin6, etc. At this depot there was
a storage tank for coal oil, which in January, 1903, contained
about 6,600 gallons of that fluid, which presumably had been
inspected and tested according to law.. Into this tank an employ6 of .the company by mistake ran about 300 gallons of
gasoline. When the mistake was discovered the agent of the
oil company.at Guthrie wrote to the manager at Dennison,
Texas, informing him of the mistake. The manager replied,
saying, "I cannot believe that this amount of gasoline will
materially affect the burning quality of the P. W. Oil. At any
rate, we will have to watch the matter, and take chances on
selling all the P. W. Oil in P. W Oil storage tank, trusting that
the same will give good results." On receipt of these instructions the agent at Guthrie, without any renewed inspection of
the oil in the tank containing the, mixture of gasoline and coal
oil, sold the same to merchants in his territory as coal oil. On
January 28, 1903, three barrels of the mixture were so sold to
Powers & Deselms, retail grocers at Orlando, Oklahoma. One
of the barrels was sold by the firm to another merchant, and
the two remaining barrels were taken to the'store of the firm,
and their contents placed in an empty'tank used for that ptirpose. The barrels thus sold to Powers & Deselms bore no inspection brand, nor were the barrels inspected after they came
into the possession of the firm.' On the invoice, however, given
to Powers & Deselms by the oil company, a charge for inspection fees was made, and Powers & Deselms had no knowledge
of the real character of the material supplied as above stated.
A few days after the sale to Powers & Deselms,-on a Sunday
morning-the plaintiff, Deselms, who was a clerk for the firm,
bought one gallon of the mixture, supposing "it
to be coal oil,
and took the same to his home in a two-gallon ;can. On the
afternoon of the same day Deselms left Orlando for a brief
absence. His wife and two children--one a boy. of four, the

WATERS:-PIERCE 'OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other a girl of two years'-were left at home. The 'children
were bright and active and were in perfect heath. It had been
arranged that Mrs. Emory, a sister of.Deselms;I would remain
at night with the family.
The dwelling was a one-story wooden structure, weatherboarded on the outside and lathed on the inside, the laths being
covered with canvas, and the canvas then being papered over.
The house had a frontage of twelve feet, ran lengthwise east
and west about twenty-four feet, and was divided into two
rooms. The east room was'used as a kitchen,.the cooking stove
being near the east wall. The west room was the general living
and sleeping room. In it was a heating stove composed of a
cylindrical fire-box and a cylindrical plate or body with a door
in the side. This stove stood on the east side of the room and
it and the kitchen stove were connected with a brick flue in the
partition wall between 'the two rooms.
. The first use made of the gallon of oil bought by Deselms was
on Tuesday evening, when Mrs. Emory filled a new lamp from
the contents of the can, and then lit the lamp. Almost immediately flame shot out of the chimney. Mrs. Emory extinguished
the light, trimmed the wick and lit the lamp again, and upon
flame again issuing out of the chimney, thinking that the lamp
was defective, she extinguished the light and made no further
attempt to use the lamp. The oil can was then placed in the
kitchen near the southwest corner of the room. During the
evening a wood fire which had been burning in the heating
stove burned out. The next morning, after lighting the kitchen
'fire, Mrs.. Emory started to kindle a fire in the heating stove.
She shook down the ashes, examined the contents of the ash
pan and found that the stove was cold. She ceased her preparations to start a fire, however, on being asked to assist in dressing the children, Mrs. Deselms saying that she would make a.
fir6 in the stove later. There was no fire in the stove when
Mrs. Emory left the house at about 8 o'clock on that (Wednesday) morning, and she was the last person to see alive Mrs.
Deselms and the two children.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

We take from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma
a summary of the evidence relative to the subsequent destruction of the house by fire and the death of the wife and her two
children:
"The plaintiff's house was discovered to be on fire at about
ten o'clock in the forenoon, and upon the arrival of the first
person on the scene it was so completely ablaze that it was impossible, on account of smoke and gases, to force an entrance
into the building. About nine o'clock in the morning it had
blown up cold from the northwest, -and there was a high wind
blowing from that direction at the time the fire occurred.
Mr. Bradshaw was the first person to arrive at the building, and
he broke in the back or kitchen door and tried to get into the
other room, but was choked down by the dense smoke and gas,
and came out. He tried a second time to enter the house, and
was again choked and smothered by the smoke and gas, and
had to retreat. He then ran around the house and tried to get
in otherwise. About this time others came, and they broke in
the north wall and found the plaintiff's son lying face downward on the bed near the northwest corner of the house) badly
burned and life extinct, probably from suffocation. As the
smoke cleared somewhat fromh the room they could see the body
of the plaintiff's wife lying on the floor and what remained of
the little girl on a couch. By pushing the building partly over,
the charred bodies were taken out before the fire had completely burned out.
"After the fire and after tho remains of the building had
fallen in and been pushed aside and the fire Partly extinguished,
the heating stove was found inclined to the northwest, the
flQor being partly burned out beneath it; the top was off the
stove and the upper hinge to the door broken, the door hanging'
by the lower hinge. There was paper, kindling and wood in
the stove just a little charred. The plaintiff's wife was lying
with her feet near the stove, her head away from it-in a westerly
direction in front of the stove door.. Near her body was found
the top or conical part of the oil can,the body of the can being

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
912 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found four to seven feet away in a southwesterly direction.
These were the conditions existing at the time the fire was subdued sufficiently to admit of examination by those present."
The morning after the fire about a dozen pint bnttles were
filled from the mixture remaining in the tank at the store of
Powers & Deseims. After being corked and sealed with plaster
of paris the bottles were placed on shelves in a drug store at
Orlando, the shelves being located fifteen to eighteen feet from
a stove standing in the middle of the room, the temperature of
the room being about 75 degrees. In about twenty minutes
one of the bottles exploded, and the remainder were taken into
the cellar. Subsequently the fluid in two of the bottles Was
tested and analyzed by George L. Holter, an expert chemist,
who was then and for thirteen years had been professor of
chemistry and metallurgy in the Agricultural College at Stillwater, Oklahoma. Testifying as to the analysis he had made,
Professor Holter said he found by the use of a closed-cup tester
'that the material would flash at 60, which would indicate a
flashing point of not more than 80 degrees in the open-cup test
required by the statute.. The witness made a "fractional distillation" of the fluid to ascertain if it had any light material in
it to account for the low-flash test, and produced a distillate of
practically 5 per cent of the original quantity, which, judging
from the general appearances, smell and flash point, the witness
said, was "what we generally term naphtha or gasoline." The
flash point of this distillate was 37 degrees, while the flash point
of the residue of the material from which the distillate had been
.taken was 95 degrees, which, allowing for a full 25 degrees of
difference between the closed and open cup-test methods, would
bring the flash point at about 120 degrees, according to the
statutory method. The witness swore that the mixture of
coal oil and gasoline at the ratio of 95 and 5 per cent, would be
dangerous to use as coal oil. He, moreover, testified that ordinarily an explosion of three-fourths of a gallon of a mixture of
coal oil and gasoline, such as had been examined, would generate a volume of gas fifteen hundred to eighteen hundred times

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

that of the liquid. Further, the witness declared that while it
would not be dangerous to use coal oil having a flash test of
'20 degrees. to start a fire, it would bet dangerous to use the
analyzed mixture for that purpose.
In the light of the foregoing we come to consider the assignments of error.
1. The error alleged to have been.committed by the trial court in
giving to the jury, at the request of Deselms, four instructions,
numbered 4, 5, 6 and 7, and the refusal to give two instructions,
numbered 5 and 11, requested by the oil company.
Instruction numbered 4 called the attention of the jury to the
character and quality of the oils and gasolines which the statute of the Territory permitted to be sold, referred to the tests
prescribed for ascertaining their quality, and pointed out that
it was a criminal offense to sell products of petroleum which did
not conform to the statutory standard. It is said that this instruction was based mainly upon the provisions of § 2 of the act
of 1899, heretofore quoted, which section, it is insisted, is void,
and therefore afforded no proper basis for consideration by the
jury in determining whether the oil company had been negligent in- putting the fluid in question upon the market. This
rests upon the contention that the text of the statute is in effect
meaningless, and that besides, even if it could be enforced according to its letter, the statute would lead to such an absurd
result as would operate to destroy the very purposes which it
was designed to accomplish. We think the contentions are
without merit. As we have seen, the requirement of the statute as'to specifi4 gravity is that the oil shall "have not a specific
gravity' of not less than 46 degrees Baume." While the two
negatives may apparently render the clause on its face confusing, if the superfluous negative be omitted all difficulty on this
subject is removed, and the sentence would therefore provide
that the oil must have a specific gravity of not less than 46 degrees Baume. This provision obviously exacts that the gravity
of the oil shall be ascertained by the use of a Baume hydrometer, and it is the method of reading the scale of that instru-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment upon which is based the argument that, even with the
superfluous negative omitted, the provision of the statute leads
to an absurd result and gives sanction to the admission of dangerous while excluding safe oils. In ascertaining the specific
gravity by the Baume scale the heavier the oil tested the lower
will be the number indicated on the scale, and consequently the
higher the number on the scale the lighter or more volatile will
be the oil tested. This results because the Baume scale is to be
inversely read. Now as the statute, omitting the superfluous
negative, reads that the oil shall have a specific gravity of not
less than 46 degrees Baume, the contention is that the statute.
excludes all oils lower than 46 degrees and permits all oils above
46 degrees to be sold as not dangerous. But we think when the
context of the statute is considered and its provisions as to
gasoline and the other light and highly inflammable fluids are
taken into view, it becomes quite clear that while the words of
the statute are somewhat confusedly expressed, arising from the
fact the Baume scale is inversely read, that the plain purpose
of the statute was to permit the use of oils which, when tested
by the Baume hydrometer, indicated at least 46 degrees specific
gravity, and to exclude all oils of a lighter character, that is, all
oils which, when tested by the hydrometer, indicated a degree
of gravity on the scale higher than 46. In other words, we
think that when the provision of the statute is taken into view
in connection with the inverse scale of the Baume hydrometer
the requirement that the oil shall have a specific gravity of not
less than 46 degrees Baume in effect was intended to exact that
the coal oil permitted to be sold as not dangerous should be of
no less gravity than 46, and therefore when tested should indicate not more than 46 degrees on the Baume scale.
Relying upon testimony which was offered tending to show
that from some localities oils which are perfectly safe are obtained, although they have a specific gravity somewhat above
46 Baume, it is insisted that the law in question was not a
legitimate exercise of the police power, since by selecting 46 degrees Baume as the standard, oils are exclude(, which would

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

be as safe for use as oil complying with the standard fixed by
the statute. But we think the court below was clearly right in
deciding that, as the subject was within the police power of the
State, it was not within the province of the judiciary to disregard the statute and treat it as void upon the theory that the
legislature had acted unwisely in fixing the standard which the
statute prescribed.
It is further contended that §4 of the act of 1899 was void
because of the alleged unequal punishment therein provided
for persons and corporations performing the same act. But
whether or not the section is subject to the criticism made
against it, it is clearly separable from the rest of the act, as held
by the court below, and in no wise affected the unlawful use
within the Territory of oil which did not conform to the standard fixed by the statute.
The other instructions, Nos. 5, 6 and 7, which the assignment
of errors assail, in various forms of statement submitted to the
jury the following subjects: a, The liability of the oil company
predicated upon the fact that the mixture in question was dangerous to be used for the usual and ordinary purposes for which
coal oil is generally used; b, that it was knowingly sold by the
oil -company to be resold as coal oil; c, that the making use of
coal oil to kindle or start fires was a general and universal custom or usage, and hence the oil company had reason to believe
that the mixture so sold by it would be used for such a purpose;
and, d, that the accident happened while the fluid was being
used with ordinary care and caution, in the belief that it was
coal oil, and for a purpose for which coal oil is usually intended
and used.
I In this connection it is to be observed that at the trial Deselms, the plaintiff, offered evidence tending to show that there
was a general custom to make use of coal oil for kindling fires,
but on the objection of the oil company the offered testimony
was exluded, the court declaring it was of opinion that whether
coal oil was generally used for the purpose claimed the subject
was one of common knowledge and experience in the com-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

munity, and it was not necessary to offer proof in relation
thereto, and, as shown by the instructions complained of, the
determination of the existence of the custom or usage was subsequently left to the jury. In affirming the action of the trial
court on this branch of the case the -Supreme Court of the Terri*tory held that the trial court had not erred in excluding the
testimony as to the custom or usage in question, and that no
*prejudicial error had been occasioned by submitting the determination of the question to the jury, since the custom in the
community was so universal that the court would have been
authorized to have instructed the jury accordingly. In judicially noticing the existence of a usage or custom among persons generally within the Territory to use coal oil in kindling
fires, we cannot say the court below erred, and, upon the hypothesis indulged, no error was committed in overruling the
exceptions to the instructions. See Ellis v. Republic Oil Co.,
133 Iowa, 11.
We deem it unnecessary to particularly refer to the assignments of error relating to the refusal of the trial court to give
to the jury certain instructions submitted on the part of the
oil company,' as the proposed instructions but embodied the
converse of the propositions contained in instructions Nos. 5, 6
and 7, just disposed of. One of the instructions, however, was
framed upon the theory that the case was controlled by the act
of 1895, providing for the inspection of oils, etc., because of the
alleged void character of the act of 1899, a contention which
we have also previously adversely disposed of in considering
that subject.
2. The error alleged to have been committed by the appellate
court in holding that the trial court rightly refused at the close of
the evidence to give a peremptory instruction to the oil company.
The errors assigned on this subject, as we have seen, are
twofold, that is, the inadequacy of the facts to show that the
accident was caused by the inflammable nature of the mixture
and the absence of a legal right to recover, even if the proof

.- -176

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

justified submitting the question of fact to the jury. Concerning the first, the contention is that as the plaintiff was bound
to make out his case by a preponderance of evidence, and as
there were no factsin evidence from which an inference could
properly be drawn that the accident might not have resulted
if there had been no admixture of gasoline with the coal oil, or
which authorized the inference that the loss was not caused
solely by the negligence of the wife of the plaintiff, the peremptory instruction should have been given.
It is, of course, to be conceded that the burden of proof was
primarily upon the plaintiff to establish the negligence charged,
and it was not enough to show an accident and an injury.
Patton v. Texas &c. Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658. We are, however,
of the opinion that the court below was clearly right in deciding
that the trial court had committed no error in ruling that the
evidence was sufficient to require the submission of the case to
the jury on the question of the cause of the accident. The
highly inflammable character of the mixture was well illustrated
by the testimony of Mrs. Emory, a sister of the plaintiff, that
on filling a new lamp with the mixture and lighting it flame
shot out of the lamp chimney. Undoubtedly the evidence directly.pointed to the fact that the, can which contained the
fluid had been taken from the east room, where it usually was
kept, to the room in which stood the heating stove. Clearly,
also, the proof as to the unburned and charred or stained condition of the kindling wood in the heating stove, when connected with the removal of the can, tended to show that some
of the fluid from the can had been applied to the kindling before it was ignited and preparatory to starting a fire. But the
situation of the can after the fire and the place where the top
of the can was found, clearly tended to rebut the implication
that the fire had been lighted and fluid from the can then poured
upon it. In view of the finding of the jury, as to the custom to
use coal oil for kindling fires, and the knowledge which the oil
company must be presumed to have had, that the fluid sold by
it as coal 61 would be used for this purpose, the mere inference

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S

Opinion of the Court..

that the-oil from the. can had been applied to the kindling before it was lighted afforded no ground for taking the case from'
the jury., Moreover, in view of the proof asto the condition of
the kindling -wood, of the situation of the can, of the condition
pf the stove after the fire, of the position of the bodies of the
wife and the -two children, and of the dense and large volume
of- gases wh'kh filled the premises at the outbreak of the fire,
we think there was adequate 3proof from which the jury could
have inferred that the accident was the result of an explosion
caused by applying a light to the kindling wood in the stove
after it had been saturated with fluid taken from the can, an
accident therefore resulting solely from the wrong of the oil
company in selling as coal oil a highly dangerous and inflammable mixture, unsafe to be used for the purpose for which,
under the instruction of the court and the findings of the jury,
coal oil-was ordinarily used. It is unnecessary to further elabo*rate the subject because of the very full and accurate review of
the tendencies of the proof in relation to the matter made by
the court below- in its opinion.
The contention that, although there was sufficient evidence
to go to the jury as to the fact .of negligence on the part of the
oil company, nevertheless there was nothing in the tendencies
of the proof to support the conclusion that the oil company was
legally responsible for the accident rests on the proposition that
as Deselms bought the oil, not from the oil company, but from
the firm of Powers & Deselms, and therefore was only a remote
vendee, there was no legal liability on the part of the oil company. This is based upon the propositions that there was between the plaintiff. Deselms and the oil company, nocontractual
relation, and besides in any event the act of the oil company in
s lling the dangerous mixture to Powers & Deselms was not the
proximate cause of the accident. As we have seen, however,
there was evidence tending to prove, and under the instructions
given to the jury their verdict must be taken as establishing the
following facts: 1, that the oil company knowingly sold to
Powers & Deselms a highly inflammable mixture Qf coal oil and
-vOL. CCXnI-12

178

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court. -

212 U. S.

gasoline in violation of the territorial statute, and that the oil
company knew, or had reason to assume, that the mixture so
sold would be retailed by its vendees (Powers & Deselms) to the
public generally for domestic use as coal oil; 2, that Powers &
Deselms purchased the mixture in question supposing it to be
coal oil, and that the plaintiff, Deselms, bought the mixture
from the firm in like ignorance of its real character; 3, that there
was a general custom in the community to use coal oil for kindling fires, a use which would not have subjected persons so using
it and exercising ordinary care to the appalling danger which
would arise from the making use of the inflammable and dangerous mixture composed of gasoline and coal oil, a custom of
which the oil company had knowledge or of the existence of
which it is presumably charged with knowing. From these
facts it is apparent that the responsibility of the oil company
rested not on contract but in tort, and therefore the contention
as to want of contractual relation is wholly irrelevant.
In Savings Bank v. Ward, '100 U.. S. 195, relied upon by the
oil company, it is true an attorney at law was held not to. be
liable to a third. party for the negligent performance of a contract to examine the title to certain real estate, because of the
absence of a contractual relation. But the distinction between
the principle which was there controlling and the one which is
here applicable was pointed out in the opinion of the*court in
that case, where it was said (p. 204):
"Pharmacists or apothecaries who compound or sell medicines, if they carelessly label a poison as a harmless medicine,
and send it so labelled into the market, are liable to all persons
who, without fault on their part, are injured by using it as such
medicine, in consequence of the false label; the rule being that
the liability in such a case arises, not out of any contract or
direct privity between the wrongdoer and the person injured,
but out of the duty which the law imposes on him to avoid acts
in their nature dangerous to the lives of others. He is liable,
therefore, though the poisonous drug with the label may have
passed through many intermediate sales before it reached the

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hands of the person injured. Thomas v. Winchester, 2 Seld.
397, 410."
And the same principle was applied to a sale of dangerous oil
in Wellington v. Downer Kerosene Oil Co., 104 Massachusetts,
64, where it was said: "It is well settled that a man who delivers an article, which he knows to be dangerous or noxious, to
another person, without notice of its nature' and qualities, is
liable for an injury which may reasonably be contemplated as
likely to result, and which does in fact result, therefrom, to that
person or any other', who is not himself in fault." And the like
doctrine has been expounded in many cases. See, especially,
Elkins.v. McKean, 79 Pa. St. 493, and Weiser v. Holzman,
33 Washington, 87, where the doctrine is clearly and forcibly stated and the many authorities sustaining the same are
cited. In view of the tendencies of the proof as to the entire
absence of knowledge by Powers & Deselms, when purchasing
from the oil company, and the ignorance of Deselms when he
bought from the firm, of the character of the fluid, it is certain
that in the case before us the act of the oil company, in any
view, was the proximate cause of the accident, as no other independent and efficient cause or wrong can be legally said to
have occasioned the same. The G. R. Booth, 171 U. S.450.
But because we confine ourselves to the particular facts of
the case before us we must not be understood as holding, in
view of the dangerous character of the fluid and the putting of
the same upon the market by the oil company, with the expectation that it would be retailed to the public, and the violation of the statutory regulations and prohibition concerning
the sale of such article, that under the general principles of law
sustained by the authorities already cited, a recovery against
the oil company might not have been justified, even if the proof
had established that Powers & Deselms had been informed by
the oil company of the dangerous character of. the mixture.
See, further, Clement v. Crosby, 148 Michigan, 293, and Stowell
v. Standard Oil Co., 139 Michigan, 18, and-authorities cited in
both cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

3. It remains only to consider error alleged to have resulted
from the affirmance of the refusal of the trial court to give a particular instruction asked by the oil company concerning the subject of damages.
In its general charge the court in substance instructed the
jury that the measure of damages was the net value to the
father of the services of his children during their minority.
Thus the court said:
. "Dariages are intended to be compensatory and must be*
fair, reasonable and just. The father is entitled to the services
of his son until he arrives at the age of twenty-one years, and
of the daughter until she arrives at the age of eighteen; he is
also charged with the expense of their support, maintenance,
education and social training, and you must fix the amount
which, in your judgment, will compensate him for any pecuniary loss he may have sustained."
And, later, the jury were cautioned that their verdict "must
be based upon the evidence which the court has permitted to
go to you."
On behalf of the oil company the trial judge was asked to
give an instruction numbered 14, as follows:
"In determining the amount of your verdict for the plain-.
tiff, if you find for such plaintiff, you should not take into
consideration the pain suffered by the deceased or the wounded
feelings of the father or other surviving relatives, but your
verdict must be limited to such amount, if any, as you believe
the plaintiff has suffered financially by reason of the death of
his children' In other words, the recovery, if any, is to be a
pecuniary compensation for a pecuniary loss, and such finding
of loss must be based upon the evidence introduced in the case."
The court gave this instruction, with the addition at the end
thereof of the following sentence: "The amount of damages
cannot be fixed by the evidence, but must be the result of
your own judgments."
We shall consider the exception in the light of the objections
urged in the brief of counsel. In discussing the subject of ex-

WATERS-PIERCE OIL CO. v. DESELMS.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cessive damages counsel for the oil company thus treat of the
modification of instruction No. 14:
"We submit, in the first instance, that it was error on the
part of the court to tell the jury that the question of damages
cannot be fixed by the evidence, but must be the result of
your own judgment. While it is true that the amount of damages cannot be named or ascertained from specific evidence
disclosing the amount of loss on the part of plaintiff, yet they
must bear a relation to the evidence, and the vice of this instruction is that it cuts loose the minds of the jury from all
regard to the evidence,, and it is'needless to say that they went
the instant they were turned loose. The authorities cited later
will fully cover this point in this instruction."
The authorities referred to are decisions of state courts of
last resort dealing with the subject of excessive damages when
allowed by juries for the negligent causing of the deaths of
minors. They more particularly concern the duty of a court
to grant or refuse 'a new trial where the damages are excessive,
and where the action of the trial court in refusing a new trial
was open to review in the appellate court. As it is clear that
this court does not possess such a power (City of Lincoln v.
Power, 151 U. S. 436; Ward v. Joslin, 186 U. S. 142, 153), we
need not further notice the authorities relied upon.
That the correctness of the general instruction as to what
were the elements of damage sustained by the father was not
assailed by the oil company sufficiently appears from the
argument of counsel above excerpted, which also evidences
the fact that no question was intended- to be made as to the
non-production at the trial of witnesses to give evidence in
respect to the net value of the prospective services of the
children. Manifestly, the rule deemed by the court and counsel to be applicable, to quote language contained in the opinion
in Brunswig v. White, 70 Texas, 504, was that "when from the
age or undeveloped state of the child any estimate of value
of
the services until majority would be matter of opinion, in which
no particular or especial knowledge in way of expert testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

mony could be procured better than the judgment and common
sense of the ordinary juror called to the duty of determining
such value-then, upon such testimony, the sound discretion
of the jury can be relied on to determine the value, without
any witness naming a sum." And see Balto. & Ohio S. W. Ry.
Co. v. Then, 159 Illinois, 535, and Birkett v. Knickerbocker Ice
Co., 110 N. Y. 504.
The complaint that error was committed in the modification
made of requested instruction No. 14, as stated by counsel,
amounts therefore but to the assertion that thereby the jury
were informed that they possessed power to capriciously fix
the amount of damages. We are unable, however, to so interpret the language, especially when read in connection with
the prior instructions of the court. -The jury were not told that
the "question" of damages could not be fixed by the evidence.,
but that the "amount" thereof had not been fixed. When
they were further instructed that the amount of damages must
be "the result of your own judgments," we think, in reason,
the jury could only have understood that it was left to their
sound sense and deliberate judgment to determine the amount
of damage, from a consideration of the various elements dntering into the damage, and the factors in evidence, viz., the
age, health, condition in life of the children, etc. If counsel
were of opinion that the modification as expressed was susceptible of being misunderstood by the jury, the court should have
been asked to remove the supposed ambiguity.
Finding none of the assignments of error relied upon and
which we have power to review to be well founded, it results
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Oklahoma must be and it is
Affirmed.

