OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

212 U. S.

NORTH SHORE BOOM AND DRIVING COMPANY v.
NICOMEN BOOM COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
No. 107.

Argued January 29, February 1, 1909.-Decided February 23,
1909.

A State, in the absence of any statute by Congress, has plenary power in
regard to navigable streams wholly within its boundaries; and obstructions in such streams, in the absence of statute, constitute no offense
against the United States, and whether obstructions are unlawful
under state lai is not a Federal question. Willamette Iron Bridge Co.
v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1.
Where a Federal law is applicable requiring consent of the Federal
Government there is concurrent or joint jurisdiction of the state
and National governments over the erection of structures obstruct ing navigation of a navigable stream wholly within a State. Camimings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Montgomery v. Portland,190 U. S. 89.
Section 10 of the River and Harbor Act of March 3, 1899, c. 425, 30
Stat. 1151, alters § 7 of the River and Harbor Act of September 19,
1890, c. 907, 26 Stat. 454, and prohibits obstructions in navigable
waters of the United States not affirmatively authorized by Congress,
and whether the State has assented to such obstructions remains
with the State alone and is not a Federal question reviewable by
this court under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Writ of error to review 40 Washington, 315, dismissed.

Nicomen Boom Company, hereinafter called the plaintiff, commenced an action against ,the North Shore Boom, and
Driving Company, hereinafter called the defendant, in. the
Superior Court of the State of Washington, Pacific County, to
enjoin the defendant from building a boom in the North River,
(a river wholly within the boundary of the State of Washington), within the locality designated in the plaintiff's plat and
survey for its boom.
The action was founded upon the allegations that the plaintiff was the first to file its plat, and that it commenced to build
its boom under the statutes of the State of Washington, and
THE

NORTH SHORE BOOM CO. v. NICOMEN BOOM CO. 407
212 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the defendant was threatening to build its boom within
the locality marked out and designated by the plaintiff in its
plat or survey filed with the Secretary of State, although its
boom had not actually been completed the whole distance indicated in such plat or survey.
The defendant denied the various allegations of the plaintiff
and the parties went to trial, which resulted in a judgment for
the defendant, dismissing the plaintiff's complaint. The plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, where the
judgment was reversed and the cause remanded to the Superior
Court, with directions to enter judgment enjoining the defendant from building the boom within the location marked on the
plat or survey for the plaintiff's boom. See the opinion of the
state court, 40 Washington, -315, showing plainly and in full
the grounds of the decision.
The defendant has sued out a writ of error from this court
and brings the judgment here for review.
Mr. Charles E. Miller and Mr. John M. Thurston, with
whom Mr. W. H. Abel, Mr. James B. Howe and Mr. Samuel
H. Piles were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Both boom companies were incorporated long after the passage of the act of Congress of September 19, 1890, and both
recognized the authority of Congress by securing permission
from the Secretary of War.to erect their respective boom structures. If either company had attempted to erect its boom without the Federal assent, it would have been very promptly
stopped and ejected from the river by -the Secretary of War.
Hence, the authority of any person to thus occupy this stream is
wholly a Federal question, whether the right questioned is under the Federal or state statutes. United States v. Bellingham
Bay Boom Co., 176 U. S.218; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.
410.
The erection of, a structure in a navigable river, within the
limits of a State, depends upon the concurrent or joint assent
of both the National Government and the state government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

212 U. S.

The Secretary of War, acting under the authority conferred
by Congress, may assent to the erection by private parties of
such a structure. Without such assent the structure cannot be
erected bY them. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410; Montgomery v. Portland, 190 U. S. 89.
As the authority over the navigable waters of the United
States is paramount in Congress and any-voice in their control
by the States is only by the grace of Congress, which may be
'withdrawn at any time, as to what constitutes the assent of a
State, to be concurrent with National assent, is, ipso facto, a
Federal question.
The Washington Supreme Court held that the filing of a
boom plat was analogous to the filing'of -a plat for right of way
by a railroad corporation which would hold the location until
actual abandonment and that therefore the defendant in error
had the state assent ahd that plaintiff in error did not have
such assent. This was the sole question in the case and from its
very natur-e could only be a Federal question. Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333; Am. Sugar R. Co. V.Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89;'
Douglass v. Wallace, 161 U. S. 346.
It must appear from the record that the question was necessarily involved in the decision; and that the state court could
not have given the judgment or decree, which it has passed
without deciding it. Armstrong v. Athens Co., 16 Pet. 281.
This case is cited in many cases, notably the following:
Moore v. Mississippi, 21 Wall. 638; Murray v. Charleston, 96
U. S. 442; Crossley v. New Orleans, 108 U. S. 105; Weathdrby
v. Bowie, 131 U. S. ccxv; Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green
Bay & M. C. Co., 142 U.'S. 69; Gulf Etc. R. R. v. Hewes, 183
U. S. 66; Anderson v. Carkins, 135 U. S. 483; Powell v. Brunswick Co., 150 U. S. 433.
It is not. necessary that the treaty- or act of Congress on
which the Federal right is based should have been pleaded.
specially or spread upon the record. It is sufficient if the
record shows that it must have been construed. McCullough
v. Virgiiiia, 172 U. S. 118, 'and see-also Wedding v. Meyler,

NORTH SHORE BOOM CO. v. NICOMEN BOOM CO. 409
212 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

192 U. S. 573; Covington v. Sanford, 164 U. S. 595; Mitchell
v. Clark, 110 U. S. 645; Boyd v. Nebraska, 143 U. S. 180; Des
Moines v. Iowa H. Co., 123 U. S. 555; Erie R. Co. v. Purdy, 185
U. S. 148; Snell v. Chicago, 152 U. S. 191; Muter v. Montgomery, 156 U. S. 385; Walter A. Wood Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S.
295; Cook Co. v. Calumet Dock Co., 138 U. S. 365; C., B. & Q.
R. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 228.
Mr. James G. Wilson, with whom Mr. W' W. Cotton was on
the brief, for defendant in error;
A writ of error from the Supreme Court of the United States
to the Suprerie Court of a State, can be sustained only when
the decision is against the right specially set up or claimed
under the Constitution and laws of the.United States, andlif
the decision of the state court rests upon independent grounds
of law, sufficient to sustain it, but not involving a Federal question, the Supreme Court of the United States has no jurisdiction and will dismiss the writ of error, and this, even in a casewhere a Federal question is also decided. Taylor on Jur. and
Pro. of U. S. Supreme Court, §§ 238-240; Rutland R. R. Co. v.
Central of Vermont R. 1. Co., 159 U. S. 638; Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 366; Cal. Powder Co. v. Davis, 151 U. S. 393; Giles
v. Teasley, 193 U. S. 160; Sawyerv. Piper, 189 U. S. 156; Harrison v. Morton, 171 U. S. 46; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S.
154; Chapin v. Fye, 179 U. S. 128; Corkran Oil Co. v. Arnaudet, 199 U. S. 193; Fullerton v. Texas, 196 U. S. 192; Capital
Bank v. Cadiz Bank, 172 U. S. 425; Dower v. Richards, 151
U. S. 666; Egan v. Hart, 165U. S. 188; McMillan v. Ferrum
Min. Co., 197 U. S. 343.
The mere fact that the controversy arose. olit of a location in
a navigable water in the United States, or under a statute of
Congress, would not necessarily raise a Federal question within
§ 709 of the Revised Statutes. Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188;
McMillan.v. Ferrum Min. Co., 197 U. S. 347; Telluride P. T.
Co. v. Rio Grande W. R. Co.- 175U. S. 643.
The effect of § 10 of the River and Harbor Act is to make

410

OCTOBER TERM,. 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

the erection of a structure in a navigable river within the
limits of a State dependent upon the concurrent or joint assent
of both the National Government and the state government.
The question of whether or not the assent of the National Government had been acquired might raise a Federal question and
authorize a writ of error, but the question of whether or not
the assent of the State had been obtained, is purely a matter
of local and state law and does not involve a Federal question.
'Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.431; Montgomery v. Portland,
190 U. S. 103.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a contest between two boom companies incorporated
under the laws of the State of Washington, authorizing the organization of corporations of this kind.
In April, 1900, the plaintiff, after its organization, filed in
the office of the Secretary of State of Washington its plat or
survey, showing so much of the shore lines and waters of the
North River and lands contiguous thereto as it proposed to
appropriate under the laws of the State. Before beginning its
boom it submitted to the Secretary of War of the United States
the plan of its proposed improvement and a plat of the territory to be occupied thereby, and was granted permission by
the War Department to construct a boom within the limits of
the river covered by the plat. The plaintiff proceeded to erect
its boom along the left side of the river, but stopped short of
the upper end of the'territory covered by its plat of location.
The boom was substantially constructed at a cost of about
$16,000, and has been operated from the time of its erection
as originally constructed; and plaintiff has always expected to
extend the boom within the limits of the plat of location as
the demands of business might require. Some days before the
commencement of the actual work of extending the plaintiff's
boom the defendant commenced to cons truct its boom within
the limits of the original plat of the plaintiff.

NORTH SHORE BOOM CO. v. NICOMEN BOOM CO. 411
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant was organized in 1903 and filed its plat and
survey in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of
Washington, and it alleges that before commencing to construct its 'boom it secured from the War Department of the
United States permission to construct the boom within its
location. The boom of the defendant, if constructed according to its .plans, would cause logs coming down the river intended to reach the plaintiff's boom to enter the main boom
of the defendant. The booms, as. proposed by the plaintiff
and defendant, cannot both be constructed. If the boom of
the plaintiff should be extended up the river within the limits
of its plat and survey, the passage between its line of dolphins
and the dolphins of the defendant on the other side of the
stream would be so narrow as to block navigation. Moreover,
it would be impracticable to operate both booms under such
circumstances. If the defendant is permitted to operate its
boom as intended, the boom of the plaintiff will receive only
such timber from up the river as may escape from the boom of
the defendant and such as may be transmitted through that
boom to the plaintiff. These facts are practically undisputed
and are found in the record and findings of the court.
The Federal Government has taken no part in the dispute
between the two corporations. The laws of the State provide
for proceedings to build booms and the defendant contends
that 'itcomplied with those statutes, and had also obtained
'from the chief clerk of the War Department a written statement, dated March 23, 1903, stating that the War Department
would not interpose any objection to the construction and
maintenance of the boom in the manner proposed by the defendant, so long as it did not unreasonably interfere with
navigation.
Several lawg have been passed by Congress, contained in the
River and Harbor Appropriation Acts, prohibiting obstructions in the waters' of the United States, and also providing
for getting the consent of the Government, through the Secretary of War, to the building of booms, bridges, etc. See

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S.

act of 1890, 26 Stat. 454, chapter 907, §§ 7, 10. Als act of
March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, chapter 425, § 10.
The state court did not-find it necessary to decide the question whether the defendant had- complied with the Federal
statute in regard to the building of its boom, but held that it
had not complied 'ith the statutes of the State of Washington
in regard to the building of such proposed boom, and it therefore had no right to build it, and it enjoined the defendant from
so doing, 'and directed judgment to be entered to that effect.
Before discussing the merits of the case the defendant in
.error made a motion to dismiss' the writ of error for the want
of jurisdiction, there being, as it asserts, no Federal question
reviewable under § 709 of the Revised Statutes.
The river in question is a navigable stream,-entirely within
the State of Washington, and, in the absence of.any statute
by Congress, a State has plenary power in regard to such waters.
Obstructions in those waters may be offenses against the laws
of the State, but constitute no offense against the United States
in the absence of a statute. Willamette Iron Bridge Company v.
Hatch, 125 U. S.1. The question whether the acts complained
of, such as obstructions, etc., in the river, are lawful or unlawful under the state law, is, as was said in the above cited case
(page 9), a state question, not a Federal one. Where there
is.
a Federal law which it is claimed also applies to the subject
and requires the consent of the Federal Government, then
there is a 'concurrent or joint jurisdiction of :the state and
National governments over the erection of a structure which
obstructs navigation. Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.410;
Montgomery v. Portland, 190 U. S.89.
It is contended, however, on the part of the counsel for the
defendant that whether the assent of the $tate has been given
to the erection of the structure is in and of ,itself a Federal
question, and he cites United States v. Bellingham Bay Boom
.Co., 176 U. S.211, 218, as authority for the proposition. That
case was commenced in the Circuit Court of the United StAtes
for the State of Washington, Northern Division, and was

NORTH SHORE BOOM CO. v. NICOMEN BOOM CO. 413
.212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

brought by the United States under the direction of the Attorney General, pursuant to the provisions of § 10 of th6 River
and Harbor Bill of 1890, 26 Stat. supra. It was brought to
enforce the right of the Government to prevent the erection
of a structure that obstructed the navigation of the river. It
was held in that case that the words in the tenth section, "not
affirmatively authorized by law," referred to the state as well
as to the Federal law, and that the question then arose as to
whether the structure was permitted by that [state] law, and
as the law of Congress provided that it might be permitted if
affirmatively authorized by a state law, the question whether
it was so authorized became in effect a question whether the
Federal law did or did not permit it. If it were authorized by
the state law, then the Federal law provided that it might continue; and whether it was or not, became a Federal question,
This is not such a case, and it is not brought by the Government under the section above mentioned, but the suit concerns
private parties only, and the statute does not, in the section
applicable, refer to any state law as in the case cited. Section 7,
River and Harbor Act of 1890, 26 Stat. '454, :chapter 907. And
§ 10 of chapter 425 of the Laws of 1899, 30 Stat. 1551, aupra,
alters the tenth section of the statute of 1890 by providing:
"That the creation of any obstruction not affirmatively authorized by Congress to the navigable capacity of any of the
waters of the United States is hereby prohibited." It leaves
out the words "not affirmatively authorized by law," and
substitutes ."not affirmatively authiorized by Congress." There
is, therefore, no reference to state action or state law. Obstruction not affirmatively authorized by Congress is prohibited, but the case of the state assent remains with the State
for its sole adjudication.
The construction of the boom of defendant in this case, the
state court has decided, was not authorized by the State.
Whether it was or not, is not a Federal question. The writ of
error is therefore
Dismissed.

