OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Syllabus.

231 U. S.

present case of a jurisdiction which it does not possess.
Indeed, whether the case. be considered in the light of the
absence of any assertion of individual right or grievance
on behalf of the relator or be looked at from the point of
view that the suit was one under the state law which
could only be brought by the permission of the State and
for the protection of its governmental authority, the
State being therefore the real party plaintiff, or if it be
tested by the want of authority on the part of the relator
by means of a writ of error to implead the State under the
circumstances disclosed without its consent in this court,
the want of jurisdiction is so conclusively shown by
previous decisions as to leave no room for controversy
(Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S.436).
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

WYANDOTTE COUNTY GAS COMPANY v. STATE
OF KANSAS, ON RELATION OF MARSHALL,
ATTORNEY FOR THE PUBLIC UTILITIES
COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 472.

Argued December 2, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

The fact that the determination of the question of power of the municipality to make the contract alleged to have been impaired involves
consideration and construction of the laws of the State does not
relieve this court from the duty of determining for itself thescope and
character of such contract.
While this court, in determining whether there is a contract, is not
bound by the construction of the state statutes by the state court, it
will not lightly disregard such construction but will seek to uphold it

WYANDOTTE GAS CO. v. KANSAS.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

so far as it can consistently with the duty to independently determine
the question.
In this case, this court reaches independently the same conclusion as
the state court in determining that under the authority conferred
by the statutes of Kansas the municipality cannot divest itself by
contract of its duty to see thai; only reasonable rates are enforced
under a public utility franchise.
A proviso in a public utility statute, in which manufactured gas, light
and water were enumerated, stating that municipalities were not
prohibited from granting franchises for supplying natural gas on
terms and conditions agreed to by it and the franchisee, construed as
bringing natural gas within the statute, and that the terms and
conditions on which the franchise could be granted were subject to
the same limitations contained in the statute as applicable to franchises for other utilities.
88 Kansas, 165, affirmed.

facts, which involve the power of a municipality in
Kansas to regulate charges for natural gas, are stated in
the opinion.
THE

Mr. J. W. Dana, with whom Mr. W. F. Douthirtwas on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The construction of this court is controlling and it will
determine for itself whether a contract exists within the
meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution.
Louisville Gas Co. v. Citizens Light Co., 115 U. S. 683, 697;
McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102; Crosslae Club v.
Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632; Vicksburg v. Water Co., 185

U. S. 65.
Power to regulate rates by municipality may be suspended by contract. Home Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 211
U. S. 265; Detroit v. Citizens Railway Co., 184 U. S. 368;
Vicksburg v. Waterworks Co., 206 U. S. 496.
Municipal corporations may be invested by statute with
power to bind themselves by irrevocable contract not to
regulate rates. Water Co. V. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587;
Los Angeles v. Water Co., '177 U. S. 558; Water Co. v.
Walla Walla, 172 U. S. 1; New Orleans Water Co. v.

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff inError.

231 U. S.

Rivers, 115 U. S. 674; Louisville v. Cumberland Tel. Co.,
224 U. S. 648; Vicksburg v. Water Co., 185 U. S. 65;
Vicksburg v. Waterworks Co., 202 U. S. 453; Street Railway
Co. v. Minneapolis, 215 U. S. 417.
The power to fix and regulate rates is governmental,
inherent in the State, and cannot be exercised by a subordinate subdivision such as a municipality unless conferred
by the State. Home Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
265; Water Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587; Stanislaus
County v. San Joaquin Co., 192 U. S. 201.
The power to regulate rates by a municipality may be
implied from the statute, and if implied is as authoritative
as though expressly granted. Home Tel. Co. v. Los
Angeles, 211 U. S. 265; Street Railway Co. v. Minneapolis,
215 U. S. 417; Vicksburg v. Water Co., 206 U. S. 496.
This power is clearly implied in the Kansas statutes, and
by § 51 of the act of 1903 municipalities were given power
to prescribe and fix reasonable and just maximum rates
for public utilities, and under § 170a the municipality was
given power to agree on terms with companies supplying
natural gas. Similar provisions in the other statutes involved in the cases cited supra have been construed as
conferring power on municipalities to make binding contracts as to rates in future. See also Water Co. v. Omaha,
147 Fed. Rep. 1; City Ry. Co. v. Citizens Ry. Co., 166 U. S.
557.
The decisions of the Kansas courts are a part of the
contract in this case and estop the State from denying its
validity. Territory v. Rayburn, 1 Kansas, 552; Jones v.
State, 1 Kansas, 273; Dudley v. Reynolds, 1 Kansas, 285;
Leavenworth v. Rankin, 2 Kansas, 357,; Leavenworth v.
Laing, 6 Kansas, 287; Atchison Street Ry. v. Mo. Pac. Ry.,
31 Kansas, 661; Wood v. Water Co., 33 Kansas, 597;
Wyandotte v. Corrigan,35 Kansas, 24; Winfield v. Gas Co.,
37 Kansas, 24, and 51 Kansas, 70; Water Co. v. Burlington,
43 Kansas, 725; Manly v. Emley, 46 Kansas, 655; Water

WYANDOTTE GAS CO. v. KANSAS.

231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Columbus, 48 Kansas, 99; Watkins v. Glenn, 55
Kansas, 417; Mills v. Osawatomie, 59 Kansas, 463; State v.
Water Co., 61 Kansas, 561. See also § 59, c. 100, Laws of
Kansas 1872, under which power to regulate is reserved
and the power to contract is not modified. Baxter Springs
v. Light Co., 64 Kansas, 591; Bank v. Arkansas City, 76
Fed. Rep. 271, and cases cited.
The contract in this case has been sustained in Wyandotte Gas Co. v. Commissioners,83 Kansas, 195.
The binding force of municipal franchise contracts has
been so often sustained by the Kansas courts as not to be
now open. Cases supra, and see also Potwin Place v.
Topeka Ry. Co., 51 Kansas, 609; Street Ry. Co. v. Nave,
38 Kansas, 744; Kansas City v. Gas Co., 9 Kans. App. 325;
Water Co. v. Galena, 74 Kansas, 644; Brown v. Atchison,
39 Kansas, 37.
Mr. Richard J. Higgins, with whom Mr. Henderson S.
Martin, Mr. A. E. Helm and Mr. John Marshall were on
the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Supreme Court of the State of Kansas, with a
modification to which it is not necessary to refer, affirmed
a decree of the District Court of Wyandotte County,
Kansas, enjoining the plaintiff in error, the Wyandotte
County Gas Company, from charging domestic consumers
in the cities of Kansas City, Kansas and Rosedale, Kansas,
for natural gas furnished, any sum in excess of 25 cents per
thousand cubic feet. To such decree this writ of error is
directed, and the Federal ground relied upon for reversal,
is the existence of contract rights in favor of the Gas
Company, which it is insisted were impaired by the
action of the court below.
VOL. ccxxxi-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

The price which the court below sustained was lower
than the rate charged by the Gas Company and was in
effect a statutory rate since a state law fixed the rate and
forbade the charging of a higher rate without the consent
of the State Utilities Commission, which consent the Gas
Company, under the theory that its contract relieved it
from doing so had not sought to obtain.
The court below rested its conclusion upon the grounds,
first, that the company had no contract rights fixing rates
which were impaired by enforcing the lower rate fixed
in the subsequent state law, and second, that if the city
had agreed with the company to fix contract rates, the
action of the city was void since the city possessed no
authority to make a contract limiting its power to fix
reasonable rates for the future. As the question of power,
which the last proposition involves, lies at the foundation
of the case, we come first to consider it, indulging, for the
sake of argument in the hypothesis that the city contracted
with the company for fixed rates during a stated period,
which contract would be impaired if the subsequent
legislation here complained of was enforced.
At the outset it is certain that the determination of the
question of power involves a consideration and construction of the law of the State from which the city derived
its authority. While, indeed, that fact does not relieve
us from the duty of determining for ourselves the scope
and character of the asserted contract, it is yet elementary
doctrine that in the discharge of such duty it is incumbent
upon us not to lightly disregard the construction put by
the court below upon the statutes of the State, but to
seek to uphold such construction as far as it can be done
consistently with the obligation to independently determine whether a contract exists which in disregard of the
Constitution has been impaired by subsequent legislation.
The alleged contract arises from the passage in 1904 by
the city of ordinance 6051 and action taken thereunder.

WYANDOTTE GAS CO. v. KANSAS.

231 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The question of power is to be determined by a consideration of a comprehensive state law adopted in 1903 regulating cities of the first class, of which Kansas City was
one. This law was incorporated in the general statutes
of Kansas for 1905, and in referring to it we quote the
section numbers as found ia the act of 1905, putting in
brackets the section numbers of the law of 1903 as originally adopted. Under the heading of "General Provisions" in the fourth paragraph of § 735 [3] cities of the
first class were empowered "To make all contracts and
do all other acts in relation to the property and concerns of the city necessary to the exercise of its corporate
or administrative powers."
Under the heading of" Legislative Department, Powers
of the Mayor and Council" i~t was provided in § 784[51]:
"Rates for Water, Light, etc. Sec. 51. To prescribe
and fix maximum rates and charges, and regulate the
collection of the same, for all water, electric light, heat,
power, gas, telephone service or any other commodity
or service furnished to such city or to any of the inhabitants thereof by any person or corporation now authorized
by such city by virtue of a franchise ordinance, or that
may hereafter be authorized by virtue of a franchise ordinance to furnish water, electric light, beat, power, gas
or telephone service, or any other commodity or service,
to such city or to its inhabitants. The rates and charges
so prescribed shall at all times be reasonable and just;
and if any city shall fix unreasonable and unjust rates
and charges, the same may, at the instance of any producer
or consumer, be reviewed and determined by the district
court of the county in which such city is situated."
Under the heading of "Public Utilities," § 902 [167],authority was given for the securing of an adequate supply
of water and the granting of franchises to that end, as well
as of contracting for laying pipes, etc., etc. The section
contained the following provision as to rates:

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

"Provided further, that
.
the mayor and council of any such city shall at all times during the existence
of any such grant, contract or privilege have the right by
ordinance to fix a reasonable schedule of maximum rates
to be charged for water for public and private purposes
by any such person, company or corporation: Provided,
however, That said mayor and council shall at no time
fix a rate which will prohibit 'such person, company or
corporation from earning at least eight per cent. on its
capital invested over and above its operating expenses
and expenses for maintenance and taxes. In establishing
and fixing such rates, the value of the plant and property of any such person, company or corporation shall be
taken into consideration, but the value of such franchise,
contract and privilege given and granted by the city to
such person, company or corporation shall not be taken
into consideration in ascertaining the reasonableness of
the rates to be charged to the inhabitants of such city."
Moreover, the section, after directing that a contract
should be reduced to writing; contained the following:
"and any attempt to evade, directly or indirectly, the
requirements of this act as to such consideration, or the
obligations and conditions of such contract, shall render
such contract and franchise absolutely null and void and
inoperative."
By § 904 [169] the same general power was given to
make contracts and grant franchises, etc., concerning
heat, light, power and street railway franchises, as was
conferred, as above stated, for the purpose of obtaining
a water supply; but as to the authority to fix rates by
contract, the power was limited by a restriction in substance the same as that which was imposed upon the right
to contract for rates for the purposes of a water supply,
since by § 905 [170] the right of the city in that respect
was expressly reserved to
"at all times during the existence of any such grant,

WYANDOTTE GAS CO. v. KANSAS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contract or privilege . . . to fix a reasonable schedule
of maximum rates to be charged for public and private
purposes, including street lighting by any such person,
company, or corporation, to the inhabitants of any such
city, for gas light, electric light, electric power, or heat,
and the rates of fare on any street railway."
Section 906 [170a], contained regulations as to the
period of the contract which might be made and other
general regulations, and closed with the provision which is
inserted in the margin. 1
Considering these statutory provisions the court below
(88 Kansas, 165) decided that they did not authorize the
city to divest itself by contract of its duty to see that
nothing but reasonable rates were enforced, however much
the statute might have as to other subjects conferred
upon the city an authority to contract in the complete
sense. Looking comprehensively at the provisions in
question, in the light of the duty resting on us to which
at the outset we referred, not lightly to disregard the construction which the state court of last resort has given to
the statutes of the State, we can see no ground for holding
that the court erred in its conclusion. Conceding that there
are forms of expression used in the statute which taken
isolatedly might be considered as having conferred the
power to fix a contract rate, such concession is not decisive, since we must.consider the statute as a whole. And
. Nothing in this act shall be consFrued as prohibiting any city governed
and controlledby the provisions of this actfrom granting,and the mayor and
council of any such city are hereby authorized to grant, to any person, company, or corporation, a franchise to construct, maintain and operate a
natural-gas plant for the purposes of furnishing to said city and its in-

habitantsnatural gas for lights,fuel, and all other purposes, 'with authority
to lay and maintain all necessary mains and pipes in the streets, avenues,

alleys and public grounds of said city, on such terms and conditions as may
be agreed to by said mayor and council and such person, company, or
corporation: Provided, That such franchise shall not continue for a longer
period than twenty years.

.6 0

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

when we do so, we think, to divorce the expressions referred to, from the context would be, not to interpret
and apply, but to distort the statute. Especially is this
conclusion necessary when the broad scope of the provisos
which we have quoted is taken into view, since they in
effect forbid the making of contract rates as to both
water and gas by commanding that the governmental
power to see to it that only reasonable rates are exacted
shall be perpetually preserved and exerted. In face of
such a plain manifestation of the legislative will, it would
be a departure from the obvious intent and purpose of
the lawmaker to hold that the statute conferred the power
to do that which the text makes it apparent there was a
dominant and fixed purpose of the legislature to forbid.
This conclusive view also applies to the, special provision
concerning natural gas. We say this because, as obviously
the prior sections of the statute embraced only manufactured gas, the provision as to natural gas was rendered
necessary in order to give the same power to deal with
that subject as was conferred concerning manufactured
gas. In other words, on its face, the purpose of the provision was to bring natural gas within the statute, subject
to the regulations and limitations which the statute imposed and it could not therefore have been intended to
cause dealings concerning natural gas to be for the purposes of power conferred within the statute and at the
same time to exclude the conferred authority from the
safeguards and regulations which the statute exacted.
The bringing of natural gas within the power therefore
caused it to be subject to the limitations which the statute
imposed and which as we have seen rendered it impossible
to contract away the governmental power to forbid unreasonable and secure reasonable rates.
Affirmed.

