373

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

forward from Buffalo to Scranton on waybills containing
the entry "Freight free-Company use." If the hay did,
in fact, then belong to the Vassar Company, such a shipment on such a waybill would have been a departure
from the published tariff, contrary to the provisions of the
Act to Regulate Commerce. No such offense however was

committed, for the contract., both by its terms and in the
light of the conduct of the parties, meant that the title
should pass when delivery was accepted by the defendant at Buffalo, but that the Railroad Company might
rescind if, on later inspection, the quality was found to
be different from what had been described in the contract
of sale. But after such delivery and before such rescission,
the title was in the Railroad Company. Allen v. Maury,
66 Alabama, 10; Burrows v. Whitaker, 71 N. Y. 291;
Kuppenheimer v. Wertheimer, 107 Michigan, 77.

As the

hay belonged to the defendant and was intended for use
in its private business of mining, the transportation over
its lines, in interstate commerce, was a violation of the
Commodity Clause.
Judgment affirmed.

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
No. 6.

Argued December 4, 5, 1912.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The provisions in the tax law of New York, chap. 62, Laws of 1909,
imposing a flat rate on shares of all banks, both state and national,
without the right of exemption in case of indebtedness of the owners,
does not discriminate against national banks and is not invalid under
§ 5219, Rev. Stat. People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, distinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, followed as to what constitutes moneyed capital within the meaning of § 5219, Rev. Stat.
The State is not obliged to apply the same system to the taxation of
national banks that it uses in the taxation of other property, provided
no injustice, inequality or unfriendly discrimination is inflicted upon
them. Bridgeport Savings Bank. v. Feitner, 191 N. Y. 88, approved.
The Federal courts will not overthrow a system of state taxation as
discriminatory against national banks under § 5219, Rev. Stat., unless
such discrimination is affirmatively shown.
Section 5219, Rev. Stat., deals with shareholders of national banks as a
class and not as individuals, and a scheme of taxation that is fair to
the class will not be held invalid because of a particular case arising
from circumstances personal to the individual affected.
198 N. Y. 503, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of certain taxes
imposed by the taxing officers of New York City upon
shares of stock in national banks located in that city and
which shares were owned by non-residents of New York,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. George Richards
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
No state tax can be assessed against the owners of shares
in a national bank which is at a greater rate than the tax
imposed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens. Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689; Cornell
S. S. Co. v. Dietrich, 161 N. Y. 195; Covington v. First
National Bank, 198 U. S. 100; Evansville Bank v. Britton,
105 U. S. 322, 324; Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319;
Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138; National
Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205, 220;
Newark Banking Co. v. Newark, 121 U. S. 163; Palmer v.
McMahon, 133 U. S. 660; Pelton v. National Bank, 101
U. S. 143, 145; Bridgeport Savings Bank v. Feitner, 191
N. Y. 88; People v. Dolan, 36 N. Y. 59; People v. Weaver,
100 U. S. 539; People's NationalBank v. Marye, 191 U. S.
272; Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 311; Whitbeck
v. Mercantile Bank, 127 U. S. 193.

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

Mr. William HerbertKing and Mr. Lawson Purdy, with
whom Mr. Archibald R. Watson was on the brief, for defendants in error:
The system of taxation established by the tax law of
New York does not discriminate against shares of national
bank stock, but, on the contrary, is favorable to capital
so invested; it was desired by the banks, and it is successful
and fair in its operation.
The plaintiff has failed to show that the taxes imposed
upon national bank shares in New York are at a greater
rate than taxes imposed upon other moneyed capital in the
State.
In the absence of any material, unfriendly or substantial
discrimination against capital invested in national banks
compared with capital of a similar and competing character, no case is presented requiring the court to interpose
for the protection of shareholders in national banks, and
to determine that the system of taxation is in conflict with
the act of Congress.
In support of these contentions see Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440; Bank of Commerce v.
Seattle, 166 U. S. 463; Boyer v. Boyer, 113 U. S. 689; Commercial Bank v. Chambers, 182 U. S. 556; Covington v.
First National Bank, 198 U. S. 100; Evansville Bank v.
Britton, 105 U. S. 322; First National Bank of Garnett v.
Ayers, 160 U. 8. 660; Hepburn v. The School Directors, 23
Wall. 480; Lander v. Mercantile Bank, 186 U. S. 458;
Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138; National
Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205; Palmer v.
McMahon,"133 U. S. 660; Pelton v. National Bank, 101
U. S. 143; Bridgeport Savings Bank v. Feitner, 120
App. Div. (N. Y.) 838; 191 N. Y. 88; Dunlap's Express Co. v. Raymond, 54 Misc. (N. Y.) 330; People v.
Weaver, 100 U. S. 539; People's National Bank v. Marye,
191 U. S. 272;. Whitbeck v. Mercantile Bank, 127 U. S.
193.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

231 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented is the validity of certain taxes
imposed in the year 1908 by the taxing Officers of New
York City upon some shares of stock in certain national
banking associations located in that city, which shares
were owned by the relator, a New Hampshire corporation
doing business in its home State. The taxable value of the

shares was ascertained by the Commissioners of Taxes
and Assessments, in accordance with the provisions of the
law of the State of New York, by adding together the
capital, surplus and undivided profits of each bank and
dividing the amount by the number of outstanding shares.
It is admitted that at the time of the making of this assessment the relator owed just debts exceeding the value of its
gross personal estate, including its bank shares, after deducting therefrom the value of its property taxable elsewhere and the value of its property not taxable anywhere;
that no portion of such debts had been deducted from the
assessment of any of its personal property, other than the
bank shares; and that no portion of the indebtedness was
contracted in the purchase of non-taxable property or
securities or for the purpose of evading taxation. Relator
made application to the Commissioners of Taxes and
Assessments for the cancellation of the assessment, upon
the ground that it was entitled to have its indebtedness
deducted from the assessed valuation of the bank shares.
This application was denied, a proceeding by certiorari
taken to review the determination of the Commissioners
was dismissed at the special term of the Supreme Court
of New York; the Appellate Division affirmed the dismissal (134 App. Div. 966), upon the authority of People
ex rel. Bridgeport Savings Bank v. Feitner, 191 N. Y. 88;
and the Court of Appeals affirmed the order of the Appellate Division, upon the same authority, 198 -N. Y. 503.
The case comes here by writ of error under § 709, Rev.

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK i. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. (Judicial Code, § 237), upon the ground that the
taxation imposed is in violation of the rights of the relator
under § 5219, Rev. Stat. 1
The contention of the plaintiff in error, made in the
state tribunals and reiterated here, is that the taxes are
invalid because made without allowing any deduction for
relator's debts, as alleged to be allowed by the laws of
New York in the case of other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens, cf that State; it being insisted
that inasmuch as the debts of relator exceeded the valuation of the bank shares, the assessment should be wholly
canceled.
The taxing laws in force at the time the assessment was
made were in the following year consolidated and reenacted as the "Tax Law." (L., 1909, c. 62; in effect
February 17, 1909; Cons. Laws, c. 60.) Those sections
that are deemed 'in anywise pertinent to the matter in
issue are set forth in full in the margin.2
1 SEC. 5219. Nothing herein ihall prevent all the shares in any association from being included in the valuation of the personal property
of the owner or holder of such shares, in assessing taxes imposed by authority of the State within which the association is located; but -the
legislature of each State may determine and dircet the manner and
place of taxing all the shares of national banking associations located
within the State, subject only to the two restrictions, that the taxation
shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State, and that the
shares of any national balking association owned by non-residents of
any State shall be taxed in the city or town where the bank is located,
and not elsewhere. Nothing 'herein shall be construed to exempt the
real property of associations from either State, county, or municipal
taxe§, to the same extent, according to its value, as other real property
is taxed.
2 EXTRACTS FROM NEW YORK TAX LAW.
SECTION 7:

"§ 7. When Property of Nonresidents Is Taxable. Subdivision 1.
Nonresidents of the state doing business in the state, either as principals or partners, shall be taxed on the capital invested in such busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Section 21 provides for the preparation of the assessment
roll, and requires that it shall contain separate columns,
in which the assessing officers shall set down the pertinent
items, and, among others, "4. In the fourth column the
full value of all the taxable personal property owned by
ness, as personal property, at the place where such business is carried
on, to the same extent as if they were residents of the state."
SECTIONS 14 and 25:
"§ 14. Place of Taxation of Individual Bank CapitaL-Everyindividual banker shall be taxable upon the amount of capital invested in his
banking business in the tax district where the place of such business is
located and shall, for that purpose, be deemed a resident of such tax
district."
"§ 25. Individual banker, how assessed.-Every individual banker
doing business under the laws of this state must report before the
fifteenth day of June under oath to the assessors of the tax district in
which any of the capital invested in such banking business is taxable,
the' amount of capital invested in such banking business in such tax
district on the first day of June preceding. Such capital shall be assessed as personal property to the banker in whose name such business
is carried on."
SECTION 21:
"§ 21. Preparation of Assessment-Roll.-They shall prepare an
assessment-roll containing nine separate columns and shall, according
to the best information in their power, set down:
1. In the first column the names of all the taxable persons in the tax
district.
2. In the second column the quantity of real property taxable to each
person with a statement thereof in such form as the co~amissioners of
taxes shall prescribe.
3. In the third column the full value of such real property.
4. In the fourth column the full value of all the taxable personal
property owned by each person respectively after deducting the just
debts owing by him.
SECTION 13: :
"§ 13. Stockholders of bank taxable on shares.-The stockholders of
every bank or.banking association organized under the authority of this
state, or of the United States, shall be assessed and taxed on the value
of their shares of stock therein; said shares shall be included in the valuation of the personal property of such stockholders in the assessment

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

each person respectively after deducting the just debts
owing by him." This provision is held to apply equally to
corporations and individuals (People ex rel. Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Dederick, 161 N. Y. 195), and has the effect of
allowing a deduction of the amount of the debts of the
of taxes in the tax district where Such bank or banking association is
located, and not elsewhere, whether the said stockholders reside in said
tax district or not."
SECTION 23:
"§ 23. Banks to Make Report.-The chief fiscal officer of every bank
or banking association organized under the authority of this state, or
of the United States, shall, on or before the first day of July, in each
year, furnish the assessors of the tax district in which its principal office
is located a statement under oath (ofthe condition of such bank or banking association on the first day of June next preceding, stating the
amount of its authorized capital stock, the number of shares and the
par value of the shares thereof, the amount of stock paid in, the amount
of its surplus and of its undivided, profits, if any, a complete list of the
names and residences of its stockholders and the number of shares
held by each. . . . The list of stockholders furnished by such bank
or banking association shall be deemed to contain the names of the
owners of such shares as are set opposite them, respectively, for the
purpose of assessment and taxation."
SECTION

24:

"§ 24. Bank shares, how asses ed.-In assessing the shares of stock
of banks or banking associations organized under the authority of this
state or the United States, the assessment and taxation shall not be
at a greater rate than is made or assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of this state. The value of each share
of stock of each bank and banking association, except such as are in
liquidation, shall be ascertained and fixed by adding together the
amount of the capital stock, surplus and undivided profits of such bank
or banking association and by dividing the result by the number of
outstanding shares of such banl: or banking association. The value of
each share of stock in each bank or banking association in liquidation
shall be ascertained and fixed by dividing the actual assets of such bank
or banking association by the number of outstanding shares of such
bank or banking association. The rate of tax upon the shares of stock
of banks and banking associat.,ons shall be one per centum upon the
value thereof, as ascertained ar.d fixed in the manner hereinbefore pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

taxpayer from the valuation of his general personal estate,
not however including bank shares, which are dealt with
in other sections. Section 23 requires the chief fiscal officer
of every bank or banking association organized under the
laws of the State or of the United States to furnish anvided, and the owners of the stock of banks and baAking associations
shall be entitled tq no deduction from the taxable value of their shares
because of the personal indebtedness of such owners, or for any other
reason whatsoever. Complaints in relation to the assessments of the
shares of stock of banks and banking associations made under the
provisions of this article shall be heard and determined as provided in
section thirty-seven of this chapter. The said tax shall be in lieu of all
other taxes whatsoever for state, county or local purposes upon the
said shares of stock, and mortgages, judgments and other choses in
action and personal property held or owned by banks or banking associations the value of which enters into the value of said shares of stock
shall also be exempt from all other state, coulity or local taxation. The
tax herein imposed shall be levied in the following manner: The board
of supervisors of the several counties shall, on or before the fifteenth
day of December in each year, ascertain from an inspection of the
assessment-rolls in their respective counties, the number of shares of
stock of banks and banking associations in each town, city, village,
school and other tax district, in their several counties, respectively, in
which such shares of stock are taxable, the names of the banks issuing
the same, respectively, and the assessed value of such shares, as ascertained in the manner provided in this article and entered upon the said
assessment-rolls, and shall forthwith mail to the president or cashier of
each of said banks or banking associations a statement setting forth the
amount of its capital stock, surplus and undivided profits, the number
of outstanding shares thereof, the value of each share of stock taxable
in said county, as ascertained in the manner herein provided, and the
aggregate amount of tax to be collected and paid by such bank and
banking association, under the provisions of this article. A certified
copy of each of said statements shall be sent to the county treasurer.
It shall be the duty of every bank or banking association to collect the
tax due upon its shares of stock from the several owners of such shares,
and to pay the same to the treasurer of the county wherein said bank
or banking association is located, and in the city of New York to the
receiver of taxes thereof on or before the thirty-first day of December
in said year; and any bank or banking association failing to pay the

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

381

Opinion ol' the Court.

nually, on or before July 1st, to the assessors of the tax
district in which its principal office is located, a sworn
statement of the condition of the bank on the first day of
June next preceding, stating the amount of its. capital

stock, surplus and undivided profits, the number of shares,
said tax as herein provided shall be liable by way of penalty for the
gross amount of the taxes due from all the owners of the shares of stock,
and for an additional amount of one hundred dollars for every day of
delay in the payment of said tax. Every bank or banking association
so paying the taxes due upon the shares of its stock shall have a lien
on the shares of stock, and on all property of the several share owners
in its hands, or which may at any time come into its hands, for reimbursement of the taxes so paid on account of the several shareholders,
with legal interest; and such lien may be enforced in any appropriate
manner. The tax hereby imposed shall be distributed in the following
manner: The board of supervisors of the several counties shall ascertain
the tax rate of each of the several town, city, village, school and other
tax districts in their counties, re:spectively, in which the shares of stock
of banks and banking associations shall be taxable, which tax rates shall
include the proportion of state anad county taxes levied in such districts,
respectively, for the year for which the tax is imposed, and the proportion of the tax on bank stock to which each of said districts shall be
respectively entitled shall be ascertained by taking such proportion of
the tax upon the shares of stock of banks and banking associations,
taxable in such districts, respectively, under the provisions of this
chapter as the tax rate of such tax district shall bear to the aggregate
tax rates of all the tax districts in which said shares of stock shall be
taxable. The clerks of the several cities, villages and school districts
to which any portion of the tax on shares of stock of banks and banking
associations is to be distributed under this section shall, in writing and
under oath, annually report to the board of supervisors of their respective counties, during the first week of the annual session of such
board, the tax rate of such city, village and school district for the year
prior to the meeting of each such board. The said board of supervisors
shall issue their warrant or order to the county treasurer on or before
the fifteenth day of December in each year, setting forth the number
of shares of bank stock taxable in each town, city, village, school and
other tax district in said county, in which said shares of stock shall be
taxable, the tax rate of each of said tax districts for said year, the proportion of the tax imposed by this chapter to which each of said tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

and the names and residences of the stockholders, with
the number of shares held by each. Sections 13 and 24
relate to the taxation of these shares, stockholders in state
and in national banks being treated alike. Section 13
takes the place of § 13 of the Tax Law of 1896 (L. 1896,
c. 908, p. 802). Section 24 of the latter act was amended
by L. 1901, c. 550; L. 1902, c. 126; L. 1903, c. 267; L. 1907,
districts is entitled, under the provisions hereof, and commanding him
to collect-same, and to pay to the proper officer in each of such districts
the proportion of such tax to which it is entitled under the provisions
of this chapter. The said county treasurer shall have the same powers
to enforce the collection and payment of said tax as are possessed by
the officers now charged by law with the collection of taxes, and the
said county treasurer shall be entitled to a commission of one per
centum for collecting and paying out said moneys, which commission
shall be deducted from the gross amount of said tax before the same is
distributed. In issuing their warrants to the collectors of taxes, the
board of supervisors shall omit therefrom assessments of and taxes
upon the shares of stock of banks and banking associations. Protided,
that, in the city of New York the statement of the bank assessment and
tax herein provided for shall be made by the board of tax commissioners
of said city, on or before the fifteenth day of December in each year,
and by them forthwith mailed to the respective banks and banking
associations located in said city, and a certified copy thereof sent to the
receiver of taxes of said city. The tax shall be paid by the respective
banks in said city to the said receiver of taxes on or before the thirtyfirst day of December in said year, and said tax shall be collected by the
said receiver of taxes and shall be by him paid into the treasury of said
city to the credit of the general fund thereof. This section is not to be
construed as an exemption of the real estate of banks or banking associations from taxation. No shares of stock of such banks and banking
associations, by whomsoever held, shall be exempt from the tax hereby
imposed."
SECTION 188:
"§ 188. Franchise Tax on Trust Companies.-Every trust company
incorporated, organized or formed under, by or pursuant to a law of this
state, and any company authorized to do a trust company's business
solely or in connection with any other business, under a general or
special law of this state, shall pay to the state annually for the privilege
of exercising its corporate franchise or carrying on its business in such

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

c. 739; and in its final form became § 24 of the Tax Law of
1909. In this form §24 is evidently a more recent enactment than § 13, and, so far as inconsistent, impliedly re-

peals it. The provision of § 13 for taxing bank shares in
the district where the bank is located remains in force.
It will be observed that § 24 declares (in obedience to
corporate or organized capacity, an annual tax which shall be equal to
one per centum on the amount of its capital stock, surplus, and undivided profits."
SECTION 189:
"§ 189. Franchise Tax on Savings Banks.-Every savings bank incorporated, organized or formed tder, by or pursuant to a law of this
state, shall pay to the state annually for the privilege of exercising its
corporate franchise or carrying on its business in such corporate or
organized capacity, an annual tax which shall be equal to one per
centum on the par value of its surplus and undivided earnings."
SECTION 191:
"§ 191. Tax upon Foreign Bankers.-Every foreign banker doing
business in this state, shall annually pay to the treasurer a tax of five
per centum on the amount of bterest or compensation of any kind
earned and collected by him on money loaned, used or employed in this
state by such banker. The term, 'doing a banking business,' as used
in this section, means doing such business as a corporation may be
created to do under article three of the banking law, or doing any business which a corporation is authorized by such article to do. The
term 'foreign banker doing a banking business in this state,' as used in
this section, includes:
"1. Every foreign corporation doing a banking business in this
state, except a national bank.
"2. Every unincorporated company, partnership or association of
two or more individuals, organized under or pursuant to the laws of
another state or country, doing a banking business in this state.
"3. Every other unincorporated company, partnership, or association,
of two or more individuals, doing a banking business in this state, if
the members thereof, owning more than a majority interest therein, or
entitled to more than one-half of the profits thereof, or who would,
if it were dissolved, be entitled to more than one-half of the net assets
thereof, are not residents of this state.
"4. Every nonresident of this state, doing a banking business in thiq
state, in his own name and right only."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

§ 5219, Rev. Stat.) that "the assessment and taxation
shall not be at a greater rate than is Tnade or assessed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
of this State;" that the valuation of the shares of going
concerns is to be ascertained by dividing the amount of
capital stock, surplus, and undivided profits by the number of shares; the valuation, in the case of banks in liquidation, to be fixed by dividing the actual assets by the number of shares; that a fixed rate of tax equal to one per
centum upon the value thus ascertained is imposed without deouction because of the personal indebtedness of the
owners, or for any other reason; that the tax is in lieu of
all other state taxation upon the choses in action and
personal property held by the bank whose value enters
into the 'valuation of its shares of stock; that this section
is not to be construed as an exemption of the real estate
of the banks from taxation; and that no share of stock
of such banks, by whomsoever held, is to be exempt from
the tax imposed. In construing § 24 the Court of Appeals
of New York has held (People ex rel. Bridgeport Savings
Bank v. Feitner, 191 N. Y. 88, 96) that the effect of introducing into the section the limitation prescribed by § 5219,
Rev. Stat., is such that if any bank is located in a tax
district where the rate is less than one per centum, its
stockholders are entitled to a reduction to conform to the
local rate.
Respecting other moneyed capital, trust companies, by
§ 188, are subjected to an annual franchise tax "equal to
one per centum on the amount of its capital stock, surplus,
and undivided profits." The practical burden of such a
tax, (which of course falls eventually upon the stockholder)
is presumably not materially different from the burden of
a tax at the same rate imposed upon the individual stockholder on a valuation of his shares arrived at by taking
into consideration the same elements of capital stock,
surplus, and undivided profits. And of course the stock-

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

holder has no relief from such a franchise tax because of
his individual debts. By § 189 savings banks are subjected
to a franchise tax of one per centum on the par value of
the surplus and undivided earnings. These institutions
are thus apparently taxed upon the basis of what they
possess over and above what -they owe to their depositors.
The individual banker, by §§ 14 and 25, is taxed at the
place where his business is located upon the "amount of
capital invested in his banking business."
It is not insisted that this tax law discriminates against
national banks or the stockholders thereof as compared
particularly with individual bankers, trust companies, or
savings banks. The ground of complaint is that § 24, in
providing that owners of bank stock (state or national)
shall not be entitled to deduction from the taxable value
of their shares because of ltheir personal indebtedness, is
contrary to the restriction contained in § 5219, Rev. Stat.,
that the shares of national banks shall not be taxed "at a
greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens of such State," because
under § 21 of the Tax Law all persons are permitted to
deduct their debts from their )other taxable personal property in general, including, as is claimed, other moneyed
capital.
Plaintiff in error relies chiefly upon the decision of this
court in People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539. That case was
in effect a review of the decision of the Court of Appeals of
New York in People v. Doi'an, 36 N. Y. 59. The question
was as to the validity of an assessment and taxation of
national bank shares in the City of Albany under the
state law of April 23, 1866 (N. Y. Laws 1866, p. 1647),
without deduction because of the indebtedness of the taxpayer, in view of the fact that under other laws the owners
of other kinds of personal property were entitled to have
the amount of their debts deducted from the valuation for
the purposes of taxation. The state court in the Dolan
voL. ccxxxi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Case had justified the method adopted in taxing the bank
shares, upon reasoning that assumed "that while Congress
limited the state authorities in reference to the ratio or
percentage levied on the value of its shares, which could
not be greater than on other moneyed capital invested in
the State, it left the matter of the relative valuation of the
shares and of.other moneyed capital wholly to the control
of state regulation." This court held that the clause in
§ 5219,-"that the taxation shall not be at a greater rate
than is assessed upon other moneyed capital," etc., meant
that the taxation upon shares should not be greater than
on other moneyed capital, taking into consideration both
the rate of assessment and the valuation. In other words,
that the restriction contained in the act of Congress had
to do with the actual incidence and practical burden of
the tax upon the taxpayer.
This decision was followed by several others to the same
effect. In Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, it was
pointed out that the decision in the Weaver Case had not
the effect of declaring the New York Act of 1866 void, but
only of deciding that the tax there in question was void
because the taxpayer had been refused the same deduction
for his debts that was allowed to other taxpayers having
moneyed capital otherwise invested. Hills v. Exchange
Bank, 105 U. S. 319, and Evansville Bank v. Britlon, 105
U. S.322, applied the same principle.
But the pertinent statutes in the Weaver Case differed
from those now before us, and the authority of that decision is not controlling. The act of 1866 is quoted in full
in the report, 100 U. S. at p. 540. And in that case, as the
opinion shows (pp. 542, 543), it was not disputed--" that
the effect of the state law is to permit a citizen of New
York, who has money capital invested otherwise than in
banks, to deduct from that capital the Sum of all his debts,
leaving the remainder alone subject to taxation, while he
whose money is invested in shares of bank stocks can make

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

no such deduction. Nor, inasmuch as nearly all the banks
in that State and in all others are national banks, can it
be denied that the owner of such shares who owes debts
is subjected to a heavier tax on account of those shares
than the owner of moneyed capital otherwise invested,
who also is in debt, because the latter can diminish the
amount of his tax by the amount of his indebtedness, while
the former cannot. That this works a discrimination
against the national bank shares as subjects of taxation,
unfavorable to the owners of such shares, is also free from
doubt."
The Tax Law of New York now in question is materially
different. As already shown, moneyed capital is dealt
with for the purposes of taxation upon lines different from
those upon which the taxation of other personal property
proceeds. By §§ 13 and 24 state bank shares and national
bank shares are both dealt with, and they are treated
alike, being assessed not upon the basis of market valves,
but upon a valuation determined by a consideration of
the capital stock, surplus, and undivided profits (yielding
what is commonly known as "book value"), and leaving
out of consideration other elements, such as good will and
the like, which enter into the determination of the actual
market value of such shares. On the other hand, personal
property in general is by § 21 to be assessed at its full value,
which presumably means market value. Section 24, instead of subjecting the owners of bank shares to taxation
at the rate locally obtaining for other personal property,
imposes a "flat rate" of one per centum upon the valuation, with the proviso, as held in the Feitner Case, supra,
that if the local rate be less than one per centum, the
owners of shares in the bank have the benefit of it.
Enough has been said to show that the decision in the
Weaver Case, which had to do with a tax assessed upon
bank stock on the basis of the same method of valuation
and the same rate of assessment as personal property in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

general, including other moneyed capital, but without
allowance for the indebtedness of the taxpayer, although
such allowance was made to the owners of personal property in general, including other moneyed capital, is not
to be deemed conclusive upon the present controversy, in
view of the differences in the taxing laws.
The Weaver. Case, however, and others that followed it,
did establish that the question whether an owner of national bank shares has been subjected to a state tax in
excess of the limitation imposed by § 5219, Rev. Stat., is
a practical question, to be determined by considering
whether he is actually discriminated against in favor of
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
of the State. And the meaning of the term "other moneyed capital" has been elucidated by several decisions, of
which the leading one is Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121
U. S. 138. This was a suit brought by a national bank to
restrain the collection of taxes assessed upon its stockholders under New York Laws 1882, c. 409, § 312, an
enactment that followed the general lines of the act of
1866, dealt with in the Weaver Case and quoted in the opinion of the court therein, except that in obedience to that
decision the act of 1882 required that-"in the assessment
of said shares, each stockholder shall be allowed all the
deductions and exceptions allowed by law in assessing
the value of other taxable personal property owned by
individual citizens of this State." The contention was
that the State had not complied with the condition contained in § 5219 of the Revised Statutes, because it had
by its legislation expressly exempted from all taxes in the
hands of individual citizens numerous species of moneyed
capital, while subjecting national bank shares and state
bank shares in the hands of individual holders to taxation
upon their full actual value, less only a proportionate
amount of the real estate owned by the bank. The court
(speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews) in examining and

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U: S.

Opinion od the Court.

disposing of this contention, after reviewing the previous
decisions of this court bearing upon the subject, proceeded
to expound the true intent and meaning of § 5219 of the
Revised Statutes as follows (p. 153):
"It follows, as a deduction from these decisions, that
'moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens' does
not necessarily embrace shares of stock held by them in
all corporations whose capital is employed, according to
their respective corporate powers and privileges, in business carried on for the pecuniary profit of shareholders,
although shares-in some corporations, according to the
nature of their business, may be such moneyed capital. . . . The key to the proper interpretation of the
act of Congress is its policy and purpose. The object of
the law was to establish a system of national banking institutions, in order to provide a uniform and secure currency for the people, and to facilitate the operations of the
Treasury of the United States. The capital of each of- the
banks in this system was to be furnished entirely by private individuals; but, for the protection of the government and the people, it was required that this capital, so
far as it was the security for its circulating notes, should
be invested in the bonds of the United States. These
bonds Were not subjects of taxation; and neither the banks
themselves, nor their capital, however invested, nor the
shares of stock therein held by individuals, could be taxed
by the States in which they were located without the consent of Congress, being exempted from the power of ,the
States in this respect, because these banks were means
and agencies established by Congress in execution of the
powers of the government of the United States. It was
deemed consistent, however, with these national uses, and
otherwise expedient, to grant to the States the authority
to tax them within the lmits of a rule prescribed by the
law. In fixing those limit!s it became necessary to prohibit
tfie States from imposing such a burden as would prevent

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the capital of individuals from freely seeking investment
in institutions which it was the express object of the law
to establish and promote. The business of banking, including all the operations which distinguish it, might be
carried on under state laws, either by corporations or
private persons, and capital in the form of money might
be invested and employed by individual citizens in many
single and separate operations forming substantial parts
of the business of banking. A tax upon the money of
individuals, invested in the form of shares of stock in national banks, would diminish their value as an investment
and drive the capital so invested from this employment,
if at the same time similar investments and similar employments under the authority of state laws were exempt
from an equal burden. The main purpose, therefore, of
Congress, in fixing limits to state taxation on investments
in the shares of national banks, was to render it impossible
for the State, in levying such a tax, to create and foster
an unequal and unfriendly competition, by favoring institutions or individuals carrying on a similar business and
operations and investments of a like character. The language of the act of Congress is to be read in the light of
this policy."
And again (p. 157): "The terms of the act of Congress,
therefore, include shares of stock or other interests owned
by individuals in all enterprises in which the capital employed in carrying on its business is money, where the
object of the business is the making of profit by its use as
money. The moneyed capital thus employed is invested
for that purpose in securities by way of loan, discount, or
otherwise, which are from time to time, according to the
rules of the business, reduced again to money and reinvested. It includes money in the hands of individuals
employed in a similar way, invested in loans, or in securities for the payment of money, either as an investment of
a permanent character, or temporarily with a view to sale

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or repayment and reinvestment. In this way the moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals is distinguished from
what is known generally as :personal property. Accordingly, it was said in Evansville Bank v. Britton, 105 U. S.
322: 'The act of Congress does not make the tax on-personal property the measure of the tax on the bank shares
in the State, but the tax on moneyed capital in the hands
of the individual citizens. Credits, money loaned at
interest, and demands against persons or corporations
are more purely representative of moneyed capital than
personal property, so far as they can be said to differ.
Undoubtedly there may be said to be much personal property exempt from taxation without giving bank shares a
right to similar exemption, because personal property is
not necessarily moneyed capital. But the rights, credits,
demands, and.money at interest mentioned in the Indiana
statute, from which bona fide debts may be deducted, all
mean moneyed capital invested in that way.' This definition of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals seems
to us to be the idea of the law, and ample enough to embrace and secure its whole plarpose and policy."
The rule of construction thus laid down has been since
consistently adhered to by this court; Palmerv. McMahon,
133 U. S. 660, 667; Aberdeem Bank v. Chehalis County,
166 U. S. 440, 454; National Bank of Wellington v. Chapman, 173 U. S. 205, 214; Commercial Bank v. Chambers,
182 U. S. 556, 560; Jenkins v. Neff, 186 U. S. 230.
According to this practical test, it seems to us that the
scheme adopted by the State of New York for taxing
shares in national banks cannot upon this record be denounced as violative of the limitations prescribed by
§ 5219, Rev. Stat. The holders of shares in state banks
are subjected to precisely the same taxation, and with
respect to other competitive institutions, such as trust
companies, the franchise tixes imposed upon them apparently result in a substantially similar burden upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

shareholder. Nor is there any discrimination in favor of
savings banks. With respect to individual bankers, there
is a difference, they being apparently subject to the local
rate of taxation and entitled to the privilege of deduction
for personal debts; but as they are taxable upon the
amount of the capital invested in the banking business,
which is normally only such as remains after the deduction of debts, it is not plain that they possess any valuable
privilege of reducing the tax assessment by deducting
debts. Foreign bankers are separately treated, for reasons
sufficiently obvious; but no criticism is made of this. If
there be other forms of "moneyed capital in the hands of
individual citizens" of the State employed in a banking
or quasi-banking business in competition with the national
banks, and which are subjected to a more favorable rule
of taxation, our attention is not called to them. Moreover,
we agree with what was said by the Court of Appeals of
New York in the Feitner Case, 191 N. Y. 88, 96, that'
"The State is not obliged to apply the same system to the
taxation of national banks that it uses in the taxation of
other property, provided no injustice, inequality or unfriendly discrimination is inflicted upon them." The court
there took note of the fact that the flat rate of one per
centum assessed upon national bank shares was more
favorable to the relator than the general 'tax rate for the
same year in the Borough of Manhattan, where the banks
were located. That local rate (for the year 1901), was
2.31733 per centum. In the present case it is stipulated
that the general tax rate locally applicable for the year
1908 to personal property, not including bank shares, was
1.61407 per centum. There are other considerations to
be weighed in determining the actual burden of the tax,
one of which is the mode of valuing bank shares-by
adopting "book values"- which may be more or less
favorable than the method adopted in valuing other kinds
of personal property. As against the owner of bank shares

AMOSKEAG SAVINGS BANK v. PURDY.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who, by alleging discrimination, assumes the burden of
proving it, and who fails to show that the method of valuation is unfavorable to him, it may be assumed to be advantageous.
Plaintiff in error contends that the statement of the
New York court that "When all things are considered, the
rate, even without the privilege of deducting debts, is not
greater than that applied to other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of the state," is based upon no
facts of experience or investigation, and amounts to a pure
surmise. We do not think it is to be so lightly treated; but,
if it were, it still remains to be said that it was incumbent
upon plaintiff in error to show affirmatively that the New
York taxation system discriminates in fact against the
holders of shares in the national banks, before calling
upon the courts to overthrow it; and no such showing has
been made.
Nor can we say that the taxing scheme contravenes the
limits prescribed by § 5219, Rev. Stat., merely because
in individual cases it may result that an owner of shares
of national bank stock, who is indebted, may sustain a
heavier tax than another, likewise indebted, who has invested his money otherwise. Such is, in effect, the objection urged by plaintiff in error to the position taken by
the Court of Appeals of New York. In other words, it is
insisted that § 5219 deals with the burden of the tax upon
the individual shareholder, rather than upon shareholders
as a class. We think this argument is sufficiently answered
by reference to the language of § 5219. The declaration is
that "the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is
assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State." And this restriction is
imposed upon a grant of authority to tax "all the shares of
National banking associations located within the State."
The language clearly prohibits discrimination against
shareholders in national banks and in favor of the share-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

holders of competing institutions, but it does not require
that the scheme of taxation shall be so arranged that the
burden shall fall upon each and every shareholder alike,
without distinction arising from circumstances personal
to the individual.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY OF BALTIMORE v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 26. Argued April 21, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.
A State may lay an excise or privilege tax on conducting commercial
agencies unless it has the effect of directly violating a Federal right
such as burdening interstate commerce.
Courts will not interfere with the exercise of the taxing power of a
State on the ground that it violates the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution unless it appears that the burden is direct
and substantial.
The license tax imposed by § 4224, Kentucky Statutes, 1909, on persons
or corporations having representatives in the State engaged in the
business of inquiring into and reporting upon the credit and standing
of persons engaged in business in the State, is not unconstitutional
as a burden on interstate commerce as applied to a non-resident
engaged in publishing and distributing a selected list of guaranteed
attorneys throughout the United States and having a representative
in that State.
In this case held, that the service rendered in furnishing a list of guaranteed attorneys did not, except incidentally and fortuitously, affect
interstate commerce and that it was within the power of the State
to subject the business to a license tax. Ficklen v. Shelby County,

