STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.

399

Syllabus.

231 U. S.

The present case has no close parallel in former decisions,
but in some of its aspects it bears a resemblance to the
case of a tax imposed upon a resident citizen engaged in a
general business that happens to include a considerable
share of interstate business; Ficklen v. Shelby County,
145 U. S. 1. Or the business of the live stock exchange
that was under consideration in Hopkins v. United States,
171 U. S. 578, 592. Or the business of a cotton broker
dealing in futures or options. Ware v. Mobile County, 209
U. S. 405.
To warrant interference with the exercise of the taxing
power of a State on the ground that it obstructs or hampers
interstate commerce, it must appear that the burden is
direct and substantial. We do not think the present is
such a case.
Judgment affirmed.

STRATTON'S
HOWBERT,
REVENUE.

LIMITED, v.
INDEPENDENCE,
OF
INTERNAL
COLLECTOR

CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 457.

Argued October 21, :1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The Corporation Tax Law of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112,
applies to mining corporations.

Income, within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Law of 1909, includes the proceeds of ores r!.ned by a corporation from its own
premises.
A corporation mining ores from its own premises is not entitled to deduct from the proceeds of the ores mined, by way of depreciation
under the Corporation Tax Law of 1909, the difference between the
gross proceeds of the sales of ores during the year and the moneys
.expended in extracting, mining, and marketing the ores.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Stratton's Independence.

231 U. S.

The Corporation Tax Law of 1909, having been enacted before the
ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment, was not in any proper
sense an income tax law; but was an excise tax upon the conduct of
business in a corporate capacity, measured by the income, with
certain qualifications prescribed by the act itself.
The process of mining ores is, in a sense, equivalent in its results to a
manufacturing process, and is "business" within the Corporation
Tax Law of 1909.
Income may be defined as the gain derived from capital, from labor, or
from both combined.
In fixing the income by which the excise on conducting business should
be measured, Congress has power to fixthe gross income even though
such income involved a wasting of the capital as in mining ores.
The Corporation Tax Law deals with corporations engaged in actual
business transactions and presumably conducted according to business principles.
Whatever may be the proper method of computing depreciation under
the Corporation Tax Law by reason of taking ore from the premises
of a mining corporation, the rules applicable to liability of trespassers
for taking ore have only a modified application thereto.
Where the case is here under § 239, Judicial Code, and the whole record
has not been sent up, this court, under Rule 37, deals with the fact s
as certified and not otherwise; under such circumstances it answers
only the questions of law certified and does not go into questions
of fact or of mixed law and fact.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Corporation Tax Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112,
and its application to mining corporations are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. William V. Hodges, with whom Mr. A. A. Hoehling,
Jr., and Mr. John R. Van Derlip were on the brief, for
Stratton's Independence, Limited.:
Mining corporations are not included in general classifications of corporations, as such classifications are used in
legislation. The fact that the natural enjoyment of a
mining estate results in the waste of the estate, and the
fact that the true value thereof is impossible of determination, have caused such properties to be considered as
anomalous, and to be so treated in the general incorpora-

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

401

Argument for Stratton's Independence.

tion laws of the mining States, and the decisions of the
courts relating thereto, in the laws establishing systems
of taxation in the mining States, and by the decisions under the Federal Bankruptcy- Act of 1898.
Special provision for the taxation of mining claims
has been made in the following instances: Colorado Rev.
Stat., 1908, §§ 5617-5627, as amended, Laws 1913,
pp. 565-567; Montana Rev. Pol. Code, 1907, §§ 2500,
2563-2571; Nevada Rev. Laws, 1912, §§ 3687-3709;
Idaho Rev. Codes, §§ 1863-1872; Utah Comp. Laws, 1907,
§§ 2504, 2566-2573; Washington Laws, 1897, p. 155;
New Mexico Comp. Laws, 1897 §§ 1560, 1756; Wyoming
Comp. Stat. 1910, §§ 2449-2454; Oklahoma Laws, 19071908, c. 71, Art. 2; Laws 1909, c. 38; Art. 2, Comp.
Laws, §§ 7702, 7703, 7706.
The courts recognize the same necessity for special
treatment of this class of properties. Taxation of Mining
Claims, 9 Coloradg, 635; Pilgrim Mining Co. v. Teller
County, 32 Colorado, 334; Iron Silver Co. v. Henderson,
12 Colorado, 369; Foster v. Hart Mining Co., 52 Colorado,
459.
In a number of mining States the statutes, make express
exceptions, applicable to mining corporations, in relation
to the conveyance of mining properties in exchange for
capital stock, regardless Of the true value thereof, and for
disposition of the same on liquidation. Colorado Rev.
Stat., 1908, §§ 975-983; Montana Rev. Civ. Code, 1907,
§§ 3824, 3860, 3896, 4403-4412; North Dakota Rev.
Code, 1899, §§ 3154-31611; Nevada Rev. Laws, 1912,
§§ 1200-1202, 1216-1218, 1330-1340; Kerr's California
Civ. Code, §§ 586-590; Lord's Oregon Laws, §§ 67136715; Washington, Ballinger's Ann. Code, 1897, §§ 42804284; and see decisions demonstrating the necessity of
special treatment of mining premises. Leschen Rope Co.
v. Allen, 187 Fed. Rep. 977; In re South Mountain Mining
Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 347; Ross v. Mining Co., 36 Minnesota,
VOL. ccxxxi-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Stratton's Independence.

231 U. S.

'38; In re Elk Park Mining Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 422; In re
Rollins Mining Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 982; In re Keystone
Coal Co., 109 Fed. Rep. 872; In re Woodside Coal Co.,
105 Fed. Rep. 56.
In the administration of the Corporation Tax Law the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue at first recognized
that the provisions thereof do not fit the conditions of a
mining corporation, and attempted to make over the act
of Congress by administrative legislation. T. D. 1742,
December 15, 1911.
Mining corporations are not engaged in carrying on
business-within the meaning of the act. Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107.
Merely existing as a corporation and exercising corporate franchises does not necessarily amount to the "carrying on of business," within the intent of the act. McCoach
v. Minehill Ry. Co., 228 U. S. 295; Zonne v. Minneapolis
Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187; see also Clark v. Sidway, 142
U. S. 682; Farrandv. Gleason, 56 Vermont, 633; Jordan
v. Soule, 79 Maine, 590; Harris v. de Raismes, 38 Ati.
Rep. (N. J.) 637; Nash v. Mitchell, 71 N. Y. 199; Childers
v. Neely, 47 W. Va. 70; Judge v. Braswell, 13 Bush (Ky.),
67.
The application of the act to mining corporations results in a tax upon the capital itself, while, as applied to
corporations having an income, as distinguished from
capital, it does not result in a tax upon capital. This
inequality of operation is inherently unjust. Laying aside
all questions of constitutional limitations, the act should
not be so construed as to accomplish .this unjust result,
if there be a fair and reasonable construction to be given
the act which would avoid such an unjust result. Washington &c. R. R. Co. v. Coeur d'Alene Ry. Co., 160 U. S.
77, 101; Bate Refrigerator Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1.
The proceeds of mining operations do not represent
values created by, or incident to, the business activities

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

403

Argument for Stratton's Independence.

of such a corporation, and cannot be a bona fide measure
of a tax leveled at such corporate business activities.
The measurement of the tax by the excess of the receipts
for ore marketed over the cost of mining, extracting and
marketing the same is equivalent to a tax upon the usual
and ordinary incidents of ownership of such propertysuch a direct tax as is prohibited by the Constitutionand, further, is such a tax as Congress, by the provisions
for the deduction of depreciation provided in the act,
expressly intended to avoid.. Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 81-82.
The proceeds of mining operations result from a conversion of the capital represented by real estate into capital
represented by cash, and are in no true sense income. The
act cannot apply to a corporation which has no income.
The act ought not to be construed to include mining
corporations unless it clearly appears that Congress intended to include them. Duties are never imposed on the
citizen upon vague or doubtful interpretations. Hartranft v. Wiegemann, 121 U. S. 609, 616; PennsylvaniaSteel
Co. v. New York City Rys. Co., 198 Fed. Rep. 774; Taylor
v. Treat, 153 Fed. Rep. 656; Parkview Building Assn. v.
Herold, 203 Fed. Rep. 876, 880.
The fact that mining corporations come within the
letter of the act, if true, does not conclude the argument;
for, if mining corporations be not within the spirit of the
act, it is not applicable to them. Brewer v. Blougher,
14 Pet. 178; United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482; Heydenfeldt v. Daney Mining Co., 93 U. S. 634, 638; Holy Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457.
The proceeds of ores mined by a corporation from its
own premises are not income within the meaning of the
aforementioned act of Congress. T. D. 1742.
For a correct definition of income, see Cornell University
v. Davenport, 30 Hun, 177, 1:30; Thorne v. de Breteuil, 86
App. Div. 405, 416; Wilcox v. County Commissioners,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Howbert, Collector.

231 U. S.

103 Massachusetts, 544; Sargent Land Co. v. Von Baumbach, in the District Court of the United States, for the
District of Minnesota, decided in August, 1913; Gray v.
Darlington,15 Wall. 63 , Spooner v. Phillips, 62 Connecticut, 62, 68; Foster v. Hart Mining Co., 52 Colorado, 459,
467; Smsth v. Hooper, 95 Maryland, 16, 26; Vinton'8
Appeal, 99 Pa. St. 434; In re Mount Alto Iron Co., 174
Pa. St. 430; Mercer v. Buchanan, 132 Fed. Rep. 501, 507;
In re Armitage (1893), 3 Ch. Div. 337, 347.
If the proceeds from ore sales are to be treated as
income, a mining corporation is entitled to deduct the
value of such ore in place and before it is mined as depreciation within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Law.
Leschen-Rope Co. v. Allen, 187 Fed. Rep. 977; In re South
Mountain Mining Co., 14 Fed. Rep. 327; United States
v. Nipissing Mines Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 803.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Graham for Howbert,
Collector:

The Corporation Tax Act applies to mining corporations
and the proceeds of ore mined by a corporation on its
own premises are income within the meaning of the act.
Gay v. Baltic Mining Co., 220 U. S. 107; Mitchell v. Clark
Iron Co., 220 U. S. 107.
This result also follows from the nature of capital and
income in relation to mining companies. When capital
is by labor changed from a fund into a flow, it necessarily
changes its character from capital to income. In the case
of a mine the mineral as it lies in the ground is capital,
but when it is extracted, converted into ore, and sold the
result is a flow; and income has accrued.
The rule that corporations whose capital is intended to
provide a permanent means of carrying on business must
first charge off depletion in plant or stock has no application to a corporation whose sole purpose is to invest its
capital in a specific piece of property like a mine, and

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT. 405
231 U. S.

Counsel as amicus curie.

afterwards to' consume, the property or extract its value
at a profit. Morawetz, Corp., 2d ed., § 442.
All the judicial authority is to the same effect. Clegg v.
Rowland, L. R. 3 Eq. 368; Daly v. Beckett, 24 Beav. 114;
Eley's Appeal, 103 Pa. St. 300; McClintock v. Dana, 106
Pa. St. 386; Raynolds v. Hanna, 55 Fed. Rep. 783; Shoemaker's Appeal, 106 Pa. St. 392.
The payment. of dividends by a mining company out
of the proceeds-of ore sold is not a payment out of capital.
Excelsior Water Co. v. Pierce, 90 California, 131; Lee v.
Neuchatel Asphalte Co., 41 Ch. Div. 1.
The fact that the operation of a mine may decrease its
valuation by exhaustion does not prevent the profits
of the business of a mining corporation not devoted to
dividends from being properly denominated surplus.
It has been expressly held by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania that oil companies and mining companies
have income within the meaning of an income-tax act.
Commonwealth v. The Ocean Oil Co., '59 Pa. St. 61; Commonwealth v. Penn. Gas Coal Co., 62 Pa. St. 241.
A mining company is not entitled to deduct the value
in place of ore mined during the year as depreciation within
the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act. Alianza Co. V.
Bell (1904), 2 K. B. 666; 1905, 1 K. B. 184; (1906) A. C.
18; Coltness Iron Co. v. Black, 6 App. Cas. 315.
Depreciation to be allowed as a deduction under the
Corporation Tax Act must be! actually paid, and not merely
estimated.
For other authorities in support of these contentions
see London County Council v. The Attorney General, 1901,
A. C. 26; People v. Roberts, '[56 N. Y. 585; State v. Evans,
99 Minnesota, 220; Stevens v. Hudson's Bay Co., 101 Law
Times, 96; Waringv. Mayor &c. of Savannah, 60 Georgia, 93.
By leave of court Mr. William D. Guthrie filed a brief
as amicus curix.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

281 U. S.

By leave of court Mr. Charles S. Thomas, .Mr. W. H.
Bryant, Mr. George L. Nye, Mr. William P. Malburn,
Mr. William Story and Mr. William Story, Jr., also filed

a brief as amici curice.
MR. JUSTICE PITNmY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This action was brought in the District Court of the
United States by Stratton's Independence, Limited, a
British corporation carrying on mining operations in the
State of Colorado upon mining lands owned by itself,
to recover certain moneys paid under protest for taxes assessed and levied for the years 1909 and 1910 under the
provisions of the Corporation Tax Act, being.§ 38 of the
act of August 5, 1909 (36 Stat. 11, 112, c. 6). The case
was tried upon an agreed statement of facts, from which it
appears, as to the year 1909, that the company extracted
from its lands during the year certain ores bearing gold
and other precious metals, -which were sold by it for sums
largely in excess ot the cost of mining, extracting, and
marketing the same, that the gross sales amounted to
$284,682.85, the cost of extracting, mining, and marketing
amounted to $190,939.42, and "the value of said ores
so extracted in the year 1909, when in place in said mine
and before extraction thereof, was $93,743.43." With
respect to the operations of the company for the year 1910,
the agreed facts were practically the same, except as to
dates and amounts. It does not appear that the so-called
Itvalue of the ore in place," or any other sum, was actually
charged off upon the books of the company as depreciation.
Upon this state of facts each party moved the court for
a directed verdict, at the same time presenting for consideration certain questions of law, and among them the
following:
"1. Is the value of the ore in place that was extracted

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBRT.
231 U. S.

407

Opinion of the Court.

from the mining property of the plaintiff during *theyears
in question properly allowable as depreciation in estimating the net income of the plaintiff subject to taxation
under the Act of Congress of August 5, 1909 (36 Stat.,
ch. 6, p. 11)?
"2. Is the right to such credit affected by the fact
that the plaintiff does not carry such items on its books
in a depreciation account."
The court directed a verdict in favor of the. plaintiff
with respect to certain amounts that were undisputed and
concerning which no question is now raised; but directed
a verdict in favor of the defendant with respect to so
much of the taxes paid as represented the value in place
of the ore that was extracted. during the years in question,
overruling the contention that such value was properly
allowable as depreciation in estimating the net income of
the plaintiff. To this ruling proper exceptions were taken.
The resulting judgment having been removed by writ
of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals, that court certifies that the following quest ions of law are presented to it,
the decision of which is indispensable to a determination
of the cause, and upon which it therefore desires the instruction of this court:
"I. Does Section 38 of the Act of Congress, entitled
'An Act to provide revenue, equalize duties, and encourage the industries of the United States, and for other
purposes,' approved August 5, 1909 (36 Stat., p. 11),
apply to mining corporations?
"II. Are the proceeds of ores mined by a corporation
from its own premises income within the meaning of the
aforementioned Act of Con.,ess?
"III. If the proceeds from ore sales are to be treated
as income, is such a corporation entitled to deduct the
.value of such ore in place and before it is mined as depreciation within the meaning of Section 38 of said Act
of Congress?"

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

The provisions of § 38 are set forth in the margin.1
The principal grounds upon which it is contended
that the questions ought to receive answers favorable
to the company are expressed in various forms, viz.,
that mining corporations are sui generis, because the
SEc. 38. That every corporation,joint stock company or association,
organized for profit and having a capital stock represented by shares, and
every insurance company, now or hereafter organized under the laws
of the United States or of any State or Territory of the United States
or under the acts of Congress applicable to Alaska or the District of
Columbia, or now or hereafter organized under the laws of any foreign
country and engaged in business in any State or Territory of the United
States or in Alaska or in the District of Columbia, shall be subject to
pay annually a special excise tax with respect to the carryingon or doing
business by such corporation, joint stock company or associbtion, or
insurance company, equivalent to one per centum upon the entire net
income over and above five thousand dollars received by it from all
sources during such year, exclusive of amounts received by it as dividends upon stock of other corporations, joint stock companies or
associations, or insurance companies, subject to the tax hereby imposed; or if organized under the laws of any foreign country, upon the
amount of net income over and above five thousand dollars received by it
from business transacted and capital invested within the United States,
and its Territories, Alaska, and the District of Columbia during such
year, exclusive of amounts so received by it as dividends upon stock
of other corporations, joint stock companies or associations, or insurance companies, subject to the tax hereby imposed; provided, however,
that nothing in this section contained shall apply to labor, agricultural
or horticultural organizations, or to fraternal beneficiary societies,
orders, or associations operating under the lodge system, and providing
for the payment of life, sick, accident, and other benefits to the. members
of such societies, orders or associations, and dependents of such members, nor to domestic building and loan associations, organized and
operated exclusively for the mutual benefit of their members, nor to any
corporation or association organized and operated exclusively for
religious, charitable, or educational purposes, no part of the net income
of which inures to the benefit of any private stockholder or individuaL
Second. Such net income shall be ascertained by deducting from the
gross amount of the income of such corporation,joint stock company or
association, or insurance company, received within the year from all

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

409

Opinion of the Court.

natural enjoyment of mining lands necessarily results in
the waste of the estate; that the true value thereof is

impossible of accurate deteimination, and hence mining
corporations are not included in general classifications
of corporations as such classifications are employed in
other legislation; that the provisions of § 38 do not fit
sources, (first) all the ordinaryand necessaryexpenses actually paid within

the year out of income in the maintenance and operation of its business
and properties, including all charges such as rentals or franchise payments, required to be made as a condition to the continued use or
possession of property; (second) all losses actually sustained within the
year and not compensated by insurance or otherwise, including a reasonable allowance for depreciationof property, if any, and in the case of in-

surance companies the sums other than dividends, paid within the year
on, policy and annuity contracts and the net addition, if any, required
by law to be made within the year to reserve funds; (third) interest
actually paid within the year on its bonded or other indebtedness
to an amount of such bonded and other indebtedness not exceeding the
paid-up capital stock of such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company, outstanding at the close of the year, and
in the case of a bank, banking as;ociation or trust company, all interest
actually paid by it within the year on deposits; (fourth) all sums paid
by it within the year for taxes imposed under the authority of the
United States or of any State orc Territory: thereof, or imposed by the
government of any foreign country as a condition to carrying on business therein; (fifth) all amounts received by it withir the year as dividends upon stock of other corporations, joint stock companies or associations, or insurance companies, subject to the tax hereby imposed;
provided, that in the case of a corporation,joint stock company or association, or insurance company, orgamized under the laws of aforeign country,
such net income shall be ascertained by deducting from the gross amount
of its income received within the year from business transactedand capital
invested within the United States and any of its Territories, Alaska, and
the District of Columbia, (first) all the ordinary and necessary expenses
actually paid within the year out of earningsin the maintenance and'oper-

ation of its business and property within the United States and its Territories, Alaska, and the District of Columbia, including all charges
such as rentals or franchise payments required to be made as a condition to the continued use or possession of property; (second) all losses
actually sustained within the year in business conducted by it within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the conditions of a mining corporation; that such corporations are not in truth engaged in "carrying on business"
within the meaning of the Act; that the application of the
Act to them results in a tax upon the capital, while as
applied to other corporations it does not result in such a
tax, the result being an inequality of operation that is
United States or its Territories, Alaska, or the District of Columbia not
compensated by insurance or otherwise, includinga reasonable'allowance
for depreciation of property, if any, and in the case of insurance companies the sums other than dividends, paid within the year on policy
and annuity contracts and the net addition, if any, required by law to
be made within the year to reserve funds; (third) interest actually paid
within the year on its bonded or other indebtedness to an amount of
such bonded and other indebtedness, not exceeding the proportion
of its paid-up capital stock outstanding at the close of the year which
the gross amount of its income for the year from business transacted
and capital invested within the United States and any of its Territories,
Alaska, and the District of Columbia bears to the gross amount of its
income derived from all sources within and without the United States;
(fourth) the sums paid by it within the year for taxes imposed under
the authority of the United States or of any State or Territory thereof;
(fifth) all amounts received by it within the year as dividends upon
stock of other corporations, joint stock companies or associations, and
insurance companies, subject to the tax hereby imposed. In the case
of assessment insurance companies the actual deposit of sums with
state or territorial officers, pursuant to law, as additions to guaranty
or reserve funds shall be treated as being payments required by law to
reserve funds.
Third. There shall be deducted from the amount of the net income
of each of such corporations, joint stock companies or associations, or
insurance companies, ascertained as provided in the foregoing paragraphs of this section, the sum of five thousand dollars, iand said tax
shall be computed upon the remainder of said net income of such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company, for
the year ending December 31, 1909, and for each calendar year thereafter; and on or before the first day of March, 1910, and the first day of
March in each year thereafter, a true and accurate return under oath or
affirmation of its president, vice-president, or other principal officer, and
its treasureror assistanttreasurer,shall be made by each of the corporations,
joint stock companies or associations, and insurance companies, subject

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

inherently unjust; that the proceeds of mining operations do not represent values created by or incident to
the business activities of such a corporation, and therefore
cannot be a bonafide measure of a tax leveled at such corporate business activities; that the proceeds of mining
to the tax imposed by this section, to the collector of internal revenue for

the district in which such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company, ha its principal place of business, or,
in the case of a corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company, organized under the laws of a foreign country, in the
place where its principalbusiness is carried on within the United States,

in such form as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe, setting forth,
(first) the total amount of the paid-up capital stock of such corporation,
joint stock company or association, or insurance company, outstanding
at the close of the year; (second) the total amount of the bonded and
other indebtedness of such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company at the close of the year; (third) the gross
amount of the income of such corporation,joint stock company or associa-

tion, or insurance company, received during such year from all sources,
and if organized under the laws of a foreign country the gross amount of
its income received within the year from business transacted and capital
invested within the United States and any of its Territories, Alaska,

and the District of Columbia; also the amount received by such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company,
within the year by way of dividends upon stock of other corp6rations,
joint stock companies or associations, or insurance companies, subject
to the tax imposed by this section; (fourth) the total amount of all the
ordinary and necessary expenses actually paid out of earnings in the
maintenance and operation of the business and properties of such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company,
within the year, stating separately all charges such as rentals or franchise payments required to be made as a condition to the continued
use or possession of property, and if organized under the laws of a foreign country the amount so paid in the maintenance and operation of
its business within the United States and its Territories, Alaska, and
the District of Columbia; (fifth) the total amount of all losses actually

sustained during the year and not compensated by insurance or otherwise, stating separately.any amounts allowed for depreciation of prop-

erty, and in the case of insurance companies the sums other than

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

operations result from a conversion of the capital represented by real estate into capital represented by cash,
and are in no true sense income; and that to measure the
tax by the excess of receipts for ore marketed over the
cost of mining, extracting and marketing the same, is
dividends, paid within the year on policy and annuity contracts and
the net addition, if any, required by law to be made within the year to
reserve, funds; and in the case of a corporation, joint stock company
or association, or insurance company, organized under the laws of a foreign country, all losses actuallysustained by it during the year in business
conducted by it within the United States or its Territories, Alaska, and
the District of Columbia, not compensated by insurance or otherwise,
stating separatelyany amounts allowed for depreciation of property, and
in the case of insurance companies the sums other than dividends,
paid within the year on policy and annuity contracts and the net
addition, if any, required by law to be made within the year to reserve
fund; (sixth) the amount of interest actually paid within the year on
its bonded or other indebtedness to an amount of such bonded and
other indebtedness not exceeding the paid-up capital stock of such
corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company,
outstanding at the close of the year, and in the case of a bank, banking
association or trust company, stating separately all interest paid by
it within the year on deposits; or in case of a corporation, joint stock
company or association, or insurance company, organized under the
laws of a foreign country, interest so paid on its bonded or other indebtedness to an amount of such bonded and other indebtedness not
exceeding the proportion of its paid-up capital stock outstanding at
the close of the year, which the gross amount of its income for the
year from business transacted and capital invested within the United
States and any of its Territories, Alaska, and the District of Columbia,
bears to the gross amount of its income derived from all sources within
and without the United States; (seventh) the amount paid by it within
the year for taxes imposed under the authority of the United States or
any State or Territory thereof, and separately the amount so paid by
it for taxes imposed by the government of any foreign country as a
condition to carrying on business therein; (eighth) the net income of
such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company, after making the deductions in this section authorized. All such
returns shall as received be transmitted forthwith by the -Collector to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT. 413
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

equivalent to a direct tax upon the property, and hence
unconstitutional. Next, assuming the proceeds of ore
.are to be treated as income within the meaning of the
Act, it is yet insisted that such proceeds result solely
from the depletion of capital, and are therefore deductible
as depreciation under the provisions of the Act.
, We do not think it necessary to follow the argument
through all its refinements. The pith of it is that mining
corporations engaged solely in mining upon their own
premises have but one kind of assets, and that in the
ordinary use of them the enjoyment of the assets and the
wasting thereof are in direct proportion, and proceed pari
passm; and hence that a mining corporation is not engaged in business, properly speaking, but is merely occupied in converting its capital assets from one form into
another, and that a tax upon the doing of such a business,
where the tax is measured by the value of the property
owned by the corporation, would be in excess of the constitutional limitations that existed at the time of the
passage of the act of 1909, as laid down in Pollock v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust 'Co., 157 U. S. 429; S. C., 158
U. S. 601.
The peculiar character of mining property is sufficiently
obvious. Prior to development it may present to the
naked eye a mere. tract of land with barren surface, and
of no practical value except for whatmay be found beneath. Then follow excavation, discovery, development,
extraction of ores, resulting eventually, if the process be
thorough, in the complete exhaustion of the mineral
contents so far as they are worth removing. Theoretically,
and according to the argument, the entire value of the
mine, as ultimately developed, existed from the beginning.
Practically, however, and from the commercial standpoint, the value--that is, the exchangeable or market
value-depends upon difFerent considerations. Beginning
from little, when the esistence, character and extent of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the ore deposits are problematical, it may increase steadily
or rapidly so long as discovery and development outrun
depletion, and the wiping out of the value by the practical
exhaustion of the mine may be deferred for a long term of
years. While not ignoring the importance of such considerations, we do not think they afford the sole test for
determining the legislative intent.
As has been repeatedly remarked, the Corporation Tax
Act of 1909 was not intended to be and is not in any proper
sense an income tax law. This court had decided in the
Pollock Case that the income tax law of 1894 amounted in
effect to a direct tax upon property, and was invalid because not apportioned according to population as prescribed by the Constitution. The act of 1909 avoided this
difficulty by imposing not an income tax, but an excise tax
upon the conduct of business in a corporate capacity,
measuring, however, the amount of -tax by the income of
the corporation, with certain qualifications prescribed by
the Act itself. Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107;
McCoach v. Minehill Co., 228.U. S. 295; United States v.
Whitridge, (decided at this term, ante, p. 144).
For this and other obvious reasons we are little aided by
a discussion of theoretical distinctions between capital
and income. Such refinements can hardly be deemed to
have entered into the legislative purpose. Of course, if it
were demonstrable that to read the Act according to its
letter would render it unconstitutional, or glaringly unequal, or palpably unjust, a reasonable ground would
exist for construing it according to its spirit rather than its
letter. But in our opinion the Act is not fairly open to
this criticism. It is not correct, from either the theoretical
or the practical standpoint, to say that a mining corporation is not engaged in business, but is merely occupied in
converting its capital assets from one form into another.
The sale outright of a mining property might be fairly
described as a mere conversion of the :qapital from land

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

415

Opinion of the Court.

into money. But when a company is digging pits, sinking
shafts, tunneling, drifting, stoping, drilling, blasting, and
hoisting ores, it is employing capital and labor in transmuting a part of the realty into personalty, and putting it
into marketable form. The very process of mining is, in a
sense, equivalent in its results to a manufacturing process.
And, however the operation shall be described, the transaction is indubitably "business" within the fair meaning
of the act of 1909; and the gains derived from it are
properly and strictly the income from that business; for
"income" may be defined as the gain derived from
capital, from labor, or from both combined, and here we
have combined operations of capital and labor. As to the
alleged inequality of operation between mining corporations and others, it is of course true that the revenues
derived from the working of mines result to some extent in
the exhaustion of the capital. But the same is true of the
earnings of the human brain and hand when unaided by
capital, yet such earnings are commonly dealt with in
legislation as income. So it may be said of many manufacturing corporations that are clearly subject to the act of
1909, especially of those that have to do with the production of patented articles; although it may be foretold from
the beginning that the manufacture will be profitable
only for a limited time, at the end of which the capital
value of the plant must be subject to material depletion,
the annual gains of such corporations are certainly to be
taken as income for the purpose of measuring the amount
of the tax.
It seems to us that the first two questions certified must
be answered in the affirmative principally for two reasons.
First, because mining corporations are within the general
description of § 38, which comprises "every corporation,
joint stock company or association organizedfor profit and
having a capital st6ck represented by shares, .

.

.

and

engaged in business in any state or territory of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

States;" and, secondly, because the Act specifies those
classes of corporations that are to be exempt from its operation, and mining corporations are not among them.
Those exempted are labor, agricultural or horticultural
organizations, fraternal beneficiary societies, orders or
associations operating under the lodge system, domestic
building and loan associations, corporations and associations organized and operated for religious, charitable, or
educational purposes, etc. Moreover, the section imposes
"a special excise tax with respect to the carrying on or
doing business by such corporation," etc. That mining
companies axe doing business, within the fair intent and
meaning of this clause, seems to us entirely plain, for reasons already given. The conduct of such business results
in profit, for it cannot be seriously contended that the
ores are not worth more at the mine mouth than they were
worth in the ground, plus the cost of mining. Corporations engaged in such business share in the benefits of the
Federal Government, and ought as reasonably to contribute to the support of that Government as corporations
that conduct other kinds of profitable business.
As to what should be deemed "income" within the
meaning of § 38, it of course need not be such an income as
would have been taxable as such, for at that time (the
Sixteenth Amendment not having been as yet ratified),
income was not taxable as such by Congress without
apportionment according to population, and this tax was
not so apportioned. Evidently Congress adopted the
income as the measure of the tax to be imposed with
respect to the doing of business in corporate form because
it desired that'the excise should be imposed, approximately
at least, with regard to the amount of benefit presumably
derived by such corporations from the current operations
of the Government. In Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107, 165, it was held that Congress in exercising the
right to tax a legitimate subject of taxation as a franchise

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

or privilege, was not debarred by the Constitution from
measurirg the taxation by the total income, although
derived in part from property which, considered by itself,
was not taxable. It was reasonable that Congress should
fix upon gross income, without distinction as to source, as
a convenient and sufficiently accurate index of the importance of the business transacted. And from this
point of view, it makes little difference that the income
may arise from a business that theoretically or practically
involves a wasting of capital.
Moreover, Congress evidently intended to adopt a
measure of the tax that should be easy of ascertainment
and simply and readily applied in practice. The Act
prescribed that the tax should be "equivalent to one per
centum upon the entire net income over and above $5,000
received by it from all sources during such year, exclusive
of amounts received by it as dividends upon stock of other
corporations," etc., or, with respect to foreign corporations, "upon the amount of net income over and above
$5,000 received by it from business transacted and capital
invested within the United States," etc. And the net
income was to be ascertained by taking, first, the "gross
amount of the income of such corporation

.

.

.

re-

ceived within the year from all sources," or, in the case
of foreign corporations, "from business transacted and
capital invested within," etc., and deducting therefrom
losses sustained, interest paid, etc. And the return was
to be made under oath by the president and treasurer, or
other officers having like duties, indicating in the clearest
manner that it was to set forth data that with proper accounting would appear upon the books of the corporation.
We have no difficulty, therefore, in concluding that the
proceeds of ores mined by a corporation from its own
premises are to be taken as a part of the gross income of
such corporation. Congress no doubt contemplated that
such corporations, amongst others, were doing business
VOL. ccxxxi-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S,

with a wasting capital, and for such wastage they made
due provision in declaring that from the gross income there
should be deducted (inter alia) "all losses actually sustained within the year," including "a reasonable allowance for depreciation of property, if any," etc.
This brings us to the third question, which is whether
such a mining corporation is entitled to deduct the value
of ore in place and before it is mined, as depreciation
within the meaning of § 38. This question, however, is
to be read in the light of the issue that is presented to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for determination, as recited in
the certificate. From that certificate it appears that the
case was submitted to the trial court and a verdict directed
upon an agreed statement of facts, and in that statement
the gross proceeds of the sale of the ores during the year
were diminished by the moneys expended in extracting,
mining, and marketing the ores, and the precise difference
was taken to be the value of the ores when in place in
the mine.
That we do not misconstrue the certificate, and that, on
the contrary, the parties advisedly adopted this definition
of "value of the ore in place," is apparent not only from
the form of .the agreed statement of facts, but from the
arguments presented here in behalf of the plaintiff. The
contention is that if the proceeds of ore sales are to be
treated as income, the value of the ore in place and before
it is mined is to be deducted as depreciation, and that
such value is to be arrived at by the process indicated.
Briefs submitted in behalf of amici curie have suggested
other modes for determining depreciation; but plaintiff
stands squarely upon the ground indicated by the certificate, as the following excerpts from the brief will show:
"Assuming, then, that the proceeds of ore are to be
treated as income within the meaning of the Act, we submit that such proceeds result solely from depletion of capital,
and are therefore deductible as depreciation under the

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT.
231 U. S.

419

Opinion of the Court.

provisions [of the Act] set out above.

.

And

we contend that if a part of the capital assets are removed
and sold, the property, as it originally stood, is actually
depreciated in value to the exact extent of such removal.
As an actual matter of experience, the original cost of the
property must, from its very nature, be highly speculative.
The values in the property are invisible, and impossible of
determination. They may be worth many times the cost,
or they may be worth nothing.

.

.

.

The value of the

ore in sight does represent a part of the capital; but there
is no warrant for limiting it to this amount, nor is there
any warrant for limiting the value of ore bodies thereafter discovered in any case to a standard fixed before
their discovery, and therefore, of necessity, purely conjectural.

.

.

.

The true capital of a mining corporation

is the true value of the minerals within the limits of its
properties, irrespective of developed ore bodies or those
known to exist at any one moment. Investigation or
development may demonstrate the existence of values
theretofore unknown, but this results in no addition
to the actual capital. It remains the same as it was
before.

.

.

."

And again, "With every dollar's worth

removed, the land from which it is taken contains that
much less of value; the corporation owns precisely that
much less real property than it possessed before; for every
dollar of cash received it relinquishes an equivalent

amount of ore in place, and makes no gain or profit by
the exchange."
Reading these extracts in connection with what is
contended respecting the first and second questions-to
the effect that mining corporations are not "doing business," but are merely converting their capital assets from
one form into another-it is clear that a definition of the
"value of the ore in place' has been intentionally adopted
that excludes all allowance of profit upon the process of
mining, and attributes the entire profit upon the mining

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

operations to the mine itself. In short, the parties propose
to estimate the depreciation of a mining property attributable to the extraction of ores according to principles
that would be applicable if the ores had been removed by
a trespasser.
It is at the same time obvious that any method of
stating the account that excludes all element of gain from
the process of mining must, through one process or another,
exempt mining companies from liability to tax under the
act of 190 with respect to their mining operations. And
so, an affirmative answer to the third question as propounded would be the same in effect as an affirmative
answer to the first or the second. For it is a matter of
little or no moment whether it is to be said (a) that mining
corporations are not "engaged in business" at all, or
(b) that they are engaged in business but the proceeds of
ore mined are not income, or (c) that such proceeds are
income, but that there must be allowed as depreciation all
that part of the proceeds which remains after paying the
bare outlays of the business. In either case mining corporations would be exempt from the tax.
In our opinion, there are at least two insuperable obstacles in the way of returning an affirmative answer to
the third question as certified.
in the first place, it is fallacious to say that, whatever
may have been the original cost of a mining property cr
the cost of developing it, if in fact it afterwards yield ores
aggregating many times its original cost or market value,
this result merely proves and at the same time measures
the intrinsic value that existed from the beginning. We
are here seeking the correct interpretation and construction of an act of legislation that was, at least, designed to
furnish a practicable mode of raising revenue for the
support of the Government, and to do this in part by
imposing annual taxes upon corporations organized for
profit and by measuring the amount of the contribution

STRATTON'S INDEPENDENCE v. HOWBERT. 421.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be required from each corporation according to its
annual income. The Act deals with corporations engaged
in actual business transactions and presumably conducted
according to ordinary business principles. It was of course
contemplated that the income might be derived from the
employment of property in business, and that this property might become more or less exhausted in the process;
and because of this, a reasonable allowance was to be
made for depreciation of it, if any. But plainly, we think,
the valuation of the prope;rty and the amount of the depreciation were to be determined not upon the basis of
latent and occult intrinsic values, but upon considerations
that affect market value and have their influence upon
men of affairs charged with the management of the
business and accounting of corporations that are organized
for profit and are engaged in business for purposes of profit.
And, secondly, assuming the depletion of the mineral
stock is an element to be considered in determining the
reasonable depreciation that is to be treated as a loss in the
ascertainment of the net income of a mining company
under the Act, we deem it quite inadmissible to estimate
such depletion as if it had been done by a trespasser, to
whom all profit is denied.
With respect to the proper measure of damages where
ore has been unlawfully mined by one person upon the
land of another, there is much conflict of authority.
Different modes of determining the damages have been
resorted to, dependent sometimes upon the form of the
action, whether trespass or trover; sometimes upon
whether the case arose at law or in equity; and often upon
whether the trespass was willful or inadvertent. See
Wooden-ware Co. v. United!States, 106 U. S. 432, and cases
cited; Benson Mining Co. v. Alta Mining Co., 145 U. S.
428, 434; Pine -River Logging Co. v. United Staas, 186
U,. S. 279, 293; United Sites v. St. Anthony R. Co., 192
U. S. 524, 542; Martin v. Porter (1839), 5 M. & W. 351,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

352; Jegon v. Vivian (1871), L. R. 6 Ch. 742, 760; 40 L. J.
Ch. 389; 19 W. R. 365; Livingstone v. Rawyqrds Coal Co.
(1880), 5 App. Cas. 25, 34; 42 L. T., N. S., 334; Coal Creek
M. & M. Co. v. Moses, 15 Lea (Tenn.), 300; 54 Am. Rep.
415; Winchester v. Craig, 33 Michigan, 205. See also
English and American Notes to Martin v. Porter, and
Jegon v. Vivian, 17 Eng. Rul. Cas. 873, 876, etc. We are
not at this time concerned with this vexed question,
beyond saying that the rules applicable to trespassers can
have only a modified application to the case of a mine
owner conducting mining operations upon its own lands,
where the question is,-What is the income derived
from the business?-and the incidental question,-What is
the reasonable depreciation, if any, of the mining property?
What has been said necessitates a negative answer to
the third question as certified. And we shall not go further into the question of depreciation. The case comes
here under § 239, Judicial Code (derived from § 6 of the
Evarts Act, March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, 828, c. 517).
It is established that in the exercise of this jurisdiction
this court, unless it see occasion to require the whole
record to be sent up for consideration, is to make answer
respecting the several propositions of law that are certified,
and is not to go into questions of fact, or of mixed law
and fact. Our Rule 37 requires that the certificate shall
contain a proper statement of the facts upon which the
questions of law arise, and we deal with the facts as thus
certified, and not otherwise. Graver v. Faurot, 162 U. S.
435, 437; Cross v. Evans, 167 U. S. 60, 63; United States v.
Union Pacific Railway, 168 U. S. 505, 512; Emsheimer v.
New Orleans, 186 U. S. 33; Cincinnati,Hamilton Railroad
v. McKeen, 149 U. S. 259.
It would therefore be improper for us at this time to
enter into the question whether the clause, "a reasonable
allowance for depreciation of property, if any" calls for
an allowance on that account in making up the tax, where

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 423
231 U.S.

Syllabus.

no depreciation is charged in practical bookkeeping; or
the question whether depreciation, when allowable, may
properly be based upon the depletion of the ore supply
estimated otherwise than irL the mode shown by the agreed
statement of facts herein; for to do this would be to attribute a different meaning to the term "value of the ore in
place" than the parties have put upon it, and to instruct
the Circuit Court of Appeals respecting a question about
which instruction has not been requested, and concerning
which it does not even appear that any issue is depending
before that court.
The first and second questions'certifiedwill be answered in
the affirmative; and the third question will be answered in
the negative.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent with respect to the
answer made to the third question.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE UNIT:BiD STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 571.

Argued October 29, 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The constitutional validity of the provisions in § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended
by the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, giving
the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to prescribe the
methods by which interstate carriers shall keep accounts, has already been sustained by this court. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S 194.

