LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 27.

Argued April 23, 1913-Decided October 20, 1913.

Where a point involving sufficiency of the complaint is not raised and
defendant does not challenge the statement of the court that it
supposes the point will not be raised, it is too late to raise it in this
court.
This court concurs in the conclusion reached by the District Court that
the residence in a foreign country of one whose certificate of naturalization was attacked as fraudulent was intended to be and was of a
permanent nature and justified the proceeding on the part of the
United States to cancel the certificate under § 15 of the act of
June 29, 1906.
Unverified certificates of unofficial parties as to residence of a naturalized person in a foreign country held insufficient to overcome the
presumption of permanent residence created under § 15 of the act
of June 29, 1906.
The provisions of the second paragraph of § 15 of the act of June 29,
1906, dealing with the evidential effect of taking up a permanent
residence in a foreign country within five years after securing a
certificate of naturalization applies not only to certificates issued,
under that law but also to those issued under prior laws.
The words "provisions of this section" used in a statute naturally
mean every part of the section, one paragraph as much as another.
A paragraph in a statute which is plain and unambiguous, must be accepted as it reads even though inserted as an amendment by one
branch of the legislature.
The statutes, as they existed prior to June 29, 1906, conferred the right
to naturalization upon such aliens only as contemplated the continuance of a residence already established in the United States.
Citizenship is membership in a political society and implies the reciprocal obligations as compensation for each other of a duty of
allegiance on the part of the member and a duty of protection on the
part of the society.
Under the Constitution of the United States a naturalized citizen
stands on an equal footing with the native citizen in all respects
save that of eligibility to the Presidency.
That which is contrary to the plain implication of a statute is unlaw-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

*ful, for what is clearly implied is as much a part of a law as that
which is expressed.
The spirit of the naturalization laws of the United States has always
been that an applicant if admitted to citizenship should be a citizen
in fact as well as. name and bear the obligations and duties of that
status as well as enjoy its rights and privileges.
The provisions of § 15 of the act of June 29, 1906, are not unconstitutional as making any act fraudulent or illegal that was honest and
legal when done, or as imposing penalties, or doing more than providing for annulling letters of citizenship to which the possessors
were never entitled. Johannessenv. United States, 225 U. S. 227.
The establishment of a presumption from certain facts prescribes a
rule of evidence and not one of substantive right; and if the inference
is reasonable and opportunity is given to controvert the presumption,
it is not a denial of due process of law, Mobile &c. R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U.S. 35, even if made applicable to existing causes of action.
The right to have one's controversy determined by existing rules of
evidence is not a vested right and a reasonable change of such rules
does not deny due process of law.
The taking up of a permanent residence in a foreign country shortly
after naturalization has a bearing upon the purpose for which naturalization is sought, and it is reasonable to make it a presumption
that such action indicates an absence of intention to reside permanently in the United States; and the provision in § 15 of the act of
June 29,1906, making such action a presumption, rebuttable by proof
to the contrary, of intention not to reside permanently in the United
States, is not unconstitutional as a denial of due process of law.
A proceeding under § 15 of the act of June 29, 1906, to cancel a certificate of naturalization on the ground that it was fraudulently issued
is not a suit at common law but a suit in equity similar to a suit to
cancel a patent for land or letters patent for an invention and the
defendant is not entitled to a trial by jury under the Seventh Amendment. United States v. Bell Telephone Co., 128 U. S. 315.
184 Fed. Rep. 643, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of § 15 of
the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596, 601, c. 3592, relating to, citizenship and naturalization and the validity
of a decree setting aside a certificate of naturalization on
the ground that it was fraudulently issued, are stated in
the opinion.

LURIA i,.
UNITED STAFES.
231 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. A. M. Friedenberg
was on the brief, for appellant:
In so far as the act of 1906 assumes (though appellant
claims that it does not), to deprive the appellant of the
citizenship, lawfully and without fraud secured by him in
1894, by the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
twelve years before the passage of that act, it is unconstitutional, in that it violates Art. I, § 8, of the Constitution of the United States, and § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment thereto.
For purposes of citizenship, persons born and persons
naturalized in the United States are placed on an exact
equality by the Constitution. Minor v. Happersett, 21
Wall. 162, 165; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542;
Lynch v. Clarke, 1 Sandf. Ch. 583, 641, 642; Dred Scott v.
Sandford, 19 How. 393; Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 162.
The only distinction between citizenship by birth and
citizenship by naturalization, is the provision of the Constitution making only natural born citizens eligible to the
office of president. Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U. S. 94, 101.
Citizenship by birth and by naturalization being thus,
for all practical purposes, absolute equivalents, it would
seem as though it were as much beyond the power of
Congress to deprive one who has become a naturalized
citizer, of his citizenship, as it would be to deprive a
natural born citizen of that right.
For limitations on the power of Congress to deal with
the subject of naturalization, see Osborn v. United States
Bank, 9 Wheat. 825; United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169
U. S. 702, 703. Johannessen v. United States, 225 U. S.
227, does not depart from the decisions cited or determine
any of the questions which are now presented for consideration.
The contention that the act merely enacts a rule of
evidence cannot be sustained. It affects substantial
rights.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

231 U. S.

While it is true that it is within the province of a legislature to enact that proof of one fact shall be prima facie
evidence of another, the inference must not be arbitrary,
and there must be a rational relation between the two
facts. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219; People v. Cannon,
139 N. Y. 32, 43.
The inference of a lack of bona fide intention to become
a citizen from appellant's subsequent action, is purely
arbitrary, and is unreasonable, unnatural and extraordinary.
The cases cited in the opinion of the court below do not,
sustain this legislation.
That portion of § 15 of the act of 1906 which is involved
in this action, is confined in its operation to cases of naturalization under the act of 1906, and does not include persons
naturalized under the prior act. See Johannessen Case,
225 U. S. 227; United States v. Mansour, 170 Fed. Rep. 671.
Under the Naturalization Act as it existed at the time
of the issuance to the appellant of his certificate of citizenship, there was no requirement that the, applicant
should intend to reside permanently within the United
States. No oath to that effect was called for. On the
other hand, the act of 1906 requires an oath from the
applicant, that it is his intention to reside permanently
within the United States.
While it is true that most of the provisions of §.15 are
remedial, and are, therefore, properly applicable to any
case relating to naturalization which comes within their
terms, irrespective of the time when the naturalization
takes place, that paragraph constitutes an exception,
not only by necessary implication, but by its express
terms, to the general and remedial provisions contained
in the section.
Conclusive evidence of this statutory purpose is afforded
by the history of the second paragraph of § 15, now under
consideration.

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

A court may refer to the public history of the times,
and to legislative documents, to ascertain the reason of an
enactment as well as the meaning of particular provisions
therein, and to that end may consider the evil which it is
designed to remedy, contemporaneous events, and the
existing situation with regard to the subject-matter of
the legislation as it was pressed upon the attention of the
legislative body. United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co.,
91 U. S. 72, 79; Platt v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 99 U. S.
60; Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 463;
The Delaware, 161 U. S. 472; Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S.
331; Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 495; Johnson v.
Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 19; McLean v. Arkansas,
211 U. S. 339; Wadsworth v. Boysen, 148 Fed. Rep. 771,
775; Tenement House Department v. Moeschen, 179 N. Y.
325; Musco v. United Surety Co., 196 N. Y. 459, 465.
For the genesis and passage of the act of 1906, see
Report of Commission of November 8, 1905, House Doc.
No. 46, 59th Cong., 1st. Sess.; Cong. Rec., vol. 40, pt. 8,
pp. 7869-7871, 7874.
For its history in the Senate see Vol. 40, Cong. Rec.,
pp. 7913, 9009, 9359-9361, 9407, 9411, 9505, 9620,
9691.
Even if § 15 were in terms applicable to the appellant
and were as to him constitutional, he did not take up a
permanent residence at Johannesburg, but continued to
be a legal resident of the United States.
Residence is always a matter of intention. His intention to remain a resident and citizen of the United States
was manifested over and over again. Dupuy v. Wurtz, 53
N. Y. 556; Moorhouse v. Lord, 10 H. L. C. 272; Marchioness of Huntly v. Gaskell, 1906 App. Cas. 56 and Matter of
Newcomb, 192 N. Y. 238.
This legislation violates Art. I, § 9, of the Federal Constitution, because it is in effect a bill of attainder.
A bill of attainder is a legislative act which inflicts

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

231. U. S.

punishment without judicial trial. Cummings v. Missouri,
4 Wall. 323; In re Yung Sing Hee, 36 Fed. Rep. 437.
The act is also an ex post facto law, so far as the present
case is concerned, because the defendant is punished for
acts committed prior to the enactment of the statute.
A statute belongs to the class of ex post facto laws which,
by its necessary operation, and in its relation to the offense,
or its consequences, alters the situation of the accused to
his disadvantage. Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277; Ex
parteGarland,4 Wall. 333; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 351;
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386; Green v. Shumway, 39 N. Y.
418. Johannessenv. United States, 225 U. S. 227, far from
being adverse to this contention, practically sustains it.
The appellant was entitled to a trial by jury, of the issues
presented in the pleadings under the Seventh Amendment. See Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 432,\ 446; Knickerbocker Insurance Co. v. Comstock, 16 Wall. 258; Garnhart
v. United States, 16 Wall. 162; The Sarah, 8 Wheat. 391;
Morris v. United States, 8 Wall. 507; Elliott v. Toeppner,
187 U. S. 327. United States v. Mansour, 170 Fed. Rep.
671, does not apply. It has no application to a case where
citizenship was unquestionably acquired through valid
naturalization proceedings, and where it is sought to take
away such right of citizenship because of an alleged change
of residence or domicile subsequent to naturalization. In
its essential nature such a proceeding seeks the imposition
of a penalty or forfeiture, and therefore involves common
law as distinguished from equitable rights.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States:
Section 15 of the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906,
is constitutional, even as applied to certificates of naturalization procured under prior statutes. Johannessen v.
United States, 225 U. S. 227.
The provisions of the second paragraph of the act of

LURIA v. U:NITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

1906, making the taking up of permanent residence abroad
within five years after an alien's naturalization primafacie
evidence of a lack of intention on his part to become a
permanent resident of the United States at the time of
filing his application for citizenship, is valid and constitutional.
The rule declared is only prima facie; and yields, as
expressly provided by the statute itself and as held by the
District Court, to countervailing evidence.
Congress
may establish such a presumption. Mobile, J. &'K. C.
R. R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35, 42; Bailey v. Alabama,
219 U. S. 219, 238.
The fact that the presumption applies to the trial of an
issue to be determined by facts which occurred before the
presumption existed is immaterial. Webb v. Den, 17 How.
576; Howard v. Moot, 64 N. Y. 262; Rich v. Flanders, 39
N. H. 304.
This is only a species of the general regulation of procedure which the legislature may always change, even
when, as in the case of crimdnal statutes passed by the
States, it is subject to the prohibition against ex post facto
legislation. Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574; Thompson v.
Missouri, 171 U. S. 380. How' far back such an inference
shall reach is a question of degTee. Keller v. United States,
213 U. S. 149.
The provisions of the second paragraph of § 15 of the
Naturalization Act of 1906 apply to persons who have
secured certificates of citizenship under the provisions
of previous acts.
The second paragraph of the act of 1906 merely creates
a rule of evidence which is equally applicable to certificates
of naturalization secured under prior statutes, and Congress intended, as it said in the fourth paragraph, that
"the provisions of this section." should apply as well to
such certificates as to those secured under the act of 1906.
For the purposes of this case, it is immaterial whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

231 U. S.

the second paragraph of the act of 1906 applies to certificates of naturalization secured under prior statutes.
The Government was forced to establish and did establish, not only that appellant had established a permanent residence in South Africa, but that he went there
under such circumstances as to indicate that at the time
of his naturalization he did not intend to reside permanently in the United States.
A case of fraud is presented therefore independent of
the prima facie rule declared by the second paragraph
of § 15 of the act of 1906. The requisite fraudulent intent
could be inferred, under such circumstances, without the
assistance of that rule. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S.
219; Commonwealth v. Rubin, 165 Massachusetts, 453;
Keller v. United States, 213 U. S. 149 (dissent).
Even if the rule of evidence established by the second
paragraph of § 15 of the act of 1906 be held not to apply
to certificates of naturalization secured under prior acts,
the provisions of the first paragraph nevertheless authorize
their cancellation for fraud or illegality, by virtue of the
express declaration bf the fourth paragraph.
The evidence shows that appellant took up his 'permanent residence in South Africa under such circumstances as to justify the presumption that he had no intention of residing permanently in the United States at
the time of his naturalization.
The District Court correctly construed
the words
"permanent residence" in the second paragraph of the
Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, as meaning domicil.
As to what facts are necessary to prove a change of
domicil see Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 422; Morris v. Gilmer,
129 U. S.328; Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S.706.
Appellant was not entitled to trial by jury.
A suit to cancel a certificate of naturalization on the
ground of fraud in no wise differs from a suit to cancel a
patent for lands, and is clearly-an equitable proceeding.

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Mansour, 1.70 Fed. Rep. 671, affirmed
226 U. S. 604.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This appeal brings under review a decree setting aside
and canceling, under § .15of the act of June 29, 1906, 34
Stat. 596, 601, c. 3592, as fraudulently and illegally procured, a certificate of citizenship theretofore issued to
George A. Luria by the court of common pleas of the
city and county of New York. 184 Fed. Rep. 643.
The petition was not carefully prepared, and yet it
doubtless was designed to charge that the certificate was
fraudulently and illegally procured in that Luria did not
at the time intend to become a permanent citizen of the
United States but only to obtain the indicia of such citizenship in order that he might enjoy its advantages and protection and yet take up and maintain a permanent residence in a foreign country. There was a prayer that the
certificate be set aside and canceled because "procured
illegally." The sufficiency of the petition was not challenged, and the case was heard and determined as if the
issue just described were adequately tendered. In the
opinion rendered by the District Court it was said, after
observing that the petition was subject to -criticism:
"That point, however, was not raised, and I suppose the
defendant does not mean to raise it." This view of his
attitude passed unquestioned then, and it is too late
to question it now.
The case, was heard upon an agreed statement and some
accompanying papers, from all of which it indubitably
appeared that Luria was born in Wilna, Russia, in 1865
or 1868 and came to New.York in 1888; that he entered a
medical college of that city the next year and was graduated therefrom in 1893; that he applied for and procured
VOL. ccxxxI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the certificate of citizenship in July, 1894; that in the following month he sought and obtained a passport from the
Department of State, and in November left the United
States for the Transvaal, South Africa, arriving there in
December; that from that time to the date of the hearing,
in December, 1910, he. resided and practiced his profession
in South Africa; that he joined the South African Medical
Association and served in the Boer war; that his only
return to the United States was for four or five months in
1907, for the temporary purpose of taking a postgraduate
course in a medical school in Neaw York; and thdt when
entering that school he gave as his address, Johannesburg, South Africa. From the facts so appearing the
District Court found and held that within a few months
after securing the certificate of citizenship Luria went
to and took up a permanent residence in South Africa,
and that this, under § 15 of the act of 1906, constituted
prima facie evidence of a lack of intention on his part
to become a permanent citizen of the United States at
the time he applied for the certificate. In the papers
accompanying the agreed statement there were some
declarations which, if separately considered, would tend
to engender the belief that he had not taken up a permanent residence in South Africa and was only a temporary
sojourner therein, but the District Court, upon weighing
and considering those declarations in connection with all
the facts disclosed, as was necessary, concluded that the
declarations could not be taken at their face value and
that the residence in South Africa was intended to be, and
was, permanent in character. We concur in that conclusio n ,
In his answer, Luria interposed the defense that his
presence in the Transvaal was solely for the purpose of
promoting his health, the implication being that when
he went there his health was impaired in such a way that
a residence in that country was necessary or advisable

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and therefore that taking up such residence ought not
to be accepted as indicating that when he was naturalized
it was not his intention to become a permanent citizen
of the United States. He does not appear to have been
present at the hearing, and, although there was ample
time (ten months after filhig his answer) to take his deposition, it was not taken, and there was substantially no.
attempt to sustain this defense or to explain his perma:nent removal to the Transvaal so soon after he procured
the certificate of citizenship. True, it appeared that in
1909 he filed at the United States Consulate in Johannesburg, in support of an application for registration as a
citizen of the United States, two certificates from medical
practitioners, stating, in effect, that his residence in the
Transvaal was for purposes of health; but those certificates
did not rise to the dignity of proof in the present case.
Besides being ex parte, they were meagre, not under oath,
and not accepted by the consular officers as adequate or
satisfactory. Thus, we think the District Court rightly
held that there was no countervailing evidence sufficient
to overcome the evidential effect of taking up a permanent
residence in the Transvaal so shortly following the naturalization.
Section 15 of the act of 1906, under. which this suit was
conducted, is as follows (34 Stat. 601):
"SEc. 15. That it shall be the duty of the United States
district attorneys for the respective districts, upon affidavit
showing good cause therefor, to institute proceedings in
any court having jurisdiction to naturalize aliens in the
judicial district in which the naturalized citizen may reside
,at the time of bringing the suit, for the purpose of setting
aside and canceling the ceirtificate of citizenship on the
ground of fraud or on the ground that such certificate of
citizenship was illegally procured. In any such proceedings
the party holding the certificate of citizenship alleged to
have been fraudulently or illegally procured shall, have

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

sixty days personal notice in which to make answer to
the petition of the United States; and if the holder of such
certificate be absent from the United States or from the
district in which he last had his residence, such notice
shall be given by publication in the manner provided for
the service of summons by publication br upon absentees
by the laws of the State or the place where such suit is
brought.
"If any alien who shall have secured a certificate of citizenship under the provisions of this Act shall, within five years
after the issuance of such certificate, return to the country of
his nativity, or go to any other foreign country, and take
permanent residence therein, it shall be considered prima
facie evidence of a lack of intention on the part of such alien
to become a permanent citizen of the United States at the time
of filing his applicationfor citizenship, and, in the absence
of countervailing evidence, it shall be sufficient in the proper
proceeding to authorize the cancellation of his certificate of
citizenship as fraudulent, and the' diplomatic and consular
officers of the United States in foreign countries shall from
time to time, through the Department of State, furnish the
Department of Justice with the names of those within their
respective jurisdictions who have such certificates of citizenship and who have taken permanent residence in the country
of their nativity, or in any other foreign country, and such
statements, duly certified, shall be admissible in evidence in
all courts in proceedings to cancel certificates of citizenship.
"Whenever any certificate of citizenship shall be set
aside .or canceled, as herein provided, the court in which
such judgment or decree is rendered shall make an order
canceling such certificate of citizenship and shall send a
certified copy of such order to the Bureau of Immigration
and Naturalization; and in case such certificate was not
originally issued by the court making such order it shall
direct the clerk of the court to transmit a. copy bf such
order and judgment to the court out of which such cer-

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.-

Opinion of the Court.

tificate of citizenship shall have been originally issued.
And it shall thereupon be the duty of the clerk of the court
receiving such certified copy of the order and judgment of
the court to enter the same of record and to cancel such
original certificate of citizenship upon the records and to
notify the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization of
such cancellation.
"The provisions of this section shall apply not only to
certificates of citizenship isued under the provisions of this
act, but to all certificates of citizenship which may have been
issued heretofore by any court exercising jurisdiction in
naturalization proceedings under prior laws."
One of the questions arising under this section is, whether
the second paragraph, dealing with the evidential effect
of taking up a permanent residence in a foreign country
within five years after securing a certificate of citizenship,
is confined to certificates issued under the act of 1906, or
applies also to those issued under prior laws, as was Luria's.
If that paragraph were alone examined, the answer undoubtedly would be that only certificates under the act
of 1906 are included. But the last paragraph also must
be considered. It expressly declares that "the provisions of this section" shall apply, not only to certificates
issued under the-act of 1906, but also to all certificates
theretofore issued under prior laws. The words "the
provisions of this section" naturally mean every part of
it, one paragraph as much as anotheri and that meaning
cannot well be rejected without leaving it uncertain as
to what those words embrace. Counsel refer to the Congressional Record, which shows that the second paragraph
was inserted by way of amendment while the section was
being considered in the House of Representatives. But
as the section was in its present form when it was finally
adopted by that body, as also when it was adopted by
the Senate and approved by the President, it would seem
that the last paragraph, in view of its- plain and unam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

biguous' language, must be accepted as extending the
preceding paragraphs to all certificates, whether issued
theretofore under prior laws or thereafter under that act.
But it is said that it was not essential to naturalization
under
prior laws, Rev. Stat., §§ 2165-2170, that the applicant should
intend thereafter to reside in the United States;
that, if he otherwise met the statutory requirements, it
was no objection that he intended presently to take up a
permanent residence in a foreign country; that the act of
1906, differing from prior laws, requires the applicant to
declare "that it is his intention to reside permanently
within the United States"; and therefore that Congress,
when enacting the second paragraph of § 15, must have
intended that it should apply to certificates issued under
that act and not .to those issued under prior laws. It is
true that § 4 of the act of 1906 exacts from the applicant
a declaration of his intention to reside in the United States,
and it is also true that the prior laws did not expressly call
for such a declaration. But we think it is not true that
under the prior laws it was immaterial whether the applicant intended to r6side in this country or presently to
take up a permanent residence in a foreign country. On
the contrary, by necessary implication, as we think, the
prior laws conferred the right to naturalization upon such
aliens only as contemplated the continuance of a residence
already established in the United States.
Citizenship is membership in a political society and
implies a duty of allegiance on the part of the member and
a .duty of protection on the part, of the society. These
are reciprocal obligations, one being a compensation for
the other. Under our Constitution, a naturalized citizen
stands on an equal footing with the native citizen in all
respects, save that of eligibility to the Presidency. Minor
v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 165; Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U. S.
94, 101; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 827,. Turning to
the naturalization laws preceding the act of 1906, being

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

those under which Luria obtained his certificate, we find
that they required, first, that the alien, after coming to
this country, should declare on oath, before a court or its
clerk, that it was bona fide his intention to become a
citizen of the United States and to renounqe forever all
allegiance and fidelity to any foreign sovereignty; second,
that at least two years should elapse between the making
of that declaration and his application for admission .to
citizenship; third, that as a condition to his admission
the court should be satisfied, through the testimony of
citizens, that he had resided within the United States five
years at least, and that during that time he had behaved
as a man of good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and well
disposed to the good order and happiness of the same;
and, fourth, that at the time of his admission he should
declare on oath that he would support the Constitution of
the United States and that he absolutely and entirely
renounced and abjured all allegiance and fidelity to every
foreign sovereignty. These requirements plainly contemplated that the applicant, if admitted, should be a
citizen in fact as well as in name-that he should assume
and bear the obligations and duties of that status as well
as enjoy its rights and privi]eges. In other words, it was
contemplated that his admission should be mutually
beneficial to the Government and himself, the proof in
respect of his established residence, moral character, and
attachment to the principles of the Constitution being
exacted because of what they promised for the future,
rather than for what they told of the past.
By the clearest implication those laws show that it was
not intended that naturalization could be secured thereunder by an alien whose purpose was to escape the duties
of his native allegiance without taking upon himself these
of citizenship here, or by one whose purpose was to reside
permanently in a foreign country and to use his natural-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

ization as a shield against the imposition of duties there,
while by his absence he was avoiding his duties here.
Naturalization secured with such a purpose was wanting
in one of its most essential elements-good faith on the
part of the applicant. It involved a wrongful use of a
beneficent law. True, it was not expressly forbidden;
neither was it authorized. But, being contrary to the
plain implication of the statute, it was unlawful, for what
is clearly implied is as much a part of a law as what is
expressed. United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55, 61;
McHenry v. Alford, 168 U. S. 651, 672; South Carolinav.
United States, 199 U. S. 437, 451.
Perceiving nothing in the prior laws which shows that
Congress could not have intended that the last paragraph
of § 15 of the act of 1906 should be taken according to the
natural meaning and import of its words, we think, as
before indicated, that it must be regarded as extending
the preceding paragraphs of that section to all certificates
of naturalization, whether secured theretofore under prior
laws or thereafter under that act.
Several contentions questioning the constitutional validity of § 15 are advanced, but all, save the one next
to be mentioned, are sufficiently answered by observing
that the section makes no discrimination between the
rights of naturalized and native citizens, and does not in
anywise affect or disturb rights acquired through lawful
naturalization, but only provides for the orderly cancellation, after full notice and hearing, of certificates of naturalization which have been procured fraudulently or illegally.
It does not make any act fraudulent or illegal that was
honest and legal when done, imposes no penalties, and at
most provides for the annulment, by appropriate judicial
proceedings, of merely colorable letters of citizenship, to
which their possessors never were lawfully entitled.
Johannessen v. United States, 225 U. S. 227. See also
Wallace v. Adams, 204 U S. 415.

LURIA v. UN][TED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Objection is specially directed to the provision which declares that taking up a permanent residence in a foreign
country within five years after the issuance of the certificate shall be considered prima facie evidence of a lack of
intention to become a permanent citizen of the United
States at the time of the application for citizenship, and
that in the absence of countervailing evidence the same
shall be sufficient to warrant the cancellation of the certificate as fraudulent. It will be observed that this provision
prescribes a rule of evidence, not of substantive right. It
goes no farther than to establish a rebuttable presumption
which the possessor ot the certificate is free to overcome.
If, in truth, it was his intention at the time of his application to reside permanently in the United States, and his
subsequent residence in a foreign country was prompted
by considerations which were consistent with that intention, he is at liberty to show it. Not only so, but these are
matters of which he possesses full, if not special, knowledge. The controlling rule respecting the power of the
legislature in establishing such presumptions is comprehensively stated in Mobile &c. Railroad Co. v. Turnipseed,
219 U. S. 35, 42, 43, as follows:
"Legislation providing that proof of one fact shall constitute prima facie evidence of the main fact in issue,
is but to enact a rule of evidence, and quite within the
general power of government. Statutes, national and
state, dealing with such methods of proof in both civil
and criminal cases abound, and the decisions upholding
them are numerous.
"That a legislative presumption of one fact from evidence of another may not constitute a denial of due process
of law or, a denial of the equal protection of the law it is
only essential that there shall be some rational connection
between the fact proved and the ultimate fact presumed,
and that the inference of one fact from proof of another
shall not be so unreasonable as to be a purely arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

mandate. So, also, it must not, under guise of regulating
the presentation of evidence, operate to preclude the party
from the right to present his defense to the main fact thus
presumed.
"If a legislative provision not unreasonable in itself
prescribing a rule of evidence, in either criminal or civil
cases, does not shut out from the party affected a reasonable opportunity to submit to the jury in his defense all
of the facts bearing upon the issue, there is no ground
for holding that due process of law has been denied

him."
Of like import are Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149
-U. S.698, 729; Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, 599;
Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 238; Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81; Reitler v. Harris,223
U. S. 437, 441.
Nor is it a valid objection to such legislation that it is
made applicable to existing causes of action, as is the case
here, the true rule in that regard being well stated in
Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 7th ed. 524, in these
words:
:"It must also be evident that a right to have one's controversies determined by existing rules of evidence is not a
vested right. These rules pertain to the remedies which
the State provides for its citizens; and generally in legal
contemplation they neither enter into and constitute a
part of any contract, nor can be regarded as being of the
essence of any right which a party may seek to enforce.
Like other rules affecting the remedy, they must therefore
at all times be subject to modification and control by the
legislature; and the changes which are enacted may lawfully be made applicable to existing causes of action, even
in those States in which retrospective laws are forbidden.
For the law as changed would only prescribe rules for
presenting the evidence in legal controversies in the
future; and it could not therefore be called retrospective

LURIA v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

even though some of the controversies upon which it may
act were in progress before."
This court applied that rule in Webb v. Den, 17 How.
576, 578; Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 590; Thompson v.
Missouri, 171 U. S. 380; and Reitler v. Harris,supra.
That the taking up of a permanent residence in a foreign
country shortly following naturalization has a bearing
upon the purpose with whic h the latter was sought and
affords some reason for presuming that there, was an
absence of intention at the time to reside permanently in
the United'States is not debatable. No doubt, the reason
for the presumption lessens as the period of tine between
the two events is lengthened. But it is difficult to say at
what point the reason so far disappears as to afford no
reasonable basis for the presumption. Congress has' in'
dicated its opinion that the intervening period may be as
much as five years without rendering the presumption
baseless. That period seems long, and yet we are not
prepared to pronounce it certainly excessive or unreasonable. But we are of opinion that as the intervening time
approaches five years the presumption necessarily must
weaken to such a degree as to require but slight countervailing evidence to overcome it. On the other hand, when
the intervening time is so short as it is shown to have been
in the present case, the presumption cannot be regarded
as yielding to anything short of a substantial and convincing explanation. So construed, we think the provision
is not in excess of the power of Congress.
Lastly it is urged that the District Court erred in not
according to the defendant a trial by jury. The claim
is predicated upon the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that "in suits at common law,
where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty
dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved."
This, however, was not a suit at common law. The right
asserted and the remedy sought were essentially equitable,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

not legal, and this, according to the prescribed tests,
made it a suit in equity. Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet. 433,
447; Irvine v. Marshall, 20 How. 558, 565; Root v. Railway
Company, 105 U. S. 189, 207. In this respect it does not
differ from a suit to cancel a patent for public land or
letters patent for an invention. See United States v.
Stone, 2 Wall. 525; United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co.,
125 U. S. 273; United States v. Bell Telephone Co., 128
U. S. 315.
Finding no error in the record, the decree is

Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SANDOVAL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 352.

Argued February 27, 1913.-Decided October 20, 1913.

Congress has power to make conditions in an Enabling Act, and require
the State to assent thereto, as to such subjects as are within the regulating power of Congress. Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, 574.
Such legislation, when it derives its force not from the resulting compact
but solely from the power of Congress over the subject, does not
operate to restrict the legislative power of the State in respect to any
matter not plainly within the regulating power of Congress. Coyle
v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, distinguished.
The status of the Pueblo Indians in New Mexico and their lands is
such that Congress can competently prohibit the introduction of
intoxicating liquors into such lands notwithstanding the admission
of New Mexico to statehood.
The power and duty of the United States under the Constitution to
regulate commerce with the Indian tribes includes the duty to care
for and protect all dependent Indian communities within its borders,
whether within its original limits or territory subsequently acquired
and whether within or without the limits of a State. United States
v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375.

