OCTOBER TERM,. 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

Vermont, 312; Commonwealth v. Green, 163 Massachusetts,
103; 3 Greenleaf on Evidence, § 21; 30 Am. Rep. (note)
617-620. And where, as here, such legislation has reasonable relation to a purpose which the State was entitled to
effect, it is not open to constitutional objection as a deprivation of liberty or property without due process of law.
Shevlin-CarpenterCo. v. Minnesota, 218 U. S. 57, 70.
It is also contended that the statute denied to the plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws, but the classification it established was clearly within the legislative
power. Heath & Milligan Co. v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338,,
354; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S..
36, 54; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S..
61, 78; Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225, 236.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

EASTERN EXTENSION,, AUSTRALASIA AND
CHINA TELEGRAPH COMPANY, LIMITED, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 419.

Argued October 22, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

While the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, broadened the
general jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, it was not repugnant to,
or inconsistent with, the limitations of § 1066, Rev. Stat., expressly
excluding from such jurisdiction all claims growing out of treaty
stipulations, and it did not, therefore, repeal that section.
Claims based on treaty stipulations within § 1066, Rev. Stat., include
those which arise solely as the result of cession of territory to the
United States.
The policy and spirit of a statute should be considered in construing it
as well as the letter.

EAST'N EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 327
231 U. S.

Opinion of -the Court.

Although the Court of Claims has not jurisdiction of claims against
the United States based on treaty stipulations, it has jurisdiction of
claims based on contracts originally made with the former sovereign
of ceded territory and assumed by the United States after the cession
either expressly or by implication.
Wh6re the court below declined to ;ake jurisdiction and the appeal is
solely on that question, this court will not express any opinion on the
merits as they are not before it.
48 Ct. Cl. 33, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis Marshall for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom
Mr. William F. Norris was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
which dismissed, upon demurrer, the petition of the claimant for the want of jurisdiction. 48 C. Cls. 33.
The petition averred that the claimant, a British corporation, secured from the Government of Spain, in the year
1879, a concession for the construction and operation of a
submarine telegraph cable. between the island of Luzon
and Hong Kong, with an exclusive privilege for forty
years, under which it maintained a cable trom Hong
Kong to Bolinao; and that in 1897, the Government of
Spain granted a further concession for three submarine
telegraph cables to provide communication between the
Islands of Luzon, Panay, Negros and Zebu, in the Philippine archipelago. Among the conditions of the lastmentioned grant, a copy of which is annexed to the petition
and made a part of it, are the following;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

"Article 9. The Concessionaire undertakes to work,
at his own expense and risk, the Cables of this Concession
for a period of twenty years, the said term to begin from
the date of the taking over of the Cables and their adjuncts in perfect working order.
"Article 10. The Concessionaire shall enjoy an annual
subsidy of £4,500 (four thousand five hundred pounds
sterling), payable monthly in twelve instalments, during
the whole term of the working of the Cables, the said
payments being made at Manila by the Chief Treasury
Office of those Islands.
"Article 16. The Company holding the Concession shall
pay the State the ten per cent. which tax in its application
to cablegrams is fixed after first deducting the amount of
the expenses for the maintenance of the Stations, calculated at £6,000 (six thousand pounds sterling) per
annum, the said expenses not to exceed the amount
specified.
"Article 17. It shall be obligatory to transmit official
despatches, which shall enjoy precedence, at half the
rates charged for those of a private character. . ."
In March, 1898, the claimant obtained an additional
concession from the Government of Spain for a submarine
telegraph cable between Hong Kong and Manila which
was completed in the following month.
It was further alleged that the claimant had "actually
fulfilled" and continued "to fulfill" all of the conditions
of the concessions and "to perform all of the duties imposed upon it" by their terms. After setting forth the
making of the Treaty of Paris, and the cession thereby
to the United States of the Philippine Islands, the petition
continued:
"Thereupon the United States of America entered into
the occupancy of said Philippine Islands, and proceeded
to exercise sovereignty over said Islands and of Ithe inhabitants thereof, and to assume jurisdiction and control

EAST'N EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 329
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

over all property and property rights in and upon said
Philippine Islands, including the several lines of submarine cable and telegraph land lines established, constructed and operated by the Claimant, and availed itself
of all of the benefits and advantages thereof, using the
said lines of cable and telegraph for its governmental and
other purposes, which it has continued to do ever since
and still continues to do, and it has become in all respects
the successor of the Government of Spain to all rights,
privileges and advantages conferred upon and secured and
reserved to the Government, of Spain under the terms of
the aforesaid concessions.
"By reason of the premises the United States of America
assumed all of the obligations and the performance of all
of the conditions accepted by the Government of Spain
and agreed to by it according to the terms of the aforesaid
concessions . . . and of each of them, and agreed with
the Claimant to perform the covenants and agreements,
and to fulfill the conditions, set forth in said several concessions and accepted and agreed to by the Government
of Spain.
"The United States of America has failed to perform
said agreements and to fulfill- the said conditions, in that
it has failed and refused to pay to the Claimant the annual
subsidy of £4,500 sterling as required by the terms of Article 10 of the aforesaid concession . .
for the years
1905, 1906, 1907, 1908 and 1909, and for each of said years,
and by reason of such failure and refusal to pay it has
become indebted to the Claimant in the sum of £4,500
sterling for each of said years, with interest on each of
said annual instalments at the rate of six per cent per
annum from the 31st day of -December of the year in which
the same became payable."
And judgment was demanded accordingly for the sum of
$109,462.50, with interest as stated.
The Government demurred to the petition asserting

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

(1) that it did not set forth facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against the United States and (2) that
it did not disclose a cause of action within the jurisdiction
of the court.
Upon hearing, the court held that it was without jurisdiction and it was upon this ground that the petition was
dismissed. 48 C. Cls. 33.
The act of February 24, 1855, c. 122 (10 Stat. 612),
creating the Court of Claims, provided that it should
hear and determine all claims "founded upon any law
of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied,
with the government of the United States," and also all
claims which might be "referred to said court by either
house of Congress." It required the court to report to
Congress the cases upon which it had finally acted, stating
the material facts found with its opinion, and to prepare
such bills as would be appropriate, if enacted, to carry
its decisions into effect. Important amendments were
made by the act of March 3, 1863, c. 92, 12 Stat. 765,
which gave jurisdiction of set-offs and counter-claims,
authorized appeals to the Supreme Court and provided for
payment of final judgments out of any general appropriation made by law for the satisfaction of private claims.'
But at the same time Congress was careful to exclude from
the jurisdiction of the court such claims as arose, out of
treaty stipulations. (id. § 9; 12 Stat. 767). As was said
in Ex parte Atocha, 17 Wall. 439, 444: "All the cases of
which the court could subsequently take cognizance, by
either the original or amendatory act, were cases arising
out of contracts or transactions between the government
or its officers and claimants; . . . Those acts have
since then applied only to claims made directly against
Cf. Act of March 17, 1866, c. 19, 14 Stat. 9; United States v. Alire,
6 Wall. 573, 576.

EAST'N EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 331
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States, and for the payment of which they
were primarily liable, if Liable at all, and not to claims
against other governments, the payment of which the
United States had assumed or might assume by treaty."
The provisions of the act of 1855, as amended, relating
to jurisdiction were placed in § 1059 of the Revised Statutes; and § 9 of the act of 1863 became § 1066 of the
revision, as follows:
"SEc. 1066. The jurisdiction of the said court shall not
extend to any claim against the Government not pending
therein on December one, eighteen hundred and sixtytwo, growing out of or dependent on any treaty stipulation entered into with foreign nations or with the Indian
tribes."
By the act of March 3, 1887, c. 359 (24 Stat. 505),
the general jurisdiction of the court theretofore defined
by § 1059 was broadened, and it was thus provided:
"That the Court of Claims shall have jurisdiction to
hear and determine the following matters:
"First. All claims founded upon the Constitution of
the United States or any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any regulation of an Executive Department,
or upon any contract, expressed or implied, with the Government of the United States, or for damages, liquidated
or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort, in respect
of which claims the party would be entitled to redress
against the United States either in a court of law, equity,
or admiralty if the United States were suable: Provided,
however, That nothing in this section shall be construed
as giving to either of the courts herein mentioned, jurisdiction to hear and determine claims growing out of the
late civil war, and commonly known as 'war claims,'
or to hear and determine other claims, which have heretofore been rejected, or reported on adversely by any court,
Department, or commission authorized to hear and determine the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 19i3.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

"Second. All set-offs, counter-claims, claims for damages, whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands whatsoever on the part of the Government of the
United States against any claimant against the Government in said court."
The statute of 1887 repealed all inconsistent enactments. The question whether § 1066 was thus repealed
has been raised but not decided. United States v. Weld,
127 U. S. 51, 57; JuraguaIron Company, Limited,v. United
States, 212 U. S. 297, 310. Both the provisions above
quoted and those of § 1066 are incorporated in the Judicial Code (§§ 145, 153). It is argued that the act of
1887 was intended to provide a complete scheme for the
bestowal of jurisdiction over all claims against the Government, save those therein expressly excepted, and that,
hence, it must be regarded as a substitute for the provisions of the Revised Statutes including § 1066 which
should therefore be deemed to be repealed (United States
v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 92; The Paquete Habana, 175 U. S.
'67.7, 684, 685). We cannot accede to this view. The
question is one of legislative intent (United States v.
Claflin, 97 U. S. 546, 551). The section dealt with a
special class of cases. There is no essential repugnancy
between the broadening of the general provisions as to
jurisdiction and the maintenance of the limitation as to
claims based upon treaties, and, in considering the scope
and manifest purpose of the later act in relation to claims
arising out of transactions between the Government, or its
officers, and claimants, we find no warrant for concluding
that in enlarging the jurisdiction previously conferred by
§ 1059 it was the intention of Congress to effect such a complete substitution as would destroy the established ex,ception set forth in § 1066. So far, then, as the petition
may be viewed as one seeking to assert a claim growing
out of the treaty with Spain, we are of the opinion that
it was not within the jurisdiction, of the Court of Claims.

EAST'N EXTENSION TEL. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 333
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is insisted, however, that the claim should not be
treated as one dependent upon a treaty stipulation
(United States v. Weld, 127 U. S. 51, 57), that the treaty
merely serves to confer upon the United States the title to
the Philippine Islands (December 10, 1898, 30 Stat. 1754;
November 7, 1900, 31 Stat. 1942); and that the claim is
based upon considerations of international law. It is
,pointed out that it was stated in the protocol that an article proposed for the assumption of contracts which had
been entered into by the Spanish Government was rejected
by the American Commissioners, while it was also set forth
that it might be assumed that the United States would deal
justly and equitably in respect of contracts that were binding under the principles of international law (Sen. Doc. No.
62, 55th Cong. 3d Sess., pp. 240, 241). But, if the claim of
the appellant were deemed to rest exclusively upon the
transfer of sovereignty, upon. the theory that thereby under
the principles of international law an obligation in its favor
was imposed upon the United States, the claim would still,
in our judgment, be excluded by the statute from the consideration of the court below. The words "treaty stipulation" should not be so narrowly interpreted as to permit
the exercise of jurisdiction where the claim arises solely out
of the treaty cession. Whether the liability asserted is
said to result from an express provision of assumption
contained in a treaty, or is sought to be enforced as a
necessary consequence of the cession made by a treaty,
it is equally within the policy and spirit of the statute;
and the letter of the statute should not be otherwise construed. It is its evident purpose that the obligations of
the United States directly resulting from a treaty should
not be determined by the Court of Claims.
But the petition has another aspect. The grant to the
appellant, as already stated, provided in Article 16 for
a payment of a tax of ten per cent. and, under Article 17,
for precedence and half rates in the transmission of official

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

despatches. It is argued by the appellant that the fact
that the United States "has received and is receiving the
special tax " and "the precedence and half rates specified"
must be regarded as admitted; and it is urged that under
the general principles of jurisprudence the facts set forth
in the petition import an obligation on the part of the
United States to the appellant to pay the subsidy provided
for in the concession so long as the United States shall continue to avail itself of the rights and privileges which
have accrued to it under the terms of the concession.
If the petition can be fairly said to present the claim
that the United States, not simply by virtue oT succession
to sovereignty under the treaty of cession, but through its
subsequent transactions with the appellant, and by contract to be implied from such transactions, has become
indebted to the appellant, we think that the claim, as
thus'limited, would be within the jurisdiction of the court
below under the act of 1887. It is true that the averments of the petition lack definiteness. It is not specifically alleged that the United States has received the tax
or enjoyed the benefit of the half rates, nor is it precisely
stated what transactions have been had between the
Government and the appellant. But the petition alleges
that the United States, since it entered into the occupancy
of the Islands, has "availed itself of all the.benefits and
advantages" of the submarine cable and telegraph lines
established by the appellant, "using the said lines of
cable and telegraph for its governmental and other pur-'
poses, which it has continued to do ever since and still
continues to do," and that "it has become in all respects
the successor of the Government of Spain to all rights,
privileges and advantages conferred upon and secured
and reserved to the Government of Spain under the ternis
of the aforesaid concession." These general allegations
are not altogether inapposite, with respect to a claim
based upon an implied contract outside of the treaty itself,

LITTLE v. WILLIAMS.
231 U. S.

Syl~abus.

and the claimant should not be denied the right to have
its claim, thus considered, adjudicated. In this view,
the petition would be susceptible of amendment and its
sufficiency, in law and fact, could be heard and determined.
We express no opinion upon the merits of the claim,
in this aspect, as they are not before us, the court below
having declined to take jurisdiction. But as we think
there was jurisdiction to pass upon the claim under the
limitations above stated, the judgment will be reversed and
the cause remanded with instructions to the court below to
take further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

LITTLE v. WILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.

No. 8.

Submitted October 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

In this case, held that the interpretation by the State Court of a stipulation of counsel was not open to review in this court as not raising
any Federal question although there were Federal questions involved
in the case.
The Swamp-Land Act of September 28, 1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 919, did not
in itself operate to invest the States with swamp, and overflowed
lands. While the act was a grant in prmsenti and gave an inchoate
title, identification and patent were necessary to vest fee simple title
in the State.
A duly legalized agreement between a State and the United States that
the former accepts lands theretofore patented to it under the SwampLand Act as its full measure of land due thereunder extinguishes
whatever inchoate title it or any of its political subdivisions may
have in any swamp lands not already patented to it.
A levee district is a mere political subdivision of the State creating it
and is bound by the action of the State; and so held that a relinquishment by the State of Arkansas of all lands in Which it had merely an
inchoate title under the Swamp-Lanid Act operated also to relinquish

