DOWNMAN v. TEXAS.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

Of course, that case and this are not to be confused
with others arising under ear iler trade-mark laws not containing any provisions respecting appellate jurisdiction
such as are embodied in the act of 1905.
The provisions of that act upon this subject are not.
among those enumerated in ยง 297 of the Code as thereby
repealed, and neither do they appear to have been anbraced within and superseded by the Code. And while
the Circuit Courts of Appeals Act, to which ยง 18 of the
act of 1905 makes reference, has been superseded by being
incorporated into the Code, that section has not thereby
lost any of its original effect, rfor ยง 292 of the Code requires
the reference to be construed as if naming the very sections
of the Code into which the Circuit Courts of Appeals act
has been carried.
It follows that the motion to dismiss the appeal must
be sustained, as was done in Hutchinson, Pierce & Co. v.
Loewy, supra.
Appeal dismissed.

DOWNMAN v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 43.

Submitted November 3, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

While real estate is generally taxed as a unit, separate estates therein
may be taxed to the separate owners of such tstates, where the title
has been severed.
One who has purchased the mineral rights in land with the present
right to enter and work the samne is not denied equal protection of
the law because in his case the mineral rights are taxed to him and
the surface estate is taxed to the owner of the fee.

VOL. ccxxxi-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

If his mineral rights are not over-assessed it is no defense that the
surface estate may be over-assessed.
134 S. W. Rep. 787, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an assessment
for taxation of mineral rights on lands in Texas which had
already been assessed for taxation to the owner of the fee,

are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Robert L. Batts and Mr. V. L. Brooks for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. B. F. Looney, Attorney General of the State of
Texas, Mr. G. B. Smedley and Mr. Knight Stith for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The State of Texas brought suit against Downman to

collect taxes on "mineral rights" owned by him in 50,000
acres of land in Llano County. In his answer he contended
that he was not liable because the mineral rights were
not real estate but mere licenses to work and develop
mines in the future; that if real estate they had already
been returned by the owners of the surface and, as the
latter had already paid taxes on the land, no additional
sum could be collected from him. Further, he claimed that
the assessments were void as being an unlawful discrimination against the class of persons who, like himself,
owned mineral rights separate from the surface estate.
On the trial it appeared that there was no mining in the
county, but in many sections there were signs indicating
the existence of ore. Prior to 1907 there had been no
assessment of mineral either to the owner of the surface
or to persons to whom the mineral right had been separately conveyed. In that year the tax-books were made up

DOWNMAN v. TEXAS.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as usual, grazing and agricultural lands being assessed at
from $2 to $3 per acre. The tax-books were then forwarded to the County Commissioners for equalization
of values. Acting in pursuance of instructions from the
Comptroller, the Commissioners made order directing
the County Taxing Officer to assess mineral rights where
they were owned by persons other than the owners of the
surface estate. He thereupon examined the public records
and secured the names of the grantees in all deeds which
conveyed such rights. Without further investigation as
to the existence or value of ore, he assessed the owner on
the basis of 50 cents per acre, entering the tax in the column
headed "Mineral Rights Only." No deduction was made
from the amount already entered against the owner of the
land proper. The books, with both classes of assessments
appearing thereon, were then finally approved and, in
due course, the surface owaers paid the taxes assessed
against them on the land. Downman, for the reasons
already stated, refused to pay the sum demanded of him
as taxes on mineral rights in the 50,000 acres. His defense was sustained by the District Judge, who held that
when the surface owners returned real estate that included
every interest connected with the land and consequently
Downman could not be held for an additional tax on
property or value which had already been assessed to the
owner of the surface. The Court of Civil Appeals recognized that if the owner of the land in paying his taxes had,
in fact, paid on the mineral rights also, Downman could
not be held liable in the present suit. But the judgment
of the District Court was reversed for the reason that
in approving the books having two assessments-one
against land and one against. mineral rights in the same
tract-the Commissioner had recognized the existence
of two separate interests in the same property belonging
to two different owners. The Supreme Court of the State
declined to interfere and the case was brought here by

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

writ of error in which Downman renews his attack on the
validity of the assessment. He contends that mineral
rights when belonging to the owner of the surface were
not included in the assessment, but were taxed as soon
as they were sold; that such "a tax was discriminatory
against owners who, like appellant, own mineral rights
in lands, the surface estate of which was owned by others,"
and that such discriminatory assessment imposes upon
the latter an unlawful burden of taxation and takes his
and their property without due process of law.
The Texas court recognized that if a miheral right was
not an estate, but a mere license to enter and work in
the future it was not taxable. It held, however, that the
deeds conveying ore, stone and minerals were grants of
property and conveyed to Downman title to the mineral
with the right to work the same. This title and right
was held to be real estate and taxable as such. On this
writ of error from the state court we are not concerned
with that construction of the statute, nor with the regularity of the method by which the taxes were assessed, nor
with the fairness of the valuation. The only Federal
question arises out of the contention that there was a
discrimination against Downman in taxing him on mineral
rights when the same were not taxed if they belonged to
the owner of the surface estate. In effect he claims that
taxability of mineral rights was made to depend not on
value, but on ownership, being taxable after they had
been conveyed but not taxable as long as they remained
the property of the holder of the surface. The record,
however, does not support this position, for it does not
appear that the landowner was consciously relieved of
taxation on mineral rights known to exist. If the mineral
actually added to the value, the law required that it
should be represented- in the assessment of the land. But
if the owner and the Assessor did not know of the existence
of ore, there was no injustice nor known discrimination

DOWNMAN v. TEXAS
231. U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in assessing it merely as grazing land. When however,
an actual sale of the mineral rights in a particular tract
was made, and the deed recorded, a new value was brought
to light. There was then no. reason why the taxing officers
should not accept the action of the buyer in paying therefor $1.50 per acre as evidence that the mineral right had
a separate value. This right being real estate was taxaable, but if assessed against the owner of the surface, the
result would have been that he would have had to pay
on an interest in the land with which he had absolutely
parted. Usually real estate is taxed as a unit; but as
different elements of the land are capable of being severed
and separately owned, the statute may authorize a separate assessment against the owners of the severed parts.
Accordingly if the title has been severed land may be
taxed to one, timber to another, or land to one and coal
to another. The state court held that such was the law
of Texas, in view of the general language of the statute
defining real estate as including not only the land itself
but the buildings on the land and the minerals under
the land. There was, therefore, nothing discriminatory
in assessing Downman as owner of the mineral right which
had been sold to him and separately assessing the owner
of the surface with what remained. That the two owners
were thus separately assessed, each on his own property,
appears from the fact that both values were separately
entered upon the tax-books-Downman's mineral rights,
for which he paid $1.50 an acre, being assessed at 50 cents
an acre and the surface estate at from $2 to $3 per acre.
If the latter was over-assessed it affords Downman no
defense. The record discloses no violation of a Federal
right and the judgment is

Affirmed.

