OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 560. In In re Shipman, 2 Hughes,
227, it seems to have been supposed that the act of 1873,
wrongly called of 1874, was passed to meet Gunn v. Barry,
in the teeth of the declaration that such an attempt
would be invalid. But that was a mistake.
Of course if the constitution of 1868 and statutes based
upon it should be construed as not attempting, to disturb
then existing liens, the act of Congress hardly would be
read as purporting to give a greater scope to the state
laws. The Georgia decisions since Gunn v. Barry agree
that in cases like the present the lien remained. Bush v.
Lester, 55 Georgia, 579. Whether the result be reached by
construction of the state laws, by construction of the
former Bankruptcy Act, or on constitutional grounds, it
comes to the same thing, and the judgment below was
right.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES EX REL. GOLDBERG v.
DANIELS, SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 79.

Argued November 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The United States, as the owner in possession of property, cannot be
interfered with behind its back; nor can the courts compel the officer
having the custody of such property to surrender it in a proceeding
to which the United States is not,'and cannot be made, a party.
Mandamus will not lie at the instance of one who in response to adver-

tisement has made the highest bid for a vessel to compel the Secretary of the Navy to deliver the vessel.
The discretion of the Secretary of the Navy is not ended by receipt
and opening of bids for a condemned naval vessel even though they

GOLDBERG v. DANIELS.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff ib Error.

satisfy the conditions prescribed.
him to accept the highest bid.
37 App. D. C. 282, affirmed.

Mandamus will not lie to compel

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the court
to issue a writ of mandamus directing the Secretary'of the
Navy to carry out the terms of a bid in response to advertisements for sale of a naval vessel, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Albert N. Eastman and Mr. CharlesPoe for plaintiff
inerror:
There was a binding contract for the sale of the cruiser
to the relator.
The relator had carried out and performed everything
which was to be done by him. He had paid the full purchase price. The minute the bids were opened and his
proposal or bid was ascertained to be the highest and the
money was paid, the statute required that the net proceeds of the sale should be covered into the Treasury, and
the vessel be delivered to the purchaser, who could not
have withdrawn his bid or retracted his offer after the
sealed bids had been opened. As he was bound, under no
principle of law, was the Secretary of the Navyreleased?
The case cannot be likened to a sale at public auction.
Blossom v. Railroad Co., 3 Wall. 196, 206, does not
apply.
This court has determined that no government property can be sold under statutes similar to the one in question except in the way prescribed by law. Steele v. United
States, 113 U. S. 128.
Instead of likening this transaction to an auction sale,
it should be likened to a sale by correspondence. Taylor v.
Insurance Co., 9 How. 390; Benjamin on Sales, 7th ed.,
Bennett's Notes, p. 54, § 44-; also p. 68, § 64; see also the
American note on p. 76 of the same work.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

No right to reject bids was reserved, and under the
statute no right to reject bids could have been reserved.
Integrity of the Government demands it deliver this
cruiser. If the Government does not make delivery, can
it ever expect honest bids when it thus advertises? If the
Government can thus refuse, equally so can the individual
when the sealed bids are opened and he finds he has been
foolish in bidding too much, or for other personal reasons
of his own he desires to change his mind.
As the Secretary could only sell in this manner, the
relator had a perfect right to rely on his rights under the
statute and the Secretary cannot take advantage of a
concealed purpose.
This is not such a contract as cannot be enforced for
failure to comply with §3744, Rev. Stat., as that section
does not apply, and even if applicable before performance,
as thecontract has been performed § 3744 would not apply.
St. Louis Hay & Grain Co. v. United States, 1r91 U. S. 159;
Garfield v. United States, 93 U. S. 242.
The statute of frauds cannot be pleaded to an executed
contract. Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wood, 189
Illinois, 352, 355.
Section 3744 was passed in 1862 as a general act. Section 5 in 1883 as a special act to govern the sale of vessels,
and, therefore, as the special statute is later, it will be
regarded as an exception to, or qualification of, the prior
general one. 36 Cyc. 1151. See also 1 Fed. Stat. Ann.
Mandamus is the appropriate remedy to compel its
performance. No discretion was left to the Secretary of
the Navy under §5.
In Knight v. Lane, 228 U. S. 6, the writ was refused because the court held that the Secretary of the Interior had
a discretion in the matter involved in that proceeding. In
Parishv. MacVeagh, 214 U. S. 124, the court granted the
writ against the Secretary of the Treasury because it held

GOLDBERG
231 U. S.

'.

DANIELS.

Opinion of the Court.

that there was simply a ministerial function to be performed. See also Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249.
Mr. Morgan H. Beach, with whom Mr. Solicitor General
Davis was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a petition for a mandamus directing the Secretary of the Navy to deliver the United States Cruiser Boston to the petitioner. The petition alleges that after survey, condemnation and appraisal the Cruiser was stricken
from the Naval Register under the act of August 5,
1882, c. 391, § 2, 22 Stat. 284, 296; that thereafter the
Secretary of the Navy advertised for proposals of purchase under the act of March 3, 1883, c. 141, 22 Stat. 582,
599; that the petitioner bid more than the appraised value,
sending a certified check for the whole sum bid; that when
the bids were opened on the day fixed the petitioner's was
the highest, but that the Secretary refused to deliver the
vessel and sent back the check, which the petitioner holds
subject to the Secretary's order. The answer admits the
facts, but sets up that the bid is not an acceptance of an
offer, but is itself only an offer, subject to be accepted or
not at the discretion of the Secretary and that the Secretary never accepted the petitioner's bid, the Government
having decided to lend the Cruiser to the Governor of
Oregon for use by the Naval Militia of that State. The
petitioner demurred, but the petition was dismissed on the
ground that the discretion of the Secretary was not ended
by the receipt and opening of the bids, even though they
satisfied all the conditions prescribed. 37 App. D. C. 282;
Sub nom. United States v. Meyer.
We see no sufficient reason for throwing doubt upon
this premise for the decision, but there is another that
comes earlier in point of logic. The United States is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U.S.

owner in possession of the vessel. it cannot be interfered
with behind its back and, as it cannot be made a party,
this suit must fail. Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10. International Postal Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601, 606.
Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60, 69. Naganabv. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473, 476.
Judgment affirmed.

STRAUS AND STRAUS, COMPOSING THE FIRM
OF R. H. MACY & COMPANY, v. AMERICAN
PUBLISHERS' ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 19.

Argued March 7, 1913.-Decided December'l, 1913.

One who sets up a Federal statute as giving immunity from a judgment
against him, may bring the case here under § 709, Rev. Stat., now

§ 237 of the Judicial Code, if his claim is denied by the decision of
the state court.

No more than the patent statute was the copyright act intended to
authorize agreements in unlawful restraint of trade and tending to
monopoly in violation of the Sherman Act.
The Sherman Act is broadly designed to reach all combinations in
unlawful restraint of trade and tending because of the agreements or
combinations entered into to build up and perpetuate monopolies.
The act is a limitation of rights which may be pushed to evil consequences and may, therefore, be restrained. Standard Sanitary
Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20.
As the agreement involved in this case went beyond any fair and legal
means to protect trade and prices, practically prohibited the parties
thereto from selling to those it condemned, affected commerce between the States, it was manifestly illegal under the Sherman Act,
and was not justified as to copyrighted books under any protection
afforded by the copyright act.
Where the state court dismissed the bill solely on the ground that
defendant's acts were not within the denunciation of the Federal
qtatute on which plaintiff relied, the judgment will be reversed on

