KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 423
231 U.S.

Syllabus.

no depreciation is charged in practical bookkeeping; or
the question whether depreciation, when allowable, may
properly be based upon the depletion of the ore supply
estimated otherwise than irL the mode shown by the agreed
statement of facts herein; for to do this would be to attribute a different meaning to the term "value of the ore in
place" than the parties have put upon it, and to instruct
the Circuit Court of Appeals respecting a question about
which instruction has not been requested, and concerning
which it does not even appear that any issue is depending
before that court.
The first and second questions'certifiedwill be answered in
the affirmative; and the third question will be answered in
the negative.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA,

and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent with respect to the
answer made to the third question.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE UNIT:BiD STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 571.

Argued October 29, 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The constitutional validity of the provisions in § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as amended
by the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, giving
the Interstate Commerce Commission authority to prescribe the
methods by which interstate carriers shall keep accounts, has already been sustained by this court. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S 194.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

The authority conferred upon, the Commerce Court by the act of
June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539 (Judicial Code, § 207), with respect to enjoining or setting aside the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, like the authority previously exercised by the
Federal Circuit Courts, was confined to determining- whether there
had been violations of the Constitution, or of the power conferred by
statute, or an exercise of power so arbitrary as virtually to transcend
the authority conferred.
In enacting the Hepburn Act amending § 20 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce, Congress recognized the essential distinctions between
property accounts and operating accounts, and between capital and
earnings, and that while prior to that time the practice of different
carriers varied, uniformity in regard to the keeping of accounts was
essential in the future for proper supervision and regulation.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich TransitCo., 224 U. S. 194,
followed to the effect that there is no unconstitutional delegation of
legislative power by Congress to the Commission in givifig it authority to establish methods of accounts by the provisions of the Hepburn
Act amending § 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce in that'respect.
The classification of accounts adopted by the Interstate Commerce
Commission in regard to additions and betterments and to property
and operating accounts are not so arbitrary or so entirely at odds
with fundamental principles of correct accounting as to amount to an
unconstitutional abuse of power.
In this case the carrier was not deprived of any of its property without
due process of law because under the Commission's system of accounting it was permitted to carry into its property account only the
excess of the full cost of improvements made off the line after deducting the estimated replacement cost of the abandoned portions
of the track or because it was required to charge to operating expenses the estimated cost of replacing the abandoned sections.
Where, as in this case, all classes of stockholders of a carrier, whose
dividends are affected by the method of charging betterments and
repairs, are not before the court, their rights cannot be determined
in a suit between the carrier and the Commission in regard to such
methods of accounts.
Semble, that requiring stockholders to forego dividends for a period
so that the amount not divided be spent in bettering the condition
of the property, thus giving them greater security for dividends in
the future, does not amount to an unlawful taking of property within
the meaning of the Fifth Amendment.
A carrier is not relieved from complying with regulations properly

KANSAS ('ITY SO. RY. v. UJNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

425

Statemenlt of the Case.

made by the Interstate Commerce Commission because of agreements previously entered into; whatever had been done was subject
to being displaced by the Commission under the powers conferred
upon it by Congress.

The power given to the Commission by § 20 of the Aet to Regulate
Commerce, as amended by the :"Eepburn Act, to require the carrier
to keep accounts as prescribed by the Commission, does not impose
obligations upon the carrier as to the use of the proceeds of bonds
but simply prevents such proceeds from being used in any manner
without the fact appearing in the accounts.
Although the contention of the carrier that abandonments ought to
be charged to profit and loss rather than to operating expenses may
have weight, this court will not reverse the order of the Commission
requiring them to be otherwise charged on the ground that it was an
abuse of power.
Where it appears that the Commission has acted fairly within the
grant of power constitutionally conferred upon it by Congress its
orders are not open to judicial review.
204 Fed. Rep. 641, affirmed.

THIS is an appeal from a decree of the Commerce Court
digmissing appellant's petition in an action brought to
have certain regulations of the Interstate Commerce
Commission relative to the method of keeping the accounts
of carriers declared invalid and to enjoin the enforcement
thereof. 204 Fed. Rep. 641. The regulations are contained in the "Classification of Expenditures for Additions
and Betterments of Steam Roads," effective July 1st,
1909, and the First Revised Issue thereof, effective July 1,
.1910.
The facts as set forth in appellant's brief may be summarized as follows:
Appellant is engaged in interstate commerce. Its main
line is about 786 miles in length and 6xtends from Kansas
City to Port Arthur, on the Gulf. of Mexico, traversing the
States of Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas. The road was built years ago, when the
country was heavily timbered and sparsely settled, and the
traffic was correspondingly small. The traffic would not

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

.231 U. S.

then support, nor could capital be obtained for, an expensively constructed road; and in consonance with the
general practice in the development of the country, the
road was built with rather heavy ruling grades. But it
was not defectively or improperly constructed or located;
it had substantially the same grades as other roads then
constructed in the west; and it was adequate to serve the
then existing needs of the country. A railroad with heavy
grades is, of course, more cheaply constructed than a road
of low grades. And aroad of heavy grades is generally
adequate in a new country, where the volume of traffic
offered is small, the train-loads light, and the trains few.
The ruling maximum grade of appellant's line as
originally constructed was 1 per cent.; and in the mountain district as high as 1.35 per cent. The evidence is
undisputed that it was properly located, well constructed,
and ample for the needs of the country. In the course of
time, with the development of the country, and the
resultant increase in traffic, whereby the limit of the
road's capacity was being approached, the conditions warranted and rendered desirable such additions or improvements as would enlarge the road's capacity, and permit
traffic to be moved more rapidly and economically.
Two methods of increasing the capacity of the road were
presented: one by double-tracking, the other by lowering
the grades and thus permitting traffic to be moved more
rapidly. The road was in active competition with powerful rivals operating in the same general territory; among
them, the Southern Pacific, the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas, the Missouri Pacific, the St. Louis Southwestern,
the Texas and Pacific, the St. Louis and San Francisco,
the Atchison, Topeka and Sante Fe, and the Rock Island.
The character of the road as a trunk line, having a long
average haul and the prevalence of low class traffic,timber, coal, oil and like commodities-necessarily entailed a low average freight rate; its average rates per ton

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U.S.

427

Statement of the Case.

per mile being lower than those of any of ifs competitors
above named.
Under these conditions the management found that the
most desirable plan was to lower the grades of the road,
and thus to increase its capacity, procure economy in
operation and render better service. to the public. Two
methods of reducing the grades at various points along the
line were presented: one by raising or lowering the roadbed on the existing right of way; the other by the construction of short sections of new road in substitution for portions of the road, in instances where the same result could
be thus obtained at less cost. The program of improvement contemplated, therefore, not only many changes on
the original right of way, but also a number of changes by
the substitution of short sections of road on new ground,
where that method was more economical.
The first six sections of the road where new locations
were utilized are covered by the petition herein. Other
similar changes are being made as the work proceeds,
which will cover several years and is estimated to cost
$3,000,000. The road at these six points was in no way
worn out, was fully maintained, and was capable of performing for an indefinite term the function for which it
was originally constructed. All of these changes are
being made for the purpose of increasing the capacity of
the line, of securing economy in operation, and of rendering improved service to the public.
At the six sections of the road in question it was found
by the estimates of the engineers that the cost of securing
the required, gradient upon the original roadbed would
be $1,230,318.99; but that the same result could be obtained by means of re-locations upon adjacent land for a
net expenditure of $629,399.74.
The actual expenditure on these six new locations, as
ascertained on completion cf the work (after the filing
of the petition) was $763,798; and the testimony shows

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

that had the work been done on the original roadbed the
cost would have been increased over the estimates in an
equal or greater proportion; the variation being due to
increase in the cost of labor, materials, etc. For present
purposes, the figures set forth in the petition are adopted.
The grade revisions at the six sections of line involved
herein having been completed by removing the tracks to
adjacent parcels of ground, which were procured and
substituted for the original parcels, the use of the latter
parcels was, of course, discontinued.
The expenditure required to improve the property by
bringing it to the desired grade of five-tenths of one per
cent. being deemed a capital expenditure, appellant's
directors determined-to finance the work by applying to
it the proceeds of a bond issue. It is claimed to have been
necessary to finance the improvements in this way if they
were to be made at all, because the appellant did not have
current earnings available for these improvements, and
could not have financed its program, involving the revision of about forty-one per cent. of the entire line and an
ultimate expenditure of several million dollars, in any
other way than by raising capital for that purpose through
the issuance of bonds.
Appellant, in order to raise funds for this and certain
other purposes, made an issue of bonds secured by a second mortgage on its property. This was duly authorized
by the directors and stockholders in the month of June,
1909; a portion of the bonds was sold and an initial sum
of $1,250,000 thus obtained became applicable to the improvements referred to in the petition and other improvements in the grade. Additional bonds have since been
issued as the work has proceeded.
In 1907, appellant began the payment of dividends at
the rate of 4% per annum upon its preferred stock, the
total amount of which was $21,000,000, and has continued
to pay such dividends each year until the present time.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

429

Statement of the Case.

These dividends are non-cumulative and are payable only
out of the earnings of the current year. The fact that
appellant had paid its dividends for several years was a
factor in its credit. PreferTed dividends having been
established, it is claimed that their discontinuance would
have affected the credit of the road so seriously that it
would have been unable except on prohibitive terms to
dispose of additional bonds as further money was required
from time to time during the progress of the work. It
is further claimed that appellant was able to finance its
improvements only out of the proceeds of a bond issue;
and that it could not have financed them at all except
by adopting the economical method of making a considerable part of the grade reductions by means of changes off
the line of the right of way.
Appellant having paid the cost of the six improvements
out of its issue of bonds, was confronted with the regulations of the Commission bearing on the method of recording the transaction in its books of account. Except for
those regulations, it is said that the full cost of the improvements would have been charged to the account of
"Additions and Betterments "-a subdivision of the property accounts-and credited to the proceeds of the bonds,
because that sum had been expended for additions and
betterments, and because the bonds had supplied the
funds. In the balance sheet the "Assets" would have
shown an increment of approximately $629,399 under the
subdivision of Additions and Betterments, and, per contra,
the "Liabilities" would have shown a corresponding
increase under the subdivision of Bonds.
Under the regulations in question, it was found that if
the improvements had been made on the original right of
way, the entries would have been made as above indicated.
But, with respect to improvements made off the right of
way, different treatment was prescribed. Here the
appellant was not permitted to carry into its property

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

accounts the full cost of the improvement, but was required.first to deduct from the cost thereof the estimated
replacement cost of the portions of track no longer used,the difference only being carried into the property accounts, and a sum equal to the estimated cost of replacing
the old sections of track being charged to .the operating
expenses of that year.
The text of the Classification of Additions and Betterments relative to revisions made on the original line is as
follows: "Grade Revisions.-(Reduction of grades.by cutting down summits and raising sags. without materially
changing the alinement). The amount to be charged
to this account is the cost of additional grading done,
including as a portion of such cost the rent and cost of
operation of steam shovels and work trains; building
temporary tracks for steam shovels and grading outfits;
tools, etc., used in the work; raising or lowering existing
bridges; increasing the length of culverts and replacing
riprap at culvert ends; changing grade crossings for farm
or country roads, highways, and streets, including crossing
gates, highway crossing alarms, and watch houses."
Relative to changes off the original line the regulation
is as follows: "Changes of Line.-(Construction of new
lines for the purpose of improving grade or alinement).
The amount to be charged to this account is the difference
between the cost of the new line and the cost of replacing
in kind the line abandoned, exclusive of right of way."
The General Instructions contained in the Classification supplement these rules and prescribe charges to
Operating Expenses as follows:
"5. In case it becomes necessary directly in connection
with betterment or improvement work to abandon any
property, the cost of replacing the abandoned property in
kind, plus the cost of removal but less the value of salvage,
should be charged to the appropriate accounts under
Operating Expenses. In case, however, the amount so

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

431

Statement of the Case.

chargeable is large, and its inclusion in a carrier's operating
expenses for a single year would unduly burden the
operating expense accounts lbr that year, the carrier may,
if so authorized upon application to the Interstate'Commerce Commission, charge such cost to th6 Property
Abandoned account provided in the Form of General
Balance Sheet Statement, or to the reserve account mentioned in paragraph 6.
"6. When property is abandoned and not replaced,
the original cost (estimated, if not known) should be
credited to the appropriate additions and betterments
accounts and charged, less salvage, to Profit and Loss
Account, to which should also be charged all incidental
expenses directly connected with the abandonment. If so
authorized upon application to the Interstate Commerce
Commission, however, a carrier may set up depreciation
accounts under 'Maintenance of Way and Structures'
for the purpose of creating a reserve to which (instead of
Profit and Loss> should be charged the original cost, less
salvage, of the property (other than land or equipment)
abandoned, and all incidental expenses directly connected
with the abandonment."
These are the regulations as they appeared in the
Classification of 1909. In the First Revised Issue (1910)
there were some slight changes, but none now important.
To restrain the enforcement of the regulations so far
as they required or tended to require appellant to charge
against its earnings the estimated replacement value (less
salvage) of the six parcels of railroad line that were
abandoned as an incident to grade reduction as above
set forth, was the principal object of the suit.
The petition sets forth the following as a second ground
of complaint. As a part of its program of improvements,
appellant is engaged in erecting a new and enlarged shop
and terminal plant at Shreveport, upon a different location from that of the existing shop and terminal plant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

231 U. S.

which latter are incidentally to be abandoned. It is
claimed that the present shop and equipment are not worn
out or obsolete, but are in good condition, and capable,
with ordinary running repairs, of performing for an indefinite time the functions for which they were originally
constructed. Appellant desires to charge the estimated
value of the abandoned shop and terminal plant, amounting approximately to $100,000, against its accumulated surplus as represented in its profit and loss account. The reg.
ulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission relative
to accounting, however, prohibit this charge, and require
that the estimated replacement cost (less salvage) of the existing shop and terminal plant shall be charged to the Operating Expense Account. An injunction against the enforcement of the regulations in this regard also was prayed.
Mr. Samuel Untermyer, with whom Mr. Walter C. Noyes,
Mr. Arthur M. Wickwire and Mr. Irwin Untermyer were
on the brief, for appellant:
The power delegated to the Commission to prescribe
the "form" of accounts cannot be extended so as to
authorize the exercise of substantial powers of railway
management not otherwise within its authority.
The regulations will curtail and may absolutely prevent
the payment of dividends on the petitioner's preferred
stock, which is non-cumulative and payable only out of the
net earnings of each year.
The lawful determination of the petitioner to finance
this improvement, costing $600,000, out of the proceeds of
a bond issue is vetoed to the amount of $400,000 by the
regulation which compels the petitioner to pay $400,000 of
the expense out of operating revenue and to restore that
amount to the bond account and return it to the trustee of
the mortgage.
Property abandoned as an incident to permanent improvements is not an operating expense.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 433
231 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Petitioner contends that since the original locations were
necessary in the development of the line, and were abandoned only as an incident to the improvement and development of the property, the cost thereof being a part of the
cost of progress should remain in the. property account as a
part of the stockholders' investment.
The original investment was necessary in order that
the second investment might be made.
The theory of depreciation advanced in support of the
regulations has no application to the facts of this case.
Even the theory on which the respondents attempt to
support the regulations, does not, when analyzed, justify
a charge to operating expenses, but at most, a charge to
profit and loss.
Since the Act to Regulate Commerce penalizes the
keeping of any other accounts, records or memoranda
than those prescribed by the Commission, and since the
act requires that the annual reports shall show in detail
(1) the cost and value of the carrier's property; (2) the
amounts expended for improvements each year; (3) the
operating and other expenses and (4) the balance of profit
and loss, the Commission cannot promulgate rules which
would leave the carrier without a true record of the facts
to be included in the annual reports.
If, under any circumst nces, Congress had power to
determine that accounts should be so kept as to include
in operating expenses an item which is not an operating
expense, and to interfere with the internal management of
common carriers and to deprive stockholders of their
dividends, the determination of such a public policy involves the exercise of discretionary legislative functions
incapable of delegation to the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Since the regulations in question compel the petitioner
to make false entries in its accounts and thereby deprive
the preferred stockholders of dividends to which they are
voL ccxxxi-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

231 U. S.

lawfully entitled, the regulations are in violation of the
Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
In support of petitioner's contentions see Charlotte, C. &
A. R. R. Co. v. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386; Fordyce v. Omaha,
Kansas City & E. R. R., 145 Fed. Rep. 544; Goodrich
Transit Co. v. Int. Comm. Com., 224 U. S. 194; int. Comm.
Com. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co., 73 Fed. Rep. 409; Int.
Comm. Com. v. Chicago G. W. R., 209 U. S. 108; Il. Cent.
R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm. Com., 206 U. S. 441; Ill. T. &
S. Bank v. Doud, 105 Fed. Rep. 123; LackawannaCoal Co.
v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 176 U. S. 298; N. Y., N. H. & H.
R. R. v. Int. Comm. Com., 200 U. S. 361; Pennoyer v. Connoughby, 140 U. S. 1; RailroadTax Cases, 13 Fed. Rep. 722;
S. C., 116 U. S. 138; Southern Pac. Co. v. Int. Comm. Com.,
219 U. S. 433; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Santa Clara
County v. Southern Pac. R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 385; S. C.,
118 U. S. 394; Tex. & Pac.Ry. Co. v. Int. Comm. Com., 162
U. S. 197; United States v. Verdi Copper Co., 196 U. S. 207;
United States v. Folk, 204 U. S. 143; Wisconsin &c. R. R. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287; Un. Pac. R. R. Co. v. United
States, 99 U. S. 402;'Wood v. GuaranteeCo., 128 U. S. 416.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Thurlow M. Gordon, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States:
In requiring that abandoned property (over and above
salvage) should not be continued as an asset, the Commission does not act arbitrarily or injuriously. Int.
Comm. Com. v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194;
Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Physical Valuation Act, 37
Stat. 701.
Nor did the Commission act arbitrarily and injuriously
in requiring that property abandoned in connection with
improvements should be charged off through operating
expense instead of through surplus.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 435
231 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The policy of the Commission is to allow an indulgence
to the railroads by permitting them to maintain a basis for
higher rates until the abandoned property has been paid
for.
Obsolescence is depreciation and a proper and authoritatively recognized part of the definition of "operating
expense." Cumberland Tel, Co. v. Louisville, 187 Fed.
Rep. 637; Columbus Light Co. v. Columbus (Whitten,
Valuation of Pub. Ser. Corp., § 450); Eastern Case, Re
Advances in Rates, 20 I. C. C. 243; Int. Comm. Com. v.
Goodrich Transit Co., 224 1:. S. 212; Holyoke, Massachusetts, PurchaseCase (Whitten,.§ 454); Knoxville v. Water Co.,
212 U. S. 1; Montgomery on Auditing (ed. 1912), p. 319;
Brooklyn Heights R. R. Co. v. Tax Commissioners, 69
Misc. (N. Y.) 646; Queens County Water Co. v. Woodbury,
67 Misc. (N. Y.) 490; Queens Borough Gas Co., 18 N. Y.
(reported in Whitten, § 487); San Joaquin Co. v. Stanislaus
County, 191 Fed. Rep. 875; Spokane &c. R. R. (Whitten,
§ 457); State Journal Prining Co. v. Madison Gas Co.,
4 W. R. C. R. 501; (Whitten, § 486); Third Avenue Reorganization, 2 P. S. C. N. Y. July 29, 1910; (Whitten,
§ 463); also Whitten, §§ 450, 451, 452, 453, 458, 481.
Even if dividends should be lost owing to the abandonment of property, such loss is no reason for invalidating
this order. Motley's Case, '219 U. S. 467.
But there is no reason to assume that the Commission
will refuse to spread the charge so as to avoid such a
result.
The required system of accounting does not "veto" the
terms of the mortgage.
For other cases in support of contention of the United
States see Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Columbus
Ry. & Light Co. v. City of Columbus (Whitten, § 450);
Cumberland Tel. & Tel. Co. v. City of Louisville, 187 Fed.
Rep. 637; Eastern Case, Re Advances on Rates, 20 I. C. C.
243; Holyoke, Mass., Purchase Case (Whitten, § 454);

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

231 U. S.

Illinois Central Case, 215 U. S. 452; Int. Comm Com. v.
Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194; Knoxville v. Knoxville
Water Co., 212 U. S. 1; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
'352; Montgomery on Auditing, Theory, and Practice;
Motley's Case, 219 U. S. 467; :People ex rel. Brooklyn
Heights R. R. Co. v. Tax Commissioners; 69 Misc. (N. Y.)
646; People ex rel. Queens County Water Co. v. Woodbury,
67 Misc. (N. Y.) 490; Queens Borough Gas & Elec. Co.,
2 P. S. C. 18 N. Y. (Whitten, § 487); San Joaquin Co.
v. Stanislaus Co., 191 Fed. Rep. 875; Spokane & Inland
Empire Elec. R. R. (Whitten, § 457); State Journal Printing Co. v. Madison Gas & Elec. Co., 4 W. R. C. R. 501
(Whitten, § 486); Third Avenue Reorganization (Whitten,
§ 463); Union Pacific Case, 222 U. S. 541; United States v.
Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; (Whitten, Valuation of Public Service Corporations,§§ 450, 451, 452, 453, 458, and 481).
Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce
Commission:
The power of Congress over interstate commerce includes regulating the forms of accounts and reports which
have a substantial relation to the regulation of commerce.
Public records are exclusively under public control and
Congress has power to vest Commission with authority to
determine classification of accounts of common carriers.
The Commission's order is an extension of congressional
action and in prescribing the classification of accounts,
etc., the Commission was acting in purely a legislative
capacity, nor did it act arbitrarily in requiring such
classification.
By the Commission's system of classification there was
no destruction of property nor was the administration of
the funds affected.
Constitutional rights were not violated by the orders
involved.
Depreciation is an operating expense.

RANSAS CITY SO. 11Y. v. UNITED STATES. 437
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Congress has spoken directly on this subject and made
these regulations the law and there is no violation of the
Fifth Amendment.
In support of these contentions see Adair v. United
States, 208 U. S. 178; Butte City Water Co. v. Baker, 196
U. S. 126; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 497; Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649; Gibbons V. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Hippolite Egg Co. v.
United States, 220 U. S. 45; Hoke v. United States, 227
U. S. 308; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Int. Comm. Com., 206
U. S. 441; Int. Comm. Corn. v. Goodrich Transit Co., 225
U. S. 194; Light v. United States, 220 U. S. 523; Lottery
Case, 188 U. S. 353; Prentiss v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211
U. S. 210; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; The Daniel Ball
Case, 10 Wall. 557; Union, Bridge Co. v. United States,
204 U. S. 384; Union Pacikc R. R. Co. v. United States,
99 U. S. 402; United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 566;
Wayman v. Southard, 10 'Wheat. 142; Montgomery on
Auditing, Theory and Practice (1912).
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of appellant in the Commerce Court and
in this court is, that the regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission relative to the method of keeping the
accounts of common carriers, so far as they are here
questioned, are unreasonable, beyond the power or authority of either Congress or the Commission, and violative of the Fifth Article of Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States, as be'ing a deprivation of property
without due process of law. It is claimed that the effect
of enforcing the regulations under the circumstances of
the case is to reduce the amount of net earnings applicable
to dividends., and thereby cause an irreparable loss to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.-

preferred stockholders, whose dividends are non-cumulative and payable only out of the income of the current
year; that the property accounts become inaccurate, because while appellant has actually expended something
more than $600,000 in the improvement of its property,
and its bonded indebtedness has been in fact increased by
the like amount, the accounts will declare that for this expenditure the company has obtained a net accretion to its
property of only a little over $200,000 ($629,399.74 less
$386,484, or $234,747.74); that the Operating Expense
Acc6unts will be improperly swollen by the inclusion
therein of the sum of $386,484, to the deception of the
stockholders and the investing public, and the impairment
of the financial credit of the company; and that under the
reqiirements of the Commission this sum of $386,484
cannot be charged to and finally taken out of the proceeds
of the bonds, but must be charged to operating expenses,
and thus taken from operating revenue, because of which
(as is claimed) this amount, which has already been paid
out of the proceeds of bonds, must ultimately be restored
in cash to the bond account, and returned to the trustee or
otherwise accounted for to the bondholders. As to the
Shreveport shop and terminal plant that are to be abandoned, it is contended that it is unreasonable to require
the cost of abandonment to be charged to operating expenses, and that this is a proper charge against the accumulated surplus, as represented in the profit and loss
account.
The authority of the Commission rests upon § 20 of
the "Act to Regulate Commerce" (February 4, 1887,
24 Stat. 379, c. 104, as amended by the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, cc. 3591).1 The constitu20. That the Commission is hereby authorized to require
annual reports from all common carriers subject to the provisions of
this Act, and from the owners of all railroads engaged in interstate
commerce as defined in this Act, to prescribe the manner in which
1"'SEC.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

439

Opinion of the Court.

tional validity of this legislation was sustained in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224
U. S. 194, 211, 214.
The authority conferred by Congress upon the Commerce Court (act of June 18, 1910; 36 Stat. 539, c. 309;
such reports shall be made, and to require from such carriers specific
answers to all questions upon which the Commission may need information. Such annual reports shall show in detail the amount of
capital stock issued, the amounts paid therefor, and the manner of
payment for the same; the dividends paid, the surplus fund, if any,
and the number of stockholders; the funded and floating debts and the
interest paid thereon; the cost and value of the carrier's property,
franchises, and equipments; . . . the amounts expended for improvements each year, how expended, and the character of such improvements; the earnings and receipts from each branch of business
and from all sources; the operating and other expenses; the balances
of profit and loss; and a complete exhibit of the financial operations of
the carrier each year, including an annual balance sheet. Such reports
shall also contain such information in relation to rates or regulations
concerning fares or freights, or agreements, arrangements, or contracts
affecting the same as the Commission may require; and the Commission
may, in its discretion, for the purpo.e of enabling it the better to carry
out the purposes of this Act, prescribe a period of time within which
all common carriers subject to the provisions of this Act shall have, as
near as may be, a uniform system of accounts, and the manner in which
such accounts shall be kept.
*

*.

*

*

*

*

*

*

,*

The Commission may, in its discretion, prescribe the forms of any
and all accounts, records, and memoranda to be kept by carriers subject to the provisions of this Act, including the accoun'ts, records, and
memoranda of the movement of traffic as well as the receipts and expenditures of moneys. The Commission shall at all times have access
to all accounts, records, and memoranda kept by carriers subject to
this Act, and it shall be unlawful for such carriers to keep any other
accounts, records, or memoranda than those prescribed or approved by
the Commission, and it may employ special agents or examiners, who
shall have authority under the order of the Commission to inspect
'and examine any and all accounts, records, and memoranda kept by
such carriers. This provision shall apply to receivers-of carriers and
operating trustees."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Judicial Code, § 207) with respect to enjoining or setting aside the orders of the Commission, like the authority previously exercised by the Federal Circuit Courts,
was confined to determining whether there had been
violations of the Constitution, or of the power conferred
by statute, or an exercise of power so arbitrary as virtually to transcend the authority conferred. Interstate
Com. Com. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 470;
Interstate Com. Com. v. Union Pacific R. Co., 222 U. S.
541, 547; Procter & Gamble v. United States, 225 U. S.
282, 297; Interstate Com. Com. v. Balt. & Ohio R. Co., 225
U. S. 326, 340.
As to the intent and meaning of § 20, it is first insisted that the power conferred upon the Commission to
prescribe the forms of accounts, records, and memoranda
to be kept by the carriers, recognizes a distinction between
the form and the substance; and that while the Commission, in order to obtain full and accurate information concerning the affairs of each corporation, must have power
to require any reports, schedules, and accounts necessary
to show the true financial condition of each carrier; yet
that the grant must by fair interpretation, and in order
not to amount to an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power, stop short of the point where the regulation
in its essence goes not to the form but to the substance
and involves interference with the internal affairs of the
corporation. We do not, however, think that any such
distinction between the form and the substance is admissible with respect to the declared object of standardizing railroad accounts and obtaining therefrom full and
accurate information concerning the affairs of the respective corporations. The very object of a system of accounts is to display the pertinent financial operations of
the company, and throw light upon its present condition.
If they are to truly do this, the form must correspond with
the substance. In order that accounts may be standard-

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 441
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ized, it is necessary that the accounts of the several carriers
shall be arranged under like headings or titles; and it is
obviously essential that charges and credits shall be allocated under the proper headings-the same with one
carrier as with another. Unless "Additions and Betterments," on the one hand, and "Operating Expenses,"
on the other, are to indicate the same class of entries upon
the books of one carrier that they indicate upon the books
of other carriers, there is no possibility of standardization.
So far as such uniformity requirements control or tend
to control the conduct of the carrier in its capacity as a
public servant engaged in interstate commerce, they are
within the authority constitutionally conferred by Congress upon the Commission. There is no direct interference with the internal affairs of the corporation; and
if any such interference indirectly results, it is only such
as is incidental to the lawful control of the carrier by the
Federal authority and to this the rights of stockholders
and bondholders alike are necessarily subject.
It is said, however, that the meaning of the term "operating expenses" was well defined at the time of the passage
of the act of 1887, and that during the period intervening
between the beginning of the work of the Commission
thereunder and the passage of the Hepburn Act in 1906,
the term had never been construed to include any charge
for property abandoned inthe course of improvements;
and that this settled construction, upon familiar principles, must be deemed to, have entered into the purpose
of Congress when it reenacted the language of § 20 in
the latter year, and added to it authority to the Commission to prescribe in its discretion the forms of accounts
and a prohibition against keeping any others than those
prescribed or .approved by the Commission. But it will
be observed that § 20, as, originally enacted, authorized
the Commission "in its discretion for the purpose of enabling it the better to carry out the purposes of this act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

[to] prescribe a period of time within which all common
carriers subject to the provisions of this act shall have,
as near as may be, a uniform system of accounts, and
the manner in which such accounts shall be kept." Congress, when it enacted the Hepburn Act in 1906, must
have known that the Commission had not as yet found
occasion to enforce this provision; and at the same time
may be deemed to have contemplafed that the authority
then for the first time conferred upon the Commission
to determine and prescribe the maximum rates to be
charged by the carriers for the services to be performed
by them, furnished a new and more cogent reason for
establishing a uniform system of accounts.
The contention that the term "operating expenses"
had a well-understood and defined meaning, either recognized at the time of the passage of the act of 1887 or established by the constant practice of the Commission
from that time until the Hepburn Act, so that the use
of the term in the latter act amounted to an express limitation upon the grant of power to prescribe the forms of
the accounts, is not well founded. Congress, in authoriz-.
ing the Commission to prescribe a uniform system of accounts, recognized that accounting systems were not then
uniform; and in reiterating this authorization in 1906,
* and adding a prohibition against the keeping of other
accounts than those prescribed, manifested a purpose
to standardize and render uniform the accounts of the
different carriers with respect. to matters that entered
into property and the improvements thereof, on the one
hand, and the current operations of the company, on the
other. By the very terms of § 20, Congress at least outlined the classification of the carriers' accounts, for it
required the anhul reports to show "the amount of
capital stock issued, the amounts paid therefor, and the
manner of payment for the same . . - . the surplus fund, if any, . . . the funded and floating

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

debts,

443

Opinion of the Court.
.

the cost and value of the carrier's prop-

erty, franchises and equipments;

.

.

.

the amounts

expended for improvements each year, how expended) and
the character of such improvements; the earnings and
receipts from each branch of business and from all sources;
the operating and other expenses; the balances of profit
and loss; and a complete exhibit of the financial operations
of the carrier each year, 'including an annual balance
sheet." By the same sectilon the Commission was authorized to require these annual reports from all carriers
subject to the Act, and to prescribe the manner in which
the reports should be made,, and for this and other purposes to require carriers to have "as near as may be, a
uniform system of accounts, and [to prescribe] the manner
in which such accounts shall. be kept."
Plainly, the law-making body recognized the essential
distinctions between property accounts and operating
accounts, between capital and earnings; it recognized
that the practice of different carriers varied in respect
to these matters; and that no system of supervision and
regulation would be complete without requiring the accounts of all the carriers to speak a common language.
There is here no unconstitutional delegation of legislative powers. The reasoning adopted in Interstate Com.
Com. v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U. S. 194, 210, etc., is
controlling. And since, as just shown, uniformity in
accounting is dependent upon the adoption and enforcement of precise classification, the authority to define the
terms of the classification necessarily follows. It amounts,
after all, to no more than laying down the general rules,
of action under which the Commission shall proceed, and
leaving it to the Commission to apply those rules to particular situations and circumstances by the establishment and enforcement of administrative regulations.
It is contended that the regulations of the Commission,
in respect to the matters now under consideration, are

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

so unreasonable and arbitrary as to constitute an abuse
rather than an exercise of the powers conferred by §20,
and consequently that they ought to be set aside by judicial action. This is not on the ground that the Commission did not proceed with due deliberation and after
proper inquiry. Respecting this, the record abundantly
shows that in the year 1906, and shortly after the passage
of the Hepburn Act, the Commission undertook, and for
nearly three years prosecuted a most thorough investigation into the current practice of the principal railroad
lines, procuring reports and recommendations from experts, and submitting tentative plans for the classification
of accounts to the executives of the railroad lines and to a
committee of accountants created by the Association of
American Railway Accounting Officers, which association
was made up of members representing practically every
important railroad in the country.
The present attack upon the classification as adopted
is, and must be, rested at bottom upon the contention
that the regulations embodied in it are so entirely at odds
with fundamental principles of correct accounting as
intrinsically to manifest an abuse of power.
There is evidence in the record that substantially the
same method of distributing charges for so-called "Additions and Betterments" between the Property Accounts
and the Operating Accounts is and has long been pursued
by important railroad carriers, and has received the sanction of at least one recent text-book writer,-Whitten,
Valuations of Public Service Corporations, §§ 450, 451,
458, etc. Nevertheless, it is insisted with emphasis that
property abandoned as an incident to permanent improvements is not an operating expense, and, in effect,
that no matter what practice may be pursued by railroad
accounting officers, it cannot properly be treated as such.
We are thus brought back to the fundamental distinction between (a) the property or capital accounts, designed

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

445

Opinion cf the Court.

to represent the investment of the stockholders, and to
show the cost of the property as originally acquired, with
subsequent additions and improvements; these assets
being balanced by the liabilities, including the amount
of the capital stock and of bonded and other indebtedness,
with net profits or surplus, whether carried under the
head of "profit and loss" or otherwise; and (b) the operating accounts, designed to show, on the one side, gross
receipts or gross earnings for the year, and on the other
side, the expenditures involved in producing those gross
earnings and in maintainiag the property, the balance
being the net earnings.
Since the regulation of the railroad carrier by the public
authority, and especially the fixing of the rates to be
charged, depend primarily upon two fundamental considerations, (a) the value of the property that is employed
in the public service, and (b) the current cost of carrying
on that service, it is clear that the maintenance of a proper
line of distinction between property accounts and operating accounts is essential to the execution by the Interstate

Commerce Commission of the supervisory and regulatory
powers conferred upon it by Congress.
Appellant contends, inter alia, that since the original
locations were necessary in the development of its railroad
line, and were abandoned only as an incident to the improvement and development of the property, the cost
thereof, being as it is termed a part of the "cost of progress," should remain in the property account, as representing a part of the stockholders' present investment.
Support for this contention is sought in previous decisions of this court. In Union Pacific R. Co. v. United
States, 99 U. S. 402, a decision that turned upon the
meaning and effect of an act of July 1, 1862 for aiding the
construction of the railroad (12 Stat. 489, c. 120), it was
said, at p. 420: "As a general proposition, net earnings are
the excess of the gross earnings over the expenditures de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

frayed in producing them, aside from, and exclusive of,
the expenditure of capital laid out in constructing and
equipping the works themselves. It may often be difficult
to draw a precise line between expenditures for construction, and the ordinary expenses incident to operating and
maintaining the road and works of a railroad company.
Theoretically, the expenses chargeable to earnings include
the general expenses of keeping up the organization of the
company, and all expenses incurred in operating the works
and keeping them in good condition and repair; whilst
expenses chargeable to capital include those which are
incurred in the original construction of the works, and in
the subsequent enlargement and improvement thereof."
In Illinois Central R. R. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, the Commission had held (206 U. S.
449; 10 I. C. C. 544) that while repairs were properly
chargeable to current operating expenses, yet expenditures
for improvements and equipment "should not be taxed
as part of the current or operating expenses of a single
year, but should be, so far as practicable, and so far as
rates exacted from the public are concerned, projected
proportionately over the future." And in this court it
was said (p. 462): "It would seem as if expenditures for
additions to construction and equipment, as expenditures
for original construction and equipment, should be reimbursed by all of the traffic they accommodate during the
period of their duration, and that improvements that will
last many years should not be charged wholly against the
revenue of a single year." And, after pointing out that
the case of the Union Pacific Railway Company in 99
U. S. had to do not with rates of transportation or the
like, but with the construction of the words "net earnings" in an act of Congress, the court, in pointing out the
difference between the position of the Government in that
case and the position of a shipper of commodities in the
case sub judice, said, with respect to the latter (p. 463):

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

447

Opinion of the Court.

"His right is immediate. He may demand a service. He
must pay a toll, but a toll measured by the reasonable
value of the service. The elements of that value may be
many and complex, not always determinable, as we have
seen, with mathematical accuracy, but, we think, it is
clear, that instrumentalities which are to be used for years
should not be paid for by the revenues of a day or year;
and this is the principle of returns upon capital which
exists in durable shape."
The expressions quoted were properly employed with
respect to the questions then presented for decision. As
expressions of the general principle, we see no occasion
now to qualify them. In both cases it was recognized
that in so complicated a matter as the construction, maintenance, and operation of a, railroad line, it is difficult to
define and perhaps more difficult to consistently apply a
precise distinction between capital and expense accounts;
and while the propriety of distributing improvement
costs over a series of years was recognized, the impossibility of scientific accuracy in that regard was acknowledged.
The question now is, whether the regulations of the Commission under attack do violence tq these general principles-rather, it is whether those regulations are so clearly
contrary to these and other applicable principles that they
should be set aside as being in excess of the powers conferred by Congress upon the Commission.
We are unable to see that there is substantial inconsistency with principle, much less gross violation thereof.
The contention of the appellant that property, originally
acquired because necessary in the construction of the road,
and afterwards abandoned only because rendered unnecessary by the improvement and development of the
property, should remain in the property account as a part
of the stockholders' investment, will be found, upon analysis, to rest upon the unwarrantable assumption that all
capital expenditures result in permanent accretions to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

property of the company. This in effect ignores depreciation-an inevitable fact which no system of accounts
can properly ignore. A more complete depreciation than
that which is represented by a part of the original plant
that through destruction or obsolescence has actually
perished as useful property, it would be difficult to imagine.
The fact that the original investment was necessary in
order that the second investment might be made is not
a conclusive test. Reference is made to the cost of the
scaffolding used in the erection of a house, and discarded
when the house is completed; and to the cost of the paper
that goes to the waste-basket, rather than to the printer,
in the preparation of a literary composition; but these
are fanciful analogies, and do not assist us here, where the
real question is not how shall original cost be ascertained,
but, how shall subsequent depreciation in value be reckoned and accounted for?
In Knoxville v. Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, this court had to
do with a similar element of depreciation, and, after pointing out that such a plant as was there in question begins
to depreciate in value from the moment of its use, and that
before coming to the question of profit at all, the company
was entitled to earn a sufficient sum annually to provide
not only for current repairs but for making good the depreciation and replacing the parts of the property when
they should come to the end of their life, the court proceeded to say (p. 14): "If, however, a company fails to
perform this plain duty and to exact sufficient returns to
keep the investment unimpaired, whether this is the result
of unwarranted dividends upon overissues of securities, or
of omission to exact proper prices for the output, the fault
is its own. When, therefore, a public regulation of its
prices comes under question the true value of the property
then employed for the purpose of earning a return cannot
be enhanced by a consideration of the errors in management which have been committed in the past."

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 449
231 U. S.

Opinion of[
the Court.

And since one of the manifest objects of Congress in
authorizing the supervision and standardization of carriers' accounts, as is done in § 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act, was to enable the Commissioners to intelligently perform their duties respecting the regulation of
carriers' rates for the services performed, and since it
is settled that the property investment which is to be
taken into consideration as one of the elements in fixing
such rates is the property then in use (Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466, 546; San Diego Land & Town Co. v. National
City, 174 U. S. 739, 757; San Diego Land & Town Co. v.
Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 442; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas
Co., 212 U. S. 19, 41; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
434, 454, 458), it is obvious that so far as the regulations
of the Commission now under consideration discard the
"cost of progress" theory, they need no further vindication.
It is insisted that if the appellant, having expended in
round figures $600,000, secured by the sale of bonds for
improvements, can be compelled to charge $400,000 of
that amount to the operating expense of one year or to
distribute it among the operating expenses of a series of
years, and if it be forbidden to keep any other record
representing the transaction, it will have in its possession
no kind of record from which it can report accurately either
the cost of its property or the cost of improvements or its
operating expenses. This, we think, is a misapprehension
of the' effect of the regulations. They do not require appellant to falsify its books or to change in any way the
evidential, character of the, original entries. The source
of the money, and the disposition made of it as expended,
may and should be correctly shown. The regulations do
require that the contemporaneous abandonment of other
property be likewise shown, and the replacement cost,
less salvage, charged to the appropriate accounts under
operating expenses. This, if observed, of course results
VOL. ccxxxt-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

in enforcing a prescribed distinction between capital expense and operating expense. It does not require that the
record of the expenditure be obliterated; but it does of
course affect the results as they work out upon the balancesheet. If this be fairly done, there is no transmutation of
new property into operating expenses, but only an insistence upon the requirement that new property added shall
not alone be the measure of the accretion to the property
account, and that the depletion attributable to contemporaneous abandonment of other property shall likewise
be reflected upon the books.
Stress is laid upon the fact that if the grade reductions
in question had been made upon the line of the original
right of way, even though made at double the expense, the
cost would have gone into "additions and betterments,"
and would have stood as a permanent increment of assets
in the property account; while with respect to similar
improvements made off the line of the original right of
way, appellant is not permitted to carry into the property
account the full cost of the improvement, but must first
deduct therefrom the estimated replacement cost (less
salvage) of the portions of track no longer used, charging
this to the account of operating expenses.
So far as the comparative expense of the different modes
of improvement is concerned, little need be said. The
accounting regulations do not seek to control railroad
companies in the exercise of their discretion respecting
what shall be done and how it shall be done, but only to
systematize their accounts with respect to whatever is
done. It is to be presumed that boards of directors will
select that method of accomplishing a needed grade revision that shall be preferable from the engineering standpoint and suited to the financial condition and prospects
of the company; not that they will adopt an inferior or
more costly method of improvement because of the accounting requirements.

KANSAS CITY SO. R.
231 U.

S.

v. UNITED STATES. 451

Opinion of the Court.

The distinction. drawn between grade improvements
"off the line" and those made "on the line" rests upon the
view that the discarding of sections of the original line of
road is a loss or depreciation that in correct accounting
should be taken out of the property account. If this is to
be done, its value must be charged, directly or indirectly,
as an expense incident to the operation of the road.
Whether it should be charged against the accumulated
profits of previous years, as reflected in the profit and loss
account, or against the profits of present and future years,
may depend upon circumstances. The theory upon which
the Commission has acted in formulating its regulations is
fairly stated in its brief herein as follows: The abandonment of property incident to grade revision is "depreciation," and such depreciation is of two kinds,-(1) that
which is not replaced in kind, and (2) that which is replaced by improved materials, track, or equipment. If a
trunk line of road has a branch extending into a territory
not served by its main line, and, finding the branch unprofitable, abandons it, taking up the track, without
constructing any substitute to serve the same territory,
the abandoned branch ceases to be an earning instrumentality; the stockholders can thereafter derive no
profit from it; it has served its purpose, and only past
operations have benefited from it. So far as the profits
of past operations have not been distributed to the stockholders, they are represented in the profit and loss account,
and therefore such an abandonment or depreciation is
properly chargeable to that account unless a special
depreciation account'has been established in anticipation
of such abandonments; and for such an account, provision
is made in the regulations. The other kind of depreciation
is the result of changes attributable to the inadequacy of
the existing property to meet the demands of the future.
The road or the structures have to be replaced with
stronger or more efficient instrumentalities. Abandon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

ments occasioned by changes of this character are therefore chargeable to future earnings, for the reason that the
improved condition of the road is not only designed to
meet the demands of the future, but presumably will
result in economies of operation, and so the resulting
benefits will be reaped by those who hold the stock of the
company in the present and in the future. The railroad
company may, if it sees fit, anticipate general depreciations, and make provision for them by establishing a
reserve for the purpose; but if no such provision has been
made the abandonments should be taken care of by charging them to present or future operating expense. In case,
however, the amount is so large that its inclusion in a
carrier's operating expenses for a single year would unduly
burden the operating expense account for that year, the
carrier may, if so authorized by the Commission, distribute the cost throughout a series of years.
A statement of the theory is sufficient to show that the
regulation is not arbitrary in the sense of being without
reasonable basis. And there is evidence to show that the
Commission was warranted in adopting it, as sustained by
expert opinion and approved by experience.
One of the reasons for the distinction made in accounting between improvements made on, and those made off,
the old right of way is that in the former case the improvements show themselves in the physical structures, and
can be inventoried and appraised by witnesses; the
deepening of cuts and increasing of fills, while involving
some abandonments (and these under the regulations are
to be taken out of the operating account), yet in the main
are visible upon the ground, and capable of mensuration
and appraisement. To the suggestion that cuts filled up
and embankments reduced would not be thus manifest, it
is sufficient to say that if such cases occur they must be
most extraordinary. When a railroad is originally constructed, cuts and fills are made to overcome natural

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
231 U. S.

453

Opinion of the Court.

inequalities of surface; if any undue grades are permitted
to remain, it is usually because for reasons of economy
cuts have been made less deep and fills less high than
otherwise they would have been made. Therefore grade
revisions upon the line of -the original right of way are
normally required for the purpose of removing summits in
cuts and raising sags in fills; not vice versa.
It is said that the effect of the regulations, if complied
with, is to deprive the preferred stockholders of a considerable part of the non-cumulative dividends from the
net earnings of the company, to which they would otherwise be entitled. The preferred stockholders, as such, are
not before the court, and this is not a proper occasion for
determining their rights. Supposing, however, that the
enforcement of the accounlting system does require them
to forego their current dividends, we do not concede that
this amounts to an unlawful taking of their property.
Assuming (as of course we must) that the management of
the company has acted prudently in making these extensive improvements within a short 'time, instead of distributing them throughout a series of years, and without
providing in advance any fund applicable to them, still
it must be presumed that the improvements are necessary
to the general welfare of the company, and will result in
its increased prosperity, and therefore make better the
assurance of dividends for the preferred stockholders in
the future.
But, aside from that, the Interstate Commerce Act
deals with the carrier in its capacity as a servant of the
public, and as a distinct entity, amenable to the legitimate
regulation of Congress and the Commission. If in this
aspect the carrier is not unwarrantably injured or deprived
of its property by the exercise of the regulatory powers, the
operation of such regulations cannot be restrained on
the ground of agreements made by the stockholders
amongst themselves for apportioning profits to one or the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

other class of stockholders. To admit this might materially hamper the Federal control over interstate carriers,
and evidently would tdnd to render impracticable the
standardization of methods of accounting.
Much stress is laid upon the situation that results from
the circumstance that (as is claimed) these regulations
were promulgated after appellant had mortgaged its
property and issued bonds for financing the improvements
in question. It is not contended that the regulations impair the rights of either party under the mortgage. The
contention is that the company had the right to finance
the full cost of the improvements out of the proceeds of a
bond issue, and that the regulations amount in effect to a
veto upon the action of the directors in this respect.
Supposing this to be true, we are unable to perceive that
the appellant is thereby relieved from compliance with
the regulations. Whatever was done about authorizing
the improvements and financing the cost from the bond
issue was done subject to being displaced by the exercise
of the powers conferred upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission by the act of 1906. The regulations do
not affect the administration of the borrowed money. It
was borrowed inter alia specifically for use in "reducing
grades to one-half of one per cent. on three full operating
divisions, aggregating 41 per cent. of the total length of
the line." And by the mortgage appellant covenanted to
use the bonds and the proceeds thereof in calling in and
redeeming an outstanding loan, "and for the general improvement of its property." In short, so far as appears,
there is nothing in the regulations to prevent the appellant
from devoting the money strictly to the purposes for which
it was borrowed, although they do prevent the keeping of
the accounts in such manner as to make it appear that
the book value of the company's assets is enhanced to
the full extent of the moneys disbursed in the improvements.

KANSAS CITY SO. RY. v. UNITED STATES. 455
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

When it is said that the amount of $386,484, which under the requirements of the Commission must be charged
to operating expenses, must for that reason be ultimately
restored in cash to the bond account and returned to the
trustee or otherwise accounted for to the bondholders, this
does not mean that any obligation of that kind is imposed
upon appellant by the classification. We are not referred
to anything in the classification, in the provisions of the
mortgage, or in the law, that imposes any such duty.
What is meant (as we presume), is that if the operating
expenses are increased and the operating revenue decreased by the amount mentioned, in accordance with the
regulations, and the payment of dividends should nevertheless continue, the books would make it appear that the
dividends were paid not from earnings but from the
proceeds of the bonds. In other words, the regulations of
the Commission prevent the proceeds of the bond issue
from being used, in whole or in part, to maintain dividend
payments without that fact appearing upon the accounts;

and since it is improbable that appellant would be willing
to have the accounts bear such an interpretation, it is
probable that the proceeds of the bonds will not be em.ployed for dividend purposes, and unless required for
further improvements, may as well be returned to the
trustee for the bondholders. Since one of the very purposes of establishing the accounting system is to deter the
payment of dividends out of capital, the criticism, upon
analysis, bears its own refutation.
The same may be said of! the argument that enforcement of the regulations will impair the credit of appellant
by diminishing apparent earnings, preventing continuance
of dividends upon preferred stock and keeping down the
aggregate value of "assetA" upon the property accounts.
Presumably the regulation., have a tendency to place
the accounting system upon a sound basis in these respects; and to accomplish this was one of the legitimate

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Couit.

231 U. S.

objects at which Congress aimed in the enactment of § 20
of the Interstate Commerce Act.
It is further insisted that even the theory upon which
the accounting regulations rest does not, when analyzed,
justify a charge of abandoned property to operating expenses, but at most a charge to profit and loss. The
suggestion apparently has force; but, upon consideration,
we are unable to see that it furnishes ground for judicial
interference with the course pursued by the Commission.
Except for the contention (already disposed of) that the
value of the abandoned parcels should be permanently
carried in the property account as part of the cost of
progress, it is and must be conceded that sooner or later
it must be charged against the operating revenue, either
past or future, if the integrity of the property accounts
is to be maintained; and it becomes a question of policy
whether it should be charged in solido to profit and loss
(an account presumptively representative of past accumulations) or to the operating accounts of the present and
future. If abandoned property is not charged off in one
way or the other it remains as a permanent inflation of the
property accounts, and tends to produce, directly or
indirectly, a declaration of dividends out of capital. If it
be charged off to the surplus account, it tends to prevent
the declaration of dividends based upon a supposed
accumulation of past earnings. If charged to operating
expenses of the current and future years, it has a tendency
to prevent the declaration of dividends from current
earnings until the amount of the depreciation shall have
been made up out of the earnings.
But, did we agree with appellant that the abandonments
ought to be charged to surplus or to profit and loss, rather
than to operating expenses, we still should not deem this a
sufficient ground to declare that the Commission had
abused its power. So long as it acts fairly and reasonably within the grant of power constitutionally con-

GRAND TRUNK RY. v. MICHIGAN RY. COMM.
231 U. S.

457

Syllabus.

ferred by Congress, its orders are not open to judicial
review.
What has been said respecting the enforced disposition
of the charges for property abandoned in grade revision,
applies as well to the abandonment of the present shop and
terminal plant at Shreveport.
Decree affirmed.

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPANY v. MICHIGAN RAILROAD COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF TE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 382.

Argued October 23, 24, 1913.-Decided December 8, 1913.

A State is competent to create a commission and give it power of regulating railroads and investigating conditions upon which regulation
may be directed; and the judiciary will only interfere with such a
commission when it appears that it has clearly transcended its
powers.
Courts are reluctant to interfere with the laws of a State or with the
tribunals constituted to enforce them; doubts will not be resolved
against the law.
It cannot as yet be asserted that Congress has, to the exclusion of the
States, taken over the whole subject of carriers' terminals, switchings and sidings; and quwre where the accommodation between intrastate and interstate commerce shall be made.
The fact that a movement of freight begins and ends within the limits
of a city does not take from it its character of an actual transportation between two termini; and so held in regard to transportation
between junction points in Detroit, Michigan.
While a city may be in some senses a terminal unit, the State Railroad
Commission may regulate traffic between different points therein as
transportation, and to do so does not amount to an appropriation
of the terminals of one road for the use and benefit ofother I-oads.
Transportation is the business of railroads and when, and to what extent,
that business may be regulated. so depends upon circumstances that

