RAINEY v. GRACE & CO.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

turned upon any controverted construction of the statute,
the writ of error must be dismissed in this case as in that.
It is unnecessary to consider whether every determination
concerning the common law of fraud taken for granted
by the act would be a decision based upon the construction
of the statute,, within the meaning of the act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246.
Writ of error dismissed.

RAINEY v. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 119.

Submitted December 9, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

A statute, the evident purpose of which is to save expense in litigation,
will be construed in the light of this manifest purpose.
Repeals by implication are not favored and only in cases of clear inconsistency will a later act be-held to repeal an earlier one on the
same subject, but if there is clear inconsistency, as in this case, the
earlier act cannot stand. King v. Cornell, 106 U. S. 395.
Even if it might be true that the earlier act prescribed the better rule,
where Congress having full authority has acted it is the duty of the
courts to enforce the legislation with a view of effecting the purpose
for which it was enacted.
When the appellant in a cause in admiralty causes to be printed and
presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals under the act of February 13, 1911, printed copies of the apostles on appeal, each of
which contains a printed index of the contents thereof and is prepared and printed under a rule of the lower court adopted in pursuance of the said act, the Circuit Court of Appeals is authorized to
hear and determine the cause on such copies and to dispense with
the requirement, of the payment of fees to its clerk by the appellant
as prescribed by its rules and which are the same as those prescribed
by this court under the act of February 19, 1897.
The first section of the act of February 13, 1911, sets aside by implica'

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

tion the provision of the fee bill prescribed by this court so far as it
relates to the fee to the clerk of' the Circuit Court of Appeals for
indexing the record when the same has already been properly printed
and indexed in pursuance of a rule of the lower court.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the acts
and rules of court regulating fees of clerks of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals for indexing records on appeal, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. H. Gorham for Rainey.
No appearance for Grace & Company.
-MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here on certificate from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The facts stated show that
the appellant caused fifty or more copies of the apostles
on appeal in an admiralty case to be printed under the
first section of the act of Congress of February 13, 1911,
c. 47, 36 Stat. 901. The appeal was taken from the District Court of the United States for the Western District
of Washington, and the copies of the apostles were printed
and indexed under a rule of that court adopted June 13,
1911, in pursuance of the act of February 13, 1911. In
due time the appellant filed one of the printed copies,
certified by the clerk and under the seal of the court below,
in the Circuit Court of Appeals and moved that court to
hear the case without the payment by the appellant of the
fees of the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals for indexing the record, as prescribed by ยง 9 of rule 23 of that court,
and without the payment by the appellant of the fees of
the clerk for indexing the record and distributing copies
as provided in that section. Section 9 provides:
"In all cases, including cases in which the record may
have been printed under the Act of Congress approved

RAINEY v. GRACE & CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

February 13, 1911, or otherwise, the fee of the clerk of
this Court for performing the services herein required
shall be twenty-five cents for each printed page of the
record and index, as provided by law."
On this statement the Circuit Court of Appeals certifies
to this court two questions, namely:
"1. When the appellant in a cause in admiralty causes
to be printed and presented. to this Court under said Act
of February 13, 1911, printed copies of the apostles on
appeal, each of which copies contains a printed index of
the contents thereof and is prepared and printed under
a rule of the lower Court adopted in pursuance of said
Act, is this Court authorized to hear and determine the
cause on such copies and to dispense with the requirement
of the payment of fees to the Clerk of this Court by the
appellant as prescribed by Section 9 of Rule 23 of this
Court, which is the fee bill prescribed on February 28,
1898, by the Supreme Court under the Act of Congress
of February 19, 1897, 29 Stat. 537 [536], which provides as
a fee for 'Preparing the record for the printer, indexing
the same, supervising the printing and distributing the
copies, for each printed page of the record and index,
twenty-five cents'?
"2. Does the first section of the Act of Congress of February 13, 1911, 36 Stat. 901, set aside by implication said
fee bill so prescribed by the Supreme Court which is referred to in the first question herein certified?"
The answer to these questions requires a constructiori
of the act of Congress of February 13, 1911, which is, in
part, as follows (ยง 1, 36 Stat. 901):
"That in any cause or proceeding wherein the final judgment or decree is sought to be reviewed on appeal to, or
by writ of error from, a United States circuit court of
appeals, the. appellant or plaintiff in error shall cause to
be printed under such rules as the lower court shall prescribe, and shall file in the office of the clerk of such circuit
VOL. ccxxxi-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

court of appeals at least twenty days before the case is
called for argument therein, at least twenty-five printed
transcripts of the record of the lower court, and of such
part or abstract of the proofs as the rules of such circuit
court of appeals may require, and in such form as the
Supreme Court of the United States shall by rule prescribe, one of which printed transcripts shall be certified
under the hand of the clerk of the lower court and under
the seal thereof, and shall furnish three copies of such
printed transcript to the adverse party at least twenty
days before such argument: Provided, That either the
court below or the circuit court of appeals may order any
original document or other evidence to be sent up in addition to the printed copies of the record or in lieu of printed
copies of a part thereof; and no writtenor typewritten
transcript of the record shall be required."
And a construction of the act requires a consideration
of prior statutes on the subject. On February 19, 1897,
c. 263, 29 Stat. 536, Congress passed an act amending the
Circuit Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26
Stat. 826, providing:
"'The costs and fees in each circuit court of appeals
shall be fixed and established by said court in a table of
fees, to be adopted within three months after the passage
of this Act: Provided, That the costs and fees so fixed by
any court of appeals shall not, with respect to any item,
exceed the costs and fees now charged in the Supreme
Court.' Each circuit court of appeals shall, within three
months after the fixing and establishing of costs and fees
as aforesaid, transmit said table to the Chief Justice of
the United States, and within one year thereof the Supreme Court of the United States shall revise said table,
making the same, so far as may seem just and reasonable,
uniform throughout the United States. The table of fees,
when "so revised, shall thereupon be in force for each circuit."

RAINEY v. GRACE & CO.
231 U. S,

Opinion of the Court.

On February 28, 1898, this court by order (169 U. S.
740, 741) fixed a table of fees and costs in the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, one paragraph providing:
"Preparing the record for the printer, indexing the same, supervising the printing and distributing the copies, for each
printed page of the record and index.. $0.25"
This is the charge providEd for in rule 23 of the Circuit
Court of Appeals referred to in the certificate.
Before the passage of the act of February 13, 1911, the
clerks of the District and Circuit Courts charged for a
transcript of the record in preparing the case for review in
the Circuit Court of Appeals, which transcript was usually
written or typewritten and not required to be printed, the
fee for such service being fied (ยง 828, Rev. Stat.). The
printing was done under the supervision of the clerk of the
Circuit Court of Appeals after the allowance of appeal or
writ of error under the regulations above set forth.
In this state of the law, Congress came to deal with the
subject in the act of February 13, 1911, 36 Stat. 901.
The act is entitled: "An Act To diminish the expense
of proceedings on appeal and writ of error or of certiorari,"
and, especially when read in the light of the report of the
Chairman of the Judiciary Committee in the House, which
accompanied its introduction. into that body, shows that
its main purpose is to reduce the expense of records upon
-which cases may be taken to and considered in the Circuit
Courts of Appeals and this court. This was to be accomplished by dispensing with a written or typewritten
transcript of the record of the lower court and substituting
therefor a certified copy of the printed record, other copies
of which should be available for use in the further consideration of the case in the appellate courts. With these
ends in view the act provides that the appellant or plaintiff in error shall cause to be printed under such rules as
the lower court (the Circuit or District Court) shall pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

scribe, and shall file in the office of the clerk of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, twenty-five printed transcripts of the
record. The form in which the transcript shall be printed,
the act provides, shall be prescribed by this court, which
on March 13, 1911, made the following order:
"It is ordered by the Court that the provisions of
Rule 31 of the rules of this court shall apply to all records
to be printed as provided in the act of Congress entitled
'An act to diminish the expense of proceedings on appeal
and writ of error or of certiorari,' approved February 13,
1911."
Rule 31 prescribes, (222 U. S. appx., p. 36):
"Form of printed Records and Briefs: All records, arguments, and briefs, printed for the use of the court, must
be in such form and size that they can be conveniently
bound together, so as to make an ordinary octavo volume;
and, as well as all quotations contained therein, and the
covers thereof, must be printed in clear type (never
smaller than small pica) and on unglazed paper."
Section 2 of the Act provides for the use of such printed
transcripts of the record, should the case be taken from
the Circuit Court of Appeals to this court. The evident
purpose of the Act is therefore among other things, to
save expenses incurred under the former system in printing
records, the clerks' fees for supervising, etc.
In view of this history of the legislation and its manifest
purposes we think that, when the court below by its rule
had, as in the present case, provided for the printing and
indexing of the record, which had been done, and the
printed transcript had been filed under the statute with
the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals, no fee for the
like service can be charged by the clerk of the Circuit
Court of Appeals. To permit this would be subversive of
the purposes of the statute and a continuance of the system which the Act was designed to change.
It is true that there is no express repeal of the act of

RAINEY v. GRACE & .CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

February 19, 1897, granting authority to this court to fix
the fees in the Circuit Courts of Appeals under which the
rule referred to in the certificate was adopted and under
which it is contended by the clerk of the Circuit Court of
Appeals he is entitled to a fee for indexing, etc., and under
which rule, if the clerk performs any of the services designated, he is entitled to the entire fee (Bean v. Patterson,
110 U. S. 401). It is equally true that repeals by implication are not favored and that it is only in cases of clear
inconsistency that a later act will be held to repeal a
former one on the same subject. We think that in the
present case clear inconsistency exists and that the rule
invoked in the certificate of the Circuit Court of Appeals
cannot stand consistently with the act of Congress of
February 13, 1911, on the same subject. See King v.
Cornell, 106 U. S. 395.
It may also be true that the supervision by clerks of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals will tend to uniformity of
printing, better indexing and consequent greater facility
in hearing cases upon appeal and writ of error. But Congress, with full authority, has regulated the matter, and
it is the duty of the courts to enforce the legislation with a
view to effecting the purposes for which it was enacted.
We are therefore of the opinion that the later act, that
of February 13, 1911, repeals the table of fees as to the
fees of the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the case
mentioned under the facts certified. It follows that the
first question certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be answered in the affirmative,. and the second question also in the affirmative so far as the fee in question to
the clerk of the Circuit Court of Appeals is involved.
It is so ordered.

