SPRINGSTEAD v. CRAWFORDSVILLE BANK.
231 U. S.

Opinion o:- the Court.

SPRINGSTEAD

v.

CRAWFORDSVILLE
BANK.

541

STATE

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN' D]ISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 93. Submitted December 4, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.
In determining the amount in controversy for jurisdictional purposes
the attorney's fee provided fo:, in a promissory note in case of suit
can be considered, as it is not a part of the costs.
Failure to allege the citizenship of the original payee of a note on which
suit is brought by the assignee is a jurisdictional defect; but if diversity of citizenship between the plaintiff and defendant is alleged the
defect is amendable.
Under ยง 299 of the Judicial Code, amendments to the pleadings are
allowable if the jurisdictiona. amount existed when the suit was
brought notwithstanding that since then the amount necessary
to give jurisdiction has been increased.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Circuit

.Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. C. Davant for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Peter 0. Knight and Mr. C. Fred Thomp~on for
defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,
by direction of the court.
This is a direct writ of error to determine a question of
jurisdiction. The action arose prior to the adoption of the
Judicial Code and was on two promissory notes, each for
one thousand dollars and each providing for the payment
of a reasonable attorney's fee if suit were brought. Could

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

such an attorney's fee be considered in determining whether
the jurisdictional amofnt was involved? We think so.
Clearly such fee was no part of the costs, nor was it interest. It may be that the agreement to pay an attorney's
fee in the event of suit created only an accessory right
(though under Brown v. Webster, 156 U. S. 328, this is
doubtful), but nevertheless it gave a right to recover and
created a legal obligation to pay. It is true its effectiveness was dependent upon suit being brought, yet the moment suit was brought the liability to pay the fee became
a "matter in controversy" and as such to be computed in
making up the requisite jurisdictional amount, Brown v.
Webstsr, 156 U. S. 328, and this has been the rule since
applied by lower Federal courts. Rogers v. Riley, 80 Fed,
Rep. 759; Casualty Company v. Spradlin, 170 Fed. Rep.
322; Howard v. Carroll, 195 Fed. Rep. 646.
It is further urged that though the case is within the
jurisdictional amount, nevertheless it was not within the
competency of the court below because of a failure to
allege the citizenship of the original payee of the notes.
(Act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. p. 433, c. 866, ยง 1.)
The contention is clearly well taken. King Bridge Company v. Otoe County, 120 U. S.225; Parkerv. Ormsby, 141
U. S.81, 83. However, as between the plaintiff and the
dofendants the necessary diversity of citizenship was
alleged, we are of opinion that the failure to allege the
citizenship of the assignor of the paper does not compel
the absolute dismissal of the case, as the error in that
particular is susceptible to correction by amendment.
King Bridge Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225; Great
Southern Fire Proof Hotel Co. v. Jones, 177 U. S. 449.
The argument that because subsequent to the institution of suit the jurisdictional amount was increased to
allow the amendment at this time, would be giving the
lower court jurisdiction of a case to which its authority
does not now extend is without merit, in view of the saving

AETNA LIFE INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

clause of ยง 299 of the Judicial Code, which was intended
to cover such a case as this.,
Reversed and remanded with direction to allow plaintiff to
amend by alleging the citizenship of the originalparties
to the paper within such time as the court shall think
proper and upon failure to do so, to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction.

AETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. MOORE,
ADMINISTRATOR OF SALGUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 33.

Argued November 3, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.

The character of the covenants of a contract for life insurance depends
upon the law of the State where made. The Co'de of Georgia expressly
provides that the application must be made in good faith and that
the representations are covenanted by the applicant as true, and any
variations changing the character of the risk will void the policy.
The law of Georgia as determined by its highest court, prior to the
adoption of the Code, was that insurer and insured may make their
own contract and determine what representations are material.
The highest court of Georgia has decided that mere immaterial matters,
although declared to be warranties, do not void a policy even though
the policy declares them to be such, and that under the Code the

parties themselves could not contract to make immaterial matter
material.

In order for an insurance company, defending on the ground of false
statements in the application, to ,have a verdict directed, it must
establish that the representations were material to the risk and were
untrue.
A representation that the applicant for insurance has never been rejected by any company, association or agents is material to the risk
and is not true if he has withdrawn an application at the suMestion

