OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

231 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. WHITRIDGE, RECEIVER OF
THE THIRD AVENUE RAILROAD COMPANY.
UNITED STATES v. JOLINE AND ROBINSON,
RECEIVERS OF THE METROPOLITAN STREET
RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 466, 467.

Argued October 21, 1913.-Decided November 10, 1913.

The Corporation Tax Law of 1909 was adopted before the ratification of
the Sixteenth Amendment and imposed an excise tax on the doing of
business by corporations, and not in any sense a tax on property or
upon income merely as such. Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107.
The Corporation Tax Law does not in terms impose a tax upon corporate property or franchises as such, nor upon the income arising from
the conduct of business unless it be carried on by the corporation.
The act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, § 38, 36 Stat. 11, 112, does not impose
a tax upon the income derived from the management of corporate
property by receivers under the conditions of this case.
193 Fed. Rep. 289;. 198 Fed. Rep. 774, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of the Federal
Corporation Tax Act and the determination of whether the
same imposed a tax upon the income derived from the
THE

management of corporate property by receivers appointed
by the court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Graham for the United
States:
An insolvent corporation, operated by a receiver duly
appointed by a court of equity, is, while in the hands of
such receiver, "doing business" within the meaning of
§ 38 of the Corporation Tax Act of August 5, 1909, 36
Stat. 11, 112.

UNITED STATES v. WHITRIDGE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Such corporation being engaged in business, the receiver thereof is obliged to make the return provided for
in the statute. Central Trust Co. v. New York City,
110 N. Y. 250, 256; Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107, 145; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594;
In re Metropolitan Ry. Receivership, 208 U. S. 90; Morrison
v. Forman, 177 Illinois, 427; New York Terminal Co. v.
Gaus, 204 N. Y. 512, 515; Joline v. Williams, 200 N. Y.
528; P. & R. R. R. Co. v. Commonwealth, 104 Pa. St. 80.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate, Jr.., with whom Mr. Matthew C.
Fleming was on the brief, for respondents in No. 466.
Mr. Arthur H. Masten, witlh whom Mr. Ellis W. Leavenworth was on the brief, for respondents in No. 467.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
These cases were heard together in the District Court
and in the Circuit Court of Appeals (sub nom. Pennsylvania Steel Company v. New York City Railway Company, 1.93 Fed. Rep. 286; 198 Fed. Rep. 774). They were
argued together in this court, and may be disposed of in a
single opinion.
In the years 1909 and 1910 certain lines of street railway in the City of New York, that may be conveniently
designated as the Third Avenue system, were in the
hands of the respondent Whitridge, as receiver, under
orders made in the year 1908 by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York in
actions pending therein against the several proprietary
companies. One of these actions was a foreclosure suit;
the others were creditors' actions based upon the insolvency of the respective companies. The powers conferred upon the receiver did not vary in any respect now
VOL. CCXXXI-10

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

material, and so a recital of the'substance of one of the
orders will suffice as an example. This order constituted
Whitridge receiver of all the railroads and other property
of the company, including tracks, cars and other rolling
stock and equipment, easements, privileges and franchises, and the tolls, earnings, income, rents, issues and
profits thereof, with authority "to run, manage, and
operate the said railroads and properties, to collect the
rents, income, tolls, issues and profits of said railroads and
property, to exercise the authority and franchises of said
defendant, and discharge its public duties, acting in all
things subject to the supervision of this court." By the
same order the officers, agents and employ6s of the
company were required to turn over and deliver to the
receiver all of the said property in their hands or under
their control, and the company was enjoined from interfering in any way with his possession or management.
In the same years (1909 and 1910) certain other lines of
street railway in the City of New York, which may be
described as the Metropolitan system, were in the possession of the respondents Joline and Robinson as receivers,
appointed in the year 1907 by the Circuit Court of the
United States for the same district, in several actions
therein pending against the corporations which were
owners of these lines. The orders appointing these
receivers contain provisions substantially similar to those
already recited. (See In re MetropolitanRailway Receivership, 208 U. S. 90, 93-96.)
In the year 1911, petitions were filed in the Circuit
Court in behalf of the United States praying for orders
directing the receivers to make returns of the net income
of the respective railway corporations for the years 1909
and 1910, to the collector of internal revenue, in the manner required by the provisions of the Corporation Tax Law.
(Tariff Act of August 5, 1909, § 38, 36 Stat., c. 6, pp. 11,
112-117.)

UNITED STATES v. WHITRIDGE.
231 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The applications were resisted by the receivers on the
ground that the respective corporations did not during the
years 1909 and 1910 carry on any business in respect of the
property that was in their hands as such receivers; that
they as such receivers managed, controlled and operated
the same, and carried on all the business in respect thereto,
and received all the income arising therefrom, not acting
in place of the directors and officers of the respective
companies, but as officers of the court; and that they were
therefore not subject to the provisions of the act.
Jurisdiction of the controversy having been transferred
to the District Court by virtue of the new Judicial Code,
§ 290, 36 Stat. 1167, that court sustained the contention
of the receivers (193 Fed. Rep. 286) and the Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed this decision (198 .Fed.. Rep. 774).
The cases are brought here by writs of certiorari.
As repeatedly pointed out, by this court, the Corporation Tax Law of 1909-enacted, as it was, after Congress
had proposed to the legislatures of the several States the
adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution,
but before the ratification of that Amendment-imposed
an excise or privilege tax, and not in any sense a tax
upon property or upon income merely as income. It
was enacted in view of the decision of this court in Pollock
v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 158 U. S.
601, which held the income tax provisions of a previous
law (Act of August 27, 1894, 28 Stat., c. 349, pp. 509, 553,
§ 27, etc.) to be unconstitutional because amounting in
effect to a direct tax upon property within the meaning
of the Constitution and because not apportioned in the
manner required by that instrument.
As was said in Flint v. Stone-Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107,
145, respecting the act of August 5, 1909-"The tax is
imposed not upon the franchises of the corporation irre,spective of their use in business, nor upon the property of
the corporation, but upon the doing of corporate or in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

surance business and with respect to the- carrying on
thereof, in a sum equivalent to one per centum upon the
entire net income over and above $5,000 received from all
sources during the year; that is, when imposed in this
manner it is a tax upon the doing of business with the
advantages which inhere in the peculiarities of corporate
or joint stock organizations of the character described.
As the latter organizations share many benefits of corporate organization it may be described generally as a tax
upon the doing of business in a corporate capacity."
This interpretation was adhered to and made the basis of
decision in Zonne v. Minneapolis Syndicate, 220 U. S.
187, and McCoach v. Minehill Railway Co., 228 U. S.
295, 300.
A reference to the language of the act is sufficient to
1 Suc. 38. That every corporation . . . organized for profit and
having a capital stock represented by shares . . . organized under
the laws of the United States or of any State . . . and engaged in
business in any State . . . shall be subject to pay annually a

special excise tax with respect to the carrying on or doing business by
such corporation

.

equivalent to one per centum upon the

.

entire net income over and above five thousand dollars received by it
from all sources during such year, exclusive of amounts received by it as
dividends upon stock of other corporations

.

.

subject to the

.

tax hereby imposed.
Second. Sich net income shall be ascertained by deducting from the
gross amount of the income of such corporation

.

.

.

received

within the year from all sources, (first) all the ordinary and necessary
expenses actually paid within the year out of income in the maintensnce and operation of its business and properties. .
And on or before the first day of March, nineteen hundred and ten,
and the first day of March in each year thereafter, a true and accurate
return under oath or affirmation of its president, vice-president, or
other principal officer, and its treasurer or assistant treasurer, shall be
made by each of the corporations

.

.

.

subject to the tax imposed

by this section, to the collector of internal revenue for the district in
which such corporation

36 Stat. 112,

.

.

.

has its principal place of business.

UNITED STATES v. WHITRIDGE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

show that it does not in terms impose a tax upon corporate
property or franchises as such, nor upon the income arising
from the conduct of business unless it be carried on by the
corporation. Nor does it in terms impose any duty upon
the receivers of corporations or of. corporate property,
with respect to paying taxes upon the income arising from
their management of the corporate assets, or with respect
to making any return of such income.
And we are unable to perceive that such receivers are
within the spirit and purpose of the act, any more than
they are within its letter. True, they may hold, for the
time, all the franchises and property of the corporation,
excepting its primary franchise of corporate existence.
In the present cases, the receivers were authorized and
required to manage and operate the railroads and to discharge the public obligations of the corporations in this

behalf. But they did this as officers of the court, and
subject to the orders of the court; not as officers of the
respective corporations, nor with the advantages that
inhere in corporate organization as such. The possession
and control of the receivers constituted, on the contrary,
an ouster of corporate management and control, with the
accompanying advantages and privileges.
Without amplifying the discussion, we content ourselves
with saying that, having regard to the genesis of the
legislation, the constitutional limitation in view of which
it was evidently framed, the language employed by the
lawmaker, and the reason and spirit of the enactment, all
considerations alike lead to the conclusion that the act of
1909 did not impose a tax upon the income derived from
the management of corporate property by receivers, under
such conditions as are here presented.
Decree8 affirmed.

