190

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

relied upon to sustain this result are so obviously unsound or so plainly concern the construction of the indictment as not to call for particular notice.
Reversed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING.

No. 570. Submitted October 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The first rule of construction of statutes is that legislation is addressed
to the future and not to the past. This rule isone of obvious justice.
Unless its terms unequivocally import that it was the manifest intent
of the legislature enacting it, a retrospective operation will not be
given to a statute which interferes with antecedent rights or by
which human action is regulated.
The right of way granted under the Land Grant Act of July 1, 1862,
was a very important aid to the railroad, and was a present absolute
grant subject to no conditions except those absolutely implied, such
as construction and user.
The act of June 24, 1912, c. 181, 37 Stat. 138, permitting state statutes
of limitation to apply to adverse possession of portions of the right
of way granted to the railroad company under the act of July 1,
1862, did not have a retroactive effect. Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall.
596.
Congress did not intend by the act of June 24, 1912, to exercise powers
to alter and amend the charters of the railroad companies reserved
by the acts of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864.
This court will not assume that Congress intends to forfeit or limit any
of the rights granted to the transcontinental railroads unless it does
so explicitly.
An amendment to an existing charter enacted under the reserved power
to alter and amend will not be construed as having a retroactive
effect as to vested property rights in absence of clear intent of the
legislature enacting it.

UN. PAC. R. R. v. LARAMIt STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

191

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Union Pacific Land Grant Act of July 1,
1862, the act of June 24, 1912' and the extent of rights
claimed to have been acquired under the latter act by
adverse possession in the railroad right of way, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. John W. Lacey, Mr. N. H. Loomis and Mr. Herbert
V. Lacey for plaintiff in error:
Prior to the act of June 24, 1912, title to the right of
way could not have been acquired by adverse possession.
Nor. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267; Kindred
v. Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 582, 597; Nor. Pac.R. R.
'Co. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260, 275; Nor. Pac. R. R. Co.
v. Ely, 197 U. S. 1; Stuart v. Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 227 U. S.
353.
Under the Wyoming statute of limitations (1910,
ยง 4295) sufficient time had not elapsed since June 24,1912,
for the acquisition of title by adverse possession. Nor
has title been acquired by adverse possession by virtue
of the act of June 24, 1912. That act, in so far as it at'tempts to convey title by adverse possession, is not retroactive.
It is apparent that the statute is intended to have a
prospective and not a retrospective operation. Not only
is the language subject to that construction, but no other
reasonable construction is possible. The omission of any
express declaration regarding the past is worthy of notice.
Had Congress intended to give retrospective effect it
would have been a very simple matter to have expressly
recorded such intention in that part of the act.
An act of Congress will not be construed as having a
retrospective operation unless the language imperatively
demands it. United States v. Burr, 159 U. S. 78, 82;
United States v. Am. Sugar Co., 202 U. S. 563, 577; Twenty
Per Cent. Cases, 20 Wall. 179, 187.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

This rule is always applied where the result of a retrospective operation would be to injuriously affect an
existing status. United States v. Heth, 3 Cr. 413; Black's
Const. Law, 2d ed., p. 627, ยง 286; Reynolds v. McArthur,
2 Pet. 417, 434; Dash v. Van Kleeck, 7 Johnson, 447, 503;
Society v. Wheeler, 2 Gall. 105; S. C., 22 Fed. Cas. 756, 767;
Calder v. Bull, 3 DalU. 386; Winfree v. Nor. Pac. Ry. Co.,
227 U. S. 296, 301.
If construed as retroactive, the act operates immediately
and by virtue of itself alone, to take from the plaintiff its
vested right and title to the property in controversy and
transfer the same to the defendant without due process
of law, and is, therefore, unconstitutional.
Congress has not the power to accomplish this without
the consent of the present owner of the property. Sinking
Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718; United States v. Un. Pac.
R. R. Co., 160 U. S. 1, 33. See also Wallbridge v. Commissioners, 74 Kansas, 341.
Titles vested under act of Congress could not, without
the consent of the grantee or its successor, be legislated
back to the United States, or legislated into the ownership
of anyone else; nor could the title or tenure created by the
grant of said lands or right of way be changed, without
such consent, by subsequent act of Congress. Proprietors
v. Laboree, 2 Maine (2 Greenleaf), 275, 288; Webster v.
Cooper, 14 How. 488; Thistle v. Frostburg Coal Co., 10
Maryland, 129, 144; Osborn v. Jaines, 17 Wisconsin, 592;
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cr. 87, 135; Sturges v. Crowninshield,
4 Wheat. 122, 206; Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596, 599;
Herrickv. Boquillas Land Co., 200 U. S. 96, 102.
From the cases cited the statute under consideration
must be construed as prospective only, if that be reasonably possible. If the statute be found clearly retroactive,
then, under the same authorities, it must be held unconstitutional, as taking from the plaintiff in error its property
without due process of law.

UN. PAC. R. R. v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

193

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Ely, 197 U. S. 1, is not in point.
The statute in that case validated certain conveyances of
the railroad company, and was held to operate retrospectively because it contained a provision that it should
have no validating force until accepted in writing by the
company, 33 Stat. 538, c. 1782. The railroad company
did file written acceptance and could not claim that it was
deprived of its property without due process of law, because it had accepted and assented to every transfer
within the terms of the act.
Mr. Roderick N. Matson and Mr. T. Blake Kennedy for
defendant in error:
The act in controversy is an alteration or an amendment
of the original grants to the Pacific Railroad Companies,
and as such violates no constitutional provision.
Congress had the right to, and did take notice that
these railroad. companies had silently assented for long
periods of time to the absolute and undisputed possession
of large portions of. this right of way, had removed in many
instances their fences, making a right of way of fifty feet
on each side of their main track, and in other cases erecting
in the first instance their fences along a line fifty feet
distant from either side of said track.
The United States has by this act stated that those
persons who have held portions of this right of way outside
of a space fifty feet in width on either side of the main
track for a period of time, which in the State where said
controversy arises shall amount to adverse possession, that
the title by adverse possession may be invoked as against
such right of way.
Congress has taken notice of the fact that the railroad
companies to whom the o-riginal rights of way were
granted, and their successors, have consistently and continuously used but one hundred feet of that right of way.
The right of Congress to alter, amend and repeal
VOL. ccxxxi-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Ar ument for Defendant in Error.

231 U. S.

franchises where the power is reserved has been frequently
sustained. See Miller v. State, 15 Wall. 478, 498; Holyoke
v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500, 519; Tomlinson v. Jessup, 15 Wall.
454, 459; Railroad Company v. Maine, 96 U. S. 499, 510;
Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319, 324; Sinking Fund Cases,
99 U. S. 700; Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591; Looker v.
Maynard, 179 U. S. 46, 52.
In applying the law as laid down by this court no
vested right has been impaired, or contract obligation
violated; nor has there been any attempt on the part of
Congress to pass a law, which would permit the taking
away from the railroad company any portion of its right of
way which had been put by it to its corporate uses.
Considered as a retrospective act it was intended by
Congress as such, and contravenes no constitutional
provision..
The construction contended for by counsel for plaintiff
in error, that it operates only prospectively, makes an
almost absurd situation. At any time within the next ten
to twenty years, depending upon the statutes governing
adverse possession in the various States, the railroad company may go into court and recover possession of the
original four hundred foot right of way, exclusive of the
one hundred feet now in use, and those interests which are
thereby affected are without standing in court, and have
no defense which may be maintained. Such a construction would clearly be against the public interest, and the
act itself would avail nothing, except a notice to the railroad that it must within the succeeding twenty years
proceed to take some action against those interests which
have been occupying certain portions of this right of way
unforbidden by the company or assented to by it.
A retrospective law is not in itself unconstitutional.
Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Pet. 380, 413; Curtis v. Whitney,
13 Wall. 68, 70; Charles River Bridge Case, 11 Pet. 420,
540; Watson v. Mercer, 8 Pet. 88, 110; Ball,& Susq. R. R.

UN. PAC. R R. v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

195

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Co. v. Nesbit, 10 How. 395, 401; Blount v. Windley, 95
U. S. 173, 180; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 391.
Laws retrospective in their nature do not offend against
the Constitution, but have frequently been held to be
beneficial in their nature, and to operate for the general
good of the community. United States v. Un. Pac. R. R.
Co., 160 U. S. 1, 33; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 134.
The question of vested rights is closely associated with
the question of the enjoyment of contracts, which are
guaranteed by constitutional provision; and as to what
may be considered within the scope of legislative powers,
so far as impairing contract obligations under constitutional restriction is concerned, the field is very broad.
Spring Valley Water Works v. Schottler, 110 U. S. 347;
Morley v. Lake Shore Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 162; Curtis v.
Whitney, supra.
It is evident that the act in controversy was passed by
Congress for the public good, and while in a way it might
be said to enhance the difficulty of performance, in that
in the far distant future the railroad company might have
use for a right of way four hundred feet in width, and yet
the contract between the Government and the railroad in
the nature of its original charter and grant remains in full
force by virtue of the terms of the act guaranteeing to the
railroad a right of way not less than one hundred feet in
width. Pearsall v. Great Northern R. R. Co, 161 U. S.
646, 673.
The act of the legislature absolutely forbidding the
exercise of powers originally granted to the corporation,
was sustained in the interest of the public, where those
powers remain unexecuted. In the case at bar Congress
has enacted a law in the interest of the public diminishing
the grant to the Pacific Railroad Companies from a right
of way as originally granted of four hundred feet to a
right of way as amended of one hundred feet, but only as
to those portions of the original right of way outside of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

one hundred foot width which have remained unused by
the companies for long periods of time. L. & N. R. R. Co.
v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 700.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Ejectment to recover certain described lands alleged to
constitute part of the right, of way of plaintiff (being such
in the court below, we will so call it).
The allegations of the complaint are that plaintiff and
defendant are corporations, and that plaintiff is engaged in
the operation of a railroad from Ogden, in Utah, easterly
through certain States to Council Bluffs, Iowa, and over
the lands ,in controversy, they being portions of its right
of way made by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862,
c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, of the width of 400 feet. The right of
way was acquired under said act of Congress, which is
entitled "An Act to aid in the construction of a railroad
and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific
Ocean, and to secure to the government the use of the
same for postal, military and other purposes." Section 2
of the act provides as follows: "That the right of Way
through the public lands be, and the same is hereby;
granted to said company [the Union Pacific Railroad
Company] for the construction of said railroad and telegraph line; and the right, power, and authority is hereby
given to said company to take from the public lands
adjacent to the line of said road, earth, stone, timber,
and other materials for the construction thereof; said
right of way is granted to said railroad to the extent of
two hundred feet in width on each side of said railroad
where it may pass over the public lands, including all
necessary grounds for stations, buildings, work-shops, and
depots, machine shops, switches, sidetracks, turntables,
and water stations."

UN. PAC. R. R. v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

197

Opinion of the Court.

By virtue of said act of Congress and amendatory acts,
certain railroad companies, Which are enumerated, theretofore organized and existing in pursuance of said acts and
subject to and enjoying the rights created thereby, were
consolidated into a new corporation known as "The Union
Pacific Railway Company," and the corporation thus
created became vested with all the rights of the said constituent corporations, and the plaintiff has become the
successor of the Union Pacific Railway Company and is
entitled to the possession of the land in controversy and
that defendant wrongfully keeps it out of the possession
thereof. The ground of the asserted right of defendant is
alleged to be an act of Congress entitled "An act legalizing
certain conveyances heretofore made by the Union Pacific
Railroad Company," approved June 24, 1912, c. 181, 37
Stat. 138, which act, it is alleged, is unconstitutional in
that it seeks to deprive plaintiff of its vested rights and
titles in and to the lands and to deprive it of its lands and
property without due process of law.
The answer of defendant admits all of the allegations of
the complaint except the possession of the legal title to the
lands in plaintiff and that they are unlawfully held from it
and alleges that defendant and its immediate grantors
have been for more than ten years prior to the filing of the
complaint in the adverse possession thereof under the act
of Congress of June 24, 1912, and that such possession
constitutes a bar to the action.
Plaintiff demurred to the answer as not constituting a
defense. The demurrer was overruled and, plaintiff
declining to plead further, judgment was entered that it
' take nothing in said action" and that the defendant have
and recover costs. This appeal was then prosecuted.
The crux of the controversy is the act of June 24, 1912.
There is no question of the grant of the right of way and
its extent or that the lands in suit are within it.
The act provides that all conveyances and agreements

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

heretofore made by the enumerated railway or railroad
companies "of or concerning land forming part of the
right of way" under the act of Congress of July 1, 1862,
"and all conveyances or agreements donfining the limits
of said right of way, or restricting the same, are hereby
legalized, validated, and confirmed to the extent that the
same would have been legal or valid if the land involved
therein had been held by the corporation making such
conveyance or agreement under absolute or fee simple
title.
"That in all instances in which title or ownership of any
part of said right of way heretofore mentioned is claimed
as against said corporations, or either of them, or the
successors or assigns of any of them, by or through adverse
possession of the character and duration prescribed by the
laws of the State in which the land is situated, such adverse
possession shall have the same effect as though the land
embraced within the lines of said right of way had beeh
granted by the United States absolutely or in fee instead of
being granted as a right of way."
Two contentions are made by plaintiff, (1) The act is
not retroactive; (2) If it be so construed, it is unconstitutional because it takes plaintiff's vested right and title
to the property and transfers the same to defendant
without due process of law.
It is established that the right of way to the several
railroads was a present absolute grant, subject to no conditions except those necessarily implied, such as that the
roads should be constructed and used. And it has been
decided that the right of way was a very important aid
given to the roads, (RailroadCompany v. Baldwin, 103
U. S.426; Stuart v. Union Pacific Railroad Co., 227 U. S.
342), and that it could not be voluntarily transferred by
the companies nor acquired against them by adverse
possession. Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Townsend,
190 U. S.267; Northern Pacific RailroadCo. v. Smith, 171

UN. PAC. R. R. v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

199

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 260, 275; Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Ely, 197
U. S. 1, 5. Of this defect of power in the companies and
the defect of right in the possessors of the right of way,
the act of June 24 was intended to be corrective. But
of what time was it intended to speak-to the past or
future.-to apply to that which was done, or that which
was to be done? There is no doubt as to the answer in the
case of agreements or conveyances by the company. The
act is explicit that they are those "heretofore made" by the
enumerated companies. There is no such qualifying word
of the "title or ownership" "claimed as against" the corporation by adverse possession. Construction, therefore,
becomes necessary, and the first rule of construction is that
legislation must be considered as addressed to the future,
not to the past. The rule is one of obvious justice and prevents the assigning of a quality or effect to acts or conduct
which they did not have or did not contemplate when
they were performed. The rule'has been expressed in
varying degrees of strength but always of one import,
that a retrospective operation will not be given to a statute
which interferes with antecedent rights or by which
human action is regulated, unless such be "the unequivocal and inflexible import o) the terms, and the manifest
intention of the legislature." United States v. Heth, 3
Cranch, 399, 413; Reynolds v. McArthur, 2 Pet. 417;
United States v. American Sugar Refining Co., 202 U. S.
563, 577; Winfree, Admr., Y. Northern Pac. Railway Co.,
227 U. S. 296. Surely such imperative character cannot
be assigned to the words of the act of June 24; and the
intention is not so manifest as to strengthen the insufficiency of the words. Indeed,, all reasonable considerations
determine the other way.
We have seen that the conveyances and agreements
which were legalized were those theretofore. made, that
is, consummated acts of the company deliberately done
to transfer its right. Can it be said that the adverse

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

possession which was to transfer the right was to be less
complete, not i ally adverse, in fact and law, at once
assertive of title and concessive of it? It is to be remembered that there was no sanction of a right to the possession of the defendant or possibility of a right by the railroad company's non-action. There was not a moment of
time in which the railroad was called upon to act or lose
its right; there was not a moment of time when the possession of defendant initiated an adverse right or constituted
an adverse right. This being the situation, it is difficult
to believe-or certainly a belief is not compelled-that
Congress intended to give to the past conduct of the railroad company a consequence it was not intended to have
and did not have. A statute having such a result may
incur the opposition of the Constitution. When such
may be the result a different construction of the statute is
determined. United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co.,
213 U. S. 366, 408; Harriman v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 211 U. S. 407.
In Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596, the questions we
are now discussing came up for consideration. We there
expressed, in considering a statute of limitations whose
literal interpretation would have had the effect of making
it applicable to actions which had accrued prior to its
passage, the rule against retrospective operation, the injustice and unconstitutionality of it. We said that a
statute of limitations may affect actions which have
accrued as well as those to accrue, and "whether it does
or not will depend upon the language of the act and the
apparent intent of the legislature to be gathered therefrom." But it was said that, even against, a literal interpretation of the terms of the statute, "it will be presumed
that such was not the intention of the legislature. Such
an intent would be unconstitutional. To avoid such a
result, and to give the statute a construction that will
enable it to stand, courts have given it a prospective

UN. PAC. R. R. v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

operation." And three modes were pointed out as having
been adopted by the courts: (1) to make the statute
apply only to causes of action arising after its passage;
(2) to construe the statute as applying to such actions
only as have run out a portion of the time, but which still
have a reasonable time left for the prosecution of the action
before the statutory time expires-which reasonable time
is to be estimated by the court-leaving all other actions
accruing prior to the statute unaffected by it; and (3) the
rule announced in Ross v. Duval, 13 Peters, 45, 62, and
Lewis v. Lewis, 7 Howard, 776, 778.
Of the first two modes there was condemnation. The
third was approved. It was said of the first that it left
"all actions existing at the passage of the act, without any
limitation." Which would not. be presumed as intended.
The second was said to be founded on no better principle
than the first, and was a more arbitrary rule than that,
as it left "a large class of actions entirely unprovided with
any limitation whatever, or, as to them, unconstitutional."
Speaking of the rule announced in the cited cases, it
was said: "In those cases certain statutes of limitationone in Virginia and the other in Illinois-had originally
excepted from their operation. non-residents of the State,
but this exception had been afterwards repealed; and this
court held that the non-resident parties had the full
statutory time to bring their actions after the repealing
acts were passed, although such actions may have accrued
at an earlier period. 'The question is,' says Chief Justice
Taney (speaking in the latter of the cases just cited),
'From what time is this limitation to be calculated? Upon
principle, it would seem to be clear, that it must commence
when the cause of action is first subjected to the operation
of the statute, unless the leg islature has otherwise provided.'"
Sohn v. Waterson was cited and its principle applied in
Herrick v. Boquillas Cattle Co., 200 U. S. 96. A paragraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

in the statutes of Arizona prescribed a limitation of actions
as follows: "Any person who has a right of action for
recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments against
another having peaceable and adverse possession thereof,
cultivating, using and enjoying the same, shall institute
his suit therefor within ten years next after his cause of
action shall have accrued, and not afterward." Rev.
Stats. of Arizona, 1901, par. 2938.
It will be observed that the language of the paragraph,
as of the statute passed on in Sohn v. Waterson, or, it may
be, the act of June 24 under review, literally interpreted,
would apply to causes of action which have accrued. The
Supreme Court of the Territory refused to give that effect
to the provision, and "decided," as this court said, "that
under no canon of construction or rule giving a retroactive
effect to a new statute of limitations could paragraph 2938
be made to apply to this case." And, after considering
all possible constructions of the statute expressed by the
Supreme Court of the Territory, among others, that if it
be construed as absolutely barring causes of action existing
at the time of its passage, it was unconstitutional, citing
Sohn v. Watergon, this court approved the views expressed
and said that the court committed no error in determining
that under no possible hypothesis could the limitation
prescribed operate to bar the plaintiff's action.
The principle of these cases forbids a retrospective
operation to be given to the statute under consideration.
To do so would cause in a high degree the evil and injustice of retroactive legislation. As said by plaintiff's
counsel, the possession of defendant prior to the statute
"had no effect on the title, and was not, as between the
parties, even a threat against it." And we are loath to believe that Congress intended by an imperative declaration
of law, immediately operating, to give defendant's possession another character-one hostile to the title.
Defendant does not combat plaintiff's contentions based

UN. PAC. R. R. v. LARAMIE STOCK YARDS.
231 U. S.

203

Opinion of the Court.

on considering the act of June 24,1912, as one of limitation.
Indeed, the admission is "that prior to the passage of the
Act in controversy, title by adverse possession could not
be acquired as against the plaintiff in error in its original
right of way grant, and it is further admitted that title
could not have been acquired by adverse possession subsequent to the passage of the Act." Defendant does not
regard the act as a limitation of the remedy but as amendatory of the charter of the company, an exercise of a right
reserved in the acts of July 1, 1862 1 and July 2, 1864.2
The argument is, disregarding its involutions, that the
right of way was not a right in fee but only a right to
use, which was forfeited by non-use, and that the right
which thereby reverted to the United States was, by the
act of June 24, conveyed to those in possession of the
land. And the exercise of the right reserved, it is contended, neither impairs any contract with the railroad nor
divests its property. Nor does it come under the condemnation of being retroactive legislation, it is further
contended. We need not follow the discussion by which
these contentions are attempted to be supported. We
meet them all by the declaration that Congress by the
act of June 24 did not intend to exercise the power over
the charters of the companies reserved to it. The exercise
of such power would naturally only find an impulse in
some large national purpose and would hardly be provoked
by a desire to legalize the encroachments here and there
on the right of way of a transcontinental railroad.
We are constrained to believe that when Congress intends to forfeit or limit any of the rights conveyed to aid
that great enterprise, it will do so explicitly and directly
"Congress may at any time, having due regard for the rights of
said companies named herein, add to, alter, amend, or repeal this act."
12 Stat. 497.
2 "And be it further enacted, Thai; Congress may, at any time, alter, amend, or repeal this act." C. 216, 13 Stat. 356, 365.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

by a measure proportionate to the purpose and not leave
it to be accomplished in a piece-meal and precarious waynot by confirming a few conveyances which may have
been made or legalizing trespasses which may be made.
But if it could be conceded that the act of June 24 was
intended as an amendment of the charters of the companies, the question would still occur as to its effect-as to
what time it should be considered as applying, whether
to the pastor the future. That question we have decided.
Judqment reversed and cause remanded with directions to
sustain the demurrer to the answer.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES dissents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE LURTON,
JUSTICE PITNEY, took no

and MR.

part in the decision.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. SNOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
COLORADO.

No. 682.

Submitted October 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1013.

Courts will not enforce a literal interpretation of a statute if antecedent
rights are affected or human conduct given a consequence the statute
did not intend.
Union PacificRailroad Co. v. LaramieStock Yards, ante, p. 190, followed
to effect that the act of June 24, 1912, c. 181, 37 Stat. 138, permitting
state statutes of limitation to apply to adverse possession of portions
of the right of way granted to railroads under the act of July 1,
1862, did not have retroactive effect.
Courts are repelled from giving such a construction to a statute as will
raise grave doubts of its legality as Well as of its justice.
The act of June 24, 1912, did not amount to a forfeiture of that part of
the right of way granted under the act of July 1, 1862, not actually
occupied by the railroads; quare whether such a construction of the
act of 1912 would not render it illegal.
133 Pac. Rep. 1037, reversed.

