GREEY v. DC'CKENDORFF.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

GREEY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF SCHWABKEPNER COMPANY, v. DOCKENDORFF.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 544.

Argued December 2, 1913.-Decided December 15, 1913.

No sufficient reason being shown for departing from it, this court follows its rule of not disturbing findings made by the Master, the court
of first instance and the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Where the goods never would have come into the bankrupt's hands,
had he not promised to give a lien thereon to one making the advances necessary for obtaining them, there is no reason why the
rights of general creditors without liens should intervene to defeat
security given in good faith andbefore there was any knowledge of
insolvency. National City Bank v. Hotchkiss, ante, p. 50, distinguished.
Secrecy of a lien on goods purchased by advances made by the lienor
does not invalidate it where there was no active concealment or any
attempt to mislead anyone interested to know the truth, nor does
merely keeping silent in such case create an estoppel.
203 Fed. Rep. 475; 121 C. C. A. 597, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of liens claimed by

a creditor on accounts receivable assigned to him by the
bankrupt, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin G. Paskus, with whom Mr. Ralph Wolf,
Mr. James N. Rosenberg and Mr. GarrardGlenn were on

the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Julius Henry Cohen, with whom Mr. Gerard B.
Townsend and Mr. Theodore B. Richter were on the :brief,
for appellee.
MR. JusTicE.HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a-petition by the appellee, Dockendorff, filed
in the bankruptcy proceedings against the bankrupt, the
VOL. CCXXXi--33

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Schwab-Kepner Company, to have paid over to him the
proceeds of accounts receivable alleged to have been
assigned to him by the bankrupt. The defences set up
were that the assignment was a preference and that it
wag made without present consideration with intent to
06fraud creditors of the bankrupt concern. The case was
referred to a special master who found that it did not
appear that either the petitioner or the bankrupt knew
that the latter was insolvent at the time of the supposed
preference or that there were any transfers with intent to
defraud creditors, and found for the petitioner. His
finding of facts and conclusion were concurred in by the
District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals. 203 Fed.
Rep. 475; 121 C. C. A. 597.
A part of the appellant's brief is devoted to the attempt
to show that the findings below as to insolvency and the
knowledge of the parties was wrong, and a distinction is
urged between what are called the Master's inferences and
the facts upon which those inferences were based. But
no sufficient reason is shown for departing from our
ordinary rule, where the Master, the court of first instance, and the Circuit Court of Appeals have agreed, and
in the course of the hearing this was admitted. Merillat v.
Hensey, 221 U. S. 333. On the other side.it is argued that
this is not a controversy arising in bankruptcy proceedings
within § 24 of the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541,
30 Stat. 544, 553, and that therefore the appeal should
not have been allowed. This contention if open, seems
to be answered sufficiently by Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust
Co., 216 U. S.545. But the appellant's main proposition
is that the transactions with the appellee were fraudulent
in law however unconscious of it the parties may have
been, and so it is necessary to make a short statement of
the facts.
The bankrupt, a New Jersey corporhtion, did business
in New York as a cotton converter. It bought raw

GREEY v. DOCKENDORFF.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

material from the mills, ordered it sent to bleacheries
designated by it, sold the goods when finished and had
them shipped from the bleacheries to the buyers. Dockendorff, on favorable statements of the Company's condition,
made successive agreements to procure loans not exceeding
$175,000 at any one time, the bankrupt giving demand
notes, assigning as security all its accounts receivable
thereafter to be created, and paying certain commissions.
In May, 1910, the agreement now in question was made.
By this the bankrupt was to assign within seven days
after shipment the accounts receivable of credit sales
made by it; upon that security Dockendorff was himself
to lend eighty per cent. of the net face value of such as he
slhould approve, less commissions and discounts, up to
$175,000; the bankrupt was to give its notes, deliver the
shipping documents, furnish evidence of actual receipt of
the merchandise when required, notify Dockendorff of any
return of goods or counterclaims, deliver the proceeds of
such accounts as were proper and permit him to examine
its books and correspondence &c.; Dockendorff's lien was
to be for all sums due,- and to cover all accounts, but he.
was not bound to lend on accounts not approved by him.
Further details do not need to be stated in view of the
establishment of the parties' good faith. On November 29,
1910, an involuntary petition was filed, the bankrupt
then owing Dockendorff $252,838.54 for advances under
the agreement, and he having received assignments of
accounts from the bankrupt as it received orders, that is,
after the contract of sale was made, but before the delivery
of the goods.
The trustee relies upon the general application of the
lien under the agreement a,, constituting a fraud in law.
Whatever effect it might have as evidence must be laid
on one side in view of the findings below. The question
here is whether successive assignments of accounts by way
of security, in pursuance of a contract under which. ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

vances were made to enable the assignor to get the goods
on the faith of the undertaking that the accounts should
be assigned, were bad. because the contract embraced all
accounts, although neither party contemplated any fraud.
The rule of the English statutes as to reputed ownership
may extend to debts growing due to the bankrupt in the
course of his business, but we have no such statute. The
advances were the means by which the bankrupt got the
ownership of the goods. The contract of itself would
operate as a conveyance as soon as the rights to which it
applied were acquired. Field v. New York, 6 N. Y. 179.
We do not see why in the interval between the acquisition
of the goods and the specific assignment of accounts, the
right of general creditors without lien should intervene to
defeat a security given in good faith, when, but for the
promise of it, the property never would have come into
the bankrupt's hands. There may have been a moment
when the goods could have been attached, or when, if
insolvency had been made known, as in National City
Bank v. Hotchkiss, ant, p. 50, it would have been too late
to make the promised lien good. But in this case, the
lien was acquired before any knowledge of insolvency, and
before any attachment intervened. See Jaquith v. Alden,
189 U. S. 78. Coder v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223. Van Iderstine
v. National Discount Co., 227 U. S. 575, 583. It is objected
that this lien was secret. But notice to the debtors was
not necessary to the validity of the assignment as against
creditors, Williams v. ingersoll, 89 N. Y. 508, 522, and
merely keeping silence to the latter whether known or
unknown, created no estoppel. Wiser v. Lawler, 189 U. S.
260, 270. Ackerman v. True, 175 N. Y. 353, 363. There
was no active concealment and no attempt to mislead
anyone interested to know the truth.
We content ourselves with this very general answer to an
axgument: that dealt with many details that we hav e not
mentioned, because those details were material only to a

KINDER v. SCHARFF.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

231 U. S.

reconsideration of the findings of fact. Probably a hope
of securing such a reconsideration was one of the inducements toward bringing the case here.
A subordinate question was raised on the exclusion of
some of the bankrupt's books, as to which it seems to us
enough to say that it does not appear that any wrong has
been done.
Decree affirmed.

KINDERI v. SCHARFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 99.

Argued December 4, 5: 1913.-Decided December 15, 1913.

After the estate has been closed and the two year period prescribed by
§ lid of the Bankruptcy Act has run, the proceeding cannot be
reopened on ex parte statements to enable the trustee to attack on
the ground of fraud a sale made by the bankrupt, where, as in this
case, the trustee had the opportunity of commencing an action for
that purpose before the expiration of the period.
The Bankruptcy Court cannot under § 2 (8) remove the bar of § lid
at its own will simply because the trustee may have changed his
mind and wishes to institute a suit which he might have instituted
prior to the operation of § lid.
129 Louisiana, 218, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction and application of the limitation prescribed by § lid of the Bankruptcy Act of 1808, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Hannis Taylor and Mr. A. P. Pujo, with whom
Mr. L. A. Goudeau and Mr. W. B. Williamson were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:

I Original

Docket title, Collins, Trustee, v. Scharff.

