OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 722.

Motion to dismiss submitted December 1, 1913.-Decided
December 15, 1913.

Under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, this court has
no power to revise the mere interpretation of an indictment by
the court below, but is confined to ascertaining whether that
court erroneously construed the statute on which the indictment
rested.
In this case the writ of error is dismissed as the ruling of the court
below that the counts which were quashed were bad in law did not
reasonably involve a construction of the statute but may well have
rested on the opinion of the court as to insufficiency of the indictment.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2,
1907, .are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Francis B. Carter and Mr. W. A. Blount for defendant in error in support of the motion.

The Solicitor General for the United States in opposition to the motion.
Memorandum opinion by MR.
by direction of the court.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,

At the threshold we must consider a motion to dismiss. The case is a criminal one over which we have
only the jurisdiction conferred by the Criminal Appeals
Act, March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, c. 2564. There
were two indictments containing, the one 54 and the

UNITED STATES v. CARTER.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other 26 counts, purporting to charge alleged offenses
against the National Banking Laws as embodied in
Rev. Stat., ยง 5209. On demurrer the court quashed 43 of
the counts because they were "bad in law." It is settled
that under the Criminal Appeals Act we have no authority
to revise the mere interpretation of an indictment and are
confined to ascertaining whether the court in a case under
review erroneously construed the statute: United States v.
Keitel, 211 U. S. 370; United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S.
190, 196. Our power to review the action of the court
then in this case can alone rest upon the theory that what
was done amounts to a construction of the btttute. But
it is obvious that the ruling that the counts which were
quashed were bad in law did not necessarily involve a
construction of the statute, and may well have rested
upon the opinion of the court as to the mere insufficiency
of the indictment.
It is, however, insisted on behalf of the United States
that by referring to the counts which were held good and
compaiing them with those which were quashed, by a
process of exclusion and inclusion, it will be possible to
ascertain that the action of the court was based upon a
construction of the statute, and we are asked to review
the case upon this theory. At best, this proposition
amounts to the contention that in every case where there
is doubt as to whether the court construed the statute or
interpreted the indictment such doubt should be solved
by an examination of the entire record. But the right to a
review in a criminal case, being controlled by the general
law, it follows that a case cannot be brought within the
control of the special rule provided by the Criminal
Appeals Act unless it clearly appears that the exceptional and not the general rule applies. Aside from
this consideration, we cannot give our approval to the
suggestion made by the Government since in effect it
virtually calls upon us to analyze and construe the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

dictment as a prerequisite basis for the exertion of the
limited power to review the action of the court in interpreting the statute. Indeed, to follow the suggestion
would be to frustrate the purposes which manifestly the
jurisdictional act was enacted to accomplish; because the
intent to expedite in criminal cases the decision of questions involving statutory construction which was plainly
one of the ends for which the law was intended would be of
little avail if the right to review be extended by implication so as to embrace cases not within the purview of the
statute, thereby multiplying appeals and delaying the
speedy decision of such cases. Besides, we think in consequence of the ambiguity of the ruling a case like this is
not within the scope of the fundamental evil intended
to be guarded against by the reviewing statute, that is, to
afford a direct and immediate remedy to correct an erroneous construction of a statute before final judgment and
thus to prevent the harm which otherwise might result by
the application of the construction to other cases, if the
power to review could only be exerted after final judgment.
To suggest that if the mere form in which a ruling is
clothed be made the test of the power to review, it will
result that the exertion of the authority may be. rendered
unavailing in every case is without foundation. It is not
to be assumed that trial courts will not seek rightfully to
discharge their duty. But, even if it were possible to
indulge in such an assumption, to do so would disregard
the power which exists as an incident to the exercise of
appellate jurisdiction to compel, in a case which requires
it, such action as will prevent a destruction of or render
practically unavailing the reviewing power. There can
be, however, no ground in this case for indulging the forebodings which we have just answered, because there is
nothing in the record. showing any request made to the
trial court for an expression of opinion in such form as
to manifest clearly whether its action proceeded upon a

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. DEER LODGE COUNTY.
231 U. S.

495

Syllabus.

construction of the statute or merely upon the meaning
which was given to the indictment. In saying this we are
not unmindful of the fact that it is stated in the brief for
the United States that when a bill of exceptions was after
the trial presented to the court for settlement, a request
was made and refused for a more specific statement of the
reasons which led to the quashing of the counts of the
indictment. But, obviously, the refusal to grant a request
made at the time and under the circumstances stated
affords no reason for an exertion of a power to review which
we do not possess.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

NEW

YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
DEER LODGE COUNTY.

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MONTANA.

No. 56.

Argued November 11, 1913.-Decided December 15, 1913.

The sanction of the rule of staredecisis urges this court against reversing a long series of decisions where state legislation has been enacted
in reliance thereon, and the reversal would involve the promulgation
of a new rule of constitutional inhibition on state legislation necessitating readjustment of policy and laws.
After reviewing Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, decided- by this court in
1868, and other; cases in which that case was followed, this court
adheres to the decisions in those cases to the effect that -the issuing
of an insurance policy is not commerce but a personal contract, and
that the regulations of a State in regard to policies delivered in the
State by non-resident insurance corporations and taxes imposed on
said corporations, are not, if otherwise legal, unconstitutional as a
bilrden upon interstate commerce. The Lottery Cases, 188 U. S.
321, and International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91i distinguished.

