WORK v. UNITED GLOBE MINES.
Argument for Appellant.

231 U. S.

WORK v. UNITED GLOBE MINES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 46.

Argued November 6, H13.-Decided January 5, 1914.

The settled rule of this court is to accept the construction placed by the
territorial court upon a local statute, and not to disregard the same
unless constrained so to do by clearest conviction of serious error.
Phenix Railway Co. "v.Landis, ante, p. 578.
Where, as in this case, it does not appear that manifest error was committed in the construction and application of the statute of limitation or in determining the sufficiency of a deed to the premises, the
title to which was involved, this court will not reverse the judgment
of the territorial court.
In refusing to reverse because no manifest error appears, this court does
not intimate any doubt as to the correctness of the ruling, but simply
abstains from deciding 4 purely local question in the absence of
conditions rendering it necessary to do so.
12 Arizona, 339, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona establishing title to property in that Territory, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. A. L. Pincoffs for appellant:
Defendant, being a foreign corporation, cannot set up

the statute of limitations. Larsen v. Aultmann, 86 Wisconsin, 281; Williams v. Metropolitan Co., 68 Kansas, 17;
State v. Nat. Assn., 79 N. W. Rep. 223; Robinson v. Imperial Mining Co., 5 Nevada, 43; State v. Cent. Pac. R. R,
Co., 10 Nevada, 47; Barstow v. Union Mining Co., 10
Nevada, 386; Olcott v. Tioga. R. R. Co., 20 N. Y. 210;
Clark v. Bank, 10 Arkansas, .516; 52 Am. Dec. 248, with
long monographic note at page 256.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellant.

231 U. S.

The deed from its grantors is insufficient to enable the
defendant to set up the five years' statute of limitations
(ยง2937, Rev. Stat., Arizona, 1901), because it gives notice to the defendant that its grantor had no title to the
premises and because it did not purport to convey the
fee.
It is admitted that at the time the assessment was made,
plaintiff -in error was and had been for twenty-five years
a bona fide resident of New York.
This mortgage was not taxable in Arizona because it
was owned by a non-resident.
Mortgages are only taxable in State of the owner's
residence. Jack v. Walker, 79 Fed. Rep. 142; Holland v.
Commissioners, 39 Pac. Rep. 576; Cleveland Co. v. Pennsylvania, 15 Wall. 300.
A deed founded on a sale for taxes which on its face
is absolutely void does not support adverse possession
under. a statute of limitations. Redfield v. Parks, 132
U. S. 239.
Under the laws of Arizona a mortgage of real property
conveyed no title 'whatever to the mortgagee; he has
merely a lien upon the property. A deed attempting to
convey this alleged interest conveyed nothing.
While a deed, valid on its face, is sufficient for the purpose of the statute, even if it could be impeached by evidence aliunde, Elder v. Wood, 208 U. S. 226, it does not
follow that the result is the same when the grantee has
actual knowledge or notice that his grantor has absolutely no title to the premises he attempts to convey.
See also Bradshaw v. Ashley, 180 U. S. 59"-Saxton v. Hunt,
20 N. J. L. 487, 493.
In order successfully to invoke the statute, the defendant must claim under the deed, and no one can claim
under a deed a greater interest or title than the deed
conveys.
The ten years' statute of limitations (ยง2938, Rev. Stat.,

WORK v. UNITED GLOBE MINES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1901) does not apply; because its operation is restricted
to the recovery of lands held without deed, and also
because no such limitation was in existence when plaintiff's cause of action accrued and the statute must be
given a prospective operation. Redfield v. Parks, 132
U. S. 239.
If the statute is intended to have a retrospective effect,
it would be unconstitutionaL. Gilbert v. Ackerman, 159
N. Y. 118; Price v. Hopkins, 13 Michigan, 318.
Mrs. Sarah H. Sorin for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We confine our statement to so much of the case as is
necessary to develop the matters for decision.
Work, the appellant, who was plaintiff in the trial court,
sued the United Globe Mines, the appellee, to quiet his title
to certain described mining property, averring that he had
the fee simple title to the same and although defendant
asserted some adverse right, it had no title or interest in
the property. The defendant, averring itself to be a New
York corporation having its principal place of business
in Globe, Gila County, Arizona, in its answer besides
traversing the averments of the complaint, alleged that it
was entitled to the possession of the property sued for,
and was the owner, because for more than five years
before the commencement of the suit it had been "in
the actual, continuous, uninterrupted, peaceable, exclu.
sive, open, notorious, hostile and adverse possession of.
said premises, and has been cultivating, using, enjoying
and working the same, paying taxes thereon, and holding
and claiming the same and the title thereto adversely to
plaintiff and all the world, under a deed from William E.
Dodge and D. Willis James conveying said premises to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

this defendant, which deed is dated January 31st, A. D.,
1893, and which said deed was duly recorded on the
seventeenth day of February, A. D., 1893, in the office of
the County Recorder of Gila County,, said Territory, in
book 3 Deeds of Mines, at page 299;
"And defendant alleges that the cause of action, if
any, stated in the complaint herein, did not accrue within
five years next before the commencement of this action."
In addition, as a second ground, the ownership
of the
property was asserted to have been acquired by a period
of ten years' limitation, the benefit of which was expressly
pleaded. The prayer of the answer was not only that the
claim of the plaintiff be rejected, but that there be affirmative relief adjudging the title of the property to be
in the mining company.
The case was submitted to the trial court upon an agreed
statement of facts and was decided in favor of the defendant and'a judgment of affirmance followed in the Supreme
Court of the State to which the case was taken, that
judgment being the one to which this writ of error is directed. The court, for the purpose of its consideration of
the case, adopted the statement of facts acted upon by the
trial court.
Three principal questions were decided: a, That the
United Globe Mines, although .a foreign corporation, was
entitled to avail itself of the statute of limitations; b, that
the deed which the United Globe Mines asserted as the
basis of its claim to a right of ownership resulting from
the five years' limitation under ยง 2937 of the Revised
Statutes of Arizona for 1901, was adequate and hence the
United Globe Mines was the owner of the property by
limitation; and c, besides that, the facts proven as the
basis of the ten year limitation under ยง 2938 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona for 1901 were adequate to bring
the United Globe Mines within the embrace of the statute
and therefore to additionally sustain its claim of owner-

WORK v. UNITED GLOBE MINES.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ship on such ground. For the purposes of this appeal a
number of grounds of error were asserted, but we content
ourselves with the mere statement that we think they are
without merit because in the argument at bar for the appellant only the rulings of the court below concerning
the three propositions to which we have referred are discussed and insisted upon as a basis for reversal. We come
then briefly to consider those propositions.*
At the outset it is to be observed that the questions are
inherently and in the strictest sense local in character, depending as'they do upon the right to have the benefit in
the Territory of the statutes of limitation concerning real
estate and theapplication of such statutes to the case as
made by the defendant, the United Globe Mines. But
as to questions of such character the settled rule is that
this court "accepts the construction which the territorial
court has placed upon a local statute"; in other words,
will not disregard or reverse the same unless constrained to
do so by the clearest conviction of serious error. (Phcentx
Railway Co.'v. Landis, ante, p. 578, where a full list of the
applicable cases is collected, decided December 23 last.)
With our duty thus defined the case is readily disposed of.
As to the first question, the court below expressly found
that during the whole of the statutory time the United
Globe Mines, although a non-resident in the sense that
it was a corporation of foreign organization, had complied
with the laws of Arizona, was in possession of the property, paying taxes thereon and conducting business by
means of its use, and was subject there to be sued, having
under the law of the Territory, an agency for that purpose.
It is manifest under these conditions, if there be any
ground for a different conclusion, which we do not intimate, there is no possible room for holding that such serious error was committed as to constrain us to reverse.
As to the second propositiori,-the five years' statutethe only contention is that the court erred in holding that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

a reference in the deed which was relied upon as to the origin of title did not. operate to render the deed relied on, insufficient for the purposes of the statute, although it was
in every other respect adequate. That is to say, the contention is that the sufficiency of the deed should have been
tested not by its own adequacy but by the insufficiency
of another deed, not involved in the case simply because
such other deed by way of mere recital was referred to in
the deed which was relied on and upon which deed the
application of the bar of the statute solely depended. We
do not test the accuracy of the reasoning upon which the
contention must rest, nor comprehensively review the
authorities-since in our opinion it cannot be said, either
from the point of view of reason, or from a consideration
of the decided cases I that there is grou.nd for holding that
there was such manifest error committed as to justify
reversal. In saying this we intimate no doubt as to the
correctness of the ruling below made-our sole purpose is
to abstain from deciding a purely local question in the
absence
of those conditions which render it necessary for
us to do so-that
is the existence of plain error of so serious
a nature as to require correction at our hands.
Affirmed.
Bradstreet v. Huntington, 5 Pet. 402, 447; Clarke V. Courtney, 5 Pet.
319, 354; Pillow v. Roberts, 13 How. 472; Wright v. Mattison, 18 How.
50; Cameron v. United States, 148 U. S. 301.
I

