OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

by a measure proportionate to the purpose and not leave
it to be accomplished in a piece-meal and precarious waynot by confirming a few conveyances which may have
been made or legalizing trespasses which may be made.
But if it could be conceded that the act of June 24 was
intended as an amendment of the charters of the companies, the question would still occur as to its effect-as to
what time it should be considered as applying, whether
to the pastor the future. That question we have decided.
Judqment reversed and cause remanded with directions to
sustain the demurrer to the answer.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES dissents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE LURTON,
JUSTICE PITNEY, took no

and MR.

part in the decision.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. SNOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
COLORADO.

No. 682.

Submitted October 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1013.

Courts will not enforce a literal interpretation of a statute if antecedent
rights are affected or human conduct given a consequence the statute
did not intend.
Union PacificRailroad Co. v. LaramieStock Yards, ante, p. 190, followed
to effect that the act of June 24, 1912, c. 181, 37 Stat. 138, permitting
state statutes of limitation to apply to adverse possession of portions
of the right of way granted to railroads under the act of July 1,
1862, did not have retroactive effect.
Courts are repelled from giving such a construction to a statute as will
raise grave doubts of its legality as Well as of its justice.
The act of June 24, 1912, did not amount to a forfeiture of that part of
the right of way granted under the act of July 1, 1862, not actually
occupied by the railroads; quare whether such a construction of the
act of 1912 would not render it illegal.
133 Pac. Rep. 1037, reversed.

UN. PAC. R. R. CO. v. SNOW.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Railroad Land Grant Act of July 1, 1862, and
the act of June 24, 1912, and the extent of rights claimed to
have been acquired under the latter act by adverse possession in a railroad right of way, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. H. Loomis, Mr. C. C. Dorsey and Mr. E. I.
Thayer for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Milton Smith, Mr. Charles R. Brock and Mr. W. 1.
Ferguson for defendants in error:
Any title which plaintiff or its predecessors ever had in
or to the premises in controversy emanated from the
act of July 1, 1862, and was a limited or determinable fee
conditioned upon the continued use of said right of way
for'railroad purposes. Stuart v. Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 227
U. S. 342; M., K. & T. R. Co. v. Kan. P. R. Co., 97 U. S.
491, 494; United States v. Kan. P. R. Co., 99 U. S. 455;
Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260; Nor. Pac. Ry.
Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, 271; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Ely, 197 U. S. 1; Oregon Short Line v. Quigley, 10 Idaho,
770; UniversalistSociety v. Boland, 155 Massachusetts, 17 1;
Greenleaf's Cruise on Real Property, Tit. 13, c. 2, ยง 64;
2 Blackstone, 155; 4 Kent's Comm. (13th ed.), 134; D. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. School District, 14 Colorado, 327.
Under the allegations contained in the second defense
of the answers, the title or. ownership of the land in controversy was claimed by or through adverse possession
of the character and duration prescribed by the laws of
Colorado, and the Supreme Court of Colorado in these
cases held that the allegations of said second defense were
sufficient under the state statutes to establish title by
adverse possession. Snow v. Un. Pacific R. R. Co., 133
Pac. Rep. 1037; Sides v. Un. Pacific R. R. Co., 133 Pac.
Rep. 1040; Laas v. Newkirk, 39 Colorado, 78; Hurd v.
McLellan, 1 Colo. App. 327:; Latta v. Clifford, 47 Fed. Rep.

'OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

231 U. S.

614, 619; Elder v. McClaskey,, 70 Fed. Rep. 529; Scott v.
Mineral Development Co., 130 Fed. Rep. 497; S. C., certiorari denied, 196 U. S. 640; Harending v. Reformed
Dutch Church, 16 Pet. 455; Santee River Cyprus Co. v.
Jones, 60 Fed. Rep. 360; United States v. One Lot of Land,
178 Fed. Rep. 334; Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 2,91.
The title acquired by defendants under the adversepossession statutes of Colorado was precisely equivalent
in contemplation of law to such title as they would, have
acquired had the railroad company expressly granted
to them all its right, title, and interest in the premises.
Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Ely, 197 U. S. 1; Sharon v. Tucker,
144 U. S. 533, 543; Toltec Ranch Co. v. Cook, 191 U. S. 532,
538; 3 Washburn on Real Property (5th ed.), 176.
The implication of a grant from the railroad company
arising out of the adverse possession of the defendants is
conclusive evidence of a voluntary abandonment of the
premises by the railroad company. Stevens v. Norfolk,
42 'Connecticut, 377; Livermore v. White, 74 Maine, 452;
Myers v. Spooner, 55 California, 257; Davis v. Perley, 30
California, 630; North American Co. v. Adams, 104 Fed.
Rep. 404.
The act of June 24,'1912, was equivalent to a reentry or
declaration of forfeiture or reverter upon the part of the
United States of the land in controversy, because of its
abandonment and non-user as a railroad right of way, and
had the effect of confirming in the defendants the title
acquired by them by adverse possession and under the
patent issued by the United States to their predecessor in
title on November 5, 1878. Nor. Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ely,
197 U. S. 1; Atl. & Pac. R. R. Co. v. Mingus, 165 U. S.
413, 430; Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44; Spokane
& B. C. Ry. Co. v. Washington &c. Ry. Co., 219 U. S. 166.
A legislative act passed subsequent to the entry of a'
judgment in a lower court, and while a case*is pending in
an appellate court on appeal or writ of error, may be con-

UN. PAC. R. R. CO. v. SNOW.
231 U. S.

Opinion -of the Court.

sidered and applied by the appellate court. Pennsylvania
v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18 How. 421, 430; Nor. Pac. Ry.
v. Ely, 197 U. S. 1; United States v. Schooner Peggy, 1 Cr.
103, 110; Am. Sugar Co. v. New Orleans, 119 Fed. Rep.
691; Canal Co. v. Western Md. R. R. Co., 99 Maryland, 570.MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was submitted at the same time as No. 570,
just decided. It is ejectment for lands, part of the right of
way granted to the Leavenworth, .Pawnee & Western
Railroad Company by the act of July 1, 1862, c. 120,
12 Stat. 489, to which right of way plaintiff in error
(designated herein as plaintiff) is the successor. The
action was brought in the 'District Court of Arapahoe
County, State of Colorado.
The sufficiency of the complaint is not questioned, and
it is enough to say that it is, in legal effect, the same as in
case No. 570, with only such differences as are necessary.
The answer of defendants in. error (called herein defendants) set up three defenses and a counter claim. The first
answer admits the incorporation of plaintiff and denies all
other allegations of the complaint. The second defense
alleges that under certain acts of Congress, subsequent to
the act of 1862 and prior to the incorporation of the companies, the right of way of the companies was made 200
feet wide instead of 400 feet, that is, 100 feet from the
center line of the railroad tr, ck. That the land sued for,
which is in possession of the uefendants, is more than 100
feet from such center line; that neither plaintiff nor any
of its predecessors have been in possession of any portion
thereof and have not used the same, nor has it needed to
-use the same for railroad purposes. That defendants,,
and those under and through whom they claim title,
acquired the title under and by virtue of a patent from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

United States issued November 5, 1878, and various mesne
conveyances and have been in the adverse possession of all
of the property described continuously since the patent
was issued, which is more than the full period of seven
years next before the institution of the action; have paid
and caused to be paid taxes thereon, and that defendants
now plead.and rely upon the statute of limitations of the
State of Colorado.
The third defense alleges that the right received by the
corporation which was created by the act of Congress of
1862 or by its successors or assigns was at most, the grant
of a limited fee and made on the condition that the property should revert to the United States if it should not be
appropriated and used for a railroad within a reasonable
time or should cease to be used for railroad purposes.
That thereafter, before the land was used for such purposes, the right of reverter. which was retained by the
United States, was conveyed by the United States to
defendants and their grantors by a patent which was
issued by the United States to the vendor of defendants in,
1878. That neither plaintiff nor any of its predecessors
used or occupied the land for railroad purposes or for any
purposes whatever and on account thereof lost any and all
right thereto and the property reverted to the United
States and to defendants; that neither plaintiff nor any
of its predecessors ever needed the property or any part
thereof for railroad purposes and can never use the same
for such purposes. That on account of failure to use or
occupy .the land for a period which now approximates
fifty years next ensuing after the approval of the act of
1862, the limited fee which may have been granted to
plaintiff ceased and determined and the property reverted
to the United States and its grantees.
The counter claim repeats some of the allegations in
regard to the width of the right of way and defendants'
adverse possession of the land outside of the 100 feet on

UN. PAC. R. R. CO. v. SNOW.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

either side of the center of the railroad track, alleges the
value of improvements made thereon by defendants at
$1,500 and claims the reimbursement thereof in case
of recovery by plaintiff.
Plaintiff demurred to the second and third defenses and
to the counter claim. The demurrer was sustained. The
ease was subsequently tried on the issues made by the
complaint and the first answer thereto.
At the trial the defendants objected to any testimony
being introduced and moved to dismiss the complaint on
the ground that no right of way was granted to plaintiff
"at the place in dispute" or no grant of right of way in
excess of 100 feet on either side of the center line of plaintiff's track. The objection was overruled and defendants
excepted.
It was then stipulated that witnesses would testify to
the various steps in the title of plaintiff, that the railroad
was constructed over the right of way described in the
complaint, and that the railroad and the main track
thereof are now in the same location in which they were
at the time of the original construction; that the predecessors in title of plaintiff complied with all of the requirements of the various acts of Congress in the complaint
mentioned, and that plaintiff is the owner of the lands,
if any, conveyed to its predecessor companies under and
by virtue of the said acts of Congress; that the land
described in the complaint lies within 200 feet of the center
of the main track of the railroad, but outside of a line of
100 feet; that the railroad is part of the railroad constructed from the Missouri 'River at the mouth of the
Kansas River westward to a connection with the main
line of the Union Pacific, as authorized by the acts of
Congress, and has been, since its construction, continuously operated as a railroad in connection with the main
line of the Union Pacific at Cheyenne, Wyoming. That
defendants withhold possession of the lands from plainVOL. ccxxxi-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tiff and that possession was demanded before the commencement of the action.
Judgment of nonsuit was moved on the grounds stated

in the motion to dismiss; also judgment for defendants.
Both motions were denied and plaintiff was adjudged
owner in fee of the lands, and that defendants had no
right, title or interest therein. Judgment was entered
accordingly. The judgment was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State. 133 Pac. Rep. 1037.
The Supreme Court decided that the Kansas Pacific
became vested by the acts of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 1864,
c. 216, 13 Stat. 356, with title to a right of way 400 feet
wide through the land'and that the Union Pacific, its
successor in title, is the' owner of the right of way. The
court rested this conclusion 'on Stuart v. Union Pacific
Railroad Co., 227 U. S.342. It hence decided that "the
determination of the court of the facts found upon the
issue raised by the first defense was

.

.

in con-

formity with the decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States." And the Supreme Court also decided,
that the District Court, in sustaining the demurrer to the
second defense which pleaded the statute of limitations,
followed the decision of this court, and cited Kindred v.
Union Pacific Railroad Co., 168 Fed. Rep. 648, 653; S. C.,
affirmed 225 U. S.582; Northern Pacific Railroad Co. v.
Smith, 171 U. S.260, 267; Northern PacificRailway Co. v.
Ely, 197 U. S.1; Northern PacificRailway Co. v. Townsend,
190 U. S.267, to the effect that individuals could not for
private purposes acquire by adverse possession under
state statutes any portion of a right of way granted by the
United States to a railroad company. "So," the court
said, "it is plain that prior to June 24, 1912, an individual
could not acquire title to any portion of the 400 feet right
of way by the statute of limitations or adverse possession,
and the judgment of the lower court on this issue was
correct." But it was remarked that the act of June 24,

UN. PAC. R. F. CO. v. SNOW.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

though .passed while the case was pending on appeal,
nevertheless applied to the case, on the authority of certain
cases which were cited.
The cited cases express the principle that a judgment,
though not erroneous when rendered, may become so by a
subsequent law. Or if an event occurs after an appeal
which makes it impossible for the appellate court to enforce. its decision, the case will be dismissed. United
States v. The Peggy, 1 Cr. 103; Board v. Glover, 160 U. S.
170; S. C., 161 U. S. 101; Dinsmore v. Express Co., 183
U. S. 115. Two of the members of the court dissented and
expressed the view that as the judgment of the lower
court was "in strict confonnity with the decisions of the
Supreme Court of the United States, and therefore when
rendered was not erroneous," it was the duty of the
court to affirm it.
In deciding that the act of June 24 was controlling, the
Supreme Court of Colorado necessarily gave retrospective
operation to the act. This was error. Union Pacific
Railroad v. Laramie Stock Yards Co., decided this day,
ante, p. 190.
It was contended in that case that the grant of the right
of way was only a grant of the right to use and that whenever and if not so used or for any reason'became forfeited,
it would revert to the grantor. It was recognized that to
enforce the forfeiture and convey the right which had
reverted, some act of the United States was necessary.
This condition, it was contended, was satisfied by the
act of June 24, 1912, c. 181, 37 Stat. 138, enacted, it was
further contended, under the power reserved to Congress
by the acts of 1862 and 1864 to alter or amend the charters
of the companies. We rejected the contention and we
said, besides, that even if the act be so regarded, its effect
was to be determined by the time it was intended to operate, whether retrospectively or prospectively. What
we said is applicable here. It is contended here that"the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

right of way was derived through the act of July 1, 1862,
and that the title granted to the companies. "was a fee
upon limitation, and that the estate continued so long as,
or while, the railroad companies continued to use the land
granted for railroad purposes, and terminated ipso facto
by the cessation of such use." And it is further contended that no act was necessary upon the part of the
United States to work the forfeiture or reinvest the
United States with complete title to the land granted.
The bearing of the first contention we shall presently
consider; the other has no foundation in the granting acts
nor in the decisions interpreting them, some of which are
cited above. It is opposed by the act of June 24, which
leaves the right of way as originally granted and to the
extent granted in the railroad companies, except where
they had theretofore conveyed parts of the same and where
parts of it shall be held by adverse possession.
It is, however, contended that if some act of the United
States was necessary to effect a forfeiture of the right of
way, the act of June 24, 1912, was sufficient for that purpose. If this be conceded, arguendo, and if it be also
conceded that the grant of the right of way was of a
limited fee, we are brought to a consideration of the effect
of the act, whether it applies to a past or a future possession; and we have decided that it applies to the latter.
Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. Laramie Stock Yards Co.,
ante, p. 190.
This conclusion is, of course, contested by defendants in
an argument which it is, however, unnecessary to answer
in detail. It is asserted that the act "operates in prcesenti
in so far as it conveys the reversionary interest of the
United States to the persons entitled to the benefit of the
act, or confirms their prexisting titles." Special emphasis is put upon the words "is claimed" of the act as
necessarily intended to apply to titles claimed at the time
of the passage of the act by adverse possession. "Such

UN. PAC. R. R. CO. v. SIDES.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

titles," it is said, "must have been initiated prior to the
enactment of the act." For that reason, it is further said,
"the act cannot be said to be retrospective, because the
language used simply designates the classes of persons to
whom confirmatory grants are made." But these considerations are simply the result of dwelling upon the
literal terms of the act. But this is obnoxious to the rule of
the cases. Courts will not, as we have seen, enforce a
literal interpretation when by doing so antecedent rights
are affected or human conduct given a consequence it
did not intend. Such a purpose the courts refuse to assign
to the legislature unless compelled by language explicit
and imperative. And we 'have pointed out that we are
repelled from so doing by grave doubts of its legality as
well as of its justice. These considerations need not be
further expanded. Their strength has been pointed out
and their sufficiency to prevail over a literal interpretation
of a statute.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE HUGHES dissents.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES and MR.JUSTICE PITNEY

took no

part in the decision.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. SIDES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 683.

Submitted October 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Decided on the authority of Union Pacific RailroadCo. v. Snow, ante,
p. 204.
133 Pac. Rep. 1040, reversed.
THE facts

are stated in the opinion

