VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

No. 69.

Argued November 13, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Where appellant with ground challenges the adequacy of the findings of
the court below to sustain the legal conclusions based on them, it is
the duty of this court to consider and decide that question.
Under the local law of Porto Rico, if there is intrinsic ambiguity in a
written instrument the right obtains to dispel such ambiguity by
extraneous* proof showing the circumstances under which the instrument was executed.
In this case there was such ambiguity in the contract involved as
justified proof beyond the terms of the instrument to clear up the
situation, and findings of the trial court based upon such proof
are not void because of want of power to consider it.
The mere fact that parties seek in a lawful mode io protect legal rights
by keeping alive an instrument under which possession to the property could be maintained in case of adverse decision in suits under
another instrument does not indicate fraud in the transaction.
On the record in this case, held, that a partner who had kept alive a
lease on property which his firm had acquired from him through
another source of title so as to protect the interest of the firm against
attacks from outside parties could not subsequently recover the
property under the lease to the detriment of the other partners.
There is evident lack of merit in the contention of a partner to recover
property which he sold to the partnership and was paid for, without
returning the price.

facts, which involve the validity of a judgment
liquidating and distributing the assets of a copartnership
in Porto Rico, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill, with whom Mr. George H.
Lamar was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Charles F. Carusi for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
When the court below delivered its opinion and made

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

a statement of facts it did not enter a final decree, but
directed a re-statement of certain accounts to be made and
ordered a survey and report as to the condition of certain
real estate to the end that thereafter the case might be
finally disposed of. Fixing their attention upon the controlling force of the reasons which the court had stated in
its opinion and the decisive character of the findings embodied in the statement of facts, the parties who believed
themselves aggrieved at once appealed, but their appeal
was dismissed for want of a final judgment. 200 U. S.
624. The case is now here on an appeal from a final judgment and the contentions previously relied upon to secure
a reversal are applicable and now require to be decided.
This suit was begun by the widow and heirs of Paul
Van Syckel to liquidate and distribute the assets of two
partnerships of which he was a member, viz., P. Van
Syckel & Co. and the Santa Cruz Sugar Co. The defendants were the other members of the firms. From the
petition and the documents annexed, from the answer,
and a cross-petition filed by the defendants to construe
and limit a document referred to as an agreement for
"postponement of rights," as also from the issues taken
on the cross-petition and from the opinion of the court
and the statement of facts which it made it is beyond
question that the only controversy between the partners
arose from an assertion by the widow and heirs of Van
Syckel that ,they were the holders of a subsisting lease
covering an important piece of partnership real estate.
The solution of this controversy depended upon the
answers proper to be made to the following questions:
1st, Did the lease which was owned by Van Syckel prior
to the formation of the partnership of P. Van Syckel and
Company pass to that firm as the result of its organization
and the stipulations contained in the articles of partnership? 2nd, If the firm became the owner of the lease, was
such lease extinguished by confusion (Civil Code, § 1192)

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as the result of the purchase by the firm of the leased property under a foreclosure sale, and 3rd, even although as a
general rule, the lease was extinguished under the conditions stated, could the surviving members of the firm be
heard to deny the existence of the lease as against the
widow and heirs of Van Syckel in view of the public record
concerning the lease, of the stipulations of the agreement
styled postponement of rights Of the foreclosure proceedings, and of other declarations made in other notarial acts
to which the partnership and the partners were parties?
Concluding that these questions required an affirmative
answer the court below rejected the claim based upon the
existence of the alleged lease. The reasons which led to
this conclusion were stated in an elaborate opinion and the
facts which were deemed controlling were enumerated in a
statement of facts. While conceding that there is no
power to review the facts, and while further conceding
that if effect be given to the facts found, the judgment is
clearly right, it is yet insisted by the appellants that there
should be a reversal upon the following grounds: a, Because the ultimate findings made by the court as to the
non-existence of the lease were on the face of the record
manifestly alone based upon inferences drawn from parol
proof conflicting with the declarations of the parties contained in notarial acts and which under the local law were
not lawfully susceptible of being overthrown by parol
proof; and, b, because moreover error is manifest on the
face of the findings as well as in the legal conclusions based
on the findings because it was impossible to conclude that
the lease had no existence without permitting the defendants to repudiate their declarations made in notarial
acts, to base a claim of right upon their deceit and fraud
and to discharge themselves and their property from. an
obligation by giving efficacy to their wrongdoing. As
these propositions in their final analysis challenge the adequacy of the findings made to sustain the legal conclusions

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

based on them, it is our duty to consider and to decide
them. As a prelude to doing so, we make a statement of
the case as established by the findings and as elucidated
by the opinion of the court and the documents therein
referred to.
in June, 1897, by notarial act, Paul Van Syckel leased
from one Montilla, the Santa Cruz plantation except a
small portion previously leased to some one else. The
rent was payable monthly and the term was indeterminate;
that is, was to last as long as Van Syckel chose to pay
rent. The property when leased was encumbered by
mortgage. Van Syckel used the leased property for the
business of raising cattle and carrying on a dairy. The
registration officer refusing to record the lease because
of the uncertainty of the term, Van Syckel, in October,
1899, made a notarial statement, fixing a term of six
years and reserving the right, at will, to fix future terms.
The registering officer refusing to record this statement,
Van Syckel sued to compel its registry, and was successful, the Supreme Court of Porto Rico (or the Chief
Justice thereof) having affirmed an, order directing the
registry to be made. The holder of the mortgage on the
leased property having commenced executory proceed"ings to foreclose, Van Syckel sued in the Provisional
Court created by the American military authority to enjoin on the ground of an alleged fraudulent combination
between the debtor and creditor by foreclosure of the
paramount mortgage to wipe out the lease and impliedly,
on the furth-er ground that having an interest, as lessee,
in paymig the paramount mortgage debt, he was entitled
to do so and take a creditor's legal subrogation. (Civil
Code, §§ 1203, 1210 and 1211.) The foreclosure proceeding was perpetually enjoined. The mortgage creditor acquiescing in the result, in March, 1900, transferred the
debt to Van Syckel. During these proceedings there
was pending in the local courts, suits in one or another

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opinion oE the Court.

form, brought by Montilla assailing the rights of Van
Syckel. The exact character of these suits is not disclosed, but they are referred to in the findings and a statement on the subject is contained in Montilla v. Van
Syckel, 8 Porto Rico, 153, .162.
In June, 1900, before a notary, Van Syckel and the
firm of Sobrinos de Ezquiaga, an established and reputable
commercial firm, formed a partnership styled P. Van
Syckel & Company. The act recited that Van Syckel
was the owner of enumerated property, viz: a small
farm, a lot'of cattle "as per inventory," a lot of personal
property, constituting the :plant of a dairy, such as cans,
bottles, milk straining apparatus, carts, milk wagons,
etd., and besides a mortgage paper secured on the Santa
Cruz plantation, inventoried at about 11,000 pesos; and
lastly a sum of money stated in the inventory as "value
of working capital," amounting to 1111 pesos. These
various items gave a total value of 30,000 pesos, and onehalf, 15,000 pesos, was paid in cash by Sobrinos de Ezquiaga to Van Syckel as the purchase price of one-half the
property which thus became jointly owned, and was by.the
joint owners, Van Syckel and Sobrinos de Ezquiaga, established as the capital of the new firm. The duration of the
firm was two years and the purpose of its organization was
declared to be the carrying on of a dairy business and the
purchase of cattle. There were careful provisions as to
the keeping and rendering of the accounts of the firm as
to the equal power of management by the partners and
an equal division between them of profits. There was a
stipulation relating to the mortgage debt on Santa Cruz,
providing that if the debtor, Montilla, paid the same the
sum received should take the place of the debt as firm
capital, and the firm should not be dissolved thereby,
and the same result, it was expressly provided would
follow in case Montilla should "recuperate the debt"
and require an assignment of the same; that is, in case

' 606

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Montilla by operation- of legal subrogation compelled a
transfer of the debt to another.
The year following, in July, 1901, the firm of P. Van
Syckel & Company and P. Van Syckel individually were
parties to :a notarial act styled "postponement of right,"
by which the firm, after reciting its ownership of the
mortgage claim on the Santa Cruz property. and the paramount character of the mortgage as to a lease on the property, held by Van.Syckel, waived the priority of the mortgage, gave precedence to the lease and expressly renounced
all right of the mortgage creditor "to-rescind the lease'
as against Van Syckel and his "causa habientes." This
act was placed on the public records. In September, 1901,
Van Syckel & Company commenced executory proceedings against Montilla to enforce their mortgage debt and
in due course, in November, 1911, tMe property was
adjudicated to them for two-thirds of its estimated valie
and as was customary under the local law, the state of
the record was referred to and the priority of the recorded
lease was recited.
In May, 1902, the firm of P. Van. Syckel & Company
was by notarial agreement extended for a period of four
years to the first day of June, 1906. The articles of extension recited the original organization, the purchase
from Yan Syckel of the property which constituted the
capital of the firm, including the debt secured by mortgage upon Santa Cruz. It then recited the foreclosure
and the purchase .of the property at less than the face
value of the mortgage debt, and stipulated that the capital
of the new firm should not be thereby diminished as the
property took the place of the debt as a partnership asset.
It would seem that after the foreclosure.and probably
after the. extension of the firm, the suits brought by
Montilla in the local courts, to which we have previously
referred, were decided against him, but in December,
1902, a new suit in the Porto Rican courts was by him

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opiajon of the Court.

commenced against Van .Syckel individually and the firm
of Van Syckel & Company and its members to rescind
the lease and to vacate the foreclosure proceedings, and
to recover the Santa Cruz property. Speaking generally,
as to the lease, the ground Of attack was that it was void
for uncertainty, that the notarial declaration of Van
Syckel as to the six year ter m was *unilateraland created
no obligation and that his reservation of future right to
fix terms at his will was purely protestative and void for
uncertainty. As to the mortgage debt, the assertion was
that the transfer by which Van Syckel had acquired it,
consequent on. the decree of the Provisional Court, had
extinguished the mortgage by payment, as no subrogation
was expressed in the transfer or could by operation of law
have resulted therefrom. Ii the meanwhile and before
the extension of the partnership, Van Syckel removed
from Porto Rico with his family to reside in Cuba, but
left a power of attorney with his partners to carry on the
business of the firm, he returning 'at intervals to Porto
Rico to supervise and participate in the business. Subsequently in leasing a portion of the Santa Cruz property,
the lease was made to conform to the state of the public
records and therefore was so drawn as to pass not only
the rights of the firm, but the right of Van Syckel under
his apparently existing lease. In 1905, in conjunction
with one English, the firm of Van Syckel & Company
formed an agriculturarlpartnership called the Santa Cruz
Sugar Company, for the purpose of developing the sugar
industry on the Santa Cruz property and in that contract
also the parties so acted as to.make their agreement conform to the public records; that is, so as to recognize the
lease apparently existing in the name of Van Syckel, as
also the rights of the partnership in and to the property.
During the interval, the suit last referred to, brought by
Montilla was decided against him in the lower court, and
on his appeal in March, 1905, the judgment of the lower

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

court was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Porto Rico,
Montilla prosecuting an appeal to this court, but shortly
thereafter the appeal was dismissed because of a compromise effected with Montilla by which the firm of Van
Syckel & Company paid a small sum in cash, thus terminating the long controversy. Shortly prior, however, to
this being done, Van Syckel died in Cuba and the partnership having terminated not only as the result of his death,
but by lapse of time, a controversy concerning the lease
supervened and this suit followed.
Dealing with the facts which we have recited and the
other proof before it, the court found that the sale made
by Van Syckel to the firm of Sobrinos de Ezquiaga consisted of one-half the plant and assets of a dairy establishment and cattle farm by him carried on in part at least
on the leased property and that not only as the result of
implications necessarily arising from the provisions of the
articles of partnership, but from the proof as to the situation of the parties and the manner in which they gave
effect to the articles of partnership, it clearly resulted that
the lease passed to the firm as a part and parcel of the
contract by which the firm became the holder of the assets
and plant.
Thus the court said:
"It is our opinion that Mr. Van Syckel sold a full half
interest in his dairy business and all that constituted it,
which included every right he had to all property concerned for 15,000 pesos to respondents Sobrinos de Ezquiaga."
And again, speaking on the same subject:
"We fail to see the force of the claim that Van Syckel
put in a mere credit or mortgage debt, as an asset of this
firm, the business of which was to carry on a dairy, and
it looks ridiculous to say that these respondents simply
invested in half of an interest-bearing mortgage. Van
Syckel himself had been using this ranch for some time

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

previous, for this same purpose as a dairy ranch and the
firm continued to use it for the same purpose for some time
thereafter. The firm could not ordinarily promote a dairy
business by simply owning a mortgage which might be
paid off any moment, so it seems to us to be plain that
Van Syckel intended to include the possession which included the lease in the assets of the firm."
And this conclusion as to the ownership of the lease by
the firm as the result of the formation of the partnership
was reinforced by the following statements as to the conduct of the partners, their knowledge of the business, their
participation therein, the accounts rendered concerning
the same and the profits distributed. The court said:
"There is not a word of evidence in the case which shows
that P. Van Syckel & Company ever paid any rent to Paul
Van Syckel for this lease, or have ever given him any
credit for any such rent or that Van Syckel ever asked the
firm to so give him credit for any rent, although it is in
evidence that Sobrinos de Ezquiaga sent Van Syckel numerous statements of their accounts of the firm's business
while he was then living in Cuba."
And again:
"The overwhelming weight of the evidence in the case,
shows that Paul Van Syckel was just as prominent and
even a much more active party than Sobrinos de Ezquiaga
was in all defense against, or attacks upon Montilla. A
.reading of the correspondence that is in evidence will convince any one of this."
Indeed, the conclusive effect of the comprehensive findings of the court concerning the ownership by the partnership of the alleged lease is fully illustrated by finding
XIV, a portion of which we quote, and finding XVII.
"XIV.
"The said Paul Van Syckel during his lifetime agreed
with Sobrinos de Ezquiaga by the terms of his partnership
voL. ccxxxi-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

in the firm of P. Van Syckel & Company and otherwise
that said firm of P. Van Syckel & Company should be the
sole and exclusive owners of the said farm 'Santa Cruz,'
free and clear of any claims upon the part of said Paul Van
Syckel by reason of said lease of June 23, 1897. .
"
'"XVII.
"The evidence in this case is clear, unequivocal and convincing that this lease of June 23, 1897, was to have no life
or effect as between the parties in their accounting during
or after the date of the partnership, but that the same was
merged in the fee at the time of the adjudication thereof to
said partnership of P. Van Syckel & Company, if not
before."
Absolutely demonstrating, as these findings do, the
want of merit in the contention that there was error in
holding that the lease had no existence, if there was power
to make and give effect to the finding, we come to consider
those questions which at the outset we pointed out, are
.the only issues in the case.
Passing whether the face of the notarial acts to which
we have referred do not-ir. and of themselves fully establish the transfer of the lease by Van Syckel to the firm and
its extinguishment by confusion as the result of the purchase at the foreclosure sale, but without intimating any
opinion whatever to the contrary, let us consider the subject in a somewhat narrower aspect.
Undoubtedly, under the local law (Laws of Porto Rico,
1905, p. 70), if there was intrinsic ambiguity, the right to
resort to extraneous proof to dispel it obtained; that is
proof, to use the words of § 28. of the statute, showing" the
circumstances under which it (the document or contract)
was made, including the situation of the. subject of the
instrument, and of the parties to it . . . so that the
judge be placed in the position of those whose language
he is to interpret."

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Was there then such ambiguity in the articles of partnership concerning the method of carrying on the business
for which the partnership was organized as to justify the
admission of explanatory proof?
The articles leave no doubt concerning what the business
of the partnership was to be, that is, the carrying on of a
dairy and the purchase of cattle; but there is nothing in
the articles which 'expressly shows where and how the
proposed business of the firm was to be conducted, and
when light on this subject is sought from the implications
of the text, to say the least, such a state of mental uncertainty is engendered as plainly justifies the resort to proof
to clear up the ambiguity. We say this because in the first
place the property, one-half of which was bought from
Van Syckel by Sobrinos de Ezquiaga and the whole of
which was then put by the joint owners into the firm as
its sole capital in trade, on the face of the paper appeared
to be an inventory of the assets and property of a preexisting business, which,, from the nature and character
of a large part of the tangible property sold, was a dairy
and cattle business. In the second place because included
in the articles bought was a sum of money stated to be
"value of working capital" which so persuasively suggests
the present purpose to continue an existing business as
beyond all doubt to justify proof as to the situation of the
parties and of the subject-matter to which the contract
related. The proof then being admissible and establishing
that Van Syckel was engaged in a dairy and cattle business
upon the Santa Cruz property and that the assets and
capital, one-half of which he sold, constituted the plant
and assets -of such business, which the firm continued to
conduct, the question is, Was there such ambiguity in
the contract as to the transfer of the lease as to again
justify proof beyond the terms of the instrument to clear
up that situation? Of this also we think there can be no
dofibt, for the following reason: The inclusion among the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

transferred assets of the debt secured by mortgage upon
the Santa Cruz property and the dominancy of that debt
as to the lease, in and of itself creates obscurity as to
whether, by the transfer of the paramount right, it was
not contemplated to also pass to the firm the subordinate
lease right, and that ambiguity becomes more apparent
when it is considered that the established business was
carried on by means of the Santa Cruz property and that
possession of that property was necessarily a prerequisite
to the continued conduct of the business. Indeed, this
ambiguity becomes all the more marked when it is borne
in mind that the interdependence of the lease and the
mortgage was so great that the judicial power had compelled a transfer to Van, Syckel of the mortgage because
he was thb owner of the lease. Certainly, as the possession
of the Santa Cruz property for the purpose of the business
was essential and that possession could only be enjoyed
by the firm as a consequence of the right to the lease or the
rights to be possibly acquired as the result of the foreclosure of the mortgage, the inquiry as to whether one or
both rights were intended to be embraced was essential
to a comprehension of the contract, and its solution was
made so ambiguous by' particular provisions of the contract as to justify proof for its clarification. This arises
from the provision requiring the transfer of the mortgage
to a third person by legal subrogation in the event Montilla should so exact. The resulting ambiguity is apparent
since in such event, unless the mortgage was subordinated
by agreement or by operation of law to the lease, the destruction or impairment of the rights, which it was the
obvious intention of the partnership to create, becomes
self-evident. So also unless the firm owned the lease it
would have no interest to subordinate the mortgage to the
lease and in the event the right of legal subrogation was
exercised and the mortgage, by operation of law, passed
to a third person, such person, unless the partnership

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

owned the lease, would hold the mortgage as paramount to
the lease and therefore have the power to destroy it. Indeed the duty to admit the proof, we think, would equally
result if attention be not confined to the articles df partnership but be extended to those articles in conjunction
with "the postponement agreement," the foredlosure sale,
the extension of the partnership and the other notarial

documents to which we have referred. But we do not
deem it necessary to elaborate this view, as what we have
said is adequate to demonstrate the want of merit in the
contention that the controlling findings of fact made by
the court below were as a matter of law void because of a
want of power in the court to consider the proof upon
which the findings were based.
This leaves only for consideration the contention that
the action of the court wits erroneous because it gave
effect to fraud and deceit, imd enabled the defendants to
recover by alleging their own turpitude. Before we approach that subject, however, we dispose of another
matter to which considerable attention was devoted in the
argument at bar.
During the course of the trial Sefior Vacuna, who had
been the attorney of Sobrinos de Ezquiaga, of Van Syckel
and of the partnership, was offered as a witness to prove
that "the postponement agreement" was advised by him
and was executed as a mere precautionary -measure to
protect the interest of the firm in the lease, that is, to
preserve the lease in case, by an adverse decision in the
Montilla suits, the foreclosure proceedings were annulled
and the firm deprived of its resulting ownership of the
property. :In other words, that the purpose was to leave
the lease in such a position upon the public records that if
it should result from the Montilla suits that the title resting upon the foreclosure was destroyed the lease would not
be treated as having been extinguished by confusion because on the records the ownership of the property and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the ownership of the lease had been in one and the same
person. The court heard the witness over objection based
upon the privileged character of the matter sought to be
proved, and the form in which it was attempted to be
elicited. But we do not think we need consider the subject because we are clearly of opinion, in view of the findings of the court concerning the sale of the lease to the
partnership and its other findings of fact, that it is wholly
immaterial to pass upon the objection because even if it be
assumed for argument's sake to have been well taken,
prejudicial error under the circumstances did not result.
The weight of the contention as to deceit, fraud and wrongdoing is placed upon the postponement agreement, but in
view of the ownership by the partnership of the lease and
the fact that Van Syckel, although he had disposed of the
lease, still remained upon the public records as its owner,
we fail to perceive the slightest foundation for the contention as to fraud or wrong or deceit, resulting from the
postponement agreement as applied to those who were
parties to it. As the holder of both the lease and the mortgage, the firm had the right to seek to prevent the destruction of the one right by the enforcement of the other, a
destruction which would have been, threatened by a resort
to foreclosure if the agreement to postpone the mortgage
to *the lease had not been put upon the records. This is
obvious for this reason: If upon the records, the mortgage
had continued to occupy a dominant position as to the
lease, it would have resulted that the lease would have
been extinguished by a sale to foreclose the mortgage and
therefore if at such a sale, a third person had bought the
mortgaged property, such purchaser would have taken
the property free from the lease and the firm by the act of
enforcing its mortgage would necessarily have extinguished
its lease. Under these circumstances there is no ground
for charging fraud and wrong-doing, simply because the
parties sought in a lawful mode to protect their legal rights.

VAN SYCKEL v. ARSUAGA.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In its last analysis the whole argument rests upon the
assumption that because the parties to the contracts did
not change the public records so as to cause them to conform to their contracts, they lost the right as between
themselves to enforce their contract obligations, a proposition which is refuted by its mere statement. Looking at
all the transactions from first to last,-the silence of the
articles of partnership as to the lease, the act of postponement, the foreclosure proceedings, the extension of the
partnership and the subsequent dealings, we can discover
no ground by which it can be justly said that the parties
were guilty of wrongdoing. The existence of the Montilla
suits assailing the title to the property as well as the validity of the lease suffices to explain the constant purpose to
retain on the public records divergent ownership of the
two-when in fact they were united in one person-lest
the loss of one, the title, might carry with it by confusion
the loss of the other, the lease, because both had been on
the record in the name of the same person. Admitting
that if the title had been vacated, the benignity of the law
by the application of the principle of restitutio in integrum
would have prevented the loss of the lease by confusion
and therefore the fear of the partners was unnecessary,
that fact does not justify treating them as wrongdoers or
characterizing their acts as fraudulent.
Indeed, when it is considered that the controversy is
between partners and concerns acts in which they all bore
an equal part, and that the charge of fraud is advanced
to sustain the asserted right of one partner to recover, to
the detriment of the other partners, property which he
sold to the partnership and for which he was paid without
a return of the price, the want of merit in the contention
becomes apparent.
Affirmed.

