MONSON v. SIMONSON.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

latter, Anc invested with authority to construct and maintain levees to protect lands within its limits from overflow
by the waf;ers of the Mississippi River, and to levy and
colie ,t taxes and take other measures to that end. Laws
Ark., 1893, pp. 24, 119. It was essentially a subordinate
agency of the State, was exercising a power of the State
for its convenience, could have no will contrary to the will
of the State, held its property and revenue for public
purposes, and was in all respects subject to the State's
paramount authority. In view of this relation, we are
quite clear that the State's action was binding upon the
district, and that the latter could not by its subsequent
deed to the plaintiff invest her with a title which it no
longer possessed. In this respect the case is not distinguishable from Rogers Locomotive Works v. Emigrant Company, 164 U. S. 559, 576, 577.
We conclude, therefore, that the plaintiff was without
title and could not maintain the suit. This renders it
unnecessar 'r to consider whether, in point of Federal law,
the riparian rights asserted by the defendants are ill or
well founded.
Decree affirmed.

MONSON v. SIMONSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 14.

Submitted October 30, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Restrictions on alienation imposed by ยง 5 of the act of February 8,
1887, 24 Stat. 388, c. 119, on an illotment to a Sisseton and Walipeton
Indian remained until the actual issuing of patent carrying full and
unrestricted title, and were not removed instantly on its passage
by an act of Congress permitting the Secretary of the Interior to
issue such a patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

An act of Congress authorizing and empowering the Secretary of the
Interior to shorten the period of alienation of an Indian allotment
construed in this case as being permissive only and not effecting the
removal of the restrictions prior to the actual issuing of the patent
by the Secretary.

A deed by an Indian of an allotment subject to restrictions on alienation is absolutely void if made before final patent, even if made after
passage of an act of Congress permitting the Secretary of the Interior to issue such patent; nor does the unrestricted title subsequently acquired by the allottee under the patent inure to the benefit
of the grantee. Starr v. Long Jim, 227 U. S.613.
A state statute cannot make a deed the basis of subsequently acquired
title to Indian allotment lands when the Federal statute has pronounced such a deed entirely void.
22 So. Dak. 238, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the title to land allotted to
an Indian of the Sisseton and Wahpeton tribe under the
act of February 8, 1887, and the effect of subsequent
action by Congress in regard thereto on the restrictions
against alienation, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. M. D. Munn and Mr. Chester L. Caldwell for plaintiff inerror.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTicE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a suit to determine conflicting claims to the
title to 160 acres of land in Roberts County, South Dakota.
Both parties claim through Henry A. Quinn, an Indian
of the Sisseton and Wahpeton tribe, to whom the land
was allotted under the act of Congress of February 8,
1887, 24 Stat. 388, c. 119, the fifth section of which,
omitting portions not here material, reads as follows:
"That upon the approval of the allotments provided

MONSON v. SIMONSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for in this act by the Secretary of the Interior, he shall
cause patents to issue therefor in the name of the allottees,
which patents shall be of the legal effect, and declare
that the United States does and will hold the land thus
allotted, for the period of twenty-five years, in trust for
the sole use and benefit of the Indian to whom such allotment shall have been made, or, in case of his decease, of
his heirs according to the laws of the State or Territory
where such land is located, and that at the expiration of
said period the United States will convey the same by
patent to aid Indian, or his heirs as afoi'esaid, in fee,
discharged of said trust and free of all charge or incumbrance whatsoever: Provided, That the President of the
United States may in any case in his discretion extend
the period. And if any conveyance shall be made of the
lands set apart and allotted as herein provided, or any
contract made touching the same, before the expiration
of the time above mentioned, such conveyance or contract
shall be absolutely null and void."
In 1889, following the approval of the allotment, a
trust patent or allotment certificate, conforming to this
statute, was duly issued to the allottee; and on March 3,
1905, nine years before the expiration of the trust period,
Congress incorporated in the Indian appropriation act
of that date (33 Stat. 1048, 1067, c. 1479) the following
provision:
"That the Secretary of the Interior'is hereby authorized
and empowered to issue a patent to Henry A. Quinn
for the east half of the northwest quarter, the northeast
quarter of the southwest quarter, and the northwest
quarter of the southeast quarter of section thirty-two,
township one hundred and twenty-five north, range
fifty west of the fifth principal meridian, South Dakota."
The land so described is that covered by the allotment,
and a patent therefor, passing the full and unrestricted
title, was issued to the allottee by the Secretary of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Interior, June 29, 1905, in the exercise of the authority
and power given by this provision.
Upon the trial it appeared that the plaintiff claimed
under two warranty deeds from the allottee, one made
and acknowledged May 31, 1905, and recorded June 2,
following, and the other purporting to have been made
May 30, and acknowledged July 3, 1905, but not recorded.
The defendant claimed under a deed from the Allottee
executed and delivered July 10, 1905, and recorded the
same day. The matters in controversy were, (1) whether
the plaintiff's deed of May 31 was void because made
and delivered before the unrestricted patent was issued,
(2) the real date of the acknowledgment and delivery of
the plaintiff's unrecorded deed and whether it was void
for the like reason, and (3) whether the defendant purchased with notice of the plaintiff's claim under the latter
deed. That deed was admitted in evidence over the objection of the defendant, and the ruling was made the
subject of a special exception.
The trial court found the issues for the plaintiff, and
while the finding made no mention of his deed of May 31,
it did recite that his unrecorded deed was executed and
delivered July 3, 1905; that he was in actual and open
possession from that date until after the date of the deed
to the defendant; and that the latter purchased with notice
of the plaintiff's claim. Upon this finding a judgment was
entered quieting the title in the plaintiff, and shortly
thereafter a motion to vacate the judgment and for a new
trial was interposed by the defendant, supported by divers
affidavits purporting to set forth newly discovered evidence tending to discredit the plaintiff's unrecorded deed
and the claim that it was acknowledged and delivered
July 3, 1905. The motion was denied, and the defendant
appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, which
affirmed both the judgment and the order denying the
motion. 22 So. Dak. 238. The affirnance was put upon

MONSON v. SIMONSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the ground that the plaintiff's deed of May 31 was valid,
and, being a warranty deed purporting to convey the land
in fee simple, the title subsequently acquired through
the unrestricted patent inured to the plaintiff by operation
of a statute of the State. Rev. Civil Code, ยง 947, subd. 4.
Reaching that conclusion, the court deemed it unnecessary
to consider or decide the questions presented respecting
the plaintiff's unrecorded deed and the effect to be given
to it.
The Federal question presented for decision by us is,
whether the restrictions upon alienation imposed upon the
allottee by ยง 5 of the act of 1887 were instantly removed
by the act of March 3, 1905, or remained in force until
the issuing of the patent carrying the full and unrestricted title. The defendant sought to maintain the latter
view, but the state court sustained the other.
The act of 1887 was adopted as part of the Government's
policy of dissolving the tribal relations of the Indians, distributing their lands in severalty, and conducting the individuals from a state of dependent wardship to one of full
emancipation with its attendant privileges and burdens.
Realizing that so great a change would require years for
its accomplishment and that in the meantime the Indians
should be safeguarded against their own improvidence,
Congress, in prescribing by the act of 1887 a system for
allotting the lands in severalty whereby the Indians would
be established in individual homes, was careful to avoid
investing the allottee with the title in the first instance,
and directed that there should be issued to him what is
inaptly termed a patent (United States v. Rickert, 188
U. S. 432, 436), but is in reality an allotment certificate,
declaring that for a period of twenty-five years, or such
enlarged period as the President should direct, the United
States would hold the allotted land in trust for the sole
use and benefit of the allottee, or, in case of his death,
of his heirs, and at the expiration of that period would

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 IT S.

convey to him by.patent the fee, discharged of the trust
and free of any charge or incumbrance; and, as a safeguard against improvident conveyances or contracts
made in anticipation of the ultimate or real patent, it was
expressly provided that any. conveyance of the land,
or any contract touching the same, made before the expiration of the trust period should be absolutely null and void.
It is thus made plain that it was the intention of Congress
that the title should remain in the United States during
the entire trust period, and that, when conveyed to the
allottee or his heirs by the ultimate patent at the expiration of that period, it should be unaffected by any prior
conveyance or contract touching the land.
It also is plain that, in the absence of further and permissive legislation, the Secretary of the Interior was without authority to shorten the trust period and at once invest
the allottee with the title in fee. Recognizing that this
was so, and for reasons deemed sufficient, Congress, by
the provision in the act of March 3, 1905, clothed the
Secretary with such authority with respect to this allotment. That provision says: "The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a
patent'" to the allottee. By "patent " is meant, of course,
the ultimate patent passing the. fee, for the trust patent
or allotment certificate had issued sixteen years before.
The language of the provision is permissive, not mandatory, and evidently was designed to enable the Secretary
to shorten the trust period, by issuing the final patent,
if in his judgment it seemed wise, but not to require him
to do so. And it is significant that the provision contains
no words directly or presently removing the existing restrictions upon alienation, while other kindred provisions
in the same act, relating to other allotments, contain the
words "and all restrictions as to sale, incumbrance, or
taxation of said lands are hereby removed." It hardly
can be said that the absence of those words in this instance

MONSON v. SIMONSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and their presence in others is not indicative of a difference in meaning and purpose. We conclude that the restrictions upon alienation contained in the act of 1887
were not instantly removed by the act of 1905, but remained in force as to this allotment until the Secretary
of the Interior, in the exercise of the authority conferred
by the latter act, terminated the trust period by issuing
the final patent passing the fee.
As that patent was issued June 29, 1905, and as the
deed from the allottee upon which alone the judgment of
affirmance was rested was made and delivered May 31,
preceding, it follows that this deed was, in the language
of the statute, absolutely null and void, and that the title
subsequently acquired by the allottee through the final
patent could not inure to the plaintiff in virtue of his being
the grantee in that deed. See Starrv. Long Jim, 227 U. S.
613, 624. A state statute could not make it the basis
of passing subsequently acquired title when the Federal
statute pronounces it entirely void. See Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 436, 450; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 99.
The judgment is accordingly reversed and the cause
remanded, but without prejudice to the power of the
Supreme Court of the State to proceed to a determination
of the questions which were left open by its opinion. See
Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 635-636.
Judgment reversed.

