OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

On motion of the City a special master was appointed to
take proof and report the amount collected by the company between the latter date and March 8, 1909, and,
subsequently after an interchange of views between court
and counsel, the order of March 10, 1913, was made. It
will be observed, therefore, that an actual experiment
of the rates had been voluntarily undertaken and had
been ifi effect for more than eight months before the order,
under review was entered, and the court conceived that
observation of the experiment might secure greater accuracy and confidence in the result, and, besides, inform
the court of matters as they progressed.
We repeat, we think the court did not exceed the discretion permitted, and the rule is
Discharged.

IN RE ENGELHARD & SONS COMPANY,

PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND RULE.
No. 12, Onginal.

Argued November 10, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

In a suit by a public utility corporation to enjoin enforcement of rates
claimed to be confiscatory, the municipality is the proper party to be
made defendant, and as such it can represent all parties interested.
The only mode of judicial relief against unreasonable rates is by suit
against the governmental authority which established them or is
charged with the duty of enforcing them.
It is not competent for each individual having dealings with a regulated public utility corporation to raise a contest in the courts over
questions which can be settled in a general and conclusive manner.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418.
Where a telephone company has sued the municipality to enjoin rates
as confiscatory and an injunction has been granted upon the cornpany paying into a fund the excess collected from the subscribers, the

IN RE ENGELHARD.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

municipality is the proper party to represent all the subscribers on a
reference to determine the amount of refund to which each is entitled
after the rates. have been held not confiscatory and the injunction
dissolved.
Under such conditions a single subscriber cannot represent all the
subscribers as a class and the court is not compelled under Equity
Rule 38 to allow him to. intervene.
In this case, the court below having acted within its discretion in refusihg a petition for leave to intervene, mandamus to compel it to grant
the petition is refused.

THE facts, which involve the right and power of a
municipality to represent the residents and citizens having
contracts with a public utilities corporation in a suit
brought by such corporation to enjoin as confiscatory,
rates established by ordinance of the municipality, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Clayton B. Blakey, with whom Mr. Huston Quin
was on the brief, for petitioner.

Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey and Mr. W. L. Granbery,
with whom Mr. Hunt Chipley was on the brief, for re-

spondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This petition was argued and submitted with No. 11,
Original and prays a mandamus issue commanding respondent to vacate the order made March 10, 1913, in
the suit then and now pending, brought by the Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Company against the City of
Louisville, in so far as it denied to petitioner the right to
sue for all subscribers of the Telephone & Telegraph Company similarly situated with petitioner, who paid the Telephone & Telegraph Company, during the pendency of
the injunction against a certain 'rate ordinance enacted

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

by the city, sums in excess of the rates fixed in the ordinance, and commanding him to enter an order permitting
petitioner to sue for and represent and act in behalf of
such subscribers with respect to the restitution of the
sums so collected.
If this cannot be done, then petitioner prays for a rule
on said Judge to show cause why a mandamus shall not
issue to grant petitioner an appeal prayed for from the
order of March 10, 1913, and refused by him.
The petition recites the proceedings in the District
Court substantially as they are recited in the petition in*
In re City of Louisville. It adds these details: That while
the injunction was in force at least 8000 of the subscribers
of the Telephone Company paid for its service sums in
excess of the amounts fixed by the ordinance; that the
amounts paid by them ranged from $5.00 to $100.00, the
majority of the payments being less than $20.00. The total
amount so paid will exceed $100,000. None of the subscribers were parties to the litigation, and petitioner, on
September 28, 1912, presented and asked to have filed a
bill of intervention in the cause and that it might be permitted to sue for and represent all of the subscribers who
had so paid the Telephone Company. The petition was
refused.
That on February 15, 1913, and after the new equity
rules had been promulgated by this court, petitioner
again moved for leave to file its bill of intervention and
for leave to sue in behalf of all of such subscribers. The
motion was denied.
A petition for an appeal was presented and denied on
April 18, 1913.
That during the time the Telephone Company collected
rates from its subscribers in excess of the new ordinance
rates some of the subscribers had business telephones on
a direct line, and some on a party line; some had residence
telephones on a direct line'and others on a party line. All

IN RE ENGELHARD.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the subscribers who paid the excess rates paid them
under identically similar circumstances, and in the same
situation with respect to their right to have the Telephone Compaidy restore the excess. The petitioner had
a telephone on a party line and more than 3000 of the
subscribers of the company had the same kind of telephone.
That the effect of the Order of the court is to deny the
right of the subscribers to be represented in the cause
upon the correctness of the master's report, which will
be filed in the next thirty days, and their rights will be
finally adjudicated without allowing them to appear or
have their day in court. There are 8000 subscribers thus
situated who have no adequate remedy against the action
of the court, but mandamus.
A copy of the complaint in intervention is attached to
the petition. It sets out the facts as in the petition, but
more in detail, with additions in an attempt to show a
common interest in all of the subscribers to the right of
petitioner to appear for itsEf and for them. It prays that
petitioner be made a party to the cause for itself and the
other subscribers; that the Telephone Company, upon the
coming in of the master's report, pay into the court the
sums collected in excess of the ordinance rates, with interest at 6 per cent., to be distributed for the benefit of
those concerned. The bill of intervention was permitted
to be filed so far as to permit petitioner to assert its own
claim, but so far as it prayed to be permitted to act or
claim for any other but itself its prayer was denied,
with the privilege, however, to renew the same upon
making it appear to the court that it had authority
from "other specifically named claimants" to act for
them.
The basis of petitioner's contention is that it has a
common interest with the other subscribers of the Telephone Company and may therefore intervene for itself

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

and for them. Equity Rule 381 is cited to sustain the contention. Petitioner is not seeking, however, as it says,
"for itself or for any one the recovery of a specific portion
of the fund." The alternative of this would seem to be
the assertion of a right to intervene and become a party
to all the controversies upon which the fund may depend,
and this may mean either in conjunction with the city or
independently of it, and, it may be, in exclusion of it.
It is said that the city is acting only for the good of the
public but that that is not "the criterion to determine
whether the parties in interest have the representation to
which they are entitled." It is further said that however
earnest the city may be to obtain restitution to the subscriberstof the Telephone Company, it might not appeal
from an adverse ruling. Who is going to represent the
subscribers, it is asked, upon the question of fees to the
master and the costs, and the costs on appeal, and who
raise the question of interest? This enumeration presents
the purpose of the petition for intervention. In other
words, the apprehension is expressed and made a basis
of the petition for leave to intervene, that the city, which
has so far conducted the litigation-and with successmay or will relax its attention and energy to the detriment
of petitioner and the other subscribers of the company.
This does not present a very strong plea against the discretion the court exercised, supposing the court had discretion to grant or refuse the petition.
It is contended, however, that the court had no discretion but to grant the petition and that Equity Rule 38 was
peremptory of the right of petitioner. It recognizes the
principle, it is said, "that the rights of persons should not
be passed upon unless such persons are before the court or
are represented by some one who is interested similarly
ISee 226 U. S., Appendix, p. 11, for Equity Rule No. 38, at
length.

IN RE ENGELHARD.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with them." And cases are cited which, it is urged, also
recognize and illustrate the principle.
We have given due consideration to the cited cases and
the argument of counsel, and we are of opinion that the
District Court did not exceed its discretion in making the
order under review. The city was the proper party to
make defendant in the suit as representative of all interested, and so throughout the whole proceedings. If we
may suppose in a case like the present one there can be a
distinction between the public interest and private interest, the subscribers of the company being the public, the
representation of both interests was adequately fulfilled.
It was in consequence of the motion of the city that the
telephone company agreed to keep account of charges in
excess of the ordinance rates, and, if they should finally
be decided to be illegal, to pay into court the excess sums
for distribution among its subscribers. It was the representative of all interests to provide for the creation of the
fund; it is properly the representative of all interests to see
to its proper distribution. This is a necessary deduction
from the cases. It is the universal practice, sustained by
authority, that the only mode of judicial relief against
unreasonable rates is by suit against the governmental
authority which established them or is charged with the
duty of enforcing them. As was said by Mr. Justice
Miller, in Chicago, Mil. & St. P. Railway Co. v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 418, 460, it was not competent for each individual having dealings with the regulated company
"to raise a contest in the courts over the questions which
ought to be settled in this general and conclusive way."
The rule has been repeated in subsequent cases.
Indeed, what issue is involved except that of the main
suit-the character of the rates-that needs the intervention of petitioner? As to who are subscribers of the company, there can be no controversy, nor as to the amounts to
be returned to them. Both names and amounts could be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Appellee.

231 U. S.

indeed had been, ascertained by the master, under an
order made upon motion of the city. Petitioner, however,
was not able to produce authority from any subscriber to
appear for him, notwithstanding the order of respondent
permitted petitioner to renew its motion whenever it
should "be made to appear to the court in any appropriate
way that other specifically named claimants" desired
\petitioner to act for them. And yet, against these facts,
against, as counsel for respondent says, the possibility of a
presumption that the other subscribers of the telephone
company do not desire petitioner to represent them, it
prays a mandamus to compel such representation.
We cannot yield to the prayer.
Rule discharged.

CITY OF LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 538.

Argued November 10, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Decided on authority of In re Louisville, ante, p. 639.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Pendleton Beckley, with whom Mr. J. W. S. Clements and Mr. Stuart Chevalier were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey and Mr. W. L. Granbery,
with whom Mr. Hunt Chipley was on the brief, for appellee.

