OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 V. S.

This case was consolidated by the court, against the
objection of the insurance company, with the trial of the
case of the same plaintiff against the Prudential Insurance
C'ompany. This action of the court was based on ยง 921
of the Revised Statutes which provides that "causes of a
like nature or relative to the same questions" may be
consolidated "when it appears reasonable to do so."
The action of the court is assigned as error. We doubt if
it was reasonable to consolidate the cases. We need not,
however, pass definitely on that point, as we direct a new
trial on other grounds.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the District
Court for a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

PRUDENTIAL
INSURANCE
COMPANY
AMERICA v. MOORE, ADMINISTRATOR
SALGUE.

OF
OF

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 47.

Argued November 6, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.

Aetna InsuranceCo. v. Moore, ante, p. 543; followed to effect that it was
error not to charge the jury that a statement made by.an applicant
for life insurance that he had never been rejected by any company,
association or agent after he had withdrawn an application on the
advice of the medical adviser with knowledge that the company
for whom the examination was made would reject him, is material
and untruthful.
Where the policy itself expressly provides that it cannot be varied by
anyone except an officer of the company issuing it, the company is

PRUDENTIAL INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not estopped to contest the policy on the ground of misrepresentations or concealment in the application because its agent has knowledge of actual conditions.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and

judgment on a policy of life insurance, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Eugene R. Black, with whom Mr. Sanders McDaniel and Mr. Edward D. Duffield were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Minter Wimberly, with whom Mr. Alexander
Akerman and Mr. Jesse Harris were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action upon a policy of insurance for $5,000 issued by
petitioner, herein called the insurance company, upon the
life of John Andrew Salgue. It was consolidated and
tried with the case against the Aetna Company, and resulted in a verdict for the amount of the policy, upon
which judgment was entered. It was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals and the case was then brought
here. Though consolidated in the District Court with
the other case, it is here upon a separate record and submitted upon a separate argument. It, however, involves
some of the same fundamental questions.
Salgue, in his application for insurance, declared and
warranted that he was in good health and that all the
statements and answers to the questions put to him were
complete and true, and that the declaration should constitute a part of the contract of insurance applied for.
He further agreed that the policy should not take effect
VOL. CCXXXT-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

until the same should be issued and delivered by the company while his health was in the same condition as described in the application.
Certain provisions were made part of the policy, among
others, that "no agent has power in behalf of the company
to make or modify this or any contract of insurance,
to extend the time for paying a premium, to waive any
forfeiture or to bind the company by making any promise,
or making or receiving any presentation or information."'
On the medical examination he declared as follows:
"I hereby warrant that the answers to these questions
are true and correct, and agree that they shall form a
part of the contract of insurance applied for." The questions in the application and the answers thereto were as
follows:
"Has any company or association ever declined to
grant insurance on your life, or issue a policy of a different
kind or for a sum less than that applied for?"
Answer: "No."
"If 'yes,' give name of company or companies and
when."
(No answer was given to this question.)
"Is application for insurance on your life pending at
this time in any other company; if so, give the name of
the company."
Answer: "Yes; Provident Savings Life."
"When were you last attended by a physician?"
Answer: "Early spring of 1905."
"For what complaint?"
Answer: "Bilious fever, two days."
"Have you ever had any serious illness?"
Answer: "No."
"Are you in good health?"
Answer: "Yes."
There was testimony in the case tending to show that
these answers were untrue; that he had chronic acid

PRUDENTIAL INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gastritis and heart diseasB and that other applications
for insurance were pending, and others not granted. And
it is urged that, the answers to the questions above .stated
being in the negative, he omitted to answer other questions
which were material to be answered in order to make his
statement complete and truthful; that, therefore, his
omission to answer amounted to a fraudulent concealment.
Error is assigned on the ruling of the court refusing to
direct a verdict for the insurance company and refusing
certain special instructions.
The policy is conceded to be a Georgia contract and it
is contended that the warranties contained in. the application were all material to the risk and that they were all
broken (1) because the evidence showed that the answers
to the questions were false, thereby avoiding the policy;
(2) the policy was not delivered to Salgue while he was in
good health, that being a condition precedent to its taking
effect, and (8) the policy was void by reason of incomplete and untruthful answers. This, it is urged, is the
effect of the Georgia law, which, while it modifies the
imperative character of statements by an applicant for
insurance as warranties, yet provides that any variation
from the facts stated "by which the nature, or extent, or
character of the risk is changed will void the policy."
Section 2479, Code of Georgia.
The insurance company, therefore, to sustain its contention that a verdict should have been directed for it,
must establish that the representations were material
to the risk and that they were untrue. Whether they were
untrue is a question of fact and as the proposition of law
which the insurance company relies upon is exhibited by
the special request we shall pass to the consideration of
the latter. It presents the question of the materiality
of Salgue's statements to the risk as one of law. The
court submitted it to the jury as a question of fact and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

made as elements of decision Salgue's motive, his good
or bad faith, his mistake or fraud in making the representations. This, we think, is the sense conveyed by the
charge of the court, as we said in Aetna Life Ins. Co. v.
Moore, just decided, notwithstanding there are here and
there qualifying words and a distinction made between
misrepresentation of facts and the concealment of them.
A few excerpts from the charge will illustrate this. After
defining a warranty the court said: "On the other hand,
representations are statements made to give information
to the insurer, and otherwise induce it to enter into the
insurance contract and unless distinctly material and made
with fraudulent purpose (italics ours), do not void the
policy. . . . Substantial integrity of conduct on the
part of both insurer and insured is the prime object the
law seeks to obtain. . . . The law of Georgia, while
requiring that every application for insurance must be
made in the utmost good faith, and that representations
are considered as covenanted to be true, otherwise the
policy will be voided, also provides that a failure to state
a material fact, if not done fraudulently, does not void
the policy. On the other hand, the wilful and fraudulent
concealment of such a fact which would enhance the risk
of the company will have the effect to void it. What is
here stated to be true of wilful concealment is also true
of wilful misrepresentation by the applicant to his agent
as to any material inquiry made. It follows that under
the law of Georgia, a misrepresentation in statement or
a concealment of fact must first be material, or must
be Wilfully or fraudulently made in order to annul the insurance."
After further explanation, the court said:
"These are the general principle,. To make them distinctly applicable to your duty, you are instructed that
you must determine from all the facts, first, did Salgue
make a misrepresentation or concealment of a fact of

PRUDENTIAL INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which he had knowledge? If he did not, the defense on
this point must fail. Second, if he did, was such misrepresentation or concealment so material that it would
have influenced one or both f the defendants not to issue
the policy of insurance upon 'the respective applications?
And, third, in connection with this your inquiry will be,
if such material misrepresentation or concealment as
would have caused the defendants or either of them to
withhold insurance was made, was it by Salgue wilfully
or fraudulently done. In the abseftce of wilful or fraudulent misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact,
the policy stands good and the insurance company must
pay what it promised to pay by its policy, when it accepted
the premium of the applicant."
This being the charge of the court, wherein did it militate against the special request which is as follows:
"The defendant, The Prudential Insurance Company
of America, requests the court to charge as -follows:
"Question 4-B of the application of said John A. Salgue
to the said The Prudential Insurance Company of America
is as follows: 'Has any company or association ever declined to grant insurance on your life or issued a policy
of a different kind or for a sum less than that applied .for?
(Answer 'Yes' or 'No')'. The answer to this question is
'No."
"The defendant insists that this answer is false and
says that the said Salgue in the month of June, 1905,
prior to the time of making this application, applied to
the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company for a policy,
and was declined. If you believe from the evidence that
the said Salgue made application to Anderscn Clark,
the agent for the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company,
for insurance and that this application was signed by the
said Salgue, and that this application was handed by the
said Anderson Clark, as agent for the Penn Mutual Insurance Company, to Dr. Little, Examiner for the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Penn Mutual Company, for examination and that Dr.
Little, as said Examiner, examined the said Salgue and
stated to the said Salgue that he had heart trouble and
that for this reason he could not pass him, then I charge
you that this would amount to a declination by the Penn
Mutual Life Insurance Company of the application for
insurance made to it by the said Salgue, and if you believe
from the evidence that such application was made and that
such declination was made, then I charge you that the
answer of Salgue to this question was false and that it
was warranted to be true and that it was as to a material
matter which would tend to change the nature, extent
and character of the risk assumed and that in this event
plaintiff could not recover."
It is contended that the instruction was ."legal and
pertinent" to the issue and was not incorporated in the
charge of the court. The court, we have seen, did not
incorporate the instruction in its charge, and that the
instruction was legal and pertinent to the issue between the parties is shown by the opinion in the Aetna
Case.
The instruction based on the facts stated was peremptory of the right of the insurance company to recover.
But respondent contends that the requirement was either
void or that the agent of the company wrote down and
reported the answer, knowing the facts, and therefore the
company, is estopped to dispute the correctness of the answer or its completeness. There was testimony in the
case upon which the contention could be based. But the
case was not submitted to the jury in that view. This
phase of the case, as its other phases, was made to turn
upon the good faith of Salgue, not upon the materiality
of the fact or the action of the agent of the insurance
company. The court stated to the jury that the contention
of the insurance company was that the transaction with
the Penn Mutual showed a rejection of Salgue's application

PRUDENTIAL INS. CO. v. MOORE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by that company, "to be determined by the court as a
matter of law." With the contention the court said it
was unable to agree, "and leaves the question to the jury,
it being a mixed question of law and fact."
The testimony in regard to the application to the Penn
Mutual is the same as in the Aetna Case. We need not
repeat it. It may be that it cannot be literally said that
any company or association had rejected an application
by Salgue. If that had been the question, and regarding
sense, rather than form, it could be contended that the
answer wag untruthful. But the question asked Salgue
was broader. He was asked "if any company or association ever declined to grant insurance" on his life, and the
further question was put: "If so, give the name of the
company or companies," to which he gave no answer.
He was also asked, "Is application for life insurance on
your life pending at this time in any other company;
if so, give the name of the company?" To the latter
question he answered: "Yes; Provident Savings Life."
At that time he had an application pending with the
Sun Life Insurance Company of Canada. The answers
were, therefore, not true, and we think that they were material to the risk within the meaning of the Georgia Code.
The Aetna InsuranceCompany v. Moore, ante, p. 543.
It is contended here, as in the Aetna Case, that the company is estopped by the knowledge of the agent, and the
same cases are cited as Were cited there. We answer
here, as we answered there:, that the terms of the policy
constituted the contract of the parties and precluded a
variation of them by the agent. We may, however,
- obsere that Salgue did not inform the medical examiner
in this case, as he did in the Aetna Case, that he was told
he had heart disease. In other words, he made no communication to the examiner which modified in any way
the positive character of his answers to the questions
put to him. The testimony is. conflicting as to the in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

formation he gave to the agent of the company, who, the
evideice shows, prepared the application.
We think, therefore, that the court erred in refusing
the special request.
It is also contended, as it was in the Aetna Case, that the
District Court erred in consolidating the causes, and it
must be admitted that petitioner here has more ground
of complaint of the ruling than the Aetna Company..
We are, however, not required to pass upon the contention, though, as we said in the other case, there are grounds
for it.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded to the District
Court for a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

SEATTLE, RENTON & SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. STATE OF WASHINGTON, EX
REL. LINHOFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OP
WASHINGTON.
No. 107. Argued December 9, 1913.-Decided December 22, 1913.
This court does not sit to revise the construction of documents by the
state courts, *evenif alleged to be contracts within the protection of
the Federal Constitution. Fisher v. New Orleans, 218 U. S. 438.
It takes more than a misconstruction by the state court to make a
case under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The state court, and not this court, is the judge of its own jurisdiction.
This court will not hold that the state court had no jurisdictioii to
determine rights under an ordinance because it had been superseded
by a later ordinance when the latter does not appear in the record,

