DCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

tions concerning the commodity clause as properly arising
for decision and hence do not pass on them, they are not
foreclosed, and hence our action in this case will be without prejudice to the right to assert them in the future
if those having the right to do so are so advised.
Viewing the whole case in a broad light, it is apparent
that the disadvantage under which the Federal Sugar
Refining Company labors is one which arises out of its
disadvantageous location. That disadvantage would still
remain if the title to the Jay Street station was in the
railroad companies, and its business in charge of a third
person.
We fail to find any error in the decree of the Commerce
Court holding the order of the Commission void, and its
decree is accordingly approved.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. GARRETT ET AL., CONSTITUTING
THE RAILROAD COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 23.

Argued April 4, 1912.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The same rule by which the Federal court has jurisdiction to determine
all the questions, local as well as Federal; when a Federal question is.
raised by the bill, governs the application for preliminary injunction
under the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 557.
Unless the case imperatively demands such a decision, this court is
reluctant to adjudge a state statute to be in conflict with the state
constitution before that question has been considered by the state
" Original docket title Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v.
Siler et al., constituting the Railroad Commission of Kentucky.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. F. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U.S.

Syllabus.

tribunals to which the question properly belongs. Michigan Cendral
R. R. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 245.

Prescribing rates for the future is a legislative and not a judicial act.
In prescribing intrastate rates the legislature of a State may act
directly or, in the absence of constitutional restriction, it may commit the authority to do so to a subordinate body; and held that the
legislature of Kentucky by the act of March 10, 1900, properly authorized the Railroad Commission of that State under certain conditions to fix reasonable intrastate rates for railroad transportation in
conformity with the provisions of the constitution of the State.
The legislature may determine what are reasonable rates either directly
or through a subordinate body and use methods like those of judicial
tribunals to elicit facts without inavading the province of the judiciary. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210.

In this case it does not appear that the State Railroad Commission
acted in an arbitrary manner in fixing intrastate railroad rates; nor
was it necessary to give legality to its order as to particular rates established to require a reduction in other rates.
Failure in a state statute establishing a railroad commission and giving
it authority to fix reasonable rates to provide for an appeal from
orders of the commission does not deny the carrier right of access to
the courts to review an order that fixes rates so unreasonably low
as to be confiscatory and is not an unconstitutional denial of due
process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Presumably the State, as well as the Federal, courts are open to a carrier to test the constitutionality of an order made by a railroad commission and to obtain protection by bill in equity against its enforcement if unconstitutional.

Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211

U. S. 265.
Penalties which are so unreasonable and severe as to be an unconstitutional denial of due process of law will not render a rate statute unconstitutional if they are separable, as in this case.
The right of the carrier to make its own intrastate rates is subject
to the constitutionally enacted law of the State; in the absence of a
legislative rate courts apply the common law in passing upon the
reasonableness of the rates, but after legislative rates have been
established the courts apply those rates unless there are constitutional
objections.
So long as the legislature acts within its proper sphere, courts cannot
substitute their judgment with respect to reasonableness of the established rates.
While a State may permit appeals to the courts from the rate making

OCrOBER TERMI,
Counsel.

1913.
231 U. S.

orders of its railroad commission, Prentisv. Atlantic Coast Line, 211
U. S. 210, failure to provide for such an appeal does not deny the
carrier due process of law as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Loss in revenue generally follows reductions in rates but that does
not necessarily prove that the reduced rates are confiscatory; there
must be further proof that they do not allow a fair return for service
rendered.
An order of the Railroad Commission of Kentucky made under the act
of March 10, 1900, is a legislative act under delegated power and
*has the same force as if made by the legislature and is for this reason
a law passed by the State within the meaning of the contract clause
of the Federal Constitution.
A charter provision is not violated under the contract clause by a
subsequent state law otherwise legal, if, prior to the enactment of
the latter, the chartered corporation has subjected itself to the operation of an amendment to the state constitution reserving the power
to alter, amend and repeal charters and franchises.
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, followed to the effect that the
establishment of railroad rates wholly intrastate by a State Railroad
Commission is not an unwarrantable interference with, or a regulation of, interstate commerce.
In an equity suit by a carrier against the members of a State Railroad
Commission to restrain enforcement of a rate order under a statute
which provided for awards of reparation for failure to comply with
the order, the court should not pass upon the validity of any of such
awards made to parties not before the court.
186 Fed. Rep. 176, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
constitution of Kentucky and also under the Constitution
of the United States of the State Railroad Commission
Statute of Kentucky and the legality of orders made by
the Commission, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry L. Stone and Mr. Albert S. Brandeis, with
whom Mr. William G. Dearing and Mr. William A. Colston
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edward W. Hines and Mr. James Garnett, Attorney
General of the State of Kentucky, with whom Mr. Charles

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

301

Opinion of the Court.

C. McChord, Mr., J. Van Norman, Mr. James Breathitt,
former Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, and
Mr. John F. Lockett were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from an order denying a motion for an
interlocutory injunction. Louisville and Nashville Railroad Co. v. Siler, 186 Fed. Rep. 176. The motion was
heard by three judges, and the appeal is taken under
§ 17 of the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 557.
The suit was brought by the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the
laws of Kentucky, to enjoin the enforcement of two orders
made by the Railroad Commission of that State on
August 10, 1910. One of these orders prescribed maximum
freight rates for certain intrastate traffic, that is, for the
transportation of corn, rye, barley, malt, empty barrels,
boxes, etc., from three points of origin, Louisville, Covington and Newport, to sixteen points of destination in
Kentucky. The second order awarded specified amounts
in reparation for payments previously made to the carrier
for such transportation in excess of the rates found to be
reasonable.
For many years the Railroad Company had given
special rates to the owners of distilleries along its lines
in Kentucky for the transportation of the commodities
above mentioned, which constituted their raw materials
and supplies. These rates were withdrawn on March 25,
1910, and what are described as the standard rates of the
company, that is, those which had theretofore been
charged to others than distillers, were substituted. Thereupon, numerous distillery companies complained to the
Railroad Commission of the State, insisting that the new
rates were exorbitant and that the former rates were just

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

and reasonable. After hearing, the Commission sustained
the contention of the petitioners and fixed the maximum
rates in question. These rates were the same as the special
rates which, prior to March 25, 1910, the Railroad Company had given to the distillery companies; but, by the
Commission's order, the rates as fixed Were made applicable to the transportation between the points stated, of
the described commodities without distinction as to persons or as to the use to be made of the commodities by the
consignees.
The statute under which the Commission acted, in
establishing these rates, is that of March 10, 1900, known
as the McChord Act (Kentucky Statutes, § 820a, Carroll's edition, 1909).1 It provides in substance that when
complaint shall be made to ,the Railroad Conmiission,
accusing any railroad company of charging extortionate
rates, or when the Commission shall receive information
or have reason to believe that such rates are being charged,
it shall be its duty "to hear and determine the matter as
speedily as possible." The Commissioners are to give the
company complained of not less than ten days' notice,
stating the time and place of hearing and the nature of the
complaint or matter to be investigated. They "shall hear
such statements, argument or evidence offered by the
parties as the Commission may deem relevant, and should
the Commission determine that the company or -corporation is, or has been, guilty of extortion, said Commission
shall make and fix a just and reasonable rate, toll or compensation, which said railroad company or corporation
may charge, collect or receive for like services thereafter
rendered." The rate so fixed is to be entered as an order
on the record book of the Commission; a copy thereof is
to be mailed to a. representative of the railroad company
' This statute is set forth in full in McChord v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 183
U. S. 483, 484, 485; and in Siler v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 213 U. S. 175,
178-180.

LOUIS. & NASH. R. It. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

303

Opinion of the Cour.

affected, and it is to be "in full force and effect at the
expiration of ten days thereafter, and may be revoked or
modified by an order likewise entered of record." If the
railroad company, or any officer, agent or employd thereof
charges a greater rate for like services thereafter, "said
company . . . and said officer, agent or employ6,
shall each be deemed guilty of extortion, and upon conviction shall be fined for the fitst offence in any sum not
less than five hundred dollars, nor more than one thousand
dollars, and upon a second conviction, in any sum not less
than one thousand dollars nor more than two thousand
dollars, and for a third and succeeding conviction in any
sum not less than two thousand dollars nor more than
five thousand dollars." The Circuit Court, in the appropriate counties as prescribed by the statute, is to have Jurisdiction'of such prosecutions, which are to be by indictment.
The bill attacked the statute, and the action of the
Commission, as violative of the rights secured to the complainant by the Federal Constitution. Objections were
also made under the constitution and statutes of the State.
Demurrers were filed but upon these no decision was made.
The motion for preliminary injunction was heard upon
bill and affidavits. In denying the motion, the court did
not pass upon the validity of the second order as it was
of the opinion that those in. whose favor the award of
reparation had been made were "necessary parties in
interest;" these had not.been brought in. 186 Fed. Rep.
176, 203.
First. The order fixing rates.
Because of the Federal questions raised by the bill the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction and was authorized to deter-.
mine all the questions in the case, local as well as Federal.
Siler v. Louisville & Nashvil!e R. R., 213 U. S. 175, 191.
A similar rule must be deemed to govern the application
for preliminary injunction under the statute which requires a hearing before three judges, and authorizes an

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

appeal to this court. 36 Stat. 557. This statute applies
to cases in which the preliminary injunction is sought in
order to restrain the enforcement of a state enactment
upon the ground of its "unconstitutionality." The -reference, undoubtedly, is to an asserted conflict with the
Federal Constitution, and the question of unconstitutionality, in this sense, must be a substantial one. But,
where such a question is presented, the application is
within the provision, and this being so, it cannot be supposed that it was the intention of Congress to compel the
exclusion of other grounds and thus to require a separate
motion for preliminary injunction, and a separate hearing
and appeal, with respect to the; local questions which are
involved in the case and would properly be the subject of
consideration in determining the propriety of granting
an injunction pending suit. The local questions arising
under the state constitution and statutes were therefore
before the Circuit Court and the appeal brings them here.
They may be first considered.
1. It is objected that the act of March 10, 1900, violates
§§ 27, 28, 109 and 135 of the state constitution 1 by under'The provisions referred to are as follows:
"SECTION 27. The powers of the government of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky shall be divided into three distinct departments, and each
of them be confined to a separate body of magistracy, to wit: Those
which are legislative, to one; those which are executive, to another;
and those which are judicial, to another.
"SECTION 28. No person, or collection of persons, being of one of
those departments, shall exercise any power properly belonging to
either of the others, except in the instances hereinafter expressly
directed or permitted.
"SEcTION 109. The judicial power of the Commonwealth, both as
to matters of law and equity, shall be vested in the Senate when sitting
as a court of.impeachment, and one Supreme Court (to be styled the
Court of Appeals) and the courts established by this Constitution.
"SXcTION 135. No Courts save those provided for in this Constitution, shall be established."

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

taking to confer judicial powers upon the Commission.
By these sections, provision is explicitly made for three
distinct departments of government; the judicial power of
the Commonwealth is vested in the courts established by
the constitution, and no judicial power can be exercised
by any other officer except those thus named unless authorized by some other provision of that instrument.
Roberts v. Hackney, 109 Kentucky, 265, 268; Pratt v.
Breckinridge, 112 Kentucky, 1.
So far as we are advised, the Court of Appeals of Kentucky has not passed upon the validity of the act in question; and this court has often expressed its reluctance to
adjudge a state statute to be in conflict with the constitution of the State before that question has been considered
by the state tribunals-to which it properly belongs-.
unless the case imperatively demands such a decision.
Pelton v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 143, 144; Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Powers, 20]. U. S. 245, 291. Here, the
argument against the statute is not of that compelling
character.
It has frequently been pointed out that prescribing
rates for the future is an act legislative, and not judicial,
in kind. Interstate Commere,6 Commission v. C., N. 0. &
T. P. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479,,,499; McChord v. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 183 U. S. 483, 495; Prentisv. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 226; Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 8. It pertains, broadly
speaking, to the legislative power. The legislature may
act directly, or, in the absence of constitutional restriction,
it may commit the authority to fix rates to a subordinate
body. Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307,
336; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S.
362, 393, 394; Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Corporation Commission, 206 U. S. 1, 19; Honolulu Rapid
Transit & Land Co. v. Hawaii, 211 U. S. 282, 291; Grand
Trunk Rwy. Co' v. Railroad Commission of Indiana, 221
VOL. ccxxxi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court,

231 U. S.

U. S. 400, 403. The Railroad Commission of Kentucky
was established by § 209 of the Constitution (adopted in
the year 1891) which provided that "the powers and
duties of the Railroad Commissioners shall be regulated
by law" and that "until otherwise provided by law, the
Commission so created shall have the same powers and
jurisdiction, perform the same duties, be subject to the
same regulations, and receive the same compensation,
as now conferred, prescribed and allowed by law to the
existing Railroad Commissioners;" and by § 218 of the
same instrument (the long and short haul provision) the
Commission was authorized "in special cases, after investigation" to permit a less charge for longer than for
shorter distances and to "prescribe the extent" to which
the common carrier might be "relieved from the operations" of the section. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Commonwealth, 106 Kentucky, 633; 183 U. S. 503. It is
unnecessary to review the statutes defining the powers of
the then existing Commission, to which § 209 refers (General Statutes of Kentucky, ed. 1888, pp. 1021 et seq.; Act
of March 7, 1890; I Acts, 1889-90, p. 25). For, while the
former Commission had not been authorized to fix rates,
it can hardly be doubted that the constitution, in providing
that the powers and duties of the new Commission should
be regulated by law, contemplated that it should be available as an appropriate instrument in the supervision and
regulation of railroads and left the legislature free to adopt,
if it saw fit, a practice already familiar (InterstateCommerce
Commission v. C., N. 0. & T. P. .Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479,
495, 496) and to call this agency to its aid in prescribing
reasonable intrastate rates. This authority the legislature
granted by the act of March 10, 1900, empowering the
Commission where, as in this case, particular rates were
found to be exorbitant, to fix the reasonable rates thereafter to be charged. (Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R, R.
Co., 213 U. S. 175, 197.)

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

307

Opinion of the Court.

The contention is that:, before the Commission makes
such an order, it is required to exercise judicial functions.
It is first to determine whether the carrier has been exact-,
ing more than is just and reasonable; it is to give notice
and a hearing; it is to "hear such statements, arguments or
evidence offered by the parties" as it may deem relevant;
and, it is in case it determines that the carrier is "guilty of
extortion" that it is to prescribe the just and reasonable
rate. Still, the hearing and determination, viewed as
prerequisite to the fixing of rates, are merely preliminary
to the legislative act. To this act, the entire proceeding
led; and it was this consequence which gave to the proceeding its distinctive character. Very properly, and it
might be said, necessarily--even without the express
command of the statute--would the Commission ascertain whether the former, or existing, rate, was unreason'able before it fixed a different rate. And in such an
inquiry, for the purpose of prescribing a rule for the
'future, there would be no invasion of the province of the
judicial department. Even where it is essential to maintain strictly the distinction between the judicial and other
branches of the government, it must still be recognized
that the ascertainment of facts, or the reaching of conclusions upon evidence taken in the course of a hearing of
parties interested, may be entirely proper in the exercise
of executive or legislative, as distinguished from judicial,
powers. The legislature, had it seen fit, might have conducted similar inquiries through committees of its members, or specially constituted bodies, upon whose report as
to the reasonableness of existing rates it would decide
whether or not they were extortionate and whether other
rates should be established, and it might have used
methods like those of judicial tribunals in the endeavor to
elicit the facts. It is "the nature of the final act". that
determines "the nature of the previous inquiry." Prentis
v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210, 227.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

It is also urged in support of the objection that the
order of the Commission is to be "in full force and effect"
at the expiration of ten days after notice, and that this is
the equivalent of a declaration that the order shall be
final and conclusive, but the finality of the act did not
change its essential character. So far as it was final, unless
revoked or modified by the Commission, it was final as a
legislative act within the Commission's authority.
2. It is contended that the Commission acted arbitrarily. We are referred to the allegations of the bill that
there was "no testimony" before the Commission "that
did establish or that tended to establish" the unjust or
unreasonable nature of any of the rates maintained by the
appellant; that there was "no evidence" introduced in the
investigation or considered by the Commission "showing
or tending to show" that the appellant's rates were
" in and of themselves unjust, unreasonable or extortionate"; that the evidence "had no proper relation" to the
reasonableness of rates for transporting the commodities in question when they were to be used for distillery
purposes; and. that "no evidence whatsoever was adduced
at the hearing and investigation aforesaid, which showed
or tended to show in the slightest degree what was or
might be a just or reasonable rate to be charged" for the
transportation described in the Commission's order.
But it appears that upon receiving the complaint of the
distillers with respect to the rates which the appellant had
put into effect, the Commission set the matter for hearing;
that the parties were heard; that. each party produced a
number of witnesses; and that the appellant, represented
by counsel, was permitted to cross-examine the witnesses
of the complainants. The rates as fixed by the Commission were the same as those which for many years
had been maintained by the appellant for the distillers'
supplies. The -evidence taken by the Commission was
not before the court below; and the general allegations of

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GAIRRETT.
231 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

the bill, which in substance stated the judgment of the
pleader as to what such evidence did not "establish" or
"tend to establish," and the statements contained in the
affidavits submitted upon the application for injunction,
were utterly insufficient to justify the court in enjoining
the rates upon the ground that the Commission either had
denied the hearing which the statute contemplated or by
its arbitrary action had been guilty of an abuse of power.
It is also charged, invoking a doctrine analogous to that
declared in Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S. 433, that the Commission assumed a
power which it did not possess by proceeding upon the
theory of a supposed equitable estoppel in favor of the
distillers because they had. been induced to erect and
extend their plants upon the faith of the former rates.
This contention finds no support in the record. The
Commission purported to act .under its statutory authority, and, finding the rates charged by the carrier to -be
extortionate, fixed other rates which they declared to be
reasonable.
Again, it is further said that the enforcement of the
rate order should have been enjoined in order to prevent
unjust discriminations and undue preferences in contravention of §§ 817 and 818. of the Kentucky statutes.
Section 817 prohibits unjust discrimination in charges, as
between persons, for like and contemporaneous service

in transportation. Section 818 makes it unlawful to give
any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to
one person or locality as compared with another. Section
819 prescribes penalties for violation, the prosecution to
be by indictment. The point of this' objection is that
obedience to the Commission's order with respect to the
traffic from the three places of origin to the sixteen places
of destination therein mentioned will bring about discrimination in intrastate rates, contrary to these statutes,
as against thirty-two other distillery stations on the lines

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

of the appellant, the distillers at which, so far as appears,
have not complained of the appellant's rates.
In view of the decision in Commonwealth v. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co., 20 Ky. Law Rep. 491, to the effect that
the provisions of § 818 are too uncertain to support a
criminal proceeding under § 819, it is not contended by the
appellant that it would be subject to the prescribed
penalties so far as § 818 is concerned. And it is urged by
the Attorney General of the State, on behalf of the appellees, that § 817 does not apply to discrimination as.
between localities.
But, aside from these considerations, we find the
objection to be without merit. The Commission dealt
with the question before it, and, on complaint as to the
rates to the sixteen points of destination, ordered what it
found to be reasonabld rates for that transportation.
In so doing, it acted in conformity with tl~e statute. To
give legality to its order as to the particular rates in question, it was not necessary for the Commission to require a
reduction in other rates. Certainly, the fact that the
other rates described, which had not yet been passed
upon by the Commission, might likewise be open to the
objection of unreasonableness and that their maintenance
by the appellant might lead to unjust discrimination,
would furnish no basis for restraining the enforcement of
the Commission's order if that order were otherwise
valid.
3. The order is further attacked upon the ground that
the statute under which it was made operates to deprive
the carrier of its property without due process of law and
to deny to it the equal protection of the laws contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment.
It is insisted that the failure to provide for an appeal to
any court from the final order of the Commission, or for
A judicial review of the reasonableness of the prescribed
rates before they become effective, makes the statute

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

311

Opinion of the Court.

void. But the statute does not deny to the carrier the
right of access to the courts for the purpose of determining
any matter which would be the appropriate subject of
judicial inquiry. We have not been referred to any
decision of the state court holding that the statute should
be so construed (Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. Minnesota,
134 U. S. 418, 456). If the Commission establishes rates
that are so unreasonably low as to be confiscatory, an
appropriate mode of obtaining relief is by bill in equity to
restrain the enforcement of the order. Chicago &c.
Railway Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 459, 460; St.
Louis & San Francisco Ry. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649,
659, 666; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 166. Presumably, the courts of the State, as well as the Federal courts,
would be open to the carrier for this purpose (Home
Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265, 278) without
express statutory provision to that effect. In answer to the
present objection, it is sufficient to say that there is no
showing here of an attempt to preclude such resort to the
courts, or to deny to the caTier the assertion of its rights,
unless it can be found in the severity of the penalties
attached to disobedience of the order. And, if it were
assumed that these would be open to objection as operating to deprive the carrier of a fair opportunity to contest
the validity of the Commission's action, still, the penal
provisions would be separable, and the force of the remaining portion of the statute would not be impaired.
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust .Co., 154 U. S. 362, 395;
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 53, 54;
Granada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433, 443;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Richmond, 224 U. S.
160, 172; The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 380;
Southern Pacific Co. v. Campbell, 230 U. S. 537, 553.
4. The appellant, however, submits -a broader contention which concerns the scope of the review to which it is
entitled in this suit and the nature of the Judicial function

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

where rates fixed by the legislature, or under its direction,
are assailed as unreasonable.
It is urged that so long as a carrier's existing rates are
just and reasonable for the services it performs, it is
within its constitutional and statutory rights; that what
constitutes a just and reasonable rate for the services it
has performed is a question of fact upon which the carrier .is
entitled to a judicial hearing; that even more
clearly is it entitled to such a hearing, if, as a consequence
of a decision by the Commission that it has exceeded the
limits of just and reasonable compensation for past
services, it "must forfeit in favor of such statutory body
its rate-making power and be deprived of that property
right wi.th respect to 'like services thereafter rendered' as
provided in the McChord Act." It is said, further, that
under the statute the finding from the evidence that the
carrier has charged more than a reasonable- compensation
is "the essential jurisdictional fact" which must exist
before the Commission can fix rates, and it is insisted that,
if upon a judicial investigation and the evidence adduced
by the parties, it turns out that this jurisdictional fact
did not exist, then the Commission's entire action must be
regarded as null and void, without regard to the question
whether the new rates prescribed by it, in such circumstances, are reasonable or unreasonable, compensatory
or confiscatory. -It is therefore contended that the appellant is now entitled to a judicial hearing upon the
questions of fact as to the reasonableness of the particular
rates existing at tW6 time the order was made as well as of
those fixed by the Commission; and that in this view the
injunction asked for should have been granted.
These arguments are elaborated and earnestly pressed,
but the questions presented have been so frequently
dealt with by this court that an extended discussion is
unnecessary. The right of the carrier to make its own
intrastate rates is subject to the law of the State con-

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

313

Opinion of the Court.

stitutionally enacted. In the absence of a legislative
rate, it is the province of the courts in deciding cases that
arise between shippers and carriers to pass upon the reasonableness of the compensation which the carrier has demanded for its services. In so doing, the courts apply
the common law. But it is the province of the legislature to make the law; and when the legislature, or the
body acting under its authority, establishes the rate to
be thereafter charged by the carrier, it is the duty of the
courts to enforce the rule of law so made unless the constitutional limits of the rate-making power have been
trangressed. The rate-making power necessarily implies
a range of legislative discretion; and, so long as the legislative action is within its proper sphere, the courts are not
entitled to interpose and upon their own investigation of
traffic conditions and transportation problems to substitute their judgment with respect to the reasonableness of
rates for that of the legislature or of the railroad commission exercising its delegated power. It may be assumed
that the statute of Kentucky forbade arbitrary action;
it required a hearing, the consideration of the relevant
statements, evidence and. arguments submitted, and a
determination by the Commission whether the existing
rates were excessive. But, on these conditions being fulfilled, the questions of fact which might arise as to the
reasonableness of the existing rates in the consideration
preliminary to legislative action would not become. as
such, judicial questions to be reexamined by the courts.
The appropriate questions for the courts would be whether
the Commission acted within the authority duly conferred
by the legislature, and also, so far as the amount of compensation permitted by the prescribed rates is concerned,
whether the Commission went beyond the domain of the
State's legislative power and violated the constitutional
rights of property by imposing confiscatory requirements.
Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 116 U. S. 307, 331;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362,
397-399; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 526; San Diego
Land & Town Co. v. National City, 174 U. S. 739, 754;
San-Diego Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439,
446; Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 8, 17;
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 41; The
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 433, 434. Undoubtedly, a State may permit appeals to its courts from
the rate-making orders of its railroad commission and,
upon the review of such orders, it may expressly authorize
its judicial tribunals to investigate and decide questions
which otherwise would not belong to them, or even to
act legislatively (Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, supra).
But the guaranties of the Fourteenth Amendment do
not entitle the carrier to the exercise by the courts of such
extra-judicial authority.
5. With respect to the question- of confiscation, the
Circuit Court ruled -that the bill did not "clearly tender
an issue that could be said to involve confiscatory rates."
The court also referred in its opinion to the statement in
the brief of complainant's counsel that the complainant
was not bound in this case "to allege or prove that the.
new rates were confiscatory" and also to an oral disclaimer
of a purpose to rely upon any such contention. "This
concession," the court said, "we think, was but natural,
in. View of the history of the rates which the railroad
.company voluntarily maintained for years prior to
March 25, 1910, as before pointed out. No averment is
made touching the proportions in volume of distillers'
traffic and of non-distillers' traffic, and it could not be
assumed that the company had been carrying distillers'
supplies and products at confiscatory rates, nor that the
extension of those rates to all similar traffic on the lines
in question would amount to the confiscation of property." 186'Fed. Rep. 176, 191.
It is explained by the appellant that what was conceded

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

315

Opinion of the Court.

below was that the bill as amended did not aver that the
rates fixed by the Commiss ion would result in the confiscation of appellant's property on its entire intrastate
business, but that it is insisted, and was insisted below,
that the rates would not yield a fair or reasonable compensation for the services performed, and would deprive
the company of the fair and reasonable return which it is
entitled to earn upon the property devoted to such services,
with respect to the described traffic.
Without passing upon the general propositions advanced
in argumeit, it suffices to say that we are of the opinion
that the bill as amended wholly failed to make a case
entitling the appellant to the relief sought. Apart from
the merely general averments, it is alleged that the rates
fixed by the order would cause an annual loss in revenue on
intrastate freight of at least $15,600, and also that, in consequence of the effect on interstate rates, there would be
an additional annual loss of not less than $3,000; further,
that if the carrier were compelled to put in similar rates
to the thirty-two other distillery stations, there would
be a loss of $54,000 a year on shipments to those places;
and that there would be other losses to an amount not
specified, on shipments to consignees other than di8tillers.
But it may be supposed that, other conditions being the
same, a reduction in rates found to be excessive will cause
a loss in revenue; and the question is not simply as to the
amount of reduction but whether the rates as fixed would
allow a fair return. The bill does not show the value of the
property employed, the expenses of operation, or the return which would be permitted under the rates prescribed.
6. It is further objected that the rate-making order
impairs the obligation of the contract contained in the
company's charter in violation of § 10, Article I of the
Federal Constitution. It is alleged in the amended bill
that by its charter granted by the act approved March 5,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

1850, and the amendments thereto, the appellant was
authorized to charge specified maximum rates for transportation over its lines, and that the rates fixed by the
Commission's order are less than those which it was thus
empowered to maintain.
It is provided by section three of the Bill of Rights
contained in the state constitution adopted in 1891, that
"every grant of a franchise, privilege or exemption, shall
remain subject to revocation, alteration or amendment."
Section 190 of this constitution is as follows: "No corporation in existence at the time of the adoption of this Constitution shall have the benefit of future legislation without first filing in the office of the Secretary of State an
acceptance of the provisions of .this Constitution."
It is set forth in the amended bill that, by resolution of
the board of directors of the appellant, adopted July 11,
1902, it "duly accepted the provisions of the present Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, ordained
September 28, 1891, and the provisions of Chapter 32
of the Kentucky Statutes, being the Act adopted April 5,
1893, with the amendments thereto," and that a copy of
this resolution was filed with the Secretary of the State
of Kentucky. Chapter 32 of the general statutes is the
chapter upon private corporations. One of its provisions,
contained in § 573, is that the "provisions of all charters
and articles of incorporation, whether granted by special
act of the General Assembly or obtained under any
general incorporation law, which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter concerning similar corporations, to the extent of such conflict, and all powers, privileges or immunities of any such corporation which could
not be obtained under the provisions of this chapter,
shall stand repealed on September 28, 1897. . ..
After the twenty-eighth day of September, 1897, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all corporations created
or organized under the laws of this State, if said provisions

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
'231 U. S.

317

Opinion of the Court.

would be applicable to them if organized under this
chapter." By another provision of this chapter, in the
article relating to railroads (§ 816), a railroad corporation
charging more than a just and reasonable rate of compensation is guilty of extortion; the penalty was a fine provided for in § 819. In Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Commonwealth, 99 Kentucky, 132, the Court of Appeals,
holding that § 816 was too indefinite, to be sustained as a
penal statute, concluded its opinion by saying: !'It may
be observed further, however, that it would seem singular
if such a sfatute, even in all respects valid, could be enfoxced against a carrier whose rates, as fixed in its charter,
are in excess of the rates alleged to be excessive in the
indictment. And this, not because such rates are secured
by an irrepealable contract, a matter not now considered,
but simply because they at least remain the legal rates
until changed by law."
It was after the decision in this case that the act of
March 10, 1900, was passed, empowering the Railroad
Commission to fix rates.
The amended bill states that, upon the filing of the
resolution accepting the provisions of the Constitution,
and the provisions of chapter 32 of the general statutes,
"thereby and thereafter the said contract (with respect
to the maximum freight and passenger rates it is entitled
to charge and collect on its said lines of railroad) between
complainant and the Commonwealth of Kentucky became and is now no longer irrevocable or irrepealable";
but, it is averred that "nevertheless, said contract remains
intact and has never been revoked or repealed by any
act of the Legislature," and that its obligation was in full
force and effect at the time the rate order was made
(August 10, 1910). That is, it is insisted that § 573 of the
statutes, above quoted, is not applicable for the reason
that on April 5, 1893, when the statute, of which this
provision was a part, was approved, and also on Septem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.,

ber 28, 1897, when the repeal provided for in that statute
was to take effect, the appellant's charter'was not subject
to repeal or amendment and that it did not become so
subject until 1902. It is also contended that the act
authorizing the Commission to fix rates does not apply
because that was passed two years before the appellant
filed its resolution; in other words, that its contract contained in its charter is still in force because the legislature
has not enacted a repealing or amending provision since
the resolution was filed.
We do not find it necessary to review all the questions
that are suggested. Apart from other considerations, it
is manifest that the statute of March 10, 1900, was a continuing authority to the Railroad Commission. The
order of the Railroad Commission in fixing rates was a
legislative act, under its delegated power. It had "the
same force as if made by the legislature." Grand Trunk
Ry. Co. v. Indiana Railroad Commission, 221 U. S. 400,
403. It is for this reason that it is a "law" passed by the
State, within the meaning of the contract clause. New
Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Co., 125
U. S. 18, 31; St. Paul Gas Light Co. v. St. Paul, 181 U. S.
142, 148; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Duluth, 208 U. S.
583, 590; Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Indiana Railroad Com-,
mission, supra; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 163. As it
had full legislative effect, the appellant could not assert
against its operation the provision of a contract which
had previously become subject to legislative alteration.
(Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262, 274,
275.) Upon the filing of the resolution, the charter provision as to the maximum rates therein specified ceased to be
an obstacle, if it had been such before, to the exercise by
the State of its rate-making power.
7. The remaining questions require only a brief mention. The penalty provisions of the statute in question
are challenged upon the ground that they violate the

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. CO. v. GARRETT.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. But, as already stated, these provisions are separable. It is also
objected that the order of the Commission constitutes an
unwarrantable interference with, and a regulation of,
interstate commerce. The questions thus raised cannot
be distinguished from those which were considered and
decided in The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352.
Second. The order for reparation.
This order was not made under the statute of March 10,
1900, authorizing the Commission to fix rates.. It is
conceded on behalf of the appellees that if the Commission,
was not authorized by § 821 or 829 of the Kentucky
statutes to award reparation, it had no authority whatever for that purpose. Section 821 provides that it shall
be the duty of the Railroad Commissioners to see that
the laws relating to railroads are faithfully executed and to
exercise a general supervision over the railroads of the
State. Section 829 authorizes the Commission to "hear
and determine complaints" under §§ 816, 817 and 818, to
the provisions of which we have already referred. it provides that such complaints shall be in writing, that the
company complained of shall have notice of hearing, that
the Commission shall hear and reduce to writing all the
evidence adduced and that it shall render such award as
may be proper. If the award be not satisfied within ten
days, the chairman of the Commission is to file a copy of
it and the evidence heard, in. the office of the clerk of the
proper circuit court, whereupon it is to be docketed for
trial and summons is to be issued,. as in other cases, requiring the party against whom the award has been made
to show cause why it should not be satisfied. If the party
fails to appear, judgment is to be rendered by default, and,
if a trial is demanded, the case is to be tried as other
ordinary cases, except that no evidence is to be introduced
by either party save that heard before the Commission,
tnless the court shall be satisfied by sworn testimony that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

it could not have been produced before the Commission
by the exercise of reasonable diligence.
It thus appears that the two proceedings, though they
were conducted at the same time, were. distinct in their
nature. The one resulted.in a legislative rule for the
future; in the other, there was an award of specific sums
of money to particular persons upon the basis of past
transactions and this award, according to the provisions
of the statute, on being filed could be enforced by proceedings in the courts of the State. The persons in whose
favor the award was made were not parties to the suit,
and we think that the court was right in declining to determine its validity.
The order denying the application for injunction is
Affirmed.

STURGES

& BURN

MANUFACTURING

COM-

PANY v. BEAUCHAMP.
ERROR TO -THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 54.

Submitted November 3, 1913.--Decided December 1, 1913.'

A State is entitled to prohibit the employment of persons of tender
years in dangerous occupations; and in order to make the prohibition
effective it may compel employers at their peril to ascertain whether
their employ~s are in fact below the age specified.
Absolute requirements as to ascertaining age of employ~s of tender
years are a proper exercise of the protective power of government;
and if the legislation has reasonable relation to the purpose which
the State is entitled to effect it is not an unconstitutional deprivation of liberty or property without due process of law.
A classification in employment of labor of persons below sixteen years
of age is reasonable and does not deny equal protection of the laws.
The provisions of the Child Labor Act of Illinois of 1903 involved in
this case are not unconstitutional as denying due process of law, as

