VICKSBURG v. HENSON.
231 U. S

Syllabus.

shall or shall not be perfoimed concerns the plaintiffs in
error in their official capacity only. The requirement that
they refrain from taking such steps concerns their official

and not their personal rights.

Applying the rule estab-

lished by the previous decisions of this court, it follows
the judgment of the state Supreme Court is not reviewable
here, as it is not alleged to violate rights of a personal
nature, secured by the Federal Constitution or laws.
It therefore follows that this writ of error must be
Dismissed.

MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF THE CITY OF
VICKSBURG v. HENSON, RECEIVER OF THE
VICKSBURG WATER WORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 546.

Argued October 28, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

A decree of the District Court to the effect that a contemplated issue
of bonds, the issuance of which the bill sought to enjoin as wholly
illegal, was illegal at that time, leaving open the question of whether
it might be legal at a subsequent time, held, under the circumstances
of this case, to be a final decree from which an appeal could be taken
to the Circuit Court of Appeak.
Although the original bill depended solely upon diverse citizenship,
independent grounds of deprivation of Federal rights which existed
prior to the filing of the bill may be brought into the case by amended
bill, and if so, the jurisdiction of the District Court does not rest
solely on diverse citizenship and the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is not final but an appeal may be taken to this court.
Macfadden v. United States, 213 U. S. 288.
While the enforcement of the rdle of res judicata is essential to secure
the peace and repose of society, it is equally true that to enforce the
'rule upon unsubstantial grounds would work injustice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

A decree is to be construed with reference to the issues it was meant
to decide; its nature and extent is not to be determined by isolated
portions thereof, but upon the issue made and what it was intended
to accomplish.
A decree in a former action between a municipal water company and
the municipality that the former had an exclusive contract for a
specified period and that the latter could not issue bonds for the
purpose of establishing a municipal water supply to be forthwith
put into operation, rendered while the franchise had a long period
to run, held in this case not to be res judicata as to the right of the
municipality to issue bonds within a short time prior to the expiration of the franchise for the purpose of erecting water works which
were not to be put into operation until after the expiration of the
existing franchise.
203 Fed. Rep. 1023, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of
appeals from judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and the extent to which a former judgment is res judicata
of the right of a municipality to issue bonds for establishing a water supply in view of existing contracts with a
water works company, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. T. C. Catchings, Mr. 0. W. Catchings, Mr. George
Anderson and Mr. John Brunini for appellants, submitted.
Mr. Edgar H. Farrar, with whom Mr. J. C. Bryson,
Mr. Joseph Hirsh and Mr. Richard F. Goldsborough were

on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit originated in the District Court of the United

States for the Southern District of. Mississippi, where an

injunction restraining the appellants from constructing a
water works system during the term of a certain franchise

previously granted by the city of Vicksburg was allowed
upon the complaint of W. A. Henson, Receiver of the

VICKSBUR3 v. HENSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Vicksburg Water Works Company, one of the appellees
herein (whom we will hereafter call "the receiver"), and
the decree upon appeal was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (203 Fed. Rep. 1023),
from which affirmance this appeal is taken.
The case, as made out in the District Court and shown
by the record, appears to be:
The receiver alleged that in 1886 the city, under authority of an act of the legislature, by ordinance granted
to Samuel R. Bullock & Company a franchise to furnish
the city with water for a term of thirty years; that he had
succeeded to the rights and interests of Bullock & Company; that he was paying taxes upon the property of the
Vicksburg Water Works Company and was entitled to
the rights and privileges of a taxpayer; that in 1900 the
city of Vicksburg attempted to abandon the contract and
to build and operate a water works system of its own, and
that in a suit instituted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Mississippi, such action
had been enjoined; that by the final decree therein it was,
among other things; ordered "that the defendant refrain
from constructing water works of its own until the expiration" of the franchise, and ithat, upon appeal to this court,
such decree was affirmed. The pleadings, final decree
and opinion of this court in the former case and the
franchise of 1886, were introduced into the record in this
case as exhibits, and, to save repetition, reference is made
to the franchise as quoted 'in 185 U. S. 65, to the opinion
in 202 U. S. 453, and to the outline of the pleadings in that
case as set forth in those reports.
The receiver alleged further that the city had since
made efforts to free itself from the franchise, and specified
various suits and negotiations to that end; that early in
1912 the appellants by resolution and election undertook
to authorize the sale of bonds for the construction of a
water works plant, which was not to be operated until

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

after the expiration of the franchise; that he would be.
compelled to pay taxes upon such bonds and that the
issuance and sale of the bonds and the construction of the
plant would depreciate the value of the Water Works
Company's property; that the city was commencing the
construction of a plant too long before the expiration of
the franchise; that the purpose of the city was really to
depreciate the value of the Water Works Company's plant
so that the city might buy it at a price materially less than
its actual value; and that the bond election, for several
reasons, which the receiver stated, under the statutes and
constitution of Mississippi and because of fraud was of
no effect, and the receiver offered to sell the plant at any
time upon appraisement. The receiver prayed that the
appellants be enjoined from issuing bonds for the construction of a water works system and from taking any further
steps toward the building of such plant during the term of
the franchise, for the reason that the matter of construction of the plant during such time was res judicata and
that such construction would violate the franchise, and
further that the bond election was void. The receiver
also prayed for an injunction restraining the appellants
from letting contracts for the laying of certain water

mains, in violation of the franchise and of the decree in
the former suit..
The appellants denied that the decree in the former
case precluded the question raised here, and that the construction by the city of its own water works system would
violate the terms of the franchise; that the receiver was,
or was entitled to the rights and privileges of, a taxpayer,
and alleged that the statement by the 'receiver of the
dealings and negotiations between the city and the Water
Works Company was irrelevant and false. They also
denied that the receiver or the Water Works Company,
as a taxpayer, would be affected by the bond issue; and
alleged that, if the issuance of the bonds and colstruc-

VICKSBURG v. HENSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the plant should depreciate the property of the
Water Works Company, it -would be something for which
it would not be responsible. They, further denied that
the steps taken by the city were premature, in view of
the long time that must elapse before the expiration of
the franchise, and that the city did not intend to build
a plant; and alleged that the purpose of the Water Works
Company was to compel the city to buy its plant at an
exorbitant price; and they denied that the bond election
was void. The appellants further alleged that if the decree should be construed as contended for by the receiver,
the court below, as a court of equity, would not at that
time give the decree that effect, for the reason that the
situation of the parties was so changed as to make it
inequitable to prohibit the appellants from taking the
action sought to be enjoined; that the receiver by permitting the city to lay certain mains had conceded the appellants' right to construct a water works plant and was
estopped from contesting such right; that the receiver and
the Water Works Company actively participated in the
election; conceding appellants' right to build its own water
works system, and therefore were estopled from asserting
the contrary; that the receiver, by conceding appellants'
right to construct its plant, itself construed the decree as
only enjoining competition and that the court should give
effect to the decree as construed by the parties, and that
the decree did not attempt .toenjoin the sale of bonds and
that that is all that is sought to be restrained by this suit.
The appellants also denied that the. letting of contracts
for laying mains would violate either the decree or the
franchise.
Upon petition, Lelia Boykin, a taxpayer of the city of
Vicksburg, the other appellee herein, was, upon order,
admitted as a party to the suit, and by proper pleadings
issues were made with reference to her as such taxpayer.
Upon final decree the court held that the receiver was

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

entitled to the relief prayed for -and ordered that the
appellants be enjoined from constructing a system of
water works and from disposing of the bonds covered by
the stit during the term of the franchise, and in its opinion
the court based its decision upon the decree made by it
and its affirmance in 202 U. S. and decided that the
matter was res judicata. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court
of Appeals the decree of the District Court was affirmed
upon the ground that the decree and affirmance in the
case in 202 U. S. constituted an estoppel. The case was
thereupon brought here upon appeal, the assignments
of error asserting that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred
in affirming the decree of the District Court, in holding
that the decree affirmed in 202 U. S. was an estoppel and
that the appellants had no right to build a water works
system before the expiration of the franchise and in not
deciding that the receiver was estopped to assert that
appellants did not have such right.
A motion was made to dismiss the appeal, first, upon the
ground that the decree was not final in the District Court,
and hence was not appealable to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, because it left undisposed of one of the substantial issues in the case. That contention arises from this
alleged situation: The pleadings of the receiver, as well as
the petition filed by the intervenor, Lelia Boykin, attacked
the right to issue the bonds in question upon a ground
independent of the former adjudication, namely, because
the election at which the bonds were authorized to be
issued was illegal for the reason that the city failed to
make the statutory publication of the election and that
the curative act wus unconstitutional, for the reason that
the city had exceeded the limit of indebtedness allowed
under chapter 142 of the laws of Mississippi for 1910, the
exception in such act being unconstitutional, and for the
reason that the bond election was held under an ordinance
purporting to amend the charter of the city which ordi-

VICKSBURG v. HENSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nance was itself void, and for fraudulent and corrupt practices and for unlawful registration. This ground of attack,
the appellees say, went to the right to issue the bonds to
build a water works system at, any time and rendered them
invalid whether undertaken to be issued before or after
the expiration of the Bullock franchise, and that such is
the case is said to appear frora reference to the final decree
which was entered in the suit. The decree enjoined the
appellants from building or constructing a system of water
works or any part thereof within the city until after the
eighteenth day of November, 1916, the date of the termination of the Bullock franchise, and it further provided:
"It is further ordered and decreed that the defendant,
the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Vicksburg, be
and is hereby enjoined from disposing of the issue of four
hundred thousand dollars ($400,000.00) of bonds mentioned and described in the pleadings with a view of constructing a water works system, or any part thereof, in said
city during the life of the said franchise, that is, between
now and the 18th day of November, 1916."
So much of the decree as relates to the bonds, it is contended, leaves open the right of the city to issue them
after the expiration of the Bullock franchise, although
they were attacked as being wholly illegal and the city
Wanting authority to issue them at any time.
It is true that the original bill contained allegationswhich went to the validity of the issue of bonds, if the
same were proposed to be issued after the expiration of the
Bullock franchise, as well as before the expiration of that
time, and the prayer of the original bill among other
things asked for an injunction restraining the defendant
city from issuing the bonds or taking any action to that
end by virtue of the election. In the amended and supplemental bill filed in the case, however, not only allegations
by way of amendment were made, but the case was restated at great length and the prayer of the bill asked upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

final hearing for "a decree against the said defendant
holding the said bond election void and without effect,
and the said defendant without power to issue and float
said bonds for the purpose of building a water works
plant during the life of the Bullock franchise, and for an
injunction against the said defendant restraining it from
issuing bonds under the said election and from taking
any further steps looking to the building of a water works
plant during the life of the said Bullock franchise," and
for general relief. When Lelia Boykin intervened, she
filed a petition averring that she was the owner of real
estate in and a taxpayer of the city of Vicksburg, and a
citizen and resident of Georgia, adopting the allegations
of the original bill and amended and supplemental bill,
except so much thereof as set up the former, adjudication
in favor of the Water Works Company, and joining in the
original complainant's prayer for relief and also asking
for general relief.
It may be true that-there were allegations in the pleadings which permitted or required a consideration of the
law under which the bonds were to be issued for the purpose of erecting a water works system and which were
independent of the alleged claim of res judicata, but
the record and proceedings make it evident that the
court and the parties concerned treated the bill as an
attack upon the right of the city to proceed to build a
water works system before the expiration of the Bullock
franchise, although to be operated thereafter. The
opinion of the court and the decree shows that the court
so regarded it, and no objection to this disposition of the
case was made by any of the parties, and when the case
reached the Circuit Court of Appeals a motion was made
to dismiss upon the ground that the proceeding was merely
ancillary to the decree of the court, affirmed in this court
(202 U. S. 453), enjoining the city from constructing and
3perating a plant of its own during the term of the fran-

VICKSBURG v. HENSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion

f the Court.

chise. The decree was final as to the city's right to do
what it was then proposing to do, to issue bonds and erect
a system of water works to be used after the expiration of
the Bullock franchise. The decree as rendered prevented
the city from doing this. There was no reservation of the
right to a further decree as to the legality of the bonds, and
no retention of jurisdiction after the decree for any purpose. Neither in the Circuit Court of Appeals nor in the
District Court was there any attempt to require the court
to consider the case in its further aspect, but as we have
said both courts and all parties treated the case as presenting a controversy concerning the right of the city to
proceed, as it was about to do, to sell the bonds and build
a plant before the expiration of the franchise in question.
The record thus considered, we think there was a final
decree in the District Court from which an appeal could
be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The further contention is made that the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was final because the jurisdiction of the District Court as originally invoked depended
solely upon diverse citizenship. But it appears that when
the amended and supplemental bill was filed there were
added to the ground of original jurisdiction allegations
concerning the proper construction of the contract rights
of the receiver, which attacked the proposed action of the
city on the ground that it would be destructive of constitutional rights. We think those allegations brought
into the case a ground of jurisdiction independent of
diversity of citizenship. They were grounds which existed
before the suit was begun, which might have been averred
in the original bill and which were brought into the case
by the amendment. We think therefore that the jurisdiction of the District Court did not rest solely upon diversity
of citizenship, but upon the additional ground of deprivation of Federal right. In this view the decision of the
Circuit Court of.Appeals is not final, and an appeal may

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

be taken to this court.

231 U. S.

Macfadden v. United States, 213

U. S. 288.
Coming to the'question whether the former decree disposed of the rights of the parties, as was held in the court
below, which judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, it is undoubtedly true that a right, question or
fact put in issue and decided by a court of. competent
jurisdiction must be taken as settling the rights of the
parties in respect to such controversy and while it remains
undisturbed is conclusive between them. The enforcement
of this rule has been repeatedly said to be essential to
secure the peace and repose of society and in order that
an end may be made of controversies between parties who
have once invoked and have had the determination by a
competent judicial tribunal of the matters in dispute
between them. It is no less true that to hold upon any
unsubstantial ground that a controversy has been thus
concluded is to do an injustice to litigants. We must
therefore be careful to see, when the contention of former
adjudication is made, that the matter was actually presented and decided and the rights of the contending parties thereby concluded. We think that an examination
of the record in the former case, put in evidence in this
case, does not support the contention that the matter here
in issue was then adjudicated and determined. It is
true there is some broad language in the decree. It
provided:
"Fourth. That the said defendant refrain from in any
manner accepting the benefits of or proceeding under the
act of the Legislature of the State of Mississippi, approved
March 9th, 1900, and from issuing bonds under and by
virtue of said act or any other act, or ordinance for the
purpose of erecting water works of its own during the
period prescribed in said ordinance contract and franchise.
"Fifth. That the said defendant refrain from constructing water works of its own until the expiration of the

VICKSBURG v. HENSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

period prescribed in the said ordinance contract and
franchise dated 18th day of November, 1886."
The fifth paragraph read alone without regard to the
pleadings in the case would broadly enjoin the city from
constructing a water works system of its own until the
expiration of the period named in the franchise held by the
complainant. The fourth paragraph used language in
enjoining the issuance of bonds which concluded with an
injunction "from issuing bonds under and by virtue of
said act or any other act, or ordinance for the purpose of
erecting water works of its own during the period prescribed in said ordinance contract and franchise." It is
also true that the court in concluding its opinion in 202
U. S. said that it found "no error in the decree of the
Circuit Court enforcing the contract rights of the complainant and enjoining the city from erecting its own
works during the term of the contract."
It is well settled, however, that a decree is to be construed with reference to the issues it was meant to decide.
Graham v. Railroad Company, 3 Wall. 704, 710; Reynolds
v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254; Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Water
Works Co., 206 U. S. 496, 507; Haskell v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 224 U. S.217, 223. In Barnes v. Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry. Co., 122 U. S. 1, this court, speaking by Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, said (p. 14):
"Every decree in a suit in equity must be considered in
connection with the pleadings, and, if its language is
broader than is required, it will be limited by construction
so that its effect shall be such, and such only, as is needed
for the purposes of the case that has been made and the
issues that have been decided. Graham v. Railroad Company, 3 Wall. 704. Here the: suit was by and for creditors
to set aside the mortgage to Barnes and the foreclosure
thereunder, because made and had to hinder and delay
them in the collection of their debts. The decree, therefore, although broader in its terms, must be held to mean

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.,

231 U. S.

no more than that the foreclosure was void as to these
creditors, whose claims were inferior in right to that of the
mortgage, and that the Minnesota Company was restrained and enjoined from asserting title as against them."
,What was the situation which confronted the parties at
the time of the institution of the original suit, and what
rights were the Water Works Company striving to protect? The Company contended that it had a franchise
good for thirty years and that this franchise was exclusive,
at least in so far as it would prevent the city from building
a water works system of its own and operating it in competition with the plaintiff company and in destruction of its
rights yet to be enjoyed under its unexpired franchise.
At that time the franchise had over half its term yet to
run. There was no indication on the part of the city that
it intended to build a water works system of its own and
then await the expiration of the franchise before it operated such system. The city contended for and maintained the right to erect its own system and operate it at
that time and in competition with the Water Works
Company. This competition it was contended would be
destructive of the rights and property of the complainant
annevirtually destroy the exclusive privilege which the
city had granted to it for the period of thirty years. It
was only after the conclusion of the litigation that the
city undertook to construct a water works system, withholding operation thereof. until the expiration of the
franchise belonging to the Water Works Company.
It was driven to that position by the decree against it in
the former case. The building of such water works system, and not the one that it originally intended, was only
proposed by the city after it had lost the original controversy, in which it contended for the right to erect a
competing plant to be operated during the term of the
franchise. Reference to the original bill filed in the former
case confirms this view, where the following appears:

VICKSBURG v. HENSON.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"By reason of said ordinance and contract [the franchise] said city has no right within the period of thirty
years to engage in the business of supplying water to the
inhabitants of said city in competition with said Bullock &.
Company, or their assigns, notwithstanding which, said
act [under which the city was then proceeding to erect a
plant] authorizes and permits said city to construct and
maintain water works for said purpose;" and the prayer,
in part, asked that the defendant might be "decreed from
constructing or acquiring and operating a system of water
works in competition with your orator's water works."
The amended and supplemental bill read, in part, as
follows:
"Therefore said city by its contract and ordinance with
S. R. Bullock & Company and assigns are precluded from
issuing and selling bonds to build, construct, maintain and
operate a water works of its own, as provided by said
legislative act and said resolution and said election of
1900, in competition with your orator against its own
contract.'
"The premises considered, your orator prays that this
Honorable Court will enjoin the defendant from issuing
and selling said bonds for the purpose of building and
constructing water works of its own in competition with
your orator."
In considering the rights of the parties and the position
taken by them, this court in 202 U. S. 453 et seq. said
(p. 458):
The rights of the Water Works Company under its
exclusive contract, it alleged, "would be practically
destroyed if subjected to the competition of a system of
water works to be erected by the city itself." "We think
it would be a palpable injustice to the stockholders to
permit the competition of the city by new works of its
own; which, whether operated profitably for the municipality or not, might be destructive of all successful opera-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

tion in furnishing water to consumers by the private
company." Stating the question of the power of the
city to grant an exclusive contract: "Whether it can, in
exercising this legislative power, exclude itself from constructing and operating water works for the period of
years covered by the contract." (p. 469) "And unless
the city has excluded itself in plain and explicit terms from
competition with the Water Works Company during the
period of this contract it cannot be held to have done so
by mere implication." (p. 470) "These are the words of
the contract and the question upon this branch of the case
is, conceding the power of the city to exclude itself from
competition with the grantee of these privileges during the
period named, has it done so by the express terms used?
It has contracted with the company in language which
is unmistakable, that the rights and privileges named and
granted shall be exclusive. Consistently with this grant,
can the city submit the grantee to what may be the
ruinous competition of a system of water works to 6~e
owned and managed by the city, to supply the needs,
public and private, 6overed in the grant of privileges to the
grantee? It needs no argument to demonstrate, as was
pointed out in the Walla Walla Case, that the competition
of the city may be far more destructive than that of a
private company. The city may conduct the business
without regard to the profit to be gained, as it may resort
to public taxation to make up for losses. A private
company would be compelled to meet the grantee upon
different terms and would not likely conduct the business
unless it could be made profitable. We cannot conceive
how the right can be exclusive, and the city have the
right at the same time to erect and maintain a system of
water works, which may and probably would practically
destroy the value of rights and privileges conferred in its
grant." (p. 471) "We think it was distinctly agreed
that for the term named the right of furnishing water to

VICKSBURG v. HENSON
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the inhabitants of Vicksburg under the terms of the
ordinance was vested solely in the grantee, so far at least
as the city's right to compete is concerned."
And in 206 U. S. 496, where it was contended that the
former adjudication was a bar to the rights contended for
in regulating rates, this court in construing its former decision in 202 U. S. said (206 U. S. 506): that the former
case "was regarded as settling the right of the Water
Works Company under the contract, to carry on its business without the competition of works to be built by the
city itself, as the city had lawfully excluded itself from the
right of competition."
It is said that upon the argument in this court of the
case in 202 U. S. the too broad character of the decree was
brought to our attention. An examination of the briefs
then filed shows that this objection rested upon the allegation that the decree would prevent the city from putting
in hydrants and other facilities not covered by the contract. There was no suggestion that the city would be
prevented from putting in its own water works for use
after the expiration of the franchise.
The nature and extent of the former decree is not to be
determined by seizing upon isolated parts of it or passages
in the opinion considering the rights of the parties, but
upon an examination of the issues made and intended to
be submitted and what the decree was really designed to
accomplish. We cannot agree with the court below or
with the majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the
effect of the former adjudication was to preclude the rights
of the parties in the present controversy.
Upon the merits, irrespective of the effect of the former
decree, we think the object and purpose of the franchise
granted to Bullock & Company, and their successors, was
to permit and protect the operation of a system of water
works to ihe end of the franchise term. After that time
the city was to- be free to supply its inhabitants itself,
VOL. CCXXXI-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

if it saw fit, or make other contracts with those who

could supply the wants of the city in that respect. We see
no reason why the city might not, if it so determined, make
preparation for water supply to its own citizens which
would be available upon the expiration of the contract,
the contract accomplishing that purpose until by its
terms it had expired. To appropriately accomplish this
required time and we think the city was within its rights,
not being obligated by any contract to purchase the works
of the Water Works Company, the company having been
content to accept the franchise without this requirement,
and was free to make other adequate provision to meet
this essential requirement of the inhabitants of the city.
The views we have expressed require a reversal of the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the
decree of the District Court. It is therefore ordered that
the judgment be
Reversed and the case remanded to the District Court of the
United "Statesfor the Southern District of Mississippi,
for further proceedingsnot inconsistentwith this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 385.

Argued January 16, 17, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Premises occupied and used by a common carrier as a depot or freight
station may become such through contract with the owners and not
necessarily by lease or purchase.
The fact that the carrier leases a terminal from a shipper near that
shipper's establishments does not, in the absence of any fraudulent
intent, import a discrimination in favor of that shipper where the

