OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U.S.

owner in possession of the vessel. it cannot be interfered
with behind its back and, as it cannot be made a party,
this suit must fail. Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10. International Postal Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 601, 606.
Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60, 69. Naganabv. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473, 476.
Judgment affirmed.

STRAUS AND STRAUS, COMPOSING THE FIRM
OF R. H. MACY & COMPANY, v. AMERICAN
PUBLISHERS' ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 19.

Argued March 7, 1913.-Decided December'l, 1913.

One who sets up a Federal statute as giving immunity from a judgment
against him, may bring the case here under § 709, Rev. Stat., now

§ 237 of the Judicial Code, if his claim is denied by the decision of
the state court.

No more than the patent statute was the copyright act intended to
authorize agreements in unlawful restraint of trade and tending to
monopoly in violation of the Sherman Act.
The Sherman Act is broadly designed to reach all combinations in
unlawful restraint of trade and tending because of the agreements or
combinations entered into to build up and perpetuate monopolies.
The act is a limitation of rights which may be pushed to evil consequences and may, therefore, be restrained. Standard Sanitary
Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20.
As the agreement involved in this case went beyond any fair and legal
means to protect trade and prices, practically prohibited the parties
thereto from selling to those it condemned, affected commerce between the States, it was manifestly illegal under the Sherman Act,
and was not justified as to copyrighted books under any protection
afforded by the copyright act.
Where the state court dismissed the bill solely on the ground that
defendant's acts were not within the denunciation of the Federal
qtatute on which plaintiff relied, the judgment will be reversed on

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

that ground and it is unnecessary for this court to decide other
Federal questions involved.
Quwre, and not now discussed or decided, whether an original action
can be maintained in the state courts for injunction and damages

under the Sherman Act.
Judgment based on 199 N. Y. 548, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Sherman Anti-trust Act and its application to agreements
regarding the sale of copyrighted books, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Wallace Macfarlane, with whom Mr. Edmond E.
Wise was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
This court has jurisdiction to review the judgment of the
state court, because that judgment decided against the
plaintiffs in error a Federal right specifically set up and
asserted by them in the state courts, which if decided in
their favor would have required a contrary judgment.
The state court erred in holding that the agreements,
resolutions or combinations set forth in the complaint
which were entered into by the defendants were not unlawful, illegal and contrary to the statutes of the United
States, and more particularly of the statute passed on
July 2, 1890, known as "An Act to protect trade and
commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies,"
in so far as concerns copyrighted books.
The agreements obviously restrain trade. They have
been entered into by seventy-five per cent. of the publishers of the United States and by a large majority of the
booksellers of the United States. They affect interstate
commerce as well as intrastate trade and operate to
restrain trade or commerce among the several States.
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211;
Swift & Co. v. United.States:.,196 U. $. 375.
The Court of Appeals (177 N. Y. 473) in fact held that
so fax as incopyrighted lbcoks were concerned, the com.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

231 U. S.

bination was in restraint of trade, and it requires little
reasoning to show that it contains every element of illegality as to effect, intent, and method of execution condemned by this court in the latest, as well as many of the
previous decisions. American Tobacco Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 106; Standard Oil Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 1; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Standard Sanitary Mfg.
Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; Dr. Miles Medical Co.
v. John D. Parks & Sons, 220 U. S. 373; United States
v. Joint Traffic Asso., 171 U. S. 505; United States v. Freight
Asso., 166 U. S. 290; Addyston P. & S. Co. v. United
States, 175 U. S. 211; Northern Securities Co. v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197.
For cases in which combinations similar to this have
been condemned by the courts, see Cohen v. Berlin &
Jones, 166 N. Y. 392; Cummings v. Union Bluestone Co.,
164 N. Y. 401; People v. Milk Exchange, 145 N. Y. 267;
Judd v. Harrington, 139 N. Y. 105; People v. Sheldon,
139 N. Y. 251; Arnot v. Pittston & Elmira Coal Co., 68
N. Y. 558; In re Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; People v. Gilson,
109 N. Y. 389; Brown v. Jacob Pharmacy, 41 S. E. Rep.
553 (Georgia); Moore v. Bennett (Ill., 1892), 15 L. R. A.

361; People v. Chicago Live Stock Assn., 170 Illinois, 556;
Richardson v. Guhl, 77 Michigan, 632; State v. Nebraska

Distillery Co., 29 Nebraska, 200; Howardson v. Y. & L.
Co., 111 Wisconsin, 445; Morris Run Coal Co. v. Bartley

Coal Co., 61 Pa. St. 173; Bower v. Trade Council, 53 N. J.
Eq. 301; Jackson v. Stanfield, 137 Indiana, 592.
Mr. Stephen H. Olin and Mr. John G. Milburn for defendants in error:
This court has no jurisdiction to review the decision of the state courts giving effect to the copyright
statute.
The plaintiffs in error did not specially set up or claim

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

any right, privilege or immunity under the Federal
Anti-trust Act, as to which there was a decision adverse
to the right or privilege claimed.
The complaint complained that the agreement therein
recited was unlawful under the state laws and the Federal
statute. The decision was Lhat the agreement was unlawful under the state statute. Hence, the decision was not
against the right claimed, although the court did not rest
it upon the Federal statute.
Furthermore, the right claimed under the Federal statute was not specially set up or claimed, since in the claim
as made was involved a non-Federal claim made under the
public policy and statutes of New York. Pierce v. Somerset Ry., 171 U. S. 641; Allen, v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149;
Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163 U. S. 63; Klinger
v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257; EJustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361,
366; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300.
No right under the Federal Anti-trust Act in relation to
copyrighted books was specially set up or claimed by the
plaintiffs at any time before the filing of the assignments
of error.
As the record shows that no Federal question was at any
time specially presented to the appellate courts by the
plaintiffs, so the opinions show that no such question as is
raised by the assignments of error was in fact considered
or decided on either of the appeals. 177 N. Y. 473; 193
N. Y. 496; 194 N. Y. 538; 199 N. Y. 548.
This court has therefore no jurisdiction to examine the
alleged errors assigned.. Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257;
De Saussure v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216; Johnson v. Risk, 137
U. S. 300; Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36, 41; Ark. SO.
R. R. v. German Bank, 207 U. S. 271; Leathe v. Thomas,
207 U. S. 93; Rogers v. Jones, 214 U. S. 196; Sauer v.
New York, 206 U. S. 536, 546; Murdock v. Memphis, 20
Wall. 590; Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S.
VOL. ccxxxi-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

231 U. S.

112; Pierce v. Somerset Railway, 171 U. S. 641; Appleby v.
Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524.
No inference of the denial of the Federal question raised
in the assignments of error can be based upon the decision itself, because it might have rested upon any of
several other grounds each of which is broad enough to
sustain it.
The Sherman Act is not applicable in such an action as
this when brought in the state court.
Agreements creating a monoply in restraint of trade and
against public policy, though invalid and unenforcible, are
not illegal in the sense of giving a right of action to third
persons for an Injury sustained, nor as affording ground for
an injunction against threatened injury. National Fireproofing Co. v. Mason Builders' Assn., 169 Fed. Rep. 259;
Penn. R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Locker v. American Tobacco Co., 121 App. Div. 443, 449, affd. 195 N. Y.
565; Missouriv. Associated Press, 51 L. R. A. 170.
No case has been found in which a state court has
allowed a recovery based upon the Sherman Act or on
account of its violation.
In a suit for an injunction not brought by the Attorney
General, there can be no recovery on the ground that a
combination is illegal under the Federal Anti-trust Act.
Nat. Fireproofing Co. v. Mason Builders' Assn., 169 Fed.
Rep. 259, 263; Pidcock v. Harrington, 64 Fed. Rep. 821;
Greer, Mills & Co. v. Stoller, 77 Fed. Rep. 1.
The plaintiffs have not come into a court of equity with
clean hands, nor does it appear that the plaintiffs have
suffered any actionable damage whatever from the acts
complained of.
Notwithstanding the Federal Anti-trust Act it is lawful
for a publisher when selling, at wholesale, books copyrighted by him, to fix, by agreement with the purchasing
bookseller, the retail price at which such copyrighted books
shall be sold during a period of one year. Such is the rule

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Argument for Defe adants in Error.

in patent cases. Bement v. Nat. Harrow Co., 186 U. S.
70, 91, 92, 93; Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, 31, 39, 43,
44, 45, 46, 47; Victor Talking Mach. Co. v. The Fair, 123
Fed. Rep. 424; Nat. PhonographCo. v. Schlegel, 128 Fed.
Rep. 733, 735; Robinson on Patents, § 824; Edison Phonograph Co. v. Kaufmann, 105 Fed. Rep. 960; Park & Sons
v. Hartmann, 153 Fed. Rep. 24; Edison PhonographCo. v.
Pike, 116 Fed. Rep. 863.
This rule applies also in copyright cases.
Certain uses of the copyrighted book or article by a purchaser have been held to be lawful; but all other uses are
within the absolute and exclusive control of the owner
of the copyright. Drone on Copyright, 387-399, 433,
467.
The same rule should be applied to a copyright as to
a patent for a machine. Sto7y v. Holcombe, 4 McLean,
306.
The courts have followed the patent cases whenever
applicable. Macgillivray on Copyright, 281,282; Callaghan
v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617; Reed v. Holliday, 19 Fed. Rep.
325; List Pub. Co. v. Keller, 30 Fed. Rep. 772; Gilmore v.
Anderson, 38 Fed. Rep. 846; FarperBros. v. Donohue, 144
Fed. Rep. 491, 492; West Pub. Co. v. Lawyers' Co-op. Pub.
Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 360; Harper v. Ranous, 67 Fed. Rep.
904; Daly v. Webster, 56 Fed. Rep. 483, 488; Ogilvie v.
Merriam Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 858, 862; Doan v. Am. Book
Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 772, 776.
The owner of the copyright may make a valid contract
with his publishers as to the selling price of copies of the
copyrighted article. Drone on Copyright, 365; Murphy v.
Christian Press Assn., 38 App. Div. 426, 430; Parton v.
Prang,3 Cliff. 537; Hudson v. Patten,1 Root (Conn.), 133;
Aronson v. Baker, 43 N. J. Eq. 365, 369; Park v. Natl.
Wholesale Druggists' Assn., 175 N. Y. 1, 19.
An owner of copyright is not, on the sale of a copyrighted article, necessarily divested of all his statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

231 U. S.

rights in regard to it, but only of such rights as he conveys.
Cooper v. Stephens (1895), 1 Ch. 567; Marshall & Co.,
Ltd., v. Bull, Ltd., 85 Law Times Rep. 77, 82; Pattersonv.
Ogilvie, 119 Fed. Rep. 453; Stevens v. Gladding, 17 How.
447.
The views of defendant in error are sustained in Dr.
Miles Medical Co. v. Park Sons & Co., 220 U. S. 373, 404;
Henry v. Dick Co., 224 U. S. 1, 43-47.
The agreement involved was not in violation of the
Sherman Act.
While it may be that all publishers could not lawfully
agree to fix a price upon all copyrighted books, Murphy v.
Christian Press Assn., 38 App. Div. 426, or enter into a
combination to restrict the output and destroy competition, StandardSanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S.
20, on the other hand any or all of them might make rules
for regulating the conduct of their business among themselves and with the public, and providing for just and fair
dealings among them, provided the regulations were
made for the legitimate purpose of reasonably forwarding
personal interest and developing trade, without intent to
wrong the general public or limit the right of individuals,
or restrain the free flow of commerce, or bring about the
evils, Such as enhancement of prices, which axe considered to be against public policy. Anderson v. United
States, 171 U. S. 604; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S.
578; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 58;
Straus v. American Publishers' Assn., 177 N. Y. 473, 477,
488, 489, 490, 491; Park & Sons Co. v. Nat. Druggists
Assn., 175 N. Y. 1.
Regulating trade is not restraining trade. There is a
well recognized difference. United States v. Reardon, 191
Fed. Rep. 454, 458; Fonotipia,Ltd., v. Bradley, 171 Fed.
Rep. 951, 959; Heim v. N. Y. Exchange, 64 Misc. Rep. 529,
531; Am. Live Stock Com. Co. v. Chicago Live Stock Exchange, 143 Illinois, 210.

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, rendered on
remittitur from the Court of Appeals, refusing to grant to
the plaintiffs in error an injunction restraining any interference with their purchase and sale of copyrighted books
and damages, the defendAnts acting under an agreement
alleged to be violative of the laws of New York and the
Sherman Anti-trust Act (act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat.
209, c. 647).
The suit originated in a bill filed in the Supreme Court
of the-State of New York for New York County, in which
the plaintiffs in error alleged that they conducted a department store in New York City-, a large department of which
was devoted to books, magazines and pamphlets; that,
because of their methods of business, they had been
able to undersell other retail book stores; that the defendants in error, through the American Publishers' Association and the American Booksellers' Association, and
by means of resolutions arLd agreements, with the cooperation of the Associations and their members and by
the use of various practices and methods, to the end that
books should be sold to the booksellers only who would
maintain the retail price upon copyrighted books, agreed
by them to be published at net prices, for one year and
who would not sell books to anyone who would cut such
prices, had restrained and prevented competition in the
State of New York and throughout all of the United States
in the supply and price of books, and that the business of
the plaintiffs in error had been seriously affected, and they
prayed that the combination and agreements be declared
unlawful and that defendants be enjoined from acting
thereunder or accomplishing the purposes thereof, and for
damages. A demurrer having been interposed to the complaint and sustained by the court at Special Term and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

interlocutory judgment there entered having been reversed
upon appeal to the Appellate Division of the First Department, the Court of Appeals, permission having been granted
to appeal and the question certified, affirmed the decision
and held that, so far as the bill related to copyrighted
books, the demurrer was good, but that as to uncopyrighted books the complaint stated facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 177 N. Y. 473.
Amended answers having been filed, upon trial to the
court without a jury, the court made findings of fact from
which it appears that the material allegations of the complaint are true, as above set forth, and further that about
April 1, 1904, and after the decision of the Court of
Appeals reported in 177 N. Y. the Associations amended
their resolutions and agreements so as to restrict the
application and operation thereof to copyrighted books
only; that about January 19, 1907, the Publishers' Association revoked all its former resolutions and adopted a
new resolution, but that the Associations had continued
the same course as to copyrighted books as was followed
before the passage of such resolution. The court concluded that the resolutions and agreements, so far as they
related to uncopyrighted books, were unlawful and contrary to the laws of New York, and to that extent granted
relief by way of injunction and damages, but held that
as to copyrighted books the agreements, resolutions and
acts of the defendants were not unlawful, and entered an
interlocutory judgment accordingly; and in its opinion
the court stated that the former decision of the Court of
Appeals in the case (177 N. Y. 473) was controlling. Plaintiffs in error excepted to the conclusions of law made by
the court restricting the illegality of the combinations to
uncopyrighted books and requested that certain conclusions be made and excepted to the refusal to find the
conclusions submitted by them.
From that part of the interlocutory judgment denying

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

relief as to copyrighted books the plaintiffs in error
appealed to the Appellate Division, which, also upon the
authority of 177 N. Y. 473, affirmed the interlocutory
judgment, and judgment of affirmance was entered in the
Supreme Court; and, with permission, an appeal was taken
to the Court of Appeals which answered in the negative
the question certified by the Appellate Division as to
whether plaintiffs in error, in so far as copyrighted books
were concerned, were entitled to relief, adhering to its
previous decision (177 N. Y. 473). 193 N. Y. 496. Judgment was so entered on remittitur to the Supreme Court.
The report of the referee appointed to ascertain the
amount of the damages sustalined by the plaintiffs in error
in the sale of uncopyrighted books having been filed and
approved, final judgment was entered in the Supreme
Court granting an injunction and dan ges as to uncopyrighted books only, and upon appeal to the Court of
Appeals that court affirmed the final judgment (199 N. Y.
548) and remitted the case to the Supreme Court. Judgment on remittitur was accordingly entered, and this
writ of error sued out to review that judgment.
In this court a motion was made to dismiss the writ of
error upon the ground that it presents no Federal question
so saved and brought here as to permit a review of such
question. When the case was before the Court of Appeals,
upon demurrer to the complaint (177 N. Y. 473), that
court held that the agreement, as to copyrighted books,
was not illegal, because of the monopoly granted to the
holder of a copyright under the statutes of the United
States. The court held that the agreement, as to uncopyrighted books, was, however, in violation of the so-called
anti-trust law of New York, chapter 690, Laws of 1899,
making contracts, agreements, etc., creating monopoly
or restraining or preventing competition in the supply or
price of articles or commodities void as against public
policy. Subsequently the agTeement was modified so as

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

to apply to copyrighted books only and findings of fact
were specifically made upon which the, case again went to
the Court of Appeals of New York upon the certified
question: "Are the plaintiffs, under the findings of fact
contained in the decision in this case, entitled, in so far
as copyrighted books are concerned, to the relief demanded
in the complaint, or to any relief as against the defendants
in this case?" Upon the record the Court of Appeals by
a majority adhered to its former decision, notwithstanding
the decision of Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus, 210 U. S. 339,
which had in the meantime been decided by this court,
and held that, as the object of the copyright and patent
statutes was to give monopolies, contracts made by the
owners of copyrights to secure the fullest protection in the
enjoyment of their monopolies would not be condemned
by the courts as being in unlawful restraint of trade, at
least not until the Supreme Court of the United States
had pronounced differently (193 N. Y. 496). Three of
thejustices dissented upon the ground that the agreement
was clearly one in restraint of trade, as they had theretofore held, and that the decision of this court in BobbsMerrill Co. v. Straus, supra, had so construed the copyright act as to limit the right of a copyright holder to the
sale of copyrighted works and did not have the effect to
protect such monopolistic agreements as were shown in
the present case. As to uncopyrighted books the views
theretofore expressed were maintained by the court and
upon remittitur judgment was entered granting injunction,
and damages as to such books.
An inspection of the record shows that before the case
went before the Court of Appeals for decision the second
time upon the facts found in the lower court the following
conclusions of law were specifically requested covering
the effect of the Sherman Anti-trust Act as to copyrighted
books dealt with in interstate commerce, as was found
to be established by the facts in the present case:

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"VII. That such resolutions and agreements purporting
to restrict the effect of the combination, arrangement or
contracts to copyrighted books likewise affect an article
of interstate commerce and was unlawful and contrary
to the aforementioned statute [the Sherman Anti-trust
Act] of the United States as being in restraint of interstate commerce and tending to create a monopoly.
"IX. That the owners of several separate copyrights
are not empowered to enter into any contract or agreement or combination between themselves concerning the
supply and price of books published under their separate
copyrights which would be unlawful and contrary to the
statutes of the United States against combinations in restraint of trade or for the purpose of creating a monopoly,
if entered into with reference to the supply or price of
uncopyrighted books."
It is thus apparent that, when the defendants below
set up the copyright statute of the United States as an
authority for the agreement of the character here in question, the plaintiffs contended that such agreement was not
only beyond the authority conferred in the copyright act
but was in violation of the terms of the Sherman Antitrust Law, making illegal combinations in restraint of
trade and tending to monopoly. This contention was in
terms denied by the lower court and the decision upon the
facts went to the Court of Appeals with the result which
we have stated. The contention thus made as to the
effect of the Sherman Anti-trust Act when read in connection with the copyright act of the United States presented
a question of a Federal character to the state courts,
which claim of Federal right was necessarily denied in the
decision of the Court of Appeals, affirming the judgment
of the court below. One who sets up a Federal statute as
giving immunity from a judgment against him, which
claim is denied by the decision of a state court, may bring
the case here for review under § 709 of the Revised Stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

utes, now § 237 of the Judicial Code. Nutt v. Knut, 200
U. S. 12; St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Taylor, 210
U. S. 281; St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. McWhirter,
229 U. S. 265. The motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction must therefore be overruled.
This court, in.the case of Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Straus,
supra, held that the copyright act did not grant the right
to fix a limitation upon prices of books at subsequent
sales to purchasers from retailers by notice of price limitation inscribed upon the book, and, construing the copyright act, held that in conferring the right to vend a book
it did not intend to confer upon the holder of the copyright any further right after he had exercised the right .to
vend secured to him by the act.
In the case of Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United
States, 226 U. S. 20, this court had under consideration
the effect of the patent statute upon agreements found
to be unlawful under the Sherman Law, and the agreements condemned were held not to be protected as within
the patent monopoly conferred by the statute. Replying
to the contention as to the protection which the patent
law gave to enter into such agreements, this court said
(p. 49):
"Rights conferred by patents are indeed very definite
and extensive, but they do not give any more than other
rights an universal license against positive prohibitions.
The Sherman law is a limitation of rights-rights which
may be pushed to evil consequences and therefore restrained."
So, in the present case, it cannot be successfully contended that the monopoly of a copyright is in this respect
any more extensive than that secured under the patent
law. No more than the patent statute was the copyright
act intended to authorize agreements in unlawful restraint
of trade and tending to monopoly, in violation of the
specific terms of the Sherman Law, which is broadly de-

STRAUS v. AM. PUBLISHERS' ASS'N.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

signed to reach all combinations in unlawful restraint of
trade and tending because of the agreements or combinations entered into to build up and perpetuate monopolies.
From the finding of facts upon which the court certified
the question decided to the Court of Appeals, after the
attempted reformation in view of the first decision of that
court it appears that the Publishers' Association was composed of probably seventy-five per cent. of the publishers
of copyrighted and uncopyrighted books in the United
States and that the Booksellers' Association included f
majority of the booksellers throughout the United States;
that the Associations adopted resolutions and made
agreements obligating their members to sell copyrighted
books only to those who would maintain the retail price
on net copyrighted books, and, to that end, that the
Associations combined and coiperated with the effect,
that competition in copyrighted books at retail was almost
completely destroyed. The findings further show that the
Associations employed various methods of ascertaining
whether prices of net copyrighted books were cut and
whether there was competition in the sale thereof at retail,
and issued cut-off lists, so-called, directing the discontinuance of the sale of copyrighted books to offenders, and
that the plaintiffs in error, who had failed to maintain net
prices upon copyrighted books, had been put upon the
cut-off lists and were unable to secure a supply of such
books in the ordinary course of business. It further
appears that in some instances dealers who had supplied
the plaintiffs in error were wholly ruined and driven out
of business; that the Booksellers' Association widely circulated the names of such dealers and warned others to
avoid their fate, and that various circulars were issued to
the trade at large by both Associations warning all persons
against dealing with the plaintiffs in error or other socalled price-cutters; that after the reformation of the
resolutions and agreements in 1904 the Associations and

"' 236}

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

their members continued the same methods as to ascertaining the supply of copyrighted books of the plaintiffs
in error, as to cut-off lists and circulars to the trade, and
that, although in 1907 the resolution of the Publishers'
Association was modified so that the "agreement" became a "recommendation," the cut-off lists were still
issued, with plaintiff's name thereon and that the dealers
still refused" to supply plaintiffs in error with books of
any kind. And it also appears from the finding of facts
that the members of the Associations resided in and
carried on the business of selling books in many different
States and purchased books from persons in many States
other than the one in which they resided and (lid business;
and that the rules, regulations and agreements of the
Associations were enforced against all publishers and
dealers in books throughout the United States, whether
they were members of either Association or not and
whether they purchased books in one State for transportation and delivery in another or for delivery in the State
where purchased.
We agree with the Court of Appeals in its characterization of the agreement involved in this case, about which
there seems to have been no difference of opinion, except
as to the supposed protection of the copyright act. It
manifestly went beyond any fair and legal agreement to
protect prices and trade as among the parties thereto and
prevented, as the Court of Appeals said, when dealing
with uncopyrighted books, the sale of books of any kind,
at any price, to those who were condemned by the terms
of the agreement and with whom dealings were practically
prohibited. We conclude, therefore, that the Court of
Appeals erred in holding that the agreement was justified
by the copyright act, and was not within the denunciation
of the Sherman Act, and in denying, for that reason alone,
the right of the plaintiffs in error to recover under the
state act as to copyrighted books.

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BARTLETT.
231 U. S

237

Syllabus.

This view of the case renders it unnecessary to decide
whether an original action can be maintained in the state
courts seeking an injunction and to recover damages
under the Sherman Law.
As the Federal question, made in the manner which we
have stated, was in our view wrongly decided and such
decision was the basis of the judgment in the state court,
the judgment of that court must be reversed. Murdock v.
City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 634.
Judgment reversed and case remanded to the state court
whence it came for further proceedings not inconsistent

with this opinion.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES FOR THE BENEFIT OF BARTLETT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
No. 50.

Argued November 6, 7, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

A bond given pursuant to the act of August 13, 1894, e. 280, 28 Stat.
278, for a contract for building a stone breakwater, under the terms
of this contract, covers claims for labor on work at the quarry and
for hauling and delivering the stone.
Under the circumstances of this case held that the claims of laborers
for wages had been properly assigned to the claimant and clothed
him with legal right to maintaxn an action upon the bond given
under the act of August 13, 1894:.
A claim against the surety on the bond of a government contractor
will not be rejected as fraudulently excessive where it is shown that
claimant's books have been destroyed but he offers to allow credits
properly shown on the contractor's books and the records do not

