OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Appellee.

231 U. S.

indeed had been, ascertained by the master, under an
order made upon motion of the city. Petitioner, however,
was not able to produce authority from any subscriber to
appear for him, notwithstanding the order of respondent
permitted petitioner to renew its motion whenever it
should "be made to appear to the court in any appropriate
way that other specifically named claimants" desired
\petitioner to act for them. And yet, against these facts,
against, as counsel for respondent says, the possibility of a
presumption that the other subscribers of the telephone
company do not desire petitioner to represent them, it
prays a mandamus to compel such representation.
We cannot yield to the prayer.
Rule discharged.

CITY OF LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 538.

Argued November 10, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

Decided on authority of In re Louisville, ante, p. 639.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Pendleton Beckley, with whom Mr. J. W. S. Clements and Mr. Stuart Chevalier were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey and Mr. W. L. Granbery,
with whom Mr. Hunt Chipley was on the brief, for appellee.

LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE CO.
231 U. S.

653

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Appeal from the order of March 10, 1913, referred to in
Nos. 11 and 12, Original, and which order it was the object
of the petition for mandamus passed on in No. 11 to
command the Judge of the District Court to vacate. The
appeal also includes certain other orders which preceded
the making of that order. The question, which is fundamental of all, is whether the decision and decree of this
court set out in No. 11, Original, and the mandate issued
thereon permitted further proceedings in the suit or
necessarily required its dismissal. This is the general
basis of the assignments of error, and as included in it,
special objection is made to the instructions given the
master in the orders appealed from, to, the refusal of the

court to order the Telephone Company to pay into court
for immediate distribution among those entitled thereto,
whatever sums the company collected in excess of the
ordinance rates, and deciding instead that a bond should
be required of the company for the restitution of the
amounts if the ordinance rates should ultimately be held
not to be confiscatory. These objections are repeated in
the usual way of assignments of error.
. The discretion vested in the court, we considered in

No. 11, Original, and repetition would serve no purpose.
For the reasons there given the order of the District
Court is

Affirmed.

