UN. PAC. R. R. CO. v. SIDES.
231 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

titles," it is said, "must have been initiated prior to the
enactment of the act." For that reason, it is further said,
"the act cannot be said to be retrospective, because the
language used simply designates the classes of persons to
whom confirmatory grants are made." But these considerations are simply the result of dwelling upon the
literal terms of the act. But this is obnoxious to the rule of
the cases. Courts will not, as we have seen, enforce a
literal interpretation when by doing so antecedent rights
are affected or human conduct given a consequence it
did not intend. Such a purpose the courts refuse to assign
to the legislature unless compelled by language explicit
and imperative. And we 'have pointed out that we are
repelled from so doing by grave doubts of its legality as
well as of its justice. These considerations need not be
further expanded. Their strength has been pointed out
and their sufficiency to prevail over a literal interpretation
of a statute.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE HUGHES dissents.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES and MR.JUSTICE PITNEY

took no

part in the decision.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. SIDES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 683.

Submitted October 14, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Decided on the authority of Union Pacific RailroadCo. v. Snow, ante,
p. 204.
133 Pac. Rep. 1040, reversed.
THE facts

are stated in the opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Mr. N. H. Loomis, Mr. C. C. Dorsey and Mr. .E. I.
Thayer for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Milton Smith, Mr. Charles R. Brock and Mr. W. H.
Ferguson for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action in ejectment, brought by plaintiff in error,
called here plaintiff, ,against defendants in error, here
called defendants, in the District Court of Arapahoe
County, State of Colorado.
Except'as to the description of the land the complaint
is substantially the same as that in No. 682 and presents
the same legal rights and titles. Defendant Sides demurred to the complaint, Scherrer denied being in possession of the land and disclaimed any claim to it. The
demurrer was overruled and Scherrer answered, setting
up defenses which are in substance the same as in No. 682.
To the defenses plaintiff filed demurrers, which were
sustained. Sides elbcted to plead no further and the'case
coming on for trial and certain facts being agreed upon as
testified to, objection to the materiality of which was made,
motions to dismiss and for judgment were also made and
overruled. Judgment was entered for plaintiff. It was
reversed by the Supreme Court of the State, for the reasons
stated in its opinion in Snow v. Union PacificRailroadCo.,
that is, No. 682, ante, p. 204, 133 Pac. Rep. 1040.
This case was submitted with No. 682, involves the
same questions and is determined by its decision..
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent herewith.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES

no part in the decision.

dissents.
and MR.JUSTICE

PITNEY

took

