OCTOBER TtRM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

231 U. S.

STREET & SMITH, A COPARTNERSHIP, v. ATLAS
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No 618. Submitted November 10, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.
Judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals arising under
the Trade-Mark Act of February 20, 1905, are reviewable by this
court only on certiorari and not on appeal or writ of error; appeals
in such cases are not allowed under § 128 of the Judicial Code.
The Judicial Code does not purport to embody all the law upon the
subjects to which it relates. Sections 292, 294 and 297 expressly
bear upon the extent to which the Code affects or repeals prior laws
and to which such prior laws remain in force.
The intent of Congress, as indicated in the provisions of the Judicial
Code relaiing to the jurisdiction of this court, was to extend rather
than contract the finality of decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
By the act of February 20, 1905, Congress placed trade-mark cases
arising under that statute upon the same footing as cases arising
under the patent laws as respects the remedy by certiorari under
the Circuit Court of Appeals Act.
While the Judicial Code supersedes the Circuit Court of Appeals Act,
references in other statutes to the latter act now relate to the corresponding sections of the Judicial Code, as is expressly provided by
§ 292 of the Code.
Section 297 of the Judicial Code did not repeal § 18 of the Trade-Mark
Act of February 20, 1905.
Appeal from 204 Fed. Rep. 398, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Judicial Code affecting the jurisdiction of
this court of appeals from judgments of the Circuit Court
of Appeals in cases relating to trade-marks, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Hugh K. Wagner and Mr. Leonard J. Langbein,
for appellants, in support of petition for certiorari and in
opposition to appellees' motion to dismiss or affirm:

STREET & SMITH v. ATLAS MFG. CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The omission in the Judicial Code to make
cases arising under the trade-mark registration statute final in the
United States Circuit Courts of Appeals was not accidental, but intentional, as is shown by the fact that the foregoing clause of the act of March 3, 1891, is reenacted in
the Judicial Code in the identical language of the 1891
statute with the exception of the insertion therein of the
additional class of cases, viz., those arising "under the
copyright laws."
Even if this were not so, where a provision is left out of a
statute either by design or mistake of the legislature, the
courts have no power to supply it, as to do so would be to
legislate and not to construe. Hobbs v. McLean, 117
U. S. 567; United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 95, 102.
No mere omission or failure to provide for contingencies
will justify judicial addition to a statute. Glover v.
United States, 164 U. S. 295; McKee v. United States, 164
U. S. 287; Beechwood v. Joplin-PittsburghRailway Co.,
158 S. W. Rep. 868, 871.
Mr. James Love Hopkins and Mr. Nelson Thomas
for appellees in opposition to petition for certiorari and
in support of motion to dismiss or affirm.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of a Circuit Court of
Appeals directing the dismissal of a suit to enjoin infringement of a registered trade-mark and unfair trade. 204
Fed. Rep. 398. The decree was rendered and the appeal
allowed after tle Judicial Code, adopted March 3, 1911,
36 Stat. 1087, c. 231, .became effective. Our jurisdiction
is challenged by a motion to dismiss, and if we have
jurisdiction it is solely because the case was in part one
arising under the act of February 20, 1905, infra, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

which the trade-mark was registered. Whether in a case
so arising the judgment or decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals may be reviewed by this court upon an appeal or writ
of error, or only upon a writ of certiorari, is thc question
for decision.
Section 128 of the Judicial Code declares that, except as
provided in §§ 239 and 240, "the judgments and decrees
of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final
in all cases arising under the patent laws, under the copyright laws, under the revenue laws, and under the criminal
laws, and in admiralty cases." Section 239 permits the
certification to this court of qu.estions of law by a Circuit
Court of Appeals concerning which it desires instruction
for the proper decision of a case within its appellate jurisdiction, and is .not important here. Section 240 reserves
to this court the discretionary power to require, by certiorari, upon the petition of a party, that any case in
which the decision of a Circuit Court of Appeals is made
final by the Code be certified here for review and determination, with the same power and authority in the case as if
brought here by appeal or writ of error. Section 241 declares that any case in which the decision of a Circuit
Court of Appeals is not made final by the Code may be
brought here, as of right, by appeaJ or writ of error, if the
matter in controversy exceeds $1,000, besides costs.
These provisions, it is said by counsel for the appellants,
enabled them to appeal, as of right, the statutory amount
being involved, and did not remit them to the discretionary writ of certiorari; the argument being that § 128
enumerates the cases in which the decisions of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final and does not include
among them cases arising under the trade-mark laws, and
that § 241 gives an appeal or writ of error, as of right, in
aiy case in which the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is not thus made final, if, as here, the requisite
amount is in controversy. If the question turned entirely

STREET & SMITH v. ATLAS MFG. CO.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the code provisions relied upon, the argument
probably would be convincing. But there are other
statutory provisions which must be considered, some within
and others without the Code.
The Code does not purport to embody all the law upon
the subjects to which it relates. It contains some new
provisions and some that are modifications of old ones,
but much of it is merely a reenactment of prior laws with
appropriate regard to their proper classification and orderly arrangement. Among others, it contains the following provisions bearing upon the extent to which it was
intended to affect or repeal prior laws:
"SEc. 292. Wherever in any law not contained within
this Act, a reference is made to any law revised or embraced
herein, such reference, upon the taking effect hereof, shall
be construed to refer to the section of this Act into which
has been carried or revised the provision of law to which
reference is so made.
"SEc. 294. The provisions of this Act, so far as they are
substantially the same as existing statutes, shall be construed as continuations thereof, and not as new enactments, and there shall be no implication of a change of
intent by reason of a change of words in such statute,
unless such change of intent shall be clearly manifest.
"SEc. 297. The following sections of the Revised
Statutes and Acts and parts of Acts are hereby repealed: . . . [many sections, acts, and parts of acts
are here enumerated] . . . Also all other Acts and
parts of Acts, in so.far as they are embraced within and
superseded by this Act, are hereby repealed; the remaining portions thereof to be ard remain in force with the
same effect and to the same extent as if this Act had not
been passed."
Sections 128, 239, 240, and 241 of the Code, as before
described, substantially, almost literally, repeat the provisions of §6 of the Circuit Courts of Appeals Act of March 3,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U.S.

1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517. There is but a single change
deserving mention here, and it is that cases arising under
the copyright laws are in § 128 added to the enumeration
of cases in which the decisions of the Circuit Courts of
Appeals are declared final. But this has no bearing upon
cases arising under the trade-mark laws, save as it indicates that Congress was extending, rather than contracting, the list of cases in which finality attaches to the
decisions of the Circuit Courts of Appeals. Passing this
consideration, there is nothing in the Code denoting a
purpose to change the existing appellate jurisdiction in
trade-mark cases: it is left as it was before.
The Trade-Mark Act of February 20, 1905, 33 Stat.
724, c. 592, dealt with the subject we are considering. By
§ 17 it invested the Circuit Courts of Appeals with appellate jurisdiction of cases arising under that act, and by
§ 18 declared that writs of certiorari might be granted by
this court for the review of decisions of those courts in
such cases "in the same manner as provided for patent
cases" by the Circuit Courts of Appeals Act. In placing
such trade-mark cases upon the same footing as cases
arising under the patent laws, as respects the remedy
by certiorari, Congress undoubtedly intended that this
remedy should have the same attributes in the one class
of cases as in the other. We already have seen that the
Circuit Courts of Appeals act, in § 6, made it exclusive
in cases arising under the patent laws. Before the adoption of the Code, this court said in Hutchinson,Pierce& Co.
v. Loewy, 217 U. S. 457, 460, a case like this: "We are of
opinion that this appeal will not lie, and that the remedy
by certiorari is exclusive.
.
. We think that the
language of § 18 places suits brought under the trademark act [February 20, 1905] plainly within the scope
of the act establishing the Court of Appeals [March 3,
1891], and that a final decision of that court can be reviewed in this court only upon certiorari,"

DOWNMAN v. TEXAS.
231 U. S.

Syllabus.

Of course, that case and this are not to be confused
with others arising under ear iler trade-mark laws not containing any provisions respecting appellate jurisdiction
such as are embodied in the act of 1905.
The provisions of that act upon this subject are not.
among those enumerated in § 297 of the Code as thereby
repealed, and neither do they appear to have been anbraced within and superseded by the Code. And while
the Circuit Courts of Appeals Act, to which § 18 of the
act of 1905 makes reference, has been superseded by being
incorporated into the Code, that section has not thereby
lost any of its original effect, rfor § 292 of the Code requires
the reference to be construed as if naming the very sections
of the Code into which the Circuit Courts of Appeals act
has been carried.
It follows that the motion to dismiss the appeal must
be sustained, as was done in Hutchinson, Pierce & Co. v.
Loewy, supra.
Appeal dismissed.

DOWNMAN v. STATE OF TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 43.

Submitted November 3, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

While real estate is generally taxed as a unit, separate estates therein
may be taxed to the separate owners of such tstates, where the title
has been severed.
One who has purchased the mineral rights in land with the present
right to enter and work the samne is not denied equal protection of
the law because in his case the mineral rights are taxed to him and
the surface estate is taxed to the owner of the fee.

VOL. ccxxxi-23

