IN RE LOUISVILLE.
231 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

IN RE CITY OF LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY,
PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 11, Original.

Argued November 10, 1913.-Decided January 5,1914.

The mandate in the case of Louisiille v. Cumberland Telephone Co.,
225 U. S. 430, in which this court decided that the rates established
by municipal ordinance were not confiscatory and reversed the
judgment holding that they were, without prejudice, and remanded
the case to the lower court, permitted further proceedings; and the
judge of the District Court acted within his discretion in continuing
the case and appointing a Master to take proof and report as to the
amount collected by the company during the injunction period and
also after the new rates had been put into effect.
Mandamus to compel the District Court to vacate supplemental orders
of reference made in a case revemied and remanded, refused, on the
ground that the case was decided without prejudice and the District
Court acted within its discretion in the conduct of the case and the
interpretation of the mandate.

THE facts, which involve the proper exercise of discretion of the trial judge in inteipreting the mandate of this
court in a case remanded for further proceedings, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Pendleton Beckley, with whom Mr. J. W. S. Clements
and Mr. Stuart Chevalierwere on the brief, for petitioner:
Where a decree of this court has been misunderstood or
misconstrued by a lower court., the party complaining can
have the error corrected eitherc by an appeal to this court
or by a motion for a writ of mandamus. City National
Bank v. Hunter, 152 U. S. 512. See also Whitaker v.
Desfosse, 7 Bosw. (N. Y.) 678; Cram v. Bradford, 4 Abb.
Pr.,R. 193; St. Paul & Sioux City v. Gardner, 19 Minnesota, 132, 136; 2 Cyc. 612, 613, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Petitioner.

231 U. S.

In any event a writ of mandamus is proper to bring
before this court the question whether its opinion or
mandate has been misconstrued by a lower court. Perkins
v. Fourniquet, 14 How. 328; Gaines v. Caldwell, 148 U. S.
228; Re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247; Re Potts &
Co., 166 U. S. 263.
The city. contends that the District Court should retain jurisdiction of this case for the purpose (but for the
purpose only) of decreeing restitution to the patrons of the
telephone company of the amount of overcharges accruing from the passage of the rate ordinance to the filing
of the mandate of this court upholding that ordinance.
Brown v. Detroit Trust Co., 193 Fed. Rep. 626; Northwestern Fuel Co. v. Brock, 139 U. S. 216; Southern Railway
Co. v. Tiff, 206 U. S. 435, and see report of the subsequent
hearing in Tift v. Southern Railway Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 555.
Respondent in ordering another investigation of the
rates and the supervision by a special Master of the
operations of the telephone company, misconstrued or
misunderstood the opinion of this court rendered on the
former appeal.
The one issue made in the bill of complaint filed in this
case in March, 1909, was whether the ordinance of March 6,
1909, was confiscatory as to the telephone company.
This court by its .pinion reversed the decree of the
lower court. In so reversing that decree this court
adhered to the opinions in Willcox v. ConsolidatedGas Co.,
212 U. S. 19, and Knoxville Water Company Case, 212 U. S.
18, that the courts should not declare a rate ordinance
confiscatory until the public service corporation had given
it a fair trial.
The City of Louisville contends that by the opinions in
each of these cases this court. meant identically the same
thing; that is to say, inasmuch as complainants had not
shown by clear and unmistakable proof that the rates
in question would be confiscatory, the court would not

IN RE LOUISVILLE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

affirm decrees enjoining the enforcement of such rates
until the public service corporations had put the rate into
effect, and given them a feir trial. In the meantime, it
was clearly the purpose of this court in those cases that
the decrees of the lower court should be reversed, and the
cases dismissed in so far a3 the question of confiscation
was concerned; but if any one of those three public service
corporations saw fit in the future, and after testing the
rates, to again try out the question of whether the ordinance was or was not confiscatory, its right to do so should
not be prejudiced by anything contained in the opinions
of See
this court or the decrees Entered pursuant thereto.
also Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North
Dakota, 216
U. S. 579.
There is no possible ground on which a court can
entertain jurisdiction of a cause in which a public service
corporation alleged that it was ignorant of whether certain rates fixed by a legislative body were confiscatory as
to it, that it had put the rates into effect and it now filed
its bill of complaint for the purpose of having the court
appoint a master to see if those rates were really in effect,
to supervise the operations of the company, and to report
to the court the gross earnings, gross expenses and net
revenues of the company; and asked the court to determine from such a report whether the rates were or were
not confiscatory.
Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey and Mr. W. L. Granbery,
with whom Mr. Hunt Chipley was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Petition for a rule on the Judge-of the District Court of
the United States for the Western'District of Kentucky,
VOL. ccxxxi-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

to show cause why a mandamus should not issue commanding him to vacate the supplemental order of reference
entered on March 10, 1913, in the cause entitled Cumberland Telephone & Telegraph Company v. City of Louisville,
pending in said District Court, and to desist from further
trying in the cause the question whether the ordinance
of March 6, 1909, in litigation in the cause, is confiscatory and void as to the company, and further commanding him to dismiss the bill of complaint, retaining
the same on the docket, however, for the purpose of ascer-,
taining the amounts collected by the company from its
patrons in the City of Louisville in excess of the rates
prescribed in the ordinance, and for the further purpose of
distributing the same among the persons entitled thereto.
A rule was issued in accordance with the petition and
return thereon duly made by the District Judge.
The suit referred to was brought by the Telephone &
Telegraph Company against the city in the Circuit Court,
the predecessor of the District Court, on the eighth of
March, 1909, and sought an injunction enjoining the City
of Louisville from enforcing the ordinance referred to on the
ground that the rates prescribed by it were confiscatory.
Upon the filing of the bill a temporary restraining order
was granted. A n-otion was also made for an injunction
pendente lite but was not passed upon till final hearing on
the twenty-fifth of April, 1911, when a permanent injunction was decreed, the court adjudging the rates fixed to be
confiscatory.
On the fifteenth of June, 1909, the city moved for an order requiring the company to pay into court all sums collected in excess of those fixed in the ordinance. Thereupon
the company agreed that if the court make no order in pursuance of the motion it would keep an accurate account
of the sums collected in excess of the rates fixed in the
ordinance and would, on the final hearing, pay the amounts
into court for distribution among those entitled thereto,

IN RE LOUISVILLE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provided the ordinance was not declared to be confiscatory.
In pursuance of the agreement the court refrained from
making the order prayed for and allowed the restraining
order to remain in force.
An appeal to this court was taken by the city from the
decree of perpetual injunction and the decree was reversed.
225 U. S. 430. This court reviewed the evidence upon
which the Circuit Court decided that the rates were
confiscatory, and said (p. 436):
"We express no opinion whether to cut this telephone
company down to six per cent. by legislation would or
would not be confiscatory. But when it is remembered
what clear evidence the court requires before it declares
legislation otherwise valid void on this ground, and when it
is considered how speculative every figure is that we have
set down with delusive exactness, we are of opinion that the
result is too near the dividing line not to make actual experiment necessary. The Master thought that the probable net income for the year that would suffer the greatest,
decrease would be 8.60 per cent. on the values estimated
by him. The Judge on assumptions to which we have
stated our disagreement makes the present earnings
5-10.17 per cent. with a reduction by the ordinance to
3-6.17 per cent. The whole question is too much in the
air for us to feel authorized to let the injunction stand.
"Decree reversed without prejudice."
A mandate was issued, the material parts of which are
as follows:
"On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered,
adjudged and decreed by this Court that the decree of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby, reversed with costs, without prejudice; and that
the said defendant, City of Louisville, recover against the
said complainant Three thousand nine hundred and
forty-five dollars and sixty-five cents for its costs herein
expended and have execution therefor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

"And it is further ordered that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Kentucky for
further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of
this Court."
On the return of the case to the District Court, as successor of the Circuit Court, in obedience to the mandate,
the original decree was set aside and the case restored to
the docket. Subsequently on motion of the city, the court
appointed a special master to take proof of and report the
amount, with interest, collected by the company in excess of the rates fixed by the ordinance. Power was given
to the master to subpcena witnesses and examine the
books and records of the company. A motion of the city
to require the company to pay the amount into the court
was postponed. A motion of A. Englehard & Sons Company for leave to file a bill of intervention was set for
hearing November 12, 1912. The master proceeded to
the execution of his duties under the order, but had not
completed them at the time the petition herein was filed.
The sums in excess of the rate will aggregate more than
$100,000.
On March 10, 1913, the District Court (it is alleged,
without any motion being made or any further steps
taken by any party to the cause), on its own initiative,
entered a supplemental order of reference wherein the
clerk of the court was appointed a special master to ascertain and report the gross earnings of the company after

the rate ordinance went into effect, the gross expenses
incurred in operating its property and the net income
derived by the company from operating its plant since the
ordinance was put into effect.
The court justified this order by its interpretation of
the opinion and mandate of this court. The city protested
against the entry of the order, denying that it was a proper
interpretation of the opinion of this court and insisted

IN RE LOUISVILLE.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the District Court, in response to the bill of complaint,

should "adjudge that the ordinance in question was not
confiscatory and that the complainant take nothing by
its bill." And it is now alleged that the cause is at an
end so far as the rights of the company to have the ordinance adjudged confiscatory and void are concerned and
that the District Court has no further jurisdiction; that
the trial of the issue cost the city $20,000, and a new trial
will cost it the same sum, and that no appeal can be taken
until such trial be had; and: having no adequate remedy
but mandamus, the petitioner prays that one issue to
require the Judge to vacate his order and to desist from
further trying the issue.
It is alleged that the special master who was appointed
to ascertain the amounts collected by the company is
ready to make his report and will make it in a short time.
It is further alleged the amounts collected in excess of
-the ordinance are a trust fund held by it for the benefit
of the patrons of the company as their rights may appear
and that they are entitled to have restitution made to
them by the District Court, and that therefore the litigation between the company and the city should not be
dismissed absolutely, but should be retained on the docket
for the purpose .of having collected and distributed the
excessive collections. And this relief is prayed in addition
to the mandamus.
Due return to the rule was made. It is, in effect, that
the court considered the opinion and decree of this court
permitted a discretion to retain the case for an actual
experiment of the rates, and, thus considering it, made the
order of March 10, 1913.
We think the discretion. was properly, exercised. The
terms of the mandate permitted further proceedings, and
it is well to recall what had been done. The decree of
this court was rendered June 7, 1912. The Telephone
Company put the ordinance rates into effect July 1, 1912.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

On motion of the City a special master was appointed to
take proof and report the amount collected by the company between the latter date and March 8, 1909, and,
subsequently after an interchange of views between court
and counsel, the order of March 10, 1913, was made. It
will be observed, therefore, that an actual experiment
of the rates had been voluntarily undertaken and had
been ifi effect for more than eight months before the order,
under review was entered, and the court conceived that
observation of the experiment might secure greater accuracy and confidence in the result, and, besides, inform
the court of matters as they progressed.
We repeat, we think the court did not exceed the discretion permitted, and the rule is
Discharged.

IN RE ENGELHARD & SONS COMPANY,

PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND RULE.
No. 12, Onginal.

Argued November 10, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

In a suit by a public utility corporation to enjoin enforcement of rates
claimed to be confiscatory, the municipality is the proper party to be
made defendant, and as such it can represent all parties interested.
The only mode of judicial relief against unreasonable rates is by suit
against the governmental authority which established them or is
charged with the duty of enforcing them.
It is not competent for each individual having dealings with a regulated public utility corporation to raise a contest in the courts over
questions which can be settled in a general and conclusive manner.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418.
Where a telephone company has sued the municipality to enjoin rates
as confiscatory and an injunction has been granted upon the cornpany paying into a fund the excess collected from the subscribers, the

