OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

if it saw fit, or make other contracts with those who

could supply the wants of the city in that respect. We see
no reason why the city might not, if it so determined, make
preparation for water supply to its own citizens which
would be available upon the expiration of the contract,
the contract accomplishing that purpose until by its
terms it had expired. To appropriately accomplish this
required time and we think the city was within its rights,
not being obligated by any contract to purchase the works
of the Water Works Company, the company having been
content to accept the franchise without this requirement,
and was free to make other adequate provision to meet
this essential requirement of the inhabitants of the city.
The views we have expressed require a reversal of the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming the
decree of the District Court. It is therefore ordered that
the judgment be
Reversed and the case remanded to the District Court of the
United "Statesfor the Southern District of Mississippi,
for further proceedingsnot inconsistentwith this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 385.

Argued January 16, 17, 1913.-Decided December 1, 1913.

Premises occupied and used by a common carrier as a depot or freight
station may become such through contract with the owners and not
necessarily by lease or purchase.
The fact that the carrier leases a terminal from a shipper near that
shipper's establishments does not, in the absence of any fraudulent
intent, import a discrimination in favor of that shipper where the

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 275
231 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

station is actually used for the benefit alike of all shippers in that
neighborhood.
A carrier may compensate a shipper for services rendered and instrumentalities furnished in connection with its own shipments; and if
the amount is reasonable it is not a prohibited rebate or discrimination, even if the carrier does not allow other shippers to. render and
furnish similar services and instrumentalities and compensate
them therefor.
Because a contract for terminal facilities contemplates and provides
for the publication of joint tariffs does not make the owners of the
terminal common carriers if no joint tariffs are ever filed or published.
Where the Interstate Commerce Commission held payments for shippers' services rendered and facilities furnished to be discriminatory
only in so far as similar payments for similar services are not paid to
other shippers, other questions as to the legality of such payments
which were not passed on by the Conimission or the Commerce
Court are not properly before this court.and will not be passed on.
Quwre, and not now discussed or decided, whether a shipper furnishing
lighterage service within lighterage limits for a part of the rate becomes a common carrier and debarred from transporting his own
goods-under the commodity clause of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
A shipper may be under disadvantages in regard to his. shipments by
a common carrier by reason of his disadvantageous location.
200 Fed. Rep. 779, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the legality of an order made
by the Interstate Commerce Commission regarding certain allowances made by railroad carriers to shippers and
determination of whether such allowances constituted
illegal preferences or discriminations in violation of the
Act to Regulate Commerce, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Solicitor General Bullitt for the United States:
Arbuckle Brothers in operating the Jay Street Terminal
and in transporting freight by floats, etc., between Brooklyn and Jersey City axe an integral part of the through
trunk line systems operating into and out of greater New
York, and as .such are common carriers by railroad,, and
are subject to the Interstate Commerce Act.
United

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

231 U. S.

States v. Union Stock Yard, 226 U. S. 286, 302, 304, 306;
United States v. Del. & Hud. Co., 213 U. S. 366.
The Hepburn Act does not authorize the railroads to
make the arrangement in question with Arbuckle Bros.
and to pay them for their services in transporting freight
between Brooklyn and Jersey City. Int. Comm. Comm. v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42; Un. Pac R. R. v. Updike
Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission:
The Commission correctly treated as one and the same
concern the firm of Arbuckle Brothers and the firm
styled Jay Street Terminal.
The fact that a large part of Arbuckle Brothers' sugar
is sold f. o. b. Brooklyn is a matter of no importance.
The allowances are paid to Arbuckle Brothers in accordance with tariffs published and contracts entered into by
the carriers. The fact that the allowances cover use of the
Jay Street Terminal and all services performed there in
connection with the transportation of the shipments
does not change the character of the discrimination.
By confusing allowances paid to Arbuckle Brothers on
their shipments of sugar with allowances paid to them on
other shipments the carriers cannot make lawful a discrimination which would otherwise be unlawful.
The fact that bills of lading issued by the carriers show
that their responsibility for the Federal Sugar Refining
Company shipments begins at the Jersey shore is not, as
between such shipments and those of Arbuckle Brothers,
a matter of importance.
The right of the carriers to discriminate between Arbuckle Brothers and the Federal Sugar Refining Company
does not depend upon the question of whether the latter
changed its method of shipping to avoid such discrimination.

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 277
231 U. ,.

Argument for

Federal Sugar Company.

The carriers' offer to lighter the Federal Sugar Refining
Company shipments from Pier 24 to the Jersey shore
free of expense to that company does not change the character of the discrimination which forms the basis of the
Commission's order.
The lawfulness of the discrimination does not depend
upon the question of whether the allowances paid to Arbuckle Brothers are more than reasonable compensation
for the services performed by them in delivering their
shipments of sugar on the Jersey shore.
The court erred in stamping with the seal of good faith
the contracts made with the Jay Street Terminal for the
purpose of giving Arbuckle Brothers an advantage over
the Federal Sugar Refining Company and denouncing
as a subterfuge the change in shipping arrangements
made by the latter company to remove the discrimination
thus brought about.
In support of these contentions see Gulf, Col. &c. Ry.
Co. V. Texas, 204 U. S. 403; Int. Com. Com. v. Balt. &
Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263; Un. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Goodridge, 149 U. S. 680; Cin., N. 0. & Texas Pac. Ry. Co.
v. Int. Com. Com., 162 U. S. 184; Tex. Pac.Ry. Co. v. Int.
Com. Com., 162 U. S. 197; tnt. Com. Com. v. Cin., N. 0. &
Tex. Pac. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479; Wight v. United States,
167 U. S. 512; Int. Com. Com. v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co.,
168 U. S. 144; East Tenn., V. & G. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com.
Com., 181 U. S. 1; New Haven R. R. Co. v. Int. Com.
Com., 200 U. S. 361; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton
Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Int. Com. Com. v. Ch. G. West. Ry.
Co., 209 U. S. 108; Int. Com. Com. v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co.,
215 U. S. 452; Int. Com. Com. v. Del., Lack. & West.
R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235; Un. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Updike
Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215.
Mr. Ernest A. Bigelow for the Federal Sugar Refining
Company:

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Federal Sugar Company.

231 U. S.

The present arrangement' between the carriers and
Arbuckle and Jamison is a fraud upon the spirit and the
intent and the letter of the acts to regulate commerce.
The arrangement had its origin in a flagrantly unlawful
preference of these great shippers and was devised to perpetuate such preference.
The form is the form of an innocent contract between a
carrier and a dock and lighterage concern; the substance
is that of an unlawful and unjust preference of one group
of shippers as against their competitor.
Underlying the arrangement with these favored shippers
is the fundamental purpose to handicap the independent
company and prevent it from entering the markets on
equal terms, i. e., to defeat the intention of Congress as
manifested in the Act to Regulate Commerce. The lighterage limits could be expanded at will, in all directions,
north, east and south, but never to Yonkers, for there
was located the Federal's refinery.
The Commission's findings of fact, supported as they are
by the evidence, will not be reviewed by this court, and its
conclusions of law were correctly drawn.
So far as the conclusions embody findings of fact they
appear not to be reviewable by the courts. A finding that
there is unjust discrimination is a conclusion of fact.
Int. Com. Com. v. D., L. & W. R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235.
The transportation referred to in § 2 of the act does not
begin until the lighters are made fast to their float-bridges
on the New Jersey shore, that being the point of time at
which the carriers accept the goods and assume responsibility therefor. Mo. Pac. Ry. v. McFadden, 154 U. S.
155; L. & L. FireIns. Co. v. R. W. & 0. R., 144 N. Y. 200;
Coe v. Errol,116 U. S. 517, 528.
The single fact that Arbuckle and Jamison issue to
themselves bills of lading in the name of the carriers does
not suffice to overcome the legal conclusion arising from
the fact that the sugar remains in their own possession and

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 279
231 U. S.

Argument for Federal Sugar Company.

at their own expense and risk until the lighters have made
fast at the rail terminals.
On the first proposition, therefore, it is submitted the

Commission has correctly disposed of the question of law,
and that its finding that the arrangement between Arbuckle and Jamison and ithe carriers creates an unlawful
discrimination, being a finding of fact which is supported
by the evidence and as such not reviewable by the courts,

should be accepted by this tribunal.
The Commission was right in finding that both shippers
perform precisely the same service in lightering their
respective shipments from points within the lighterage
limits and delivering them to the appellee carriers at their
rail terminals. If, therefore, the service performed by
Arbuckle and Jamison be a part of the transportation,
within the scope of § 15, so also must be the service performed by the Federal Company and to pay to Arbuckle
and Jamison an allowance for their services and to refuse
to pay the Federal Company for its precisely similar services is to discriminate unlawfully. Int. Com. Com. v.
Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42: Union Pac. Ry. v. Updike
Grain Co., 222 U. S. 215.
The Federal Company initiates the interstate transpbrtation of its sugar, so far as these carriers are concerned, at
pier 24, a point within the lighterage limits. This is true
even if Federal sugar is not discharged from the lighters at
pier 24 and there is, theref ore, no physical delivery.
Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403.
The Federal Sugar Refining Company has no apologies
to offer for adopting the expedient of rebilling at pier 24,
an expedient which has received the sanction of this
court in Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403.
As to the propriety of motives, a shipper is entitled to
accommodate its conduct to settled principles of law, even
though it be impelled thereto by an enlightened selfinterest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

The so-called admission by counsel for ,the Federal
Sugar Refining Company did not admit, at least in the
sense ascribed to it by the dissenting Commissioners; and,
in any event, is quite immaterial, as. the Commission has
power in the public interests to consider the whole subject, disembarrassed by any supposed admissions, even if
contained in the statement of complaint. C. H. & D. Ry.
v. Int. Com. Com., 206 U. S. 142, 149.
Mr. George F. Brownell, with whom Mr. H. A. Taylor

was on the brief, for the Railroad Companies, appellees.
Mr. H. B. Closson for the Brooklyn Eastern District
Terminal, appellee.
Mr. William N. Dykman for the Jay Street Terminal

and Arbuckle Brothers, appellees.
'MR. JUSTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.

This appeal involves the legality of an order made by
the Interstate Commerce Commission holding that certain allowances made by the appellees to Arbuckle Brothers on sugar shipped by them over one or another of the
railroad companies' lines constitute an illegal preference or
discrimination in violation of the Act to Regulate Commerce. The order of the Commission required the railroad
companies to cease -anddesist from paying such allowances,
"while at the same time paying no such allcwances to the
Federal Sugar Refining Co.," on its sugar brought by it
on lighters to the carriers at the same rail terminals.
20 I. C. C. Rep. 200.. The carriers affected filed a bill in
the Commerce Court alleging the invalidity and illegality
of the order, and sought an injunction pendente lite and a
permanent injunction against its enforcement. An injunction until the cause could be finally heard was .granted

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 281
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Commerce Court. This was appealed from by
the United States and the injunction sustained as within
the sound discretion of the court below. 225 U. S. 306.
Thereupon the cause was finally heard upon motion of the
appellants to dismiss the bill for want of equity, all answers
and pleas theretofore filed having been withdrawn. The
Commerce Court denied this motion and sustained the
equity of the bill. The appellants declining to further
defend, the temporary injunction was made permanent.
From that decree this appeali is prosecuted.
The situation out of whitch the questions for decision
arise, shortly stated, is this:
The railroad companies held by the Interstate Commerce Commission to have discriminated in favor of
Arbuckle Brothers and against the Federal Sugar Refining
('ompany, are interstate trunk lines whose freight rail
terminals are at the New Jersey shore of the harbor of
New York. Transportation of freights into and out of the
City of New York is practicable only by means of car
floats, barges and steam lighters, operating between the
city and the New Jersey shore.
To meet this condition the appellee railroads have long
held themselves out as extending transportation of
freights bound east to a defined area along the river front
of the city and as beginning such transportation westbound when freight is delivered at designated points
within the same area. The necessary lighterage service
is performed without additional cost or charge, the flat
rate into or out from such points being identical with that
applicable at the New Jersey rail terminals. The limits
within which such lighterage service is performed as a
part of the transportation assumed have long been defined
and published in the several filed rate sheets of the carriers. The district embraces substantially the commercial
and manufacturing river front of Greater New York, and
within it the railroads hold themselves out as undertaking

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

to receive or deliver freight at any public dock, or at any
accessible private dock where the shipper shall arrange for
the use of the dock. Within this lighterage zone each of
the appellees has established and long maintained public
freight terminal stations, at which it Will deliver eastbound freights and receive freights bound west. Some of
these stations are owned or managed solely by one of the
railroads and some are union stations operated for the
joint use of two or all of the railroads. Some of them are
operated by third persons, who manage and operate them
under contracts as agents for one or more of the railroads.
But whether 'operated under contract or directly by the
company or companies using them they are represented to
be public delivery and receiving'stations, and are so set out
in the filed tariff sheets of the companies interested.
The "allowance" to Arbuckle Brothers referred to in
the order of the Commission is the consideration paid by
the railroad companies to them for instrumentalities and
facilities furnished and services, performed in the maintenance of one of these public stations, known as the Jay
Street Terminal, and for the lighterage of all freight
between that' station and the railroad terminals on the
New Jersey shore. Arbuckle Brothers, a co-partnership,
are large refiners of sugar and dealers in coffee. Much of
their product of sugar finds a market in the west at points
upon the lines of the railroads here involved. Their
refinery is upon the water front of Brooklyn. They also
own a contiguous property fronting upon East River some
1,200 feet. Upon this property they have erected a dock,
piers and large warehouses for the receipt of freight intended for transportation to the railroad terminals on the
New Jersey shore, or received from such terminals for
consignees nearby. They also own steam lighters, car
floats, barges, etc., constructed for the transfer of cars,
loaded or unloaded, between this dock and the.New Jersey
terminals. The premises were peculiarly adapted for use

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 283
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as a public union freight station, and for the purpose of
extending transportation by their several lines to this
portion of the commercial and manufacturing water front
of Greater New York, the appellee railroad companies,
in 1906, entered into separate, but identical, contracts
with Arbuckle Brothers, the latter contracting under the
business name and style of "The Terminal Company."
The contracts are too lengthy to be set out. Their essential points may be thus summarized:
1. The Terminal Company agrees to maintain the
permises in good order and condition for the receipt of
freight and to provide all necessary boats, car floats,
docks and piers, adequate at all times to receive, dis,charge, transfer and deliver freights, loaded and unloaded, adequate to accommodate the business contemplated.
2. The Terminal Company will receive at the New
Jersey terminals all freights, in or out of cars, intended for
delivery at the aforesaid freight station and safely convey
the same to the premises and there make delivery to the
consignees. It will also receive and load into cars all
freights which may be delivered to it at its said premises
for transportation over the lines of any of said railroad
companies and carry and deliver the same to said railroad
company's New Jersey rail terminals.
3. For the facilities supplied and the services performed
each of the railroad companies agrees to pay on freight in.
and out of the station, a compensation measured by the
tonnage handled for each such railroad of foiir and onefifth cents per hundred pounds on freight originating at or
destined to points west of what is called "trunk line
territory," and on freight originating at or destined to
points
east thereof, three cents per hundred pounds.
Under
these contracts, consignments to or by
Arbuckle
Brothers are handled in the same manner as the shipments
of the general public, and comprise a part of the tonnage

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

in and out of that station by which the compensation
paid to the Terminal Company is measured. This fact
was the basis of the complaint made by the Federal Sugar
Refining Company, whose sugar seeks the same market,
and who claimed that as it lightered its sugar from its
own shipping dock to the terminals at the New Jersey
shore the so-called "allowance" made in respect to the
sugar of Arbuckle Brothers handled under the contracts
referred to above, was an unjust and an illegal discrimination unless a like allowance was made to it.
The order of the Commission does not forbid the allowance to Arbuckle Brothers, as in itself illegal or unreasonable, but forbids it only as a discrimination unless a like
allowance is made to the Federal Sugar Refining Company.
That there is no undue discrimination against the Federal
Sugar Refining Company in refusing to make a like allowance to it will appear when the conceded circumstances
and conditions are considered. This latter company is
a competitor of Arbuckle Brothers in the sale and shipment of sugar to the same markets. Its refinery is located
at Yonkers on the Hudson River, a point some ten miles
beyond the limits of the free lighterage district. It owns
its docks and piers upon the river, but has never enjoyed
the free lighterage privilege accorded to all shippers from
docks and piers inside the free zone under the tariff sheets
of the carriers. It has therefore been compelled to furnish
its own means for lightering shipments from its docks to
the New Jersey shore. This is an undoubted disadvantage in competing with Arbuckle Brothers, as well as
with all other refiners and shippers of sugar within the
lighterage district. For many years. it had an arrangement with the Ben Franklin Transportation Company,
an independent transportation company, by which the
latter transported its sugar directly from its Yonkers dock
to the railway terminals on the New Jersey shore. There
it was delivered to one of the appellees and a bill of lading

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 285
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

signed. The freight rates under such bills were identical
with the flat rate from stations and piers within the free
lighterage district. This disadvantage arising from its
location was made the subject of a prior complaint before
the Commission, wherein it sought to have the free lighterage district extended so as to include its Yonkers docks,
or to have an allowance made to it for the transportation
of its sugar from its dock to the New Jersey terminals.,
Such relief would have removed the disadvantage under
which it had long labored. But this relief was denied and
its petition dismissed without prejudice. In that proceeding it was ruled by the Commission that the free
lighterage arrangements theretofore made by the carriers
were the only available means by which they could extend
their lines to New York and were not forbidden by the
Commerce Act, and that 'by such extension the carriers
had come under no obligation to extend the district to
Yonkers. It was also ruled that the service rendered by
Arbuckle Brothers in the lighterage of their own sugar
from the Jay Street Terminal to the New Jersey shore was
a service in aid of transportation and that for the instrumentalities and services, under the very contracts here
involved, they did not receive an unreasonable consideration. 17 I. C. C. Rep. 40.
After the promulgation of that opinion the methods
adopted for delivering sugar from the Yonkers dock to
the New Jersey terminals were changed. The manager
of the company's city office at 138 Front Street, would
notify the manager of the refinery at Yonkers every
morning of the sugar necessary to fill accepted orders.
This necessary sugar was then loaded at the Yonkers
dock upon the lighter Ben Johnson just as before. For
this sugar the master of the lighter gave a receipt and was
handed a document showing the Federal Sugar Refining
Company to be the consignor and the consignee its city
office, 138 Front Street. This document also gave the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court,

231 U. S.

number, weight and description of the packages. The
Ben Johnson would then go down the river to pier No. 24,
within the free lighterage district, where the boat tied
up, and the city office was notified, "thereupon," say the
Commission, "the complainant issues shipping instructions to the transportation company and hands to its representative bills of lading for execution by the carrier upon
delivery at the New Jersey shore." The lighter then proceeds to the Jersey shore where the sugar is delivered to
the carrier and the blank bills of lading are signed and
returned to the lighter's captain. For the service of the
lighter in taking the sugar to pier 24 and then across
the river to the railroad terminals, it is paid three cents
ver hundred pounds. The claim upon these facts was and
is that unless an allowance is made to it identical with
that made to Arbuckle Brothers for their service in respect to their own shipments of sugar, a discrimination
unlawful in character will result. And this was the conclusion of the Commission.
The Commerce Court was of opinion that the circumstances and conditions were so dissimilar as not to make
the same rule applicable and that the result reached by the
Commission was based upon manifest errors of law.
That pier 24 is within the free lighterage district and
that the defendant carriers held themselves out as ready
to take freight at any public or accessible private dock
within that zone and lighter it across the river without
any other charge than that published in their tariff sheets
applicable alike to freight delivered to them at such dock
or pier or at the New Jersey shore, is conceded. But the
carriers have not established any public station at pier 24
and the Federal Company did not notify them, nor make
any tender to them at that pier of their sugar for transportation. If such sugar had been tendered to them
there and they had refused to receive it and lighter it
at their own cost across the river, a very different ques-

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 287
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion would have arisen. That such tender was not made
was obviously due to the fact that the sugar when loaded
on the Ben Johnson at their Yonkers dock was destined
for the railroad terminals at the New Jersey shore and
thence by rail to the real consignee, the purchaser of the
sugar at western points on the carriers' lines. The sugar
had been sold before it was loaded at Yonkers and the
stopping at this pier and the receipt of unsigned bills
of lading showing the consignees and destinations was,
as the Commerce Court held, not a break in the continuity
of the transportation, but a plain subterfuge to give the
transaction the appearance of a shipment from pier 24.
We agree with the Commerce Court and the minority
of the Commission in thinking that the change in method
after the failure to obtain relief in the first case did not
change the substance of the transaction in point of law
or fact. The claim by the Federal Company is a claim for
an allowance on account of lightering done for their
own convenience, a lighterage service which under the
facts of the case the carriers were under no obligation to
do as a duty of transportation. It was, therefore, a demand for a purely accessorial service, as much so as if
they had claimed for carting their shipments to a depot
or station.
Assuming then, that the lighterage service performed
by the Federal Sugar Refining Company was a service
by it for its own convenience for which the railroads were
under no obligation to make compensation, we come to
the question whether the facilities employed and the service performed by Arbuckle Brothers in respect to their
own sugar after delivery at the Jay Street Terminal are
accessorial, or services in aid of railroad transportation for
which they may be paid a reasonable compensation without discriminating unduly against the Federal Sugar
Refining Company.
That the plain purpose of the contracts between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

several railroad companies and the Terminal Company
was to constitute the dock and warehouses of that company a public freight station is too clear for extended
discussion. That the premises became such a depot
through contract with the owners and not by virtue of a
fee simple title or a lease is of no legal significance. Railroad Commission of Kentucky v. L. & N. Railroad, 10
I. C. C. Rep. 173, 175; Cattle Association v. C., B. & Q.
Railway, 11 I. C. C. Rep. 277. Nor is there the slightest substantial evidence that in the selection of the premises of Arbuckle Brothers there was any purpose to give
them as large nearby shippers any preference or to unduly discriminate against competing sugar refineries. The
premises were ideally adapted to meet the necessities of
the great manufacturing and commercial business interests along the river front of Brooklyn and constituted the
only property reasonably obtainable by the railroads
for the extension of their lines of transportation to the
Brooklyn side of East River. That through instrumentalities furnished by the Terminal Company and the service
by it performed transportation by the railroads begins
and ends at this station, is most obvious. This continuity
of transportation is not questioned by the brief for the
United States in this case. Thus, after referring to the
instrumentalities furnished and the services performed by
the Terminal Company, it is said, "in connection with
the further fact that all of the railroad companies make
through rates from Brooklyn and New York to western
points covering (1) the service performed by Arbuckle
Bros., and (2) the transportation by rail from Jersey City
westward, show such a continuity of transportation as
to render argument unnecessary that the transportation
from Brooklyn to western points is by one continuous
transportation by railroad. The mere fact that the physical rails stop at Jersey City does not mean that the railroad transportation there ends. It continues over to

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 289
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Brooklyn by means of car floats, upon which further
rails are laid and on which empty and loaded freight cars
stand and are transported, so that the rails upon the car
floats are brought into contact with the rail ends at Jersey
City and the continuation thereof at Brooklyn, and in
this way the transportation by railroad is carried on without interruption from the western points directly to
Brooklyn."
It is true that this clear admission by the Solicitor
General is made for the purpose of establishing a. contention he makes, namely, that Arbuckle Brothers under
the name of the Terminal Company are in law and fact
common carriers by railroad who violate the commodity
clause of the Hepburn Act by transporting their own
products, a view to which we later refer. The concession
as to the continuity of common carrier transportation by
railroad from and to this station under the published
freight tariffs which include the services performed by the
Terminal Company is not inconsistent with the view of
the Commission, so far as transportation toand from that
station is confined to the shilpments made to or by one of
the general public. Thus the Commission say: "So far
as the general public is concerned the Arbuckle dock may
doubtless be regarded as a public receiving station of the
defendant." It is said further: "Arbuckle Bros., not only
operate their station for the defendants as a railway
facility, but they also perform the lighterage service between the dock and the regular station of the defendants
on the west shore."
The order of the Commission is made to rest upon an
erroneous assumption that the services performed by
Arbuckle Brothers in respect of their own westbound
shipments of sugar after the delivery of such sugar at
this station is a shipper's service done for their convenience, with their own facilities, and, therefore, an accessorial service for which they cannot be allowed compensavoL. ccXxxi-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

tion unless a similar compensation is allowed to the Federal:
Sugar Refining Company for the lighterage of its sugar
to the west shore railroad terminals.
That certain advantages enured to Arbucle Brothers
from the fact that their refinery was so near this public
station that their product might be trucked or carted to
the station at slight cost, is obvious. That this was a
consideration which operated as an inducement to make
these contracts, may be true. But this mere advantage
of nearness was one which they shared in common with
every other shipper who chanced to be near a shipping
station. That they were large shippers was also more or
less an inducement to the railroads to place their depot in
a locality which would tend to secure their shipments as
against rival carriers, may also be conceded. But these
were business considerations which are far from showing
any purpose to give them any illegal preference or to discriminate against other shippers. That the station constituted a great public utility by which the shipping public
was served is too plain for argument. Although nearly
one-third of all westbound shipments through that station
were made by Arbuckle Brothers, the remaining twothirds of the tonnage was furnished by the general public.
Thus, the uncontradicted averment of the bill is that
during the first six months of 1907 the shipments of general merchandise through that station numbered 92,622
of which more than 85,000 were by shippers other than
Arbuckle Brothers, though the tonnage of the latter
aggregated nearly one-third of the total. Thus it is demonstrated that while Arbuckle Brothers are by far the largest
shippers, yet the advantages of the station are availed
of by thousands of the general public.
Upon all of the conceded facts of the case, we must
conclude that the contracts by virtue of which the premises
owned by Arbuckle Brothers were converted into a public
freight station under their management as agents for the

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 291
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

several carrier lines were contracts made in good faith
and not as a cover for any fraudulent scheme to give
rebates or any other illegal advantage. The case must
'turn here, as it did before the Commission and in the Commerce Court, upon the question whether the allowance to
Arbuckle Brothers of compensation upon their own shipments was for instrumentalities and services accessorial
in character. Thus the Commission say (20 I. C. C. 209):
"The complainant contends that in lightering their
sugar to the Jersey shore and. there delivering it to the defendants, Arbuckle Brothers perform what the complainant refers to as a purely accessorial service. We incline
to think this a sound view of the matter upon the facts
shown of record. Neither the actual possession of their
sugar nor their relation to it is in any respect changed until
it is delivered into the physical possession of the defendants at Jersey City. -This fact is clearly developed upon
the record. Arbuckle Brothers handle their sugar out of
their own refinery to their own dock and themselves deliver it to the defendants west of the river, using in the
process only property and facilities that are owned by
them and employ6s that are paid by them. Moreover,
under the terms of the contracts between them and the
defendant carriers none of the duties, obligations, responsibilities, or liabilities of common carriers attaches to
the defendants, with respect to the sugar of Arbuckle
Brothers,. until the defendants have actually received
it at their regular'freight stations west of the river. Yet
it is here contended that, through some sort of alchemy
in their provisions, these contracts transmute Arbuckle
Brothers from shippers into carriers' agents while they are
in the act of delivering their own sugar to themselves at
their own dock. We are not necessarily controlled, however, by the face of these documents or by the merely
superficial relation that they purport to establish between
these shippers and the defendant carriers, if, as seems to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

be abundantly clear upon a reading of their provisions,
the real and actual relation of Arbuckle Brothers to the
defendants, so far as their own sugar is concerned, is that
of shippers, up to the moment of time when they physically
deliver their sugar to the defendants on the Jersey shore.
The contracts expressly provide that until that moment
the sugar is to be handled by Arbuckle Brothers at their
own risk, and only from that moment does the carrier's
risk begin. It is only when the defendants actually accept
and physically take possession of the sugar at their receiving stations west of the river that they agree to, and
do in fact, assume the liabilities of common carriers with
respect to the sugar of Arbuckle Brothers."
We must now recur to the distinction drawn by the
Commission between the compensation paid by the railroad companies to Arbuckle Brothers for the instrumentalities furnished and the service performed by them in
respect of their own westbound shipments of sugar, and
the compensation paid to them in respect to the freight
handled by them through their station for the general
public. The Commission find no fault with reference to
the compensation paid for the latter but do find that the
compensation paid for the former is an undue discrimination unless a like compensation is made to the Federal
Sugar Refining Company for the lighterage of its sugar.
We have before noticed that the order of the Commission is in the alternative. The obvious inference is that
the Commission found nothing unlawful per se, in the
compensation paid to Arbuckle Brothers under the contract, although they are compensated upon a gross tonnage
which includes their own sugar, for it sanctions its continuance upon condition that a like allowance shall be
paid upon the sugar lightered by the Federal Sugar
Refining Company. Penn. Refining Co. v. Railroad,
208 U. S. 208, 218.
But, as has already been shown the railroads were

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. ft. CO. 293
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under no obligation to lighter the sugar of the Federal
Sugar Refining Company. Upon the other hand, if the
lighterage of the Arbuckle sugar was included in the
through rate from the Jay Street station, and a part of
the transportation which the railroads were under obligation to perform, and that lighterage was done by Arbuckle
Brothers at the instance and procurement of the carriers,
they, as owners of the freight thus transported, were entitled to demand a compensation reasonably commensurate
with the facilities furnished and the services performed.
Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; General Electric
Company v. New York Central Railroad, 14 I. C. C. Rep.
237; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh,
222 U. S.42, 46. In the case last cited, it is said:
t . .
the act of Congress in terms contemplates
that if the carrier receives services from an owner of
property transported, or uses instrumentalities furnished
by the latter, he shall pay for them. That is taken for
granted in § 15; the only restriction being that he shall
pay no more than is reasonable, and the only permissive
element being that the Commission may determine the
maximum in case there is complaint (or now, upon its
own motion. Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 12, 36 Stat.
539, 551). As the carrier is required to furnish this part
of the transportation upon request he could not be required to do it at his own expense, and there is nothing
to prevent his hiring the instrumentality instead of owning it."
This principle is not controverted, but the Commission
failed to give it application, because, as shown in the
excerpt from its report set out above, it construed this
relation of Arbuckle Brothers, under the terms of the
contract, in respect of their own shipments of sugar,
"as that of shipper up to the moment of time when they
physically deliver their sugar to the defendants at the
Jersey shore." Again the Commission say, that, "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

contracts expressly provide that until that moment the
sugar is to be handled by Arbuckle Brothers at their
own risk and only until that moment does the carrier's
risk begin," etc. Of course, if this was the case, their
services up to the time of delivery at the New Jersey shore,
were shipper's services, purely accessorial, and not connected with or in aid of transportation by the railroad,
and, therefore, a discrimination would result unless a
like allowance was made to the Federal Sugar Refining
Company. But this construction of the contract has no
other basis than appears in the clause defining the responsibility of the Terminal Company to the contracting carriers while the freights remain in the Terminal Company's
physical possession. That clause (3d) reads thus:
"The responsibility of said Terminal Company for
eastwardly bound cars and the freights therein shall begin when the cars are placed upon its floats at the said float
bridges at the aforesaid station of said Railroad Company,
and shall continue as respects the cars until they have
been returned by it, loaded or empty; and as respects
the freights contained in eastwardly bound cars, its responsibility shall continue until the actual delivery thereof
to and acceptance by the consignees at Brooklyn. As
respects the freights to be transported westbound, said
Terminal Company's responsibility shall commence at
the time the same is received from the consignor at its
aforesaid premises, and shall continue until said freights,
loaded into cars, have been brought to the float bridge
of said Railroad Company at its aforesaid freight station
and until the floats have been attached to the float bridge
and the cars are in complete readiness for removal from
the car floats by said Railroad Company."
That clause deals both with east and westbound freight
and covers both the freight and the cars of the railroad
company. It is too plain for argument that its only purpose is to fix the responsibility upon the contracting com-

UNITED STATES v. BALT. & OHIO R. R. CO. 205
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany for both the cars of the carrier and the freight of all
shippers while in its physical possession. The liability imposed is between agent and principal and is substantially
that imposed by general prin~ciples of law. It is plainly not
intended to affect the responsibility of the carriers to all
shippers after the receipt of freight for transportation, a
responsibility which they hold themselves out as assuming
by their published tariff sheets.
The contracts between the carriers and the Terminal
Company make no distinction whatever between the duty
and obligation of the latter company in respect to the
shipments of Arbuckle Brothers as sugar refiners, and
those made through their station by the general public.
Nor was there any distinction recognized by the undisputed course of business under the contracts. When the
shipments of Arbuckle Brothers were delivered at the
station, carriers' bills of lading were then signed and delivered just as in the case of freight delivered by the
general public. If carrier responsibility began at that
station for the shipments of the public, it also began as
to the freight there received from Arbuckle Brothers.
The physical possession of the Arbuckle sugar, as stated
by the Commission, remained with them until actually
placed in the possession of the carrier on the New Jersey
shore. But that is equally true as to the shipments of the
general public. In both cases, however, the possession
after such delivery and until delivered at the New Jersey
shore was, under the contract, that of Arbuckle Brothers,
under the business name of "he Terminal Company, as
agents of the carrier over whose lines the freight was
routed and whose bill of lading had been duly issued. The
Commnission, while seeming to recognize this relation of
agency, in effect deny it as to the freight received and
receipted for at the station if it; constituted a shipment by
Arbuckle Brothers. But neither the words, nor the purpose of the contract, nor the actual method of conducting

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

the business, furnish the slightest reason for any such
distinction as that drawn by the Commission. All
freight, both in and out of the station, was handled in the
same way.
The suggestion in the brief of the Solicitor General for
the United States that "joint published tariffs are issued
by the railroads and Arbuckle Bros.," has no other foundation of fact than that found in the seventh paragraph of
the contract between the Erie Railroad and the Terminal
Company, where it is said, that the Terminal Company,
"shall not be required to receive or carry any freight which
may from time to time be classed as prohibited freights in
the joint published tariffs of itself and the railroad con
pany." But there is not a scintilla of evidence that any
such joint published tariffs have ever been filed or published, nor that the Terminal Company has ever published
or been required to file any tariff sheets whatever, The
filed tariff sheets showing the services performed by
Arbuckle Brothers, and the facilities provided for extending transportation between the New Jersey terminals and
this station, are those published and filed by the railroad
companies, who thereby hold themselves out as common
carriers to and from this station. That it might originally
have been expected that the Terminal Company might
join in such published tariffs is possible. That it never did,
is plain.
To say that the "allowance" made to Arbuckle Brothers is an allowance for lightering their own sugar across
the river is to only half state the case. This so-called
allowance is not only for such lighterage service, but is
also compensation for the use of all of the terminal properties, docks, warehouses, :tracks, steam lighters, car
floats and every instrumentality used under the contract.
It includes the services and responsibility of Arbuckle
Brothers, as agents for the several lessees using the station,
and their staff of employs engaged in receiving, delivering,

IJNI'TED FfTA'JES v. BAL'. & OHIO R. R. CO. 297
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

loading and unloading freights thus received, both incoming and outgoing. As ,he measure of compensation
is the tonnage in and out of the station and as this compensation is paid by the several railroads maintaining the
station in proportion to the tonnage which they severally
handle, there is a sense in which it is in part an allowance to Arbuckle Brothers uapon their own shipments.
But they receive the same compensation upon the tonnage
of every other shipper through that station, and it is the
aggregate of the compensation which must determine the
reasonableness of the allowance when we come to deal
with it as an allowance to them for services or instrumentalities furnished, under § 15 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
That the compensation of three and four and one-fifth
cents per hundred pounds upon the total tonnage in and
out of this station is not unreasonable was and is not
challenged, and therefore we pass that subject by.
The contention to which we have hitherto referred that
the arrangement made by the Terminal Company violates
the commodity clause of the Act to Regulate Commerce is
not necessary to be considered. There is nothing in the
record showing that such a contention was pressed upon
the Commission, considered by that body, or that the
order rendered was in any respect based upon the commodity clause. Indeed, the order permitted the continuance of the Jay Street Terminal and the business there
conducted, providing only that like rights and allowances
were made to the'Federal Sugar Refining Company.
The order, therefore, cannot be assumed to have contemplated that the Jay Street Terminal business was a
violation of the commodity clause, since under that
hypothesis the conclusion would be inevitable that the
Commission by its order gave sanction to and permitted
the continuance of the wrong which its powers were
exerted to suppress. As we do not consider the conten-

DCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

231 U. S.

tions concerning the commodity clause as properly arising
for decision and hence do not pass on them, they are not
foreclosed, and hence our action in this case will be without prejudice to the right to assert them in the future
if those having the right to do so are so advised.
Viewing the whole case in a broad light, it is apparent
that the disadvantage under which the Federal Sugar
Refining Company labors is one which arises out of its
disadvantageous location. That disadvantage would still
remain if the title to the Jay Street station was in the
railroad companies, and its business in charge of a third
person.
We fail to find any error in the decree of the Commerce
Court holding the order of the Commission void, and its
decree is accordingly approved.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. GARRETT ET AL., CONSTITUTING
THE RAILROAD COMMISSION OF KENTUCKY.'
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 23.

Argued April 4, 1912.-Decided December 1, 1913.

The same rule by which the Federal court has jurisdiction to determine
all the questions, local as well as Federal; when a Federal question is.
raised by the bill, governs the application for preliminary injunction
under the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 557.
Unless the case imperatively demands such a decision, this court is
reluctant to adjudge a state statute to be in conflict with the state
constitution before that question has been considered by the state
" Original docket title Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v.
Siler et al., constituting the Railroad Commission of Kentucky.

