OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

231 U. S.

STATE OF WISCONSIN ON THE RELATION OF
BOLENS v. FREAR, SECRETARY OF STATE OF
THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE STATE OF
WISCONSIN.

No. 447. Motion to dismiss submitted December 15, 1913.-Decided
January 5, 1914.
In this case this court follows the construction given by the highest
court of the State to the provisions of the state constitution in
regard to its jurisdiction of cases in which the State is a party or
which are brought by the consent of the State on the relation of an
individual.
Where the relator has no authority to sue except by consent of, the
State, and he is a mere agent for calling judicial authority into
activity for protection of general public rights, and not for redress
of individual wrongs, the State is the real party plaintiff and the
relator has no power without its consent to prosecute error to this
court.
Where, in such a case, the State does not consent that the relator
prosecute error the writ will be dismissed; the case is not within
Rev. Stat., § 709 (Judicial Code, § 237), and this court has not
jurisdiction.
The fact that this court has authority under § 237, Judicial Code, to
*decide a legal question in a case where jurisdiction exists, does not
give it power to decide that question in a case where jurisdiction does
not exist.
Where jurisdiction does not exist this court will not pass upon the
questions involved so that in future cases involving those questions
the state court may be guided by the views expressed by this court
thereon.
Writ of error to review 148 Wisconsin, 456, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of a writ of error to review the judgment of a state court
against a relator who is not the agent of the State, and
who has without authority of the State sued out the writ
of error, are stated in the opinion.

BOLENS v. WISCONSIN.
231 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. C. Owen, Attorney General of the State of
Wisconsin, Mr. George G. Greene and Mr. J. E. Dodge for
defendants in error in support of the motions.
Mr. Paul D. Carpenter for plaintiff in error in opposition to the motions.
MR. CHIEF JusTICE WmIE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin by
direction of the Governor of the State moves to dismiss on
the ground that the State is the real party in interest,
because Bolens, the relator, personally, was in the court
below the mere agent of the State, devoid of all authority
to prosecute this writ of error and thereby to implead the
State in this court without its consent. Indeed, the
motion to dismiss in a strict sense is a motion to quash the
writ of error on the ground that no writ was ever sued out,
and that in effect there is no judgment below to which
the writ could be directed .ince the State, which was the
party plaintiff and the officers of the State who were the
defendants, both acquiesced in and have executed the
judgment.
The decree to which the writ of error is directed was
rendered on a demurrer to the petition filed in the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin by Bolens, as relator, asking the court
as. a matter of original cognizance to enjoin the putting
in force of a state law creating a new system of state
taxation described as "progressive income taxation."
148 Wisconsin, 456. We accept a statement contained
in the argument of the plaintiff in error concerning the
nature of the original jurisdiction of the court below:
"The Constitution of the State of Wisconsin confers
original jurisdiction upon the Supreme Court of the State
to issue writs of injunction and other original and remedial
writs and to hear and determine the same. (Art. VII,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Sec. 3.) This clause gives full jurisdiction to the state Supreme Court over any question quod ad statum reipublicoe
partinet, affecting the 'sovereignty of the State, its franchises or prerogatives or the liberties of its people.' Such
action is to be brought originally in the state Supreme
Court and may be instituted by the Attorney General,
acting on his own initiative or acting on the petition of a
citizen; or if he refuses to act on the petition of a citizen,
then the citizen may on notice apply to the Supreme Court
for permission to bring the action for the State in the name
of the Attorney General, and' the Court may refuse or
grant such permission."
Further, we adopt a statement in the argument for the
plaintiff in error as to the grievances which it was deemed
required judicial redress and the steps taken which were
exacted by the state statute as prerequisite to obtain an
exertion by the court of its original jurisdiction:
"Harry W. Bolens presented his petition to the then
Attorney General of Wisconsin, setting up that the Wisconsin Income Tax Law, Chapter 658 of the Laws of
Wisconsin for 1911, is wholly null, void and of none effect
for that it violates numerous sections of both state and
Federal Constitutions, most of these objections being set
out in detail, followed by an omnibus allegation; and
praying that for the wrongs complained of and for the
protection of himself and all others similarly situated, and
for the protection of all the taxpayers of the State against
the threatened invasion of their rights and liberties, and
forasmuch as all said persons are remediless in the premises without'the interposition of the state Supreme Court,
that the Attorney General move the Court for leave to
bring the action designed 'so as fully to protect and secure
the said rights and privileges guaranteed to the people of
this State by the Constitution of the United States and
the amendments thereto and the Constitution of the State
of Wisconsin and the amendments thereto."'

BOLENS v. WISCONSIN.

231 U. S.

Opinion oi the Court.

The Attorney General refusing to comply with the request, the Supreme Court: on motion of the relator,
ordered the petition to be filed without prejudice to
thereafter considering whether there was jurisdiction to
entertain it. :Subsequently the court overruled a demurrer
challenging its original jurisdiction and moreover held on a
demurrer addressed to the merits that the petition stated
no ground for the relief which was prayed. The court in
so doing defined the nature of the power possessed by it
as a matter of original jurisdiction to hear and determine
the case made by the petition.
It said, 148 Wisconsin, p. 500:
"This transcendent jurisdiction is a jurisdiction reserved for the use of the State itself when it appears to be
necessary to vindicate or protect its prerogatives or franchises or the liberties of its people. The State uses it to
punish or prevent wrongs to itself or to the whole people.
The State is always the plaintiff, and the only plaintiff,
whether the action be brought by the Attorney General,
or, against his consent, on the relation of a private individual under the permission and direction of the court.
It is never the private relator's suit. He is a mere incident.
He brings the public injury to the attention of the court,
and the court, by virtue of the power granted by the Constitution, commands that the suit be brought by and for
the State. The private relator may have a private interest which may be extinguished (if it be severable from
the public interest), yet still the State's action proceeds
to vindicate the public right." Contrasting the authority
thus possessed by virtue of its original jurisdiction with
the ordinary processes for the redress of private wrongs
the court said: "These propositions, if correct, and we
believe they are, demonstrate very clearly that there can
be no such thing as a tax payer's action (as that action
is known in the circuit courts), brought in the Supreme
Court within the original jurisdiction."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913
Opinion of the Court.

231 U. S.

Referring to such a tax-payer's suit, the court observed
(p. 501):
"The tax payer himself is the actual party to the litigation, and represents not the whole public, nor the State,
nor even all the inhabitants of his municipality, but a
comparatively limited class, namely, the citizens who pay
taxes. In short, he sues for a class. No such thing is
known in the exercise of the original jurisdiction of this
court. In actions brought within that jurisdiction the
State is the plaintiff and sues to vindicate the rights of the
whole people."
Applying these doctrines, it was said (p. 501): "The
Bolens Case (this case) cannot therefore be held to come
within the original jurisdiction of this court, if it be a mere
taxpayer's action."
After further pointing out the distinction between the
right of an individual to sue in a trial court to enforce an
individual right or redress a wrong and if aggrieved to
prosecute error or appeal and the difference between the
exertion on such error or appeal of authority to review
and the extraordinary power exerted when original jurisdiction was invoked, the court came to consider the merits
of the petition. In doing so it declared that because of the
public nature of the controversy, it would confine attention solely to those matters which were addressed to the
invalidity of the statute as a whole. In passing upon
questions of that character propositions which asserted
the statute to be repugnant to both the United States and
state constitutions, were analyzed and held to be without
merit. The petition was dismissed.
From this statement it is apparent that the motion of
the State to dismiss is well-founded for the following reasons: (a) Because accepting the interpretation affixed by
the court below to the state constitution and the resulting
ruling as to the scope of its own original jurisdiction, it
follows that the State was the only real plaintiff below,

BOLENS v. WISCONSIN.
231 IT. S.

Opinion of the Court.

since the relator had no authority to sue but by the consent of the State, and as its mere agent for the purpose of
calling into ictivity judicial authority, not for the redress of individual wrong, but for the protection of general
public rights; (b) because the suit, having been brought
by the consent of the State in its behalf, the relator
had no power, without the consent of the State, to prosecute error, and thus to implead the State without its
consent; (c) because as the relator did not resort to the
methods provided by law for the enforcement of his
individual rights, if any, but elected solely to resort, by the
consent of the State, to a jurisdiction given only for the
redress of general public wrongs, he may not, by means of
a writ of error, directed from this court, transform the
nature of the proceedings and secure at the hands of this
court, under the guise of an appellate proceeding, the
exertion of authority. to originally determine alleged
grievances which were not passed upon by the court below
and are not within the scope of Rev. Stat., § 709 (Judicial
Code, §,237). The argument that if, asserting his individual grievances, the case had been brought in a trial
court and had been carried to the Supreme Court of the
State from an adverse decision upon a Federal question
the judgment or decree of the Supreme Court would be
here reviewable, hence the decision in this case, to save
circuity of action, should be now reviewable, amounts
but to saying that because, there is authority to decide a
legal question in a case where there is jurisdiction, there
must also be power to pass upon the same question when it
arises in a case over which there is no jurisdiction. Under
the ruling below no individual right of the relator was
denied and because it may be inferred that if in the future
a case asserting individual rights in due course of procedure comes to the court below, that court will be controlled or persuaded by the opinions expressed in this case,
furnishes no ground for the exertion by this court in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Syllabus.

231 U. S.

present case of a jurisdiction which it does not possess.
Indeed, whether the case. be considered in the light of the
absence of any assertion of individual right or grievance
on behalf of the relator or be looked at from the point of
view that the suit was one under the state law which
could only be brought by the permission of the State and
for the protection of its governmental authority, the
State being therefore the real party plaintiff, or if it be
tested by the want of authority on the part of the relator
by means of a writ of error to implead the State under the
circumstances disclosed without its consent in this court,
the want of jurisdiction is so conclusively shown by
previous decisions as to leave no room for controversy
(Smith v. Reeves, 178 U. S.436).
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

WYANDOTTE COUNTY GAS COMPANY v. STATE
OF KANSAS, ON RELATION OF MARSHALL,
ATTORNEY FOR THE PUBLIC UTILITIES
COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 472.

Argued December 2, 1913.-Decided January 5, 1914.

The fact that the determination of the question of power of the municipality to make the contract alleged to have been impaired involves
consideration and construction of the laws of the State does not
relieve this court from the duty of determining for itself thescope and
character of such contract.
While this court, in determining whether there is a contract, is not
bound by the construction of the state statutes by the state court, it
will not lightly disregard such construction but will seek to uphold it

