CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
Syllabus

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE ET VIR
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 89-1647.

Argued January 15, 1991-Decided April 17, 1991

After the respondents Shute, a Washington State couple, purchased passage on a ship owned by petitioner, a Florida-based cruise line, petitioner sent them tickets containing a clause designating courts in Florida
as the agreed-upon fora for the resolution of disputes. The Shutes
boarded the ship in Los Angeles, and, while in international waters off
the Mexican coast, Mrs. Shute suffered injuries when she slipped on
a deck mat. The Shutes filed suit in a Washington Federal District
Court, which granted summary judgment for petitioner. The Court of
Appeals reversed, holding, inter alia, that the forum-selection clause
should not be enforced under The Bremen v. Zapata Off-Shore Co., 407
U. S. 1, because it was not "freely bargained for," and because its enforcement would operate to deprive the Shutes of their day in court in
light of evidence indicating that they were physically and financially incapable of pursuing the litigation in Florida.
Held: The Court of Appeals erred in refusing to enforce the forumselection clause. Pp. 590-597.
(a) The Bremen Court's statement that a freely negotiated forumselection clause, such as the one there at issue, should be given full
effect, 407 U. S., at 12-13, does not support the Court of Appeals' determination that a nonnegotiated forum clause in a passage contract is
never enforceable simply because it is not the subject of bargaining.
Whereas it was entirely reasonable for The Bremen Court to have expected the parties to have negotiated with care in selecting a forum for
the resolution of disputes arising from their complicated international
agreement, it would be entirely unreasonable to assume that a cruise
passenger would or could negotiate the terms of a forum clause in a routine commercial cruise ticket form. Nevertheless, including a reasonable forum clause in such a form contract well may be permissible for
several reasons. Because it is not unlikely that a mishap in a cruise
could subject a cruise line to litigation in several different fora, the
line has a special interest in limiting such fora. Moreover, a clause
establishing ex ante the dispute resolution forum has the salutary effect
of dispelling confusion as to where suits may be brought and defended,
thereby sparing litigants time and expense and conserving judicial resources. Furthermore, it is likely that passengers purchasing tickets

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Syllabus

499 U. S.

containing a forum clause like the one here at issue benefit in the form
of reduced fares reflecting the savings that the cruise line enjoys by limiting the fora in which it may be sued. Pp. 590-594.
(b) The Court of Appeals' conclusion that the clause here at issue
should not be enforced because the Shutes are incapable of pursuing this
litigation in Florida is not justified by The Bremen Court's statement that
"the serious inconvenience of the contractual forum to one or both of the
parties might carry greater weight in determining the reasonableness of
the forum clause." 407 U. S., at 17. That statement was made in the
context of a hypothetical "agreement between two Americans to resolve
their essentially local disputes in a remote alien forum." Ibid. Here,
in contrast, Florida is not such a forum, nor-given the location of Mrs.
Shute's accident-is this dispute an essentially local one inherently more
suited to resolution in Washington than in Florida. In light of these distinctions, and because the Shutes do not claim lack of notice of the forum
clause, they have not satisfied the "heavy burden of proof," ibid., required to set aside the clause on grounds of inconvenience. Pp. 594-595.
(c) Although forum-selection clauses contained in form passage contracts are subject to judicial scrutiny for fundamental fairness, there is
no indication that petitioner selected Florida to discourage cruise passengers from pursuing legitimate claims or obtained the Shutes' accession to
the forum clause by fraud or overreaching. P. 595.
(d) By its plain language, the forum-selection clause at issue does not
violate 46 U. S. C. App. § 183c, which, inter alia, prohibits a vessel
owner from inserting in any contract a provision depriving a claimant of
a trial "by court of competent jurisdiction" for loss of life or personal
injury resulting from negligence. Pp. 595-597.
897 F. 2d 377, reversed.
BLACKMUN, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and WHITE, O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY, and SOUTER, JJ.,
joined. STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which MARSHALL, J.,
joined, post, p. 597.

Richard K. Willard argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the briefs were David L. Roll and Lawrence D.
Winson.
Gregory J. Wall argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondents. *
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States by Herbert L. Fenster, Stanley W. Land-

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE BLACKMUN

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this admiralty case we primarily consider whether the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit correctly refused to enforce a forum-selection clause contained in
tickets issued by petitioner Carnival Cruise Lines, Inc., to
respondents Eulala and Russel Shute.

I
The Shutes, through an Arlington, Wash., travel agent,
purchased passage for a 7-day cruise on petitioner's ship,
the Tropicale. Respondents paid the fare to the agent who
forwarded the payment to petitioner's headquarters in
Miami, Fla. Petitioner then prepared the tickets and sent
them to respondents in the State of Washington. The face
of each ticket, at its left-hand lower corner, contained this
admonition:
"SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS OF
CONTRACT ON LAST PAGES
IMPORTANT! PLEASE READ CONTRACT
-ON LAST PAGES 1, 2, 3" App. 15.
The following appeared on "contract page 1" of each ticket:
"TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PASSAGE
CONTRACT TICKET
"3. (a) The acceptance of this ticket by the person or
persons named hereon as passengers shall be deemed to
be an acceptance and agreement by each of them of all
of the terms and conditions of this Passage Contract
Ticket.
"8. It is agreed by and between the passenger and the
Carrier that all disputes and matters whatsoever arising
under, in connection with or incident to this Contract
fair, and Robin S. Conrad; and for the International Committee of Passenger Lines by John A. Flynn and James B. Nebel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

499 U. S.

shall be litigated, if at all, in and before a Court located
in the State of Florida, U. S. A., to the exclusion of the
Courts of any other state or country." Id., at 16.
The last quoted paragraph is the forum-selection clause
at issue.
II
Respondents boarded the Tropicale in Los Angeles, Cal.
The ship sailed to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, and then returned to Los Angeles. While the ship was in international
waters off the Mexican coast, respondent Eulala Shute was
injured when she slipped on a deck mat during a guided tour
of the ship's galley. Respondents filed suit against petitioner in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington, claiming that Mrs. Shute's injuries
had been caused by the negligence of Carnival Cruise Lines
and its employees. Id., at 4.
Petitioner moved for summary judgment, contending that
the forum clause in respondents' tickets required the Shutes
to bring their suit against petitioner in a court in the State
of Florida. Petitioner contended, alternatively, that the
District Court lacked personal jurisdiction over petitioner
because petitioner's contacts with the State of Washington
were insubstantial. The District Court granted the motion,
holding that petitioner's contacts with Washington were constitutionally insufficient to support the exercise of personal
jurisdiction. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 60a.
The Court of Appeals reversed. Reasoning that "but for"
petitioner's solicitation of business in Washington, respondents would not have taken the cruise and Mrs. Shute would
not have been injured, the court concluded that petitioner
had sufficient contacts with Washington to justify the District Court's exercise of personal jurisdiction. 897 F. 2d 377,
385-386 (CA9 1990).*
*The Court of Appeals had filed an earlier opinion also reversing the
District Court and ruling that the District Court had personal jurisdic-

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

Opinion of the Court

Turning to the forum-selection clause, the Court of Appeals acknowledged that a court concerned with the enforceability of such a clause must begin its analysis with The Bremen v. Zapata Off-Shore Co., 407 U. S. 1 (1972), where this
Court held that forum-selection clauses, although not "historically ... favored," are "prima facie valid." Id., at 9-10.
See 897 F. 2d, at 388. The appellate court concluded that
the forum clause should not be enforced because it "was not
freely bargained for." Id., at 389. As an "independent justification" for refusing to enforce the clause, the Court of Appeals noted that there was evidence in the record to indicate
that "the Shutes are physically and financially incapable of
pursuing this litigation in Florida" and that the enforcement
of the clause would operate to deprive them of their day in
court and thereby contravene this Court's holding in The Bremen. 897 F. 2d, at 389.
We granted certiorari to address the question whether the
Court of Appeals was correct in holding that the District
Court should hear respondents' tort claim against petitioner. 498 U. S. 807-808 (1990). Because we find the
forum-selection clause to be dispositive of this question, we
need not consider petitioner's constitutional argument as to
personal jurisdiction. See Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U. S.
288, 347 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring) (" 'It is not the habit
of the Court to decide questions of a constitutional nature untion over the cruise line and that the forum-selection clause in the tickets
was unreasonable and was not to be enforced. 863 F. 2d 1437 (CA9 1988).
That opinion, however, was withdrawn when the court certified to the
Supreme Court of Washington the question whether the Washington longarm statute, Wash. Rev. Code § 4.28.185 (1988), conferred personal juris-

diction over Carnival Cruise Lines for the claim asserted by the Shutes.
See 872 F. 2d 930 (1989). The Washington Supreme Court answered the
certified question in the affirmative on the ground that the Shutes' claim
"arose from" petitioner's advertisement in Washington and the promotion
of its cruises there. 113 Wash. 2d 763, 783 P. 2d 78 (1989). The Court of
Appeals then "refiled" its opinion "as modified herein." See 897 F. 2d,
at 380, n. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

499 U. S.

less absolutely necessary to a decision of the case,"' quoting
Burton v. United States, 196 U. S. 283, 295 (1905)).
III
We begin by noting the boundaries of our inquiry. First,
this is a case in admiralty, and federal law governs the enforceability of the forum-selection clause we scrutinize. See
Archawski v. Hanioti, 350 U. S. 532, 533 (1956); The Moses
Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, 427 (1867); Tr. of Oral Arg. 36-37, 12,
47-48. Cf. Stewart Organization, Inc. v. Ricoh Corp., 487
U. S.22, 28-29 (1988). Second, we do not address the question whether respondents had sufficient notice of the forum
clause before entering the contract for passage. Respondents essentially have conceded that they had notice of the
forum-selection provision. Brief for Respondents 26 ("The
respondents do not contest the incorporation of the provisions nor [sic] that the forum selection clause was reasonably
communicated to the respondents, as much as three pages of
fine print can be communicated"). Additionally, the Court of
Appeals evaluated the enforceability of the forum clause
under the assumption, although "doubtful," that respondents
could be deemed to have had knowledge of the clause. See
897 F. 2d, at 389, and n. 11.
Within this context, respondents urge that the forum clause
should not be enforced because, contrary to this Court's
teachings in The Bremen, the clause was not the product of
negotiation, and enforcement effectively would deprive respondents of their day in court. Additionally, respondents
contend that the clause violates the Limitation of Vessel
Owner's Liability Act, 46 U. S. C. App. § 183c. We consider
these arguments in turn.
IV
A
Both petitioner and respondents argue vigorously that the
Court's opinion in The Bremen governs this case, and each
side purports to find ample support for its position in that

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

Opinion of the Court

opinion's broad-ranging language. This seeming paradox
derives in large part from key factual differences between
this case and The Bremen, differences that preclude an automatic and simple application of The Bremen's general principles to the facts here.
In The Bremen, this Court addressed the enforceability
of a forum-selection clause in a contract between two business corporations. An American corporation, Zapata, made
a contract with Unterweser, a German corporation, for the
towage of Zapata's oceangoing drilling rig from Louisiana to
a point in the Adriatic Sea off the coast of Italy. The agreement provided that any dispute arising under the contract
was to be resolved in the London Court of Justice. After
a storm in the Gulf of Mexico seriously damaged the rig,
Zapata ordered Unterweser's ship to tow the rig to Tampa,
Fla., the nearest point of refuge. Thereafter, Zapata sued
Unterweser in admiralty in federal court at Tampa. Citing
the forum clause, Unterweser moved to dismiss. The District Court denied Unterweser's motion, and the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, sitting en banc on rehearing, and by a sharply divided vote, affirmed. In re Complaint of Unterweser Reederei, GmBH, 446 F. 2d 907 (1971).
This Court vacated and remanded, stating that, in general, "a freely negotiated private international agreement,
uinaffected by fraud, undue influence, or overweening bargaining power, such as that involved here, should be given
full effect." 407 U. S., at 12-13 (footnote omitted). The
Court further generalized that "in the light of present-day
commercial realities and expanding international trade we
conclude that the forum clause should control absent a strong
showing that it should be set aside." Id., at 15. The Court
did not define precisely the circumstances that would make it
unreasonable for a court to enforce a forum clause. Instead,
the Court discussed a number of factors that made it reasonable to enforce the clause at issue in The Bremen and

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

499 U. S.

that, presumably, would be pertinent in any determination
whether to enforce a similar clause.
In this respect, the Court noted that there was "strong
evidence that the forum clause was a vital part of the agreement, and [that] it would be unrealistic to think that the
parties did not conduct their negotiations, including fixing
the monetary terms, with the consequences of the forum
clause figuring prominently in their calculations." Id., at 14
(footnote omitted). Further, the Court observed that it was
not "dealing with an agreement between two Americans to
resolve their essentially local disputes in a remote alien
forum," and that in such a case, "the serious inconvenience
of the contractual forum to one or both of the parties might
carry greater weight in determining the reasonableness of
the forum clause." Id., at 17. The Court stated that even
where the forum clause establishes a remote forum for resolution of conflicts, "the party claiming [unfairness] should
bear a heavy burden of proof." Ibid.
In applying The Bremen, the Court of Appeals in the present litigation took note of the foregoing "reasonableness"
factors and rather automatically decided that the forumselection clause was unenforceable because, unlike the parties in The Bremen, respondents are not business persons
and did not negotiate the terms of the clause with petitioner.
Alternatively, the Court of Appeals ruled that the clause
should not be enforced because enforcement effectively
would deprive respondents of an opportunity to litigate their
claim against petitioner.
The Bremen concerned a "far from routine transaction
between companies of two different nations contemplating
the tow of an extremely costly piece of equipment from Louisiana across the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean,
through the Mediterranean Sea to its final destination in
the Adriatic Sea." Id., at 13. These facts suggest that,
even apart from the evidence of negotiation regarding the
forum clause, it was entirely reasonable for the Court in The

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

Opinion of the Court

Bremen to have expected Unterweser and Zapata to have negotiated with care in selecting a forum for the resolution of
disputes arising from their special towing contract.
In contrast, respondents' passage contract was purely routine and doubtless nearly identical to every commercial passage contract issued by petitioner and most other cruise
lines. See, e. g., Hodes v. S. N. C. Achille Lauro ed AltriGestione, 858 F. 2d 905, 910 (CA3 1988), cert. dism'd, 490
U. S. 1001 (1989). In this context, it would be entirely unreasonable for us to assume that respondents -or any other
cruise passenger-would negotiate with petitioner the terms
of a forum-selection clause in an ordinary commercial cruise
ticket. Common sense dictates that a ticket of this kind will
be a form contract the terms of which are not subject to negotiation, and that an individual purchasing the ticket will not
have bargaining parity with the cruise line. But by ignoring
the crucial differences in the business contexts in which the
respective contracts were executed, the Court of Appeals'
analysis seems to us to have distorted somewhat this Court's
holding in The Bremen.
In evaluating the reasonableness of the forum clause at
issue in this case, we must refine the analysis of The Bremen
to account for the realities of form passage contracts. As an
initial matter, we do not adopt the Court of Appeals' determination that a nonnegotiated forum-selection clause in a
form ticket contract is never enforceable simply because it
is not the subject of bargaining. Including a reasonable
forum clause in a form contract of this kind well may be permissible for several reasons: First, a cruise line has a special
interest in limiting the fora in which it potentially could be
subject to suit. Because a cruise ship typically carries passengers from many locales, it is not unlikely that a mishap on
a cruise could subject the cruise line to litigation in several
different fora. See The Bremen, 407 U. S., at 13, and n. 15;
Hodes, 858 F. 2d, at 913. Additionally, a clause establishing ex ante the forum for dispute resolution has the salutary

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

499 U. S.

effect of dispelling any confusion about where suits arising
from the contract must be brought and defended, sparing litigants the time and expense of pretrial motions to determine
the correct forum and conserving judicial resources that
otherwise would be devoted to deciding those motions. See
Stewart Organization,487 U. S., at 33 (concurring opinion).
Finally, it stands to reason that passengers who purchase
tickets containing a forum clause like that at issue in this case
benefit in the form of reduced fares reflecting the savings
that the cruise line enjoys by limiting the fora in which it may
be sued. Cf. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. v. Donovan, 916
F. 2d 372, 378 (CA7 1990).
We also do not accept the Court of Appeals' "independent
justification" for its conclusion that The Bremen dictates that
the clause should not be enforced because "[t]here is evidence
in the record to indicate that the Shutes are physically and
financially incapable of pursuing this litigation in Florida."
897 F. 2d, at 389. We do not defer to the Court of Appeals'
findings of fact. In dismissing the case for lack of personal
jurisdiction over petitioner, the District Court made no finding regarding the physical and financial impediments to the
Shutes' pursuing their case in Florida. The Court of Appeals' conclusory reference to the record provides no basis for
this Court to validate the finding of inconvenience. Furthermore, the Court of Appeals did not place in proper context
this Court's statement in The Bremen that "the serious inconvenience of the contractual forum to one or both of the parties
might carry greater weight in determining the reasonableness of the forum clause." 407 U. S., at 17. The Court
made this statement in evaluating a hypothetical "agreement
between two Americans to resolve their essentially local disputes in a remote alien forum." Ibid. In the present case,
Florida is not a "remote alien forum," nor-given the fact
that Mrs. Shute's accident occurred off the coast of Mexicois this dispute an essentially local one inherently more suited
to resolution in the State of Washington than in Florida. In

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

Opinion of the Court

light of these distinctions, and because respondents do not
claim lack of notice of the forum clause, we conclude that they
have not satisfied the "heavy burden of proof," ibid., required to set aside the clause on grounds of inconvenience.
It bears emphasis that forum-selection clauses contained
in form passage contracts are subject to judicial scrutiny
for fundamental fairness. In this case, there is no indication that petitioner set Florida as the forum in which disputes were to be resolved as a means of discouraging cruise
passengers from pursuing legitimate claims. Any suggestion of such a bad-faith motive is belied by two facts: Petitioner has its principal place of business in Florida, and many
of its cruises depart from and return to Florida ports. Similarly, there is no evidence that petitioner obtained respondents' accession to the forum clause by fraud or overreaching.
Finally, respondents have conceded that they were given
notice of the forum provision and, therefore, presumably
retained the option of rejecting the contract with impunity.
In the case before us, therefore, we conclude that the Court
of Appeals erred in refusing to enforce the forum-selection
clause.
B
Respondents also contend that the forum-selection clause
at issue violates 46 U. S. C. App. § 183c. That statute, enacted in 1936, see ch. 521, 49 Stat. 1480, provides:
"It shall be unlawful for the . . . owner of any vessel
transporting passengers between ports of the United
States or between any such port and a foreign port to
insert in any rule, regulation, contract, or agreement
any provision or limitation (1) purporting, in the event
of loss of life or bodily injury arising from the negligence or fault of such owner or his servants, to relieve
such owner . . . from liability, or from liability beyond
any stipulated amount, for such loss or injury, or (2) purporting in such event to lessen, weaken, or avoid the
right of any claimant to a trial by court of competent

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
Opinion of the Court

499 U. S.

jurisdiction on the question of liability for such loss or
injury, or the measure of damages therefor. All such
provisions or limitations contained in any such rule,
regulation, contract, or agreement are hereby declared
to be against public policy and shall be null and void and
of no effect."
By its plain language, the forum-selection clause before
us does not take away respondents' right to "a trial by [a]
court of competent jurisdiction" and thereby contravene the
explicit proscription of § 183c. Instead, the clause states
specifically that actions arising out of the passage contract
shall be brought "if at all," in a court "located in the State
of Florida," which, plainly, is a "court of competent jurisdiction" within the meaning of the statute.
Respondents appear to acknowledge this by asserting that
although the forum clause does not directly prevent the determination of claims against the cruise line, it causes plaintiffs unreasonable hardship in asserting their rights and
therefore violates Congress' intended goal in enacting § 183c.
Significantly, however, respondents cite no authority for
their contention that Congress' intent in enacting § 183c was
to avoid having a plaintiff travel to a distant forum in order to
litigate. The legislative history of § 183c suggests instead
that this provision was enacted in response to passengerticket conditions purporting to limit the shipowner's liability for negligence or to remove the issue of liability from
the scrutiny of any court by means of a clause providing that
"the question of liability and the measure of damages shall
be determined by arbitration." See S. Rep. No. 2061, 74th
Cong., 2d Sess., 6 (1936); H. R. Rep. No. 2517, 74th Cong.,
2d Sess., 6 (1936). See also Safety of Life and Property
at Sea: Hearings before the House Committee on Merchant
Marine and Fisheries, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 4, pp. 20,
36-37, 57, 109-110, 119 (1936). There was no prohibition of a
forum-selection clause. Because the clause before us allows
for judicial resolution of claims against petitioner and does

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

STEVENS, J., dissenting

not purport to limit petitioner's liability for negligence, it
does not violate § 183c.
V
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL joins,

dissenting.
The Court prefaces its legal analysis with a factual statement that implies that a purchaser of a Carnival Cruise Lines
passenger ticket is fully and fairly notified about the existence of the choice of forum clause in the fine print on the back
of the ticket. See ante, at 587-588. Even if this implication
were accurate, I would disagree with the Court's analysis.
But, given the Court's preface, I begin my dissent by noting
that only the most meticulous passenger is likely to become
aware of the forum-selection provision. I have therefore appended to this opinion a facsimile of the relevant text, using
the type size that actually appears in the ticket itself. A
careful reader will find the forum-selection clause in the 8th
of the 25 numbered paragraphs.
Of course, many passengers, like the respondents in this
case, see ante, at 587, will not have an opportunity to read
paragraph 8 until they have actually purchased their tickets.
By this point, the passengers will already have accepted the
condition set forth in paragraph 16(a), which provides that
"[t]he Carrier shall not be liable to make any refund to passengers in respect of ... tickets wholly or partly not used by
a passenger." Not knowing whether or not that provision is
legally enforceable, I assume that the average passenger
would accept the risk of having to file suit in Florida in the
event of an injury, rather than canceling-without a refunda planned vacation at the last minute. The fact that the
cruise line can reduce its litigation costs, and therefore its
liability insurance premiums, by forcing this choice on its
passengers does not, in my opinion, suffice to render the

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

499 U. S.

provision reasonable. Cf. Steven v. Fidelity & Casualty Co.
of New York, 58 Cal. 2d 862, 883, 377 P. 2d 284, 298 (1962)
(refusing to enforce limitation on liability in insurance policy
because insured "must purchase the policy before he even
knows its provisions").
Even if passengers received prominent notice of the forumselection clause before they committed the cost of the cruise,
I would remain persuaded that the clause was unenforceable
under traditional principles of federal admiralty law and is
"null and void" under the terms of Limitation of Vessel Owner's Liability Act, ch. 521, 49 Stat. 1480, 46 U. S. C. App.
§ 183c, which was enacted in 1936 to invalidate expressly
stipulations limiting shipowners' liability for negligence.
Exculpatory clauses in passenger tickets have been around
for a long time. These clauses are typically the product of
disparate bargaining power between the carrier and the passenger, and they undermine the strong public interest in deterring negligent conduct. For these reasons, courts long
before the turn of the century consistently held such clauses
unenforceable under federal admiralty law. Thus, in a case
involving a ticket provision purporting to limit the shipowner's liability for the negligent handling of baggage, this Court
wrote:
"It is settled in the courts of the United States that
exemptions limiting carriers from responsibility for the
negligence of themselves or their servants are both unjust and unreasonable, and will be deemed as wanting in
the element of voluntary assent; and, besides, that such
conditions are in conflict with public policy. This doctrine was announced so long ago, and has been so frequently reiterated, that it is elementary. We content
ourselves with referring to the cases of the Baltimore &
Ohio &c. Railway v. Voigt, 176 U. S. 498, 505, 507, and
Knott v. Botany Mills, 179 U. S. 69, 71, where the previously adjudged cases are referred to and the principles

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

STEVENS, J., dissenting

by them expounded are restated."
U. S. 263, 268 (1902).

The Kensington, 183

Clauses limiting a carrier's liability or weakening the passenger's right to recover for the negligence of the carrier's
employees come in a variety of forms. Complete exemptions
from liability for negligence or limitations on the amount of
the potential damage recovery,' requirements that notice of
claims be filed within an unreasonably short period of time,2
provisions mandating a choice of law that is favorable to the
defendant in negligence cases, 3 and forum-selection clauses
are all similarly designed to put a thumb on the carrier's side
of the scale of justice.4
See 46 U. S. C. App. § 183c:
"It shall be unlawful for the ... owner of any vessel transporting passengers between ports of the United States or between any such port and a
foreign port to insert in any rule, regulation, contract, or agreement any
provision or limitation (1) purporting, in the event of loss of life or bodily
injury arising from the negligence or fault of such owner or his servants, to
relieve such owner ... fromliability, or from liability beyond any stipulated amount, for such loss or injury ......

See 46 U. S. C. App. § 183b(a):
"It shall be unlawful for the manager, agent, master, or owner of any
sea-going vessel (other than tugs, barges, fishing vessels and their tenders) transporting passengers or merchandise or property from or between
ports of the United States and foreign ports to provide by rule, contract,
regulation, or otherwise a shorter period for giving notice of, or filing
claimsj'or loss of life or bodily injury, than six months, and for the institution of suits on such claims, than one year, such period for institution of
suits to be computed from the day when the death or injury occurred."
See also 49 U. S. C. § 11707(e) ("A carrier or freight forwarder may not
provide by rule, contract, or otherwise, a period of less than 9 months for
filing a claim against it under this section and a period of less than 2 years
for bringing a civil action against it under this section").
ISee, e. g., The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263, 269 (1902) (refusing to
enforce clause requiring that all disputes under contract for passage be
governed by Belgian law because such law would have favored the shipowner in violation of United States public policy).
IAll these clauses will provide passengers who purchase tickets containing them with a "benefit in the form of reduced fares reflecting the sav-

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

499 U. S.

Forum-selection clauses in passenger tickets involve the
intersection of two strands of traditional contract law that
qualify the general rule that courts will enforce the terms of a
contract as written. Pursuant to the first strand, courts traditionally have reviewed with heightened scrutiny the terms
of contracts of adhesion, form contracts offered on a take-orleave basis by a party with stronger bargaining power to a
party with weaker power. Some commentators have questioned whether contracts of adhesion can justifiably be enforced at all under traditional contract theory because the
adhering party generally enters into them without manifesting knowing and voluntary consent to all their terms. See,
e. g., Rakoff, Contracts of Adhesion: An Essay in Reconstruction, 96 Harv. L. Rev. 1173, 1179-1180 (1983); Slawson,
Mass Contracts: Lawful Fraud in California, 48 S. Cal. L.
Rev. 1, 12-13 (1974); K. Llewellyn, The Common Law Tradition 370-371 (1960).
The common law, recognizing that standardized form contracts account for a significant portion of all commercial
agreements, has taken a less extreme position and instead
subjects terms in contracts of adhesion to scrutiny for reasonableness. Judge J. Skelly Wright set out the state of the law
succinctly in Williams v. Walker-Thomas FurnitureCo., 121
U. S. App. D. C. 315, 319-320, 350 F. 2d 445, 449-450 (1965)
(footnotes omitted):
"Ordinarily, one who signs an agreement without full
knowledge of its terms might be held to assume the risk
that he has entered a one-sided bargain. But when a
party of little bargaining power, and hence little real
choice, signs a commercially unreasonable contract with
little or no knowledge of its terms, it is hardly likely that
his consent, or even an objective manifestation of his
ings that the cruise line enjoys by limiting [its exposure to liability]." See
ante, at 594. Under the Court's reasoning, all these clauses, including a
complete waiver of liability, would be enforceable, a result at odds with
longstanding jurisprudence.

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

consent, was ever given to all of the terms. In such a
case the usual rule that the terms of the agreement are
not to be questioned should be abandoned and the court
should consider whether the terms of the contract are so
unfair that enforcement should be withheld."
See also Steven, 58 Cal. 2d, at 879-883, 377 P. 2d, at 295-297;
Henningsen v. Bloomfield Motors, Inc., 32 N. J. 358, 161 A.
2d 69 (1960).
The second doctrinal principle implicated by forumselection clauses is the traditional rule that "contractual provisions, which seek to limit the place or court in which an
action may ... be brought, are invalid as contrary to public
policy." See Dougherty, Validity of Contractual Provision
Limiting Place or Court in Which Action May Be Brought, 31
A. L. R. 4th 404, 409, § 3 (1984). See also Home Insurance
Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, 451 (1874). Although adherence
to this general rule has declined in recent years, particularly
following our decision in The Bremen v. Zapata Off-Shore
Co., 407 U. S. 1 (1972), the prevailing rule is still that forumselection clauses are not enforceable if they were not freely
bargained for, create additional expense for one party, or
deny one party a remedy. See 31 A. L. R. 4th, at 409-438
(citing cases). A forum-selection clause in a standardized
passenger ticket would clearly have been unenforceable
under the common law before our decision in The Bremen,
see 407 U. S., at 9, and n. 10, and, in my opinion, remains
unenforceable under the prevailing rule today.
The Bremen, which the Court effectively treats as controlling this case, had nothing to say about stipulations printed
on the back of passenger tickets. That case involved the
enforceability of a forum-selection clause in a freely negotiated international agreement between two large corporations
providing for the towage of a vessel from the Gulf of Mexico
to the Adriatic Sea. The Court recognized that such towage
agreements had generally been held unenforceable in Ameri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

499 U. S.

can courts,5 but held that the doctrine of those cases did
not extend to commercial arrangements between parties with
equal bargaining power.
The federal statute that should control the disposition of
the case before us today was enacted in 1936 when the general rule denying enforcement of forum-selection clauses was
indisputably widely accepted. The principal subject of the
statute concerned the limitation of shipowner liability, but as
the following excerpt from the House Report explains, the
section that is relevant to this case was added as a direct
response to shipowners' ticketing practices.
"During the course of the hearings on the bill (H. R.
9969) there was also brought to the attention of the committee a practice of providing on the reverse side of
steamship tickets that in the event of damage or injury
caused by the negligence or fault of the owner or his
servants, the liability of the owner shall be limited to a
stipulated amount, in some cases $5,000, and in others
substantially lower amounts, or that in such event the
question of liability and the measure of damages shall be
determined by arbitration. The amendment to chapter
6 of title 48 of the Revised Statutes proposed to be made
by section 2 of the committee amendment is intended to,
and in the opinion of the committee will, put a stop to all
such practices and practices of a like character." H. R.
Rep. No. 2517, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., 6-7 (1936) (emphasis added); see also S. Rep. No. 2061, 74th Cong., 2d
Sess., 6-7 (1936).
"'In [Carbon Black Export, Inc. v. The Monrosa, 254 F. 2d 297 (CA5
1958), cert. dism'd, 359 U. S. 180 (1959),] the Court of Appeals had held a
forum-selection clause unenforceable, reiterating the traditional view of
many American courts that 'agreements in advance of controversy whose
object is to oust the jurisdiction of the courts are contrary to public policy
and will not be enforced.' 254 F. 2d, at 300-301." The Bremen v. Zapata
Off-Shore Co., 407 U. S. 1, 6 (1972).

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

The intent to "put a stop to all such practices and practices
of a like character" was effectuated in the second clause of the
statute. It reads:
"It shall be unlawful for the manager, agent, master,
or owner of any vessel transporting passengers between
ports of the United States or between any such port and
a foreign port to insert in any rule, regulation, contract,
or agreement any provision or limitation (1) purporting,
in the event of loss of life or bodily injury arising from
the negligence or fault of such owner or his servants, to
relieve such owner, master, or agent from liability, or
from liability beyond any stipulated amount, for such
loss or injury, or (2) purporting in such event to lessen,
weaken, or avoid the right of any claimant to a trial by
court of competent jurisdiction on the question of liability for such loss or injury, or the measure of damages
therefor. All such provisions or limitations contained in
any such rule, regulation, contract, or agreement are declared to be against public policy and shall be null and
void and of no effect." 46 U. S. C. App. § 183c (emphasis added).
The stipulation in the ticket that Carnival Cruise sold to
respondents certainly lessens or weakens their ability to recover for the slip and fall incident that occurred off the west
coast of Mexico during the cruise that originated and terminated in Los Angeles, California. It is safe to assume that
the witnesses -whether other passengers or members of the
crew-can be assembled with less expense and inconvenience
at a west coast forum than in a Florida court several thousand miles from the scene of the accident.
A liberal reading of the 1936 statute is supported by both
its remedial purpose and by the legislative history's general
condemnation of "all such practices." Although the statute
does not specifically mention forum-selection clauses, its language is broad enough to encompass them. The absence of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1990
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

499 U. S.

specific reference is adequately explained by the fact that
such clauses were already unenforceable under common law
and would not often have been used by carriers, which were
relying on stipulations that purported to exonerate them
from liability entirely. Cf. Moskal v. United States, 498
U. S. 103, 110-113 (1990).
The Courts of Appeals, construing an analogous provision
of the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 46 U. S. C. App. § 1300
et seq., have unanimously held invalid as limitations on liability forum-selection clauses requiring suit in foreign jurisdictions. See, e. g., Hughes Drilling Fluids v. M/V Luo Fu
Shan, 852 F. 2d 840 (CA5 1988), cert. denied, 489 U. S. 1033
(1989); Union Ins. Soc. of Canton, Ltd. v. S. S. Elikon, 642
F. 2d 721, 724-725 (CA4 1981); Indussa Corp. v. S. S.
Ranborg, 377 F. 2d 200, 203-204 (CA2 1967). Commentators have also endorsed this view. See, e. g., G. Gilmore
& C. Black, The Law of Admiralty 145, and n. 23 (2d ed.
1975); Mendelsohn, Liberalism, Choice of Forum Clauses and
the Hague Rules, 2 J. of Maritime Law & Comm. 661,
663-666 (1971). The forum-selection clause here does not
mandate suit in a foreign jurisdiction, and therefore arguably
might have less of an impact on a plaintiff's ability to recover.
See Fireman's Fund American Ins. Cos. v. Puerto Rican
Forwarding Co., 492 F. 2d 1294 (CA1 1974). However, the
plaintiffs in this case are not large corporations but individuals, and the added burden on them of conducting a trial at
the opposite end of the country is likely proportional to the
additional cost to a large corporation of conducting a trial
overseas.6
Under these circumstances, the general prohibition against
stipulations purporting "to lessen, weaken, or avoid" the passenger's right to a trial certainly should be construed to apply
to the manifestly unreasonable stipulation in these passen6

The Court does not make clear whether the result in this case would
also apply if the clause required Carnival passengers to sue in Panama, the
country in which Carnival is incorporated.

CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES, INC. v. SHUTE
585

STEVENS,

605

J., dissenting

gers' tickets. Even without the benefit of the statute, I
would continue to apply the general rule that prevailed prior
to our decision in The Bremen to forum-selection clauses in
passenger tickets.
I respectfully dissent.

Paster -

#1 -

Face - 298-077 (QL 3)

P 0. Box 526170, Miami, Florida 33152-6170

Agent

SHIP

Cabin No,

]

Passenger Booking Number

Booking No-

Sailing

Passenger

Passenger

+=ON
,2

LAS

ct

- ot

PAE

t

Child

Good For Passage

oa

Passenger' Cet

t

0

otePrsetd For Passage

-

Far

Pasener ookng

______________________________________

*

U

I

~

Nume

Paster -

#1 -

Back -

298477 (QL 3)

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PASSAGE CONTRACT TICKET
1.) Whenever the word 'Carrier'' is used in this Contract it shall mean and include, jointly and
severally. the Vessel, its owners. operators. charterers and tenders. The term ''Passenger*' shall
Include, the plural where appropriate, and all persons engaging to and/or traveling under this Contract The masculine includes the teminine
(b) The Master. Oticers and Crew of the Vessel shall have the benefit of all ot the terms and conditions of this contract.
2. This ticket is valid only lor the person or persons named hereon as the passenger or passengers
and cannot be transferred without the Carrier's consent written hereon. Passage money shall be
deemed to be earned when paid and not refundable.
3. (a) The acceptance ot this ticket by the person or persons named hereon as passengers shall be
deemed to be an acceptance and agreement by each of them of all of the terms and conditions o
this Passage Contract Ticket.
(b) The passenger admits a lull understanding ot the character of the Vessel and assumes all risk
incident to travel and transportatlion and handling o passengers and cargo The Vessel may or may
not carry a ship s physician at the election o the Carrier. The tare includes lull board, ordinary
ship's food during the voyage, but no spirits, wine, beer or mineral waters
4

The Carrier shall not be liable for any loss o life or personal injury or delay whatsoever
wheresoever arising and howsoever caused even though the same may have been caused by the
negligence or delault of the Carrier or its servants or agents. No undertaking or warranty is given
or shall be implied respecting the seaworthiness, fitness or condition of the Vessel. This exemption
trom liability shall extend to the employees, servants and agents of the Carrier and for this purpose
Thisexemption shall be deemed to constitute a Contract entered into between the passenger and
the Cartier on behall of all persons who are or become from time to time its employees. servants or
agents and all such persons shall to Thisextent be deemed to be parties to this Contract

5 The Carrier shall not be liable lor losses o1 valuales unless stored in the Vessel's safety depository
and then not exceeding $500 in any event
6 If the Vessel carries a surgeon, physician, masseuse, barber, hair dresser or manicurist, it is done
solely for the convenience ot the passenger and any such person in dealing with the passenger is
not and shall not be considered in any respect whatsoever, as the employee, servant or agent of
the Carrier and the Carrier shall not be liable forany act or omission of such person or those under
his orders or assisting him with respect to treatment, advice or care ot any kind given to any
passenger.
The surgeon, physician, masseuse, barber, hair dresser or manicurist shall be entitled to make a
proper charge tor any service performed with respect to a passenger and the Carrier shall not be
concerned in any way whatsoever in any such arrangement.,
7. The Carrier shall not be liable for any claims whatsoever at the passenger unless lull particulars
thereol fitnwriting be given to the Carrier or their agents within 185 days alter the passenger shall
be landed trom the Vessel or In tIle case the voyage is abandoned within 185 days thereafter. Suit
to recover any claim shall not be maintainable in any event unless commenced within one year alter
the date of the loss, injury or death
8. It is agreed by and between the passenger and the Carrier that all disputes and matters whatsoever
arising under, in connection with or incitent to this Contract shall be litigated, if at all, in and
belore a Court located in the State o Florida. U.S.A., to the exclusion of the Courts O airy other
state or country.
9. The Carrier, in arranging for the service called for by all shore teature coupons or shore excursion
tickets, ac s oily as agent lor the holder thereof and assumes no responsibility and in no event
shall be liable for any loss, dairage, inlury or delay to or of said person and/or baggage. property
or etlects in connection with said services, noi does Carrier guarantee the performance of any such

CONTRACT PAGE 1

10 Each tully paid adult passenger will be allowed an unlimited amounl o baggage Iree o charge
Baggage means only trunks, valises satchels, bags. hangers and bundles with their contents consisting o only such wearing apparel. toilet articles and similar personal effects as are necessary
and appropriate tor the station in Ite of the passenger and for the purpose of the journey
11 No tools o trade, household goods, presents and/or properly of others. jewelry, money, documents, valuables of any description including but not limited to such articles as are described in
Secion 4281 Revised Statute o the U.S A (46 USCA § 181) shall be carried except under and
subject to the terms o a special written contract or Bill ol Lading entered into with the Carrier prior
to embarkation upon application of the passenger and the passenger hereby warrants that no such
articles are contained in any receptacle or container presented by him as baggage hereunder, and
it any such article or articles are shipped and the passenger's baggage ifobreach at this warranty
no liability tr negligence, gross or ordinary, shall attach to the Carrier lor any loss or damage
thereto
12 it is stipulated and agreed that the aggregate value of each passenger's property under the Adult
ticket does not exceed $100 00 (half ticket: $50.00) and any liability of Ihe Carrier for any cause
whatsoever with respect to said properly shall not exceed such'sum, unless Ihe passenger shall in
writing, delivered to the Carrier prior to embarkation, declare the true value thereof and pay to the
Carrier prior to embarkation a sum (in U S Dollars) equal to 5% o the excess o such value, in
which event Ihe Carrier's liability strall be limited to the actual damages sustained to the properly
but not in excess ot the declared value
13. The Vessel shall be entitled to leave and enter ports with or without pilots or lugs, to low and
assist other vessels in any circumslances to return to or enter any port at the Master's discretion
and tor any purpose and to deviate in any direction or lor any purpose from the direct or usual
course, all such deviations being considered as torming pal o and included in the proposed
voyage
14. It the performance of the proposed voyage is hindered or prevented) or in the opinion of the Carrier
or the Master is likely to be hindered or prevented) by war. hostiliies, blockae, ice. labor con-

Ilicts. strikes on board or ashore. Restraint of Rulers or Princes, breakdown of the Vessel,
congestion, docking difliculties. or any other cause whatsoever, or it the Carrier or the Master considers that for any reason whatsoever, proceeding to, attempting to enter, or entering or remaining
at the port of passenger's destination may expose the Vessel to risk or loss or damage or be likely
to delay her, the passenger and his baggage may be landed at the port of embarkation or at any
port or place at which the Vessel may call when the responsibility o the Carrier shall cease and
this contract shall be deemed to have been fully performed, or it the passenger has not embarked
the Carrier may cancel the proposed voyage without liability to relund passage money or fares paid
in advance.
15. The Carrier and the Master shall have liberty to comply with any orders, recommendations or directions whatsoever given by the Government o any nation or by any Department thereof or by any
person acting or purporting to act with the authority ot such Government or Department or by any
Committee or person having under the terms ot the War Risks Insuranace on the Vessel the right
to give such orders, recommendations or directions, and it by reason of and in compliance with any
such orders, recommendations or directions anything is done or is not done the same shall nol be
deemed a deviation or a breach of this Contract, Disembarkation of any passenger or discharge of
his baggage in accordance with such orders, recommendations or directions shall constitute due
and proper fulfillment of the obligations of the Carrier under this Contract.
16. (a) The Carrier shall not be liable to make any refund to passengers in respect of lost tickets or in
respect of tickets wholly or partly not used by a passenger.
(b) If tor any reason whatsoever the passenger is retused permission to land at the port of disembarkalion or such other ports as is provided for in Clauses 14 and 15 hereof, the passenger and
his baggage may be landed al any port or place at which the Vessel calls or be carried back to the
part of embarkation and shall pay the Carrier lull fare according to its taritf in use at such time for
such further carriage, which shall be upon the terms herein contained

CONTRACT PAGE 2

11.The Carrier and the Vessel shall have a lien upon all baggage, money, motor cars and other
property whatsoever accompanying thepassenger and the right to sell the same by public auction
sums whatsoever due from the passenger under this contract and forthe costs
or otherwise torall
and expenses otenloicing such lien and of such sale.
be liable to the Carrier and tothe Master
18. The passenger or if a minor his parent or guardtah bhall
er
for his ltifke to obse
lotany lines on,maltws irnposod an the Ce ler by the a"Ihoei
comply with local equJiements in respect of mmilmcatibn, Customs and Excise or an' other Government regulations whotsoever.
19. No passenger shall be allowed to bring on board the Vessel Weapons, Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives or other dangerous goods without written permission tromthe Carrier.
20 The Carrier shall have liberty without previous notice to cancel at the portotembarkation or at any
port this Contract and shall thereupon return to thepassenger, it the Contract is cancelled at the
port of embarkation, his passage money, or, it the Contract Is cancelled later, a proportionate part
thereof
21. The passenger warrants that he and those traveling withhim are physically fit at the time of embarkation. The Carrier and Master each reserves the righjt to refuse passage to anyone whose
health or weltare would be considered a risk to his own well-being or that of any other passenger

22. Should the Vessel deviate from its course due to passenger's negligence, said passenger * his
estate shall be liable for any related costs Incurred.
23. The Carrier reserves the right to increase published fares without prior notice In the ettent 9f an
Increase, the passarger has the aptipn at accepting ihe increased tare or cancelling restnvions
without penalty.
24. In addition to all of the restrictions and exemptions from liability provided In this Contract the
Carrier shall have the benefit lf all Statutes of the United States of America provldtng 1fir limiatton
and exoneration from liability and the procedures provided thereby, including but not limited to
Sections 4282, 4282A, 4283, 4284. 4285 and 4286 of the Revised Statues of the United States of
America (46 USCA Sections 182, t83, 183b, 184, 185 and 186): nothing in this Contract is intended to nor shall It operate to limit or deprive the Carrier of any such statutory limitation of or
exoneration from liability,
25. Should any provision of this Contract be contrary to or invalid by virtue of the law of any jurisdiction or be so held by a Court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed to be
severed tram the Contract and of no effect and all remaining provisions herein shall be in lull force
and effect and constitute the Contract of Carriage.

CONTRACT PAGE 3

