OCTOBER TERI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

is paid by him. But every tax has its final incidence on some
individual. That effect, therefore, cannot be urged to destroy
well recognized distinctions. The tax in the case at bar is a
tax on the privilege of doing business regulated by the amount
of sales, and is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Judgment fflirmed.
Mir. JUSTICE HARLAN

did not hear the argument and took

no part in the decision.

ROTHSCHILD v. KNIGHT.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 108.

Submitted October 21, 1901.-Decided Ilarch 3, 1902.

A motion being made to dismiss the writ of error in this case on the ground
that no Federal question was raised in the Superior Court of Massachusetts this court holds that as Federal questions were raised on writ of
error to the Supreme Court of that State, that was sufficient to give this
court jurisdiction.
The objection that the writ of error should have been directed to the Supreme Court, and not to the Superior Court, is answered by McDonald v.
Massachusetts,180 U. S. 311.
To what actions the remedy of attachment may be given is for the legislature of a State to determine: the power of counsel extends to consenting
to amendments authorized by the law of the State.
The contention that the debts due to plaintiffs in error by certain citizens
of Massachusetts were not subject to attachment in that State because
their situs was in New York cannot be maintained.
The preference given by MIcKeon to plantiffs in error was consummated in
Massachusetts; and therefore the proceedings had in New York were immaterial.

JAMES MCKEON was a retail merchant in Springfield, Massachusetts, and became indebted to plaintiffs in error in the sum
of about $4000.
The indebtedness being overdue, Frank J. Rothschild, Jr.,
son of one of the plaintiffs in error, went to Springfield with full

ROTHSCHILD v. KNIGHT.
Statement of the Case.

power to collect the debt. When there, he received from McKeon
a quafitity of fur garments, part of McKeon's stock. The garments had not been purchased of plaintiffs in error, and when
they were received by Rothschild, Jr., for plaintiffs in error he
knew McKeon was insolvent.
The furs were sent to the railroad station in trunks, checked
and taken to New York as the personal baggage of Rothschild,
Jr. A receipted bill or list of the goods was delivered by MeKeon to Rothschild, Jr. Subsequently, however, in New York
it was testified that McKeon "tore from the bill the receipt and
wrote on the bill the word abbreviation 'Memo.' to indicate
that the goods were on memorandum or consignment, and the
defendant said that he would write to his bookkeeper that night
and have the entry in his books made to conform with the bill
by writing in the word ' Memo."
This was done by the advice of the attorney of plaintiffs in
error, and so stated by him in an affidavit filed in an action
brought by plaintiffs in error in the Supreme Court of the city
and county of New York against McKeon.
The advice was given, the attorney deposed, in order to make
the transaction appear what it was stated in his presence to be;
that is, for security only, and not for the sale of the goods;
and he advised a suit by plaintiffs in error against McKeon and
an attachment of the goods. The suit was subsequently brought
and the goods attached.
On the 20th of December, 1895, McKeon was adjudged an
insolvent in Massachusetts, and the defendant in error was appointed his assignee, and as such he brought this action by trustee process in the superior court for Hampden County, Massachusetts, for the value of goods conveyed by McKeon to plaintiffs in error, on the ground that the conveyance was made in
fraud of the insolvency laws of Massachusetts. The officer's
return on the writ showed service on the trustees, but none on
the plaintiffs in error.
The writ was duly entered on the first Monday in May, 1896,
and a declaration for goods sold and delivered by McKeon to
the plaintiffs in error was duly filed. Subsequently upon its
being brought to the notice of the court that plaintiffs in error

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

were not inhabitants of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
notice was ordered to be given to them by publication, and that
the action be continued until such notice should be given. The
notice was returnable on the first Monday in September, 1896,
and was given as ordered, but no return or proof of it was made
until July 6, 1899. On the 16th of September, 1896, plaintiffs
in error (defendants in the action) appeared generally by their
attorney, Charles C. Spillman, Esq., thereto duly authorized.
On October 12, following, defendant in error (plaintiff) moved
to amend his declaration, to which counsel for plaintiffs in error
consented, and it was allowed. Plaintiffs in error filed an
answer denying each and every allegation in the original and
amended declaration. On June 21, 1897, the defendant in error
again amended his declaration with the consent of E. N. Hill,
Esq., who was then acting as counsel for plaintiffs in error, having been retained generally by plaintiffs in error, though his
written appearance was not entered until June 26. By virtue
of his general authority he could consent to the allowance of
amendments. He conducted the case for plaintiffs in error.
The amendment added two counts to the declaration, charging the conveyance to plaintiffs in error by McKeon as having
been made to prevent the property from coming to his assignee
in insolvency, in fraud of the laws of the State relating to insolvent debtors.
The jury rendered a verdict against the plaintiffs in error for
the sum of $6420, and they moved for a new trial by their attorney, E. N. Hill. On the 31st of July, 1897, plaintiffs in
error "alleged sundry exceptions to the opinions and rulings of
the court, which, being found conformable to the truth, were
allowed and signed by the presiding judge, and the questions
were transmitted to the Supreme Judicial Court for consideration."
The bill of exceptions contained the evidence, and concluded
as follows:
"Upon this evidence the defendants asked the court to rule
that there was no evidence to warrant the finding that McKeon
intended to prefer the defendants or intended to prevent this
property from coming into the possession of the assignee or

ROTHSCHILD v. KNIGHT.
Statement of the Case.

from being distributed according to the laws relating to insolvency, and that the action could not be maintained. The court
refused so to rule and the defendants duly excepted.
"And the defendants being aggrieved by these rulings and
refusals to rule, and having excepted thereto, after verdict
against them, pray that their exceptions and their exceptions to
the admission of testimony as hereinbefore stated, be allowed."
On the 15th of February, 1898, the motion for a new trial
was denied, and on the 28th of February, 1899, a rescript was
received from the Supreme Judicial Court overruling the exceptions of plaintiffs in error.
On the 6th of March, 1899, judgment was entered against
plaintiffs in error "for the sum of seven thousand and seventyone dollars and sixty-three cents, damages, and costs of suit,
taxed at ninety-one dollars and seven cents, and that execution
therefor issue against the goods, effects and credits of the said
defendants in the hands and possession of the said trustees,
Smith & Murray and Houston & Henderson, who were by the
court adjudged to be trustees" of plaintiffs in error.
On May 12, 1898, plaintiffs in error filed an assignment of
errors under the state practice as follows:
"1. That the record discloses that there was no valid and
effectual attachment of the goods, estate or effects of the plaintiffs in error upon the writ, which is the necessary foundation
of the jurisdiction of said Superior Court to support any proceeding against an unserved, absent defendant.
"2. That the record discloses that the action was an attempt
to obtain jurisdiction over these non-resident plaintiffs in error
by means of trusteeing a debt due them, and said attempt was
an infringement of the rights of the plaintiffs in error as guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States.
"3. That the record discloses that neither the plaintiffs in
error nor either of them were voluntarily before said Superior
Court, and the record fails to show any service upon them,
either personally or by publication, as ordered by said court.
"14. That the record discloses that the judgment, if allowed
to stand, will deprive these plaintiffs in error of their property,
VOL. oLxxxiv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States.
"10. That the record discloses that the various amendments
to the declaration of the defendants in error converted the
action into one for the recovery of a penalty, and that such
attempt is an infringement of the rights, privileges and immunities of the plaintiffs in error, guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
"11. That the record discloses that there were counts in the
declaration of the defendants in error, which under the laws of
this Commonwealth involved a penalty, and that a judgment on
said counts would be conclusive on these plaintiffs in error as
to their liability therefor, and would, without further trial,
subject their rights to such penalty, and that such attempt to
obtain jurisdiction over the persons or property of these plaintiffs in error, by the trustee process served on a debtor in this
State for the purpose of fixing upon them a liability for such
penalty is contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States."
The assignments of error were subsequently amended by
adding the following:
"16. That the record discloses that the judgment, if allowed
to stand, will impair the obligation of contracts, contrary to the
Constitution of the United States.
"17. That the record discloses that the Superior Court did
not give full faith and credit to the judicial proceedings of the
courts of New York, as required by the Constitution of the
United States."
On the 17th of June, 1898, the defendant in error filed his
plea and traverse. A hearing was subsequently had before a
single justice to establish the plea and traverse, who, a doubt
being suggested as to his authority to dispose of the case, after
finding the facts, reported the case to the full court. The case
was heard by the Supreme Court, and on May 15, 1900, a rescript
was sent to the Superior Court affirming the judgment. 176
M ass. 48. This writ of error was then sued out and allowed by
the Chief Justice of the Superior Court.

ROTHSCHILD v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Robert A. XYnight and M.r. Charles X. Rice for the motion to dismiss or affirm.
-Y. HTary J. Aquith and .Mr. Tomas J. Barry opposing.
AIR. JUSTICE MOKENNA, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

A motion is made to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground
that no Federal question was raised in the Superior Court.
Federal questions were raised, however, on writ of error to the
Supreme Court, and that, we think, was a sufficient claim.
.Meyer v. Riehmond, 172 U. S. 82; Arrowsmith v. Harmoning,
118 U. S. 194; Sully v. American 1'ational Bank, 178 U. S.
289.
The objection that the writ of error should have been directed
to the Supreme Court and not to the Superior Court is answered
by JoDonaldv. .3fassachusetts, 180 U. S. 311.
The constitutional questions raised by plaintiffs in error are
(1) that they have been deprived of their property without due
process of law; (2) that if the judgment be allowed to stand it
will impair the obligation of contracts, contrary to the Constitution of the United States; (3) that full faith and credit was not
given to certain judicial proceedings had in the Supreme Court
of the State of New York.
(1) (2) These grounds may be considered together. To sustain them plaintiffs in error assert the invalidity of certain public statutes of Massachusetts, viz., chapter 164, relating to absent
defendants; chapter 183,,relating to the trustee process; and
chapter 15'(, relating to insolvency.
The sections in regard to insolvency are inserted in the mar1
gin.
1The sections of the insolvency laws of Massachusetts, under which the
action was originally brought in the Superior Court of Massachusetts, are
sections 96 and 98 of Chapter 157 of the Massachusetts Public Statutes, and

are as follows:
"SEc. 96. If a person, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency,
within six months before the filing of the petition by or against him, with

340&

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The provisions relating to trustee process are as follows:
"SEc. 21. When a person who is summoned as trustee has
goods, effects or credits of the defendant intrusted or deposited
in his hands or possession, such goods, effects and credits shall
be hereby attached and held to respond to the final judgment
in the suit, in like manner as goods or estate attached by the
ordinary process, except as hereinbefore provided."
"S Ec. 25. Any money or other thing due to the defendant
may be attached, as herein mentioned, before it has become
payable, if it is due absolutely and without any contingency;
but the trustee shall not be compelled to pay or deliver it before the time appointed by the contract."
It is difficult to state the argument made to support the contention of plaintiffs in error. It rests ultimately on a claim of
immunity from suit in Massachusetts and a claim of immunity
from attachment of debts due plaintiffs in error from citizens of
a view to give a preference to a creditor or person who has a claim against
him, or is under any liability for him, procures any part of his property to
be attached, sequestered or seized on execution, or makes any payment,
pledge, assignment, transfer or conveyance of any part of his property,
either directly or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, the person receiving such payment, pledge, assignment, transfer or conveyance, or to be
benefited thereby, having reasonable cause to believe such person is insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, and that such payment, pledge, assignment or conveyance is made in fraud of the laws relating to insolvency,
the same shall be void; and the assignee may recover the property or the
value of it from the person so receiving it or so to be benefited."
"SEaC. 98. If a person, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency,
within six months before the filing of the petition by or against him, makes
a sale, assignment, transfer or other conveyance of any description, of any
part of his property to a person who then has reasonable cause to believe
him to be insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, and that such sale,
assignment, transfer or other conveyance is made with a view to prevent
the property from coming to his assignee in insolvency, or to prevent the
same from being distributed under the laws relating to insolvency, or to
defeat the object of, or in any way to impair, hinder, impede or delay the
operation and effect of, or to evade any of said provisions, the sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance shall be void, and the assignee may recover
the property or the value thereof as assets of the insolvency. And if such
sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance is not made in the usual and ordinary course of business of the debtor, that fact shall be prmafacie evidence of such cause of belief."

ROTHSCHILD v. KNIGHT.
Opinion of the Court.

Massachusetts. Argumentatively, it is said that the action
originally brought did not justify trustee process, and that the
amendments subsequently made to the declaration were not
authorized, though consented to by counsel who appeared in
and conducted the case. We do not assent to either proposition.
To what actions the remedy of attachment may be given is
for the legislature of a State to determine and its courts to
decide, and the power of counsel certainly extends to consenting to amendments authorized by the laws of the State. Indeed, it would be novel to hold that the court could not have
granted the amendments, even against the opposition of counsel, without violating the Constitution of the United States.
And the contention that the debts due to plaintiffs in error by
certain citizens of Massachusetts were not subject to attachment in that State because their situs was in New York, cannot
be maintained. We decided adversely to the proposition in
Chicago, Rock Island &o. By. v. Stuirm, 174 U. S. 110. That
case was followed and applied in Eing v. Cross, 175 U. S.396,
and we are satisfied with the reasoning of both cases.
But it is urged that the transaction between McKeon and
the agent of the plaintiffs in error did not constitute a debt,
but was in the nature of an offence to which a penalty was
incident, and to the commission of the offence an intent was
necessary, and that the intent of the agent of plaintiffs in error
could not be ascribed to them. The Supreme Court of the State,
however, decided that "the action is not for recovery of a penalty, but to recover the value of goods conveyed in fraud of the
laws relating to insolvency, and it properly might be commenced
by trustee process. Pub. Sts. c. 157, §§ 96, 97; c. 183, § 1."
We need only add that the law would be of little value if its
prohibition did not apply to non-resident creditors, whether acting directly or through an agent. That the conveyance to
plaintiffs in error was made to give a fraudulent preference
must necessarily have been found as a fact by the jury, and
such finding we accept.
(3) No record was introduced in evidence of the judicial proceedings to which, it is claimed, faith and credit were not given.
The only evidence in regard to the proceedings consisted of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

the affidavit already referred to, and an affidavit of like import
made by S. Rothschild, one of the plaintiffs in error. The affidavits were introduced by defendants in error. On behalf of
plaintiffs in error Frank J. Rothschild testified as follows:
"These goods (meaning the goods received from McKeon) were
attached by Simon Rothschild & Bro., and were sold by order
of the sheriff. We bought them, that is, Simon Rothschild &
Bro. bought them, at the sheriff's sale."
Assuming, but not deciding, that such evidence was sufficient,
and that a record properly authenticated was not necessary to
give the plaintiffs in error the benefit of the Constitution and
statutory provisions, the proceedings, notwithstanding, did not
constitute a defence to the action. The preference given by
MvicKeon to plaintiffs in error was consummated in Massachusetts. Therefore the proceedings had in New York were immaterial.
Finding no error in the record, judgment is
Affirmed.

SCUERMAN v. ARIZONA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 151.

Submitted January 28, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.

The act of Congress of June 6, 1896, c. 339, 29 Stat. 262, authorizing the refunding of outstanding obligations of the Territory of Arizona, was within
the power of Congress to pass, and by it the bonds therein described
were made valid.
Under the territorial funding act of Arizona, approved March 19, 1891, it
was sufficient for the holder of the bonds to make the demand for the
exchange, and it was not necessary that the demand should be made by
the municipal authorities.
It was the intent of Congress under the said act of June 6, 1896, to provide
that there should be no funding of bonds or other indebtedness which
arose subsequently to January 1, 1897; and the statute was not intended
to limit the mere process of exchanging one bond for the other to the
time specified.
The territorial statute of Arizona of 1887 is the foundation for the appointment of the loan commissioners; and the body thus created comes
directly within its provisions.

