OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

LEAGUE v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 137. Argued and submitted January 29, 1902.-Decided February 24, 1902.
A State may adopt new remedies for the collection of taxes, and apply those
remedies to taxes already delinquent, without any violation of the Federal Constitution.
That in the new remedy in the case at bar, as well as in the change from
the old to the new, there was no violation of the constitution of the State
of Texas, is settled for this court by the decisions of the highest court of
that State.
Whether the title on this case which passed by the sale was conditioned or
absolute, the State may waive the rights obtained by such sale and prescribe the terms upon which it will waive them.
A delinquent taxpayer who fails to discharge his obligation to the State,
compelling it to go into court to enforce payment of the taxes due on his
land, has no ground of complaint because he is charged with the ordinary
fees and expenses of a law suit.
The Fourteenth Amendment contains no prohibition of retrospective legislation as such, and therefore, now, as before, the mere fact that a statute
is retroactive in its operation does not make it repugnant to the Federal
Constitution.

ON August 6, 1898, the State of Texas filed a petition in the
district court of San Augustine County, Texas, averring that
the defendant was justly indebted to the State of Texas and the
county of San Augustine in the sum of $1305.87, on account of
taxes, interest, penalties and costs due on certain described lands
for the years 1884, 1885, 1886, 1887, 1888, 1889, 1890, 1891,
1892, 1894, 1895 and 1896. The prayer was for a recovery of
the taxes, interest, etc., and for a decree establishing and enforcing a lien upon the several tracts for the amounts found
due upon each. An answer was filed and a trial had, which
resulted, on September 9, 1889, in a finding that there was due
the State the amount claimed for taxes, etc., a decree that the
State recover the amount thereof from the defendant, and adjudging a lien upon the several tracts therefor, and directing a
foreclosure and sale. On appeal to the Court of Civil Appeals

LEAGUE v. TEXAS.'
Opinion of the Court.

the decree was modified by striking out the taxes of 1884, all
penalties and the personal judgment against the defendant,
leaving the decree to stand as a finding of the amount due for
taxes subsequent to the year 1884, interest and costs, and a foreclosure of a lien therefor upon the several tracts. This modification reduced the amount of the recovery to $1232.71, with
interest at 6 per cent from September 9, 1899, the date of the
decree in the district court. On error to the Supreme Court of
the State the decree of the Court of Civil Appeals was affirmed,
93 Texas, 553 ; whereupon this writ of error was sued out.
. /les
X. FM
brief.

Hame for plaintiff in error submitted on his

Mn. D. E. Simmons for defendant in error. -Mr. C. K. Bell
was on his brief.
MR. JUsTIE BRmwER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1897 the legislature of Texas passed an act for the collection
by judicial proceedings of delinquent taxes upon real estate.
Texas, General Laws, 1897, c. 103, p. 132. The contention of
the defendant, now plaintiff in error, is that prior thereto the
collection of taxes was enforced by an administrative sale made
by the collector of taxes after January 1 of the succeeding
year; that the State's lien for taxes was merged in the estate
passed or vested by that sale; that the status of the rights of
the State or other purchaser was fixed by the sale and must
depend upon the legality of the title acquired under the collector's deeds, and that any right of a purchaser at such sale,
whether State or private individual, to revive or continue any
lien for taxes must depend upon some statute existing at the
time of the sale; and that hence this act of the legislature providing for the collection of delinquent taxes by judicial proceedings was a violation of the constitutional guarantee of due process in so far as it avoided the legal effect of the prior administrative sale and directed a further and judicial sale with the
rights attending thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

There is no pretence that the taxes levied for these several
years were invalid, or that the proceedings up to and including
the collector's sale were irregular. On the contrary, the delinquent tax record in evidence, duly certified and filed, which
by section 3 of the act is madeyrimafacie evidence of the regularity of all prior proceedings and also that the amount of the
tax against any real estate is a true and correct charge, showed
taxes due as found by the court. It does not appear that the
lands were assessed to the defendant or that he was the owner
of them at the time of the early assessments. Indeed, he
alleges in his answer that he acquired title about the year 1889,
but does not allege that this title was from the State. Apparently he had purchased from some individual who claimed title.
His argument assumes that the taxes had not been paid and
that the lands had been sold by the collector to the State. The
case, therefore, presented is one of a party, admitting that valid
taxes have been duly levied on his property and have not been
paid, who is contesting the manner in which the State shall
collect them, and insisting that the only method which it can
adopt for such collection is one which has hitherto proved ineffectual.
That a State may adopt new remedies for the collection of
taxes and apply those remedies to taxes already delinquent,
without any violation of the Federal Constitution, is not a matter of doubt. A delinquent taxpayer has no vested right in an
existing mode of collecting taxes. There is no contract between
him and the State that the latter will not vary the mode of collection. Indeed, generally speaking, a party has no vested
right in a mere matter of remedy; that is subject to legislative
change. And a new remedy may be resorted to unless in some
of its special provisions a constitutional right of the debtor or
obligor is infringed. "There is no vested right in a mode of
procedure. Each succeeding legislature may establish a different one, providing only that in each are preserved the essential
elements of protection." Backus v. Fo'rt Street Union -Depot
Co., 169 U. S. 557, 570. That in the new remedy in the case
at bar, as well as in the change from the old to the new, there
was no violation of the constitution of the State of Texas, is for

LEAGUE v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

us settled by the decisions of its highest court.

WesBRiver

Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507; Bucher v. Cheshire Bailroad
Co., 125 U. S. 555; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194;
Iong sland Mater Supply Co. v. Broodlyn, 166 U. S. 685.
Defendant further contends that interest, expenses and costs
are included in the new remedy by judicial proceedings which
were not provided for by the prior statutes in reference to collector's sales. The Court of Civil Appeals and the Supreme
Court of the State dealt with this question in these ways. The
latter, in its opinion, quoted the following averment from the
sworn answer of the defendant:
"And for answer in this behalf, defendant denies all and
singular the allegations of plaintiff's petition; and further answering, defendant shows that he purchased the lands described
in plaintiff's petition and exhibits about the year i889; that
said lands have been sold by the collector of taxes of San
Augustine County for 1884 taxes and for the taxes of subsequent years, and they have, in every instance, been bid in by
the collector of taxes for the State of Texas, in obedience to
the laws of the said State."
Upon this it observed that it had granted the writ of error
upon a question of the validity of the charge for interest, and
added:
"However, upon the point on which the writ was granted,
we will say that the answer of the defendant sets up the sale
of the lands for taxes and the purchase of them by the State,
insisting that the State is bound by its purchase. No attack is
made upon the sale nor upon any of the proceedings leading
up to it, and it stands before the court, under the defendant's
allegations, as a valid sale by which the title passed to the
State. The State having acquired the title, had the power to
waive its right, and in order to perfect the claim beyond all
dispute, to foreclose its lien on the laud as against the then
claimant, and in doing so, had the authority to prescribe such
terms as it deemed proper and just. The claimant of the lands
being a party defendant, could have disclaimed any interest in
them and might thus have escaped any cost for proceedings
had after such disclaimer. The defendant chose not to pursue

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

this course, and he has no cause of complaint as the case stands
before this court, because, by his own showing, he had no title
to be affected by it, and depended solely upon the grace of the
State for whatever he might get out of the lands."
The Court of Appeals said:
"The lands were forfeited to the State by the sale for the
taxes of 1884, the forfeiture to become absolute in two years.
The offer of the State is to waive this forfeiture and restore the
land to the owner if he will only pay the taxes accruing since
then and six per cent interest thereon, together with the costs
which had been incurred in making the sale, and in making up
the delinquent lists, and of the suit. The State has waived its
right of forfeiture on condition that the taxes, with interest and
costs, shall be enforced against the land. This it might do."
Whichever be the true view of the effect of the answer, (and,
of course, so far as the two courts differ, we must accept the
view expressed by the highest court of the State as controlling,)
the same result will follow. Whether the title which passed
by the sale was conditional or absolute, the State may waive
the rights obtained by such sale and prescribe the terms upon
which it will waive them. In the one view it waives the right
to a forfeiture; in the other, the title acquired by the sale;
and in either case the State may fix the conditions of its waiver.
The costs referred to are simply the ordinary expenses which
attend proceedings of the character prescribed, to wit, compensation to the collector for preparing the delinquent list and certifying it to the commissioners; to the county attorney for
conducting the suit; to the sheriff for selling the land, and to
the district clerk for making the court records. There is no
pretence that any separate charge is exorbitant or unreasonable. And if the State is compelled to resort to such proceedings for the collection of its taxes it may provide reasonable
compensation for the officials charged with any duty in connection therewith, and incorporate the charges therefor as costs in
the case. Liability for these costs and expenses can be avoided
by payment of taxes, and a delinquent taxpayer, one who fails
to discharge his obligations to the State, compelling it to go
into court to enforce payment of the taxes due upon his land,

LEAGUE v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

has no ground of complaint because he is charged with the ordinary fees and expenses of a law suit.
While the matter of interest stands upon a little different
basis, yet, so far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, there
is nothing to prevent its collection. The statute may be retroactive, but a statute of a State is not brought into conflict
with the Federal Constitution by the mere fact that it is retroactive in its operation. In Baltimore & SusquelannaRailroad Co. v. Nesbit, 10 How. 395, 401, it was said:
"That there exists a general power in the state governments
to enact retrospective or retroactive laws, is a point too well
settled to admit of question at this day. The only limit upon
this power in the States by the Federal Constitution, and therefore the only source of cognizance or control with respect to
that power existing in this court, is the provision that these
retrospective laws shall not be such as are technically ex post
facto, or such as impair the obligation of contracts. Thus, in
the case of Watson et al. v. Jfercer, 8 Pet. 110, the court say:
'It is clear that this court has no right to pronounce an act of
the state legislature void, as contrary to the Constitution of the
United States, from the mere fact that it divests antecedent
vested rights of property. The Constitution of the United
States does not prohibit the States from passing retrospective
laws generally, but only expost facto laws. Now, it has been
solemnly settled by this court that the phrase expostfacto is
not applicable to civil laws, but to penal and criminal laws.'
For this position is cited the case of Calder v. Bull, already
mentioned; of fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 138; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 266, and Satterlee v. .fatthewson,2 Pet. 380."
This decision, it is true, was before the Fourteenth Amendment, and the restrictions placed by that amendment upon state
action apply to retrospective as well as prospective legislation.
But it contains no prohibition of retrospective legislation as
such, and therefore now, as before, the mere fact that a statute
is retroactive in its operation does not make it repugnant to the
Federal Constitution.
As the State may, in the first instance, enact that taxes shall
bear interest from the time they become due, so, without conVOL. cLxxxIv-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

flicting with any provision of the Federal Constitution, it may
in like manner provide that taxes which have become delinquent shall bear interest from the time the delinquency commenced. This is adding no novel or extraordinary penalty, for
interest is the ordinary incident to the non-payment of obligations.
We see nothing else in the record calling for notice, and, findis
ing no error, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Texas
Affirmed.

HATFIELD v. YING.
STATES FOR THE
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 221. Submitted November 11, 1901.-Decided February 24,1902.
Court against
It is contended by appellants that the decree in the Circuit
hearing in that
them ought to be set aside because they have not had the
with
court to which they were entitled by law; that they were not served
appearance, and
process; that counsel unauthorized by them entered their
take the proper
after having wrongfully entered their appearance failed to
by other
steps for the protection of their rights. It is also contended
between
controversy
real
no
was
there
that
parties than the appellants,
litigation was
the parties nominally opposed to each other, and that the
plaintiff. Held,
in fact carried on under the direction and control of the
supported by
that questions of this kind may be examined, upon motion
inquiry.
such
make
to
court
a
of
duty
the
is
it
affidavits, and that
the defendants,
Before any proceedings could rightfully be taken against
of process, or
service
by
court
into
brought
be
they
that
it was essential
this case, it is
in
and,
behalf;
that a lawful appearance be made in their
Mrs. Brownfor
appear
to
authorized
not
was
counsel
the
quite clear that
ing.
first place, in the
It is fitting that this investigation should be had, in the
and before the
done,
been
have
to
court where the wrong is charged
by counsel;
upon
imposed
been
has
correct,
are
charges
the
if
judge who,
be had
cross-examination
and
and it may be wise that both examination
in his presence.

ON October 8, 1898, the appellee commenced this suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of West

