AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

peared that while the boundaries of the survey extended into
the territory ceded by Mexico to the United States, the grantee
had taken and was in possession of land still remaining within
the limits of Mexico to the full extent which he had purchased
and paid for, and therefore no legal or equitable claim existed
against the United States in reference to the land within the
ceded territory." It is quite impossible to entertain the proposition that the Court of Private Land Claims should have adjudged to appellants another cabida Zegal on this side of the
boundary line. According to the doctrine of Ely's case no different location could have been recognized if the entire area
had been in this country.
Something is said in respect of the right to confirmation of
the tract sued for treated as demasias. But, apart from other
insuperable objections to that suggestion, such a claim would
be imperfect for want of fulfillment of conditions, and barred
by section 12 of the act of March 3, 1891.
Decree affirmed.

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND OL-AkS.
No. 40. Argued January 29, 1902.-Decided

farch 17, 1902.

This case is governed by Reloj Cattle Company v. United States, just decided.
The grant was a grant by quantity, and the lawful area was south of the
international boundary line, and had been set off to the owners by Mexico.
The right to acquire demaslas or overplus was not a vested right, and
where the conditions were unfulfilled in accordance with the terms of
the grant at the time of the cession, claims to cemasias cannot be conz
firmed.

THIs was a petition filed February 28, 1893, by Ainsa, as administrator, against the United States and one Whitney, for

confirmation of the Agua Prieta grant, so called, which he
represented he owned by virtue of "a grant title," dated De-

OCTOBER TERTM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

cember 28, 1836, made by the Mexican Republic under article
eleven of decree No. '70, of August 4, 1824, and a law of the
States of Sonora and Sinaloa, No. 30, of -May 20, 1825, and
other decrees, embodied in sections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of chapter 9
of the organic law of the treasury, No.26, of July 2, 1834; and
that regular and lawful proceedings were had under those laws,
by which the Mexican government, December 28, 1836, sold
and conveyed the land to Juan, Rafael and Ignacio Elias Gonzales in consideration of $142.50 and other valuable considerations. The proceedings were set out at length in the petition.
The United States answered, denying the ownership and
possession of the petitioner, and alleging that the grant by the
State of Sonora was void; that the grant was located within
the Republic of Mexico; that it was confirmed in 1882 to
Camou brothers by the Mexican government, and lay south of
the boundary line; that the demasias of the grant was also
confirmed to Camou brothers; and that a large area remained
between the north boundary of the grant and of the demasias
and the boundary line, which had since been purchased from
Mexico by Camou brothers. February 14, 1899, on which day
the cause came on for trial, petitioner filed an amended and
supplemental petition, averring " that prior to the treaty known
as the Gadsden treaty no resurvey of said grant had ever been
applied for or ordered by any one, and that neither the grantees nor their successors in interest had, prior to said treaty,
any knowledge or notice that within the said monuments there
was an excess of land over the area stated in said title papers,
and petitioner avers that the grantees under said grant were,
under the laws of Mexico and the State of Sonora existing at
the date of said treaty, and for a long time prior thereto had
been, holders in good faith of any such excess or surplus, if
any such there is, and entitled to occupy and retain the same
as their own, even after such overplus is shown, without other
obligation than to pay for the excess according to the quality
of the land and the price that governed when it was surveyed
and appraised; and petitioner further avers that if this honorable court should decide that said sale, as recited in said title
papers did not, as petitioner avers it did, convey to the grantees

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

therein all of the said tract of land to the monuments described
in said title papers without further payment therefor, he is
ready and willing and now offers to pay to the United States
of America any amount that may be found to be due from him
for such overplus, and also the costs for ascertaining the same,
as soon as the amount of the same and the sum due therefor is
ascertained."
Petitioner tendered the sum of $600 in gold in payment of
the overplus and $200 in gold for costs, offered to pay whatever
might be adjudged due, and prayed "that upon said payment
this honorable court decree that petitioner is entitled to and is
the owner of all of said tract of land, as originally surveyed,
including said overplus or surplus, and that by said decree he
be secured in the possession and ownership of the whole of said
tract," etc.
The area delineated on petitioner's maps, as included in the
grant claimed, was 163,797.18 acres. The Court of Private
Land Claims rejected the claim, and dismissed the petition.
The documents covered three tracts of land called, respectively, Agua Prieta, Naidenibacachi, and Santa Barbara. And
it appeared that on July 21, 1831, Juan, Rafael and Ignacio Elias
Gonzales petitioned the treasurer general of Sonora, stating that
they had cattle and sheep whose numbers they could not feed
on the sitios belonging to them, for which reason the stock wandered to the four points of the compass, more particularly toward
the waters of the Santa Barbara, Naidenibacachi, Agua Prieta,
and Coaguyona, by which they suffered incalculable damage.
They therefore made denouncement of the lands that might
be" found to be public lands within the points and waters aforesaid, which are bounded on the north by the Chiricahua. Mountains, on the south by the lands of the Sinaloas, on the east by
the mountains of Coaguyona, and on the west by the lands of
the Sans;" and petitioned that, under the law of May 20,1825,
the denouncement might be admitted, and orders issued for the
survey, appraisement, publications, sale and other necessary proceedings. The petition was referred, testimony taken and report made as to the necessities of the case, and in October, 1831,
at Hermosillo, Treasurer General Mendoza appointed Joaquin
VOL. cLxxxiv-41

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

Vincente Elias, resident of San Ignacio, to proceed to take the
legal steps, to "the survey of the said public lands," effecting
the measurement, appraisement and publications as is provided,
in the decrees No. 30, of May 20, 1825, and No. 175, of November 20, 1830, etc. In August, 1835, Elias proceeded to execute
the commission, and on September 28 appointed and qualified
his assistant measurers and recorders, and commenced the survey
of the Agua Prieta tract. He asked "the attorney of Messrs.
Elias to point out the place they wanted as the center; he did so,
fixing a lagoon or pool that is in the middle of a valley called by
the same name as the place and the center of all the circumference." The survey then followed and is given at length, and
closed as to the Agua Prieta tract thus: "The survey being in this
manner concluded, and containing in its area, the calculation
having been made with entire correctness, six and one half short
sitios, the party, who assented to what had been done, was cautioned to inform his parties in due time to have monuments of
stone and mortar constructed, as is provided." Then came the
survey of the Santa Barbara and Naidenibacachi tracts, and they
were found to contain an area of "eleven and one half sitios and
twelve and one half caballerias," which made, with the six and
one half sitios, a total of eighteen sitios and twelve and one half
caballerias. Appraisers were then designated, and the six and
one half sitios composing the survey of Agua Prieta, were valued,
one at sixty dollars, as it had a limited water course, and the
others at fifteen dollars each, as they were absolutely dry, and
the eleven and one half sitios and twelve and one half caballerias
were appraised, one at eighty dollars, another at sixty, and the
rest at fifteen dollars, making a total of four hundred and thirtytwo dollars and fifty cents. Thereupon the lands were published
for thirty consecutive days at the values fixed, from June 4
until July 3, 1836. The advertisement exposed for sale eighteen
sitios and twelve and one half caballerias for raising cattle, comprised in the places of Agua Prieta, Naidenibacachi and Santa
Barbara, surveyed in favor of the citizens Elias, and appraised
in the sum of four hundred and thirty-two dollars and four reals.
Three public auctions were then ordered and had on September 15, 16, 17, 1836. The advertisement was as follows:

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"There are going to be sold on account of the public treasury of the department eighteen sitios and twelve and one half
caballerias of land for the raising of cattle and horses, comprised in the places called Agua Prieta, Naidenibacachi, and
Santa Barbara, situate in the jurisdiction of the presidio of
Fronteras, in the district of this capital, surveyed at the request of the citizens Juan, Rafael, and Ignacio Elias Gonzales,
of this town, and appraised in the sum of four hundred and
thirty-two dollars and four reals, as follows: The six and one
half sitios, which compose the survey of Agua Prieta, one in
the sum of sixty dollars, on account of having a small spring,
and the other five and one half at the rate of fifteen dollars
each, on account of their being absolutely dry; and the other
eleven and one half sitios, together with the twelve and one
half caballerias, of which the other two places consist, one in
the sum of eighty dollars, one in the sum of sixty dollars, and
the others at fifteen dollars each, all of which sums together go
to make up the total amount of four hundred and thirty-two
dollars and four reals."
The property was sold to the Messrs. Elias at four hundred
and thirty-two dollars and four reals, the record stating : "On
these terms this act was concluded, the said eighteen sitios and
twelve and one half caballerias of land which compose the said
places of Agua Prieta, Naidenibacachi and Santa Barbara, situate in the jurisdiction of the presidio of Fronteras, having
been publicly and solemnly sold to these interested parties for
the said sum of four hundred and thirty-two dollars and fifty
cents, at which said lands had been appraised." September 27,
the treasurer general directed the parties to be notified to pay
the sum inquestion into the treasury. The title was issued,
December 28, 1836, declaring that the purchase money for said
"eighteen sitios and twelve and a half caballerias of land for
breeding cattle and horses, which are comprised in the places
called Naidenibacachi, Agua Prieta and Santa Barbara" had
been paid, and granting in the usual terms, the said eighteen
sitios and twelve and one half caballerias contained in those
places.
On the trial, Ainsa, administrator, introduced in evidence a

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

number of deeds made by descendants of the original grantees
to Ainsa's intestate, ranging in date from December 24, 1886,
to January 24, 1893.
The United States introduced a deed of the Eliases, dated
July 25, 1862, conveying to the Messrs. Camou of Hermosillo,
Mexico, by way of conditional sale, all of the property forming the subject matter of this suit, and also certain proceedings
of March 17, 1869, and of November 15, 1880, showing the extinguishment of the equity of redemption.
May 31, 1899, petitioner asked for an order making Eduardo
Camou party defendant, and presented a deed from Juan Pedro
Camou to said Eduardo, quitelaiming the grantor's interest in
the Agua Prieta grant, north of the international boundary
line.
In addition to the documents much oral evidence in reference to the surveys was adduced on both sides.
The government introduced a certified copy of the expediente of the denouncement of the demasias of the grant made
by Camou brothers before the Mexican tribunals by proceedings initiated April 22, 1880. The lands mentioned were the
three places of Agua Prieta, Santa Barbara and Naidenibacachi,
and four others. The denouncement was admitted by the district judge of Guaymas, May 31, 1880, and a resurvey ordered
of the seven tracts, with direction that special care be taken to
make the survey of each of the lands separately, and to designate in the minutes of the survey and on the several maps the
demasias pertaining to each. The parties in interest were summoned and were satisfied with the survey made. In 1887 Plutarco Elias, for himself and his mother and brothers, brought
an adverse suit against the denouncement on the theory that
the Eliases, though not entitled to the cabida legal, were entitled to the demasias, but the contention was rejected. The
value of the overplus was fixed, and the judge decreed that the
owner was entitled under article 5 of the law of public lands,
the law of July 22, 1863, to a reduction of one half the price
as fixed, and it was so liquidated. The final result was the issue, January 30, 1888, of the title to the demasias in favor of
Camou. The government also introduced in evidence the ex-

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

pediente of denouncement of a tract of pablic land amounting
to 16,920 acres, situated between, the north boundary of the
Agua Prieta grant and the international boundary line. This
proceeding was initiated May 4, 1881 ; the denouncement was
admitted and a surveyor appointed, who issued summons to
Elias, owner of the ranch of San Pedro, to Camou, owner of
the ranches of Agua Prieta and Naidenibacachi, and to Ainsa,
representing the lands surveyed to one Rochin, situated east of
the Agua Prieta tract. A survey was had and the tract surveyed divided among the three petitioners, Mr. Camou, the
owner of the Agua Prieta grant, acting as attorney in fact,
giving his receipt for the three titles to the property, and
describing it as public land. The government also put in evidence the withdrawal by 'r. Camon from the consideration
of the surveyor general of Arizona of the grant now in controversy in July, 1880.
Ab. F'ank J. Heney for appellants.
filed a brief for same.

.r. Rochester Ford

.r. -Yalttew G. Reynolds for appellees. 2&. Solicitor General and _Mr. William H. Pope were on his brief.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The amount that passed to the grantee was six and one half
short sitios, or about 28,200 acres, and the court below properly
held that the case was controlled by the decisions of this court
in Ainsa v. United States, 161 U. S. 208, and subsequent cases.
It is contended that because a general description by natural
objects was given in the original petition this was not a grant
by quantity; but the proceedings leave no doubt that that was
nothing more than the designation of the particular territory
wherein the quantity purchased was to be located. The measurement of the tract was made with great care and the quantity repeatedly recited. Eighteen sitios and twelve and one half
caballerias of land at the three places named were appraised,

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sold, purchased, paid for, and granted, and no more. The survey of the Agua Prieta tract placed its contents at six and one
half sitios, and of the other tracts, eleven and one half sitios,
twelve and one half caballerias, which were separately appraised,
and while the advertisement was of eighteen sitios and twelve
and one half caballerias comprising the lands of the three places,
the valuation of the six and one half sitios composing the Agua
Prieta tract, and the valuation of the eleven and one half sitios,
twelve and a half caballerias, were given separately, although
all were sold, paid for, and granted together. The law then in
force authorized the treasurer general to grant to old breeders,
"who, from the abundance of their stock, need more," the
quantity shown to be needed, but the minimum price was fixed
by law, and before sale the land had to be surveyed, appraised
and advertised, as was done. The Mexican government construed this grant on the denouncement of Camou as a grant by
quantity, and the cabida legal was deducted and the demasias
sold and patented by that government. That lawful area is
south of the international boundary line and in Mexico; and as
we have just said in the Reloj Cattle Company v. United States,
there was no legal or equitable claim therefor existing against
the United States when this petition was filed.
Assuming that some part of the entire claim lay in the United
States, which is not conceded, petitioner on May 16, 1895, by
an amended and supplemental petition, prayed the court to
award the overplus to him on payment of such amount as might
be found due.
The laws of Mexico and of the State of Sonora in respect of
demasias treated excess over rightful titles as subject to the jus
disponendi of the government. The possessor did not have
title to the overplus, but might acquire it under the circumstances and in the way provided. A possessor does not mean
owner. Escriche's Diccionario de Legislacion y Jurisprudencia.
"Poseedor; Poseedor de buena fe; Poseedor de maia fe."
The second section of the Sonora law of May 12, 1835, No. 51,
is given in Ainsa v. United States, 161 U. S. 226, though the
words "pocedores de buena fe6" should have been translated
"possessors in good faith" rather than owners; and we there

AINSA v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

said: "It thus appears that the resurvey of grants was provided for to ascertain the excess over the quantity intended to
be granted, that unless the excess was more than half a sitio it
might be disregarded, and that if it exceeded that, the owner
of the original grant might be allowed to take it at the valuation. The application of Don Jos6 Elias was for a resurvey of
the Casita in order that he might obtain the overplus lands
therein on an appraisal, whereas if that ranch had been acquired
by purchase ad corpus, that is to say, all the lands included by
certain metes and bounds, possession delivered and monuments
set up, it is not apparent how the necessity for having a resurvey could have existed; and so when in 1882 and 1886, the
IMexican government was applied to by defendant Camou, under the law of July 22, 1863, his application proceeded upon
the theory that the grant under consideration was a grant of a
specific quantity within exterior limits, and what he sought
and was accorded was an adjudication of the overplus on paying the value thereof 'in conformity with the tariff in force at
the time of the denouncement.'
"Certain articles of the law of July 22, 1863, treat of the
ascertainment and disposition of excesses where the indicated
boundaries are supposed to cover only a certain quantity of land
which, when resurveyed, turns out to be muchlarger than as
described in the titles; and such resurveys had been practiced
from an early day and were recognized by Don Elias himself
in his application in respect of La Casita. Royal Decree, October 15, 1754, sec. 7, Reynolds' Span. & Mex. Land Law, 54;
Law of July 11, 1834, chap. 9, sec. 3, Id. 187; Law of July 22,
1863, Hlall's Mex. Law, 174."
If the excess did not exceed one half a sitio, it was disregarded. If it did, and the owner did not want it, orit was very
great in the opinion of the government, it would be awarded
to any one denouncing or soliciting it.
The second and third sections of the law of May 14, 1852,
No. 197, were:
"2. Demasias are considered to be those that may be found
within the true out boundaries of the grant titles, and they shall
be excessive when they amount to the third part of the land
which said titles may contain.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"3. When the said demasias are not excessive, and the possessors apply for them with proof of having sufficient means
for stocking them, they shall be adjudicated to them without
public auction at the rates in force at the present time. If
they should not want them, they shall be adjudicated to denouncers in like manner. Should they be excessive they shall
be sold to the highest bidder."
Even when not excessive, the owner of the cabida,legal was
compelled to pay the rates in force at the time of the passage
of the law, and by section eleven it was provided that they
could not be secured without public auction unless the original
expediente was presented to the treasury within one hundred
days thereafter. When excessive, they had to be sold to the
highest bidder. They were, in short, placed on the same footing
as other public lands.
The United States is not subject to suit, except by its consent,
and then only within the limits and on the terms prescribed.
The act of 1891, in creating the Court of Private Land Claims,
did not authorize that court to supervise performance of conditions unperformed, and by subsection eight of section thirteen
it was provided that: "KNo concession, grant, or other authority
to acquire land made upon any condition or requirement, either
antecedent or subsequent, shall be admitted or confirmed unless
it shall appear that every such condition and requirement was
performed within the time and in the manner stated in any
such concession, grant, or other authority to acquire land."
By section twelve, imperfect claims in respect of which no
petition shall have been filed within two years, "shall be deemed
and taken, in all courts and elsewhere, to be abandoned and
shall be forever barred."
It is obvious that this contention cannot be sustained for the
reasons indicated, and we repeat what we said in Ely's case, 171
U. S. 239: "This government promised to inviolably respect
the property of Mexicans. That means the property as it then
was, and does not imply any addition to it. The cession did
not increase rights. That which was beyond challenge before
remained so after. That which was subject to challenge before
did not become a vested right after. No duty rests on this

ARIVACA LAND & CATTLE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 649
Opinion of the Court.

government to recognize the validity of a grant to any area of
greater extent than was recognized by the government of Mexico.
If that government had a right, as we have seen in Ainsa v.
United Slates it had, to compel payment for an overplus or resell
such overplus to a third party, then this government is under no
moral or legal obligations to consider such overplus as granted,
but may justly and equitably treat the grant as limited to the
area purchased and paid for."
Decree ajfwned.

ARIVACA LAND AND CATTLE COMPANYv. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 153. Argued January 29, 1902.-Decided March 24,1902.

The decree of the Court of Private Land Claims denying confirmation
of the grant involved in this case, on the ground of uncertainty, affirmed.
Claims to Cemasias, the conditions to acquiring which were unperformed
at the time of the date fixed in the Gadsden treaty, are not open to confirmation by the Court of Private Land Claims.

THE statement of facts is contained in the opinion of the
court.
The case was argued with No. 40, Ainsa v. United States,
ante, 639, and by the same counsel.
M . CHIEF Jus'rIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition filed March 1, 1893, for the confirmation
of a grant situated in Arizona, containing, according to a survey
made on petitioner's behalf, 26,508.06 acres. February 13, 1899,
an amended and supplemental petition was filed, praying that
if there were found to be an overplus, petitioner should be allowed to pay for such excess and costs, which it offered to do
as soon as the same were ascertained, and it tendered $300 in

