UNITED STATES u. SOUTHERN. PACIFIC R'D CO. 49
Syllabus.

parties w6uld have the right to trial by jury. Suppdse that
one jury upon the testimony presented before it should find
that there was water competition between Nashville and Louisville, and that there was tobacco shipped between the two places,
and another jury upon the testimony introduced in a succeeding
case exactly the contrary, is the legislation of Kentucky to be
declared unconstitutional in one case and constitutional in the
other?
It seems to me, in conclusion, that a state legislature has full
power over local rates, subject only to the restriction that it
cannot require a carrier to carry without reasonable compensation, and that when it legislates for local rates alone it may fix
those rates by figures, or upon the basis of any standard which
it sees fit to adopt, and the mere fact that it bases them upon
some standard is not legislation regulating that standard-the
local rates are alone the matter regulated. For these reasons
I cannbt concur in the opinion and judgment.
I am authorized to state that M]. JusToE GRAY agrees with
this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAOIFIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH OIRCUIT.
No. 25. Argued April 18, 19, 1901.-Decided January 27, 1902.

This case is a continuation of Southern Pacific RailroadCompany v. United
States, 168 U. S. 1, brought to quiet the title of the Government to lands
within the limits of the forfeited grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company. The questions in this case arise between the United States
and parties holding title or claiming rights to lands by deed from or contract with the railroad company. The title of the company having been
adjudged void, the acts of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556; of February 12,
1896, 29 Stat. 6; of March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, were passed for the pur-

VOL. CLxxxIv--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
pose of upholding the titles of parties who, in good faith, had purchased
lands from railroad companies which, though supposed to be part of
their grants, proved not to be so. The first section of the act of March 2,
1896, reads: " But no patent to any lands held by a bonafide purchaser
shall be vacated or annulled, but the right and title of such purchaser is
hereby confirmed." Held: 1. That the facts bring this case within the
provisions of that section; and that the Circuit Court rightly confirmed
the title to lands patented under it; 2. That the unpatented lands were
so situated with reference to the constructed road of the Southern Pacific, as to be within the scope of its grant, and that the act was not intended to be limited to cases of purchases from the railroad company
prior to its date ; 3. That while the act was remedial, and to be liberally
construed, yet to sustain the purchase in controversy in this case as one
made in good faith, would ignore the plainest provisions of law in respect
to bonafide purchasers, and would uphold almost any kind of speculative
purchase.

THis is a continuation of the case which was before this court
and decided in 1897. 168 _U. S. 1. It was brought to quiet the
title of the Government to some seven hundred thousand acres
of land within the limits of the forfeited grant to the Atlantic
and Pacific Railroad Company, and claimed by the defendants
under certain junior grants to the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company. The decree in the Circuit Court quieted, as against
the Southern Pacific Company, the title of the Government to
all the lands. The other defendants asserted title or claimed
rights to certain portions of the land by virtue of conveyances
from or contracts with the Southern Pacific Company, and the
decree provided: "Nor shall this decree in anywise affect any
rights which the defendants, or any of them, other than the
said Southern Pacific Railroad Company, now have or may
hereafter acquire in, to or respecting any of the lands hereinbefore described, in virtue of the act of Congress entitled 'An
act to provide for the adjustment of land grants made by Congress to aid in the construction of railroads and for the forfeiture of unearned lands and for other purposes,' approved
IMarch 3, 18872'
This decree was affirmed by this court so far as the Southern
Pacific Company as well as the trustees in its mortgage were
concerned, the court saying, in reference to that portion of the
decree just quoted (p. 65):

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO.

51

Statement of the Case.

"Instead of leaving undetermined the matters in dispute between the United States and the defendants other than the
Southern Pacific Railroad Company, the Circuit Court should
have determined, by its final decree, what rights those defendants have by virtue of the above act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.
556, c. 376, in the lands of any of them now in dispute and
claimed by the United States. The effect of the decree is to
leave undetermined the question whether the defendants who
claim under the Southern Pacific Railroad Company are protected by that or any other act of Congress. The Government
was entitled to a decree quieting its title to all the lands described in its pleadings, except those, if any, that are protected,
in the hands of claimants, by acts of Congress. United States
v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad,165 U. S. 463; IFinona &
St. Peter Railroad v. United States, 165 U. S. 483. But as the
Government has not appealed, the decree cannot be reversed for
the error of the Circuit Court in not finally disposing of the issues between the United States and the individual defendants
who claim under the Southern Pacific Railroad Company.
"The result is that the decree must be affirmed in all respects
as to the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, as well as to the
trustees in the mortgage executed by that company, and affirmed also as to the other defendants, subject, however, to the
right of the Government to proceed in the Circuit Court to a
final decree as to those defendants, and it is so ordered."
On the return of the mandate to the Circuit Court the United
States dismissed their bill against the defendants other than the
railroad company and its mortgage trustee without prejudice as
to all, except certain specified tracts, amounting in the aggregate to about 52,600 acres, of which amount 9284 were patented
by the United States to the Southern 'Pacific, the patents bearing date March 29, 1876, April 4, 1879, December 27, 1883, and
January 9, 1885, and 43,315 remained unpatented. In respect
to these tracts the case proceeded to final hearing, which resulted in a decree in favor of the defendants, 88 Fed. Rep.
832, confirming their title to the lands patented, and adjudging them bona Jide purchasers within the meaning of the act
of Congress of March 3, 1887, of the lands not patented. From

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

this decree the United States appealed to the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, which affirmed the decree, 98 Fed. Rep.
45, and thereupon the United States brought the case here on
appeal.
X1'. Joseph H. Call for appellants.
.M . Mfaxwell Evarts and

..

Xt. D. Brainardfor appellees.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions now to be determined arise between the United States and parties holding title or claiming rights to lands
by deed from or contract with the railroad company. The
title of the company having been adjudged void, the defendants rely upon the acts of Congress of March 3, 1887, c. 376,
24 Stat. 556, and February 12, 1896, c. 18, 29 Stat. 6, and
March 2, 1896, c. 39, 29 Stat. 42. These acts were passed for
the purpose of upholding the titles of parties who in good faith
had purchased from railroad companies lands, which though
supposed to be part of their grants, proved not to be so.. This
legislation was fully considered in United States v. Winona &c.
Railroad Company, 165 U. S. 463, and Winona &c. Railroad
Company v. United States, 165 U. S. 483, and any further discussion of its scope is unnecessary. In respect to it we said:
"The act of 1896, confirming the right and title of a bonafde
purchaser, and providing that the patent to his lands should
not be vacated or annulled, must be held to include one who,
if not in the fullest sense a 'bona fide purchaser,' has nevertheless purchased in good faith from the railroad company.
"Our conclusion is that these acts operate to confirm the title
to every purchaser from a railroad company of lands certified or
patented to or for its benefit, notwithstanding any mere errors or
irregularities in the proceedings of the Land Department, and
notwithstanding the fact that the lands so certified or patented
were, by the true construction of the land grants, although

UNITED STATES r. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO.

53

Opinion of the Court

within the limits of the grants, excepted from their operation,
providing that he purchased in good faith, paid value for the
lands, and providing, also, that the lands were public lands in the
statutory sense of the term, and free from individual or other
claims." p. 481.
In the present case the deeds to the patented lands were executed by the company at different dates, commencing July 23,
1885, and ending July 19, 1892. These lands were apparently
within the grant made to the Southern Pacific by the act of
March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 573; that is, they were public
lands in the statutory sense of the term along the line of the
Southern Pacific as authorized by that act and within the place
or indemnity limits of the grant. The road had been constructed, and the Land Department of the United States, the
tribunal charged with the duty of administering the public lands,
had decided that the company had earned the lands and had
caused patents therefor to be issued to it. No third party
claimed title; either the Government or the company was the
owner. Under those circumstances the purchasers bought the
lands; bought them in good faith ; paid value for them.
These facts bring the case within the first section of the act
of March 2, 1896, as heretofore construed by us: "But no
patent to any lands held by a bona fjide purchaser shall be vacated or annulled, but the right and title of such purchaser is
hereby confirmed."
Against this conclusion, it is contended that purchasers with
notice that the Government questioned the company's title to
these lands are not bonafide purchasers. And counsel say that
"in the year 1886 every Department of the Government began to operate to protect the title of the United States to these
lands, and in every public way gave notice to the world of the
rights of the Government to them," enumerating the act of
Congress of July 6, 1886, forfeiting the grant to the Atlantic
and Pacific Company; various rulings of the Interior Department, fronX that on Tune 7, 1887, (Gordon v. Southern Pacifa
R?. II. Co., 5 Land Dec. 691,) to the date of the last deed, to
the effect that the lands granted to the Atlantic and Pacific
.were not operated upon by the subsequent grants to the South-

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

ern Pacific, and were by the forfeiture act restored to the public domain ; and the commencement of the several suits by the
Government to establish its title to these lands and others similarly situated. Counsel also refer to Winona &c.Railroad Co.
v. United States, sup'ra, in which it was held that one cannot
claim to be a purchaser in good faith from a railroad company
if at the time he has notice of facts outside the records of the
Land Department disclosing a prior right in some third party.
But we do not think a mere change in the opinions of the
officers of the Government, as to the validity of the company's
title, although made known to parties proposing to purchase
from such company, is sufficient to take away from them the
protection of good faith. A party may have notice of conflicting claims and still, in the exercise of an honest judgment
as to the rightful owner, buy property and pay for it, and be
acting in good faith. So far as suits are concerned, all the
decisons of the courts had been up to the date of the last deed
in favor of the title of the company. Thus the purchasers had
not merely the action of the Land Department in issuing the
patents, but all past decisions of the courts, justifying their
conclusions. The conditions are not like those in Winona &c.
R. R. Co. v. United States. That was a suit to cancel a certification of a tract of land made for the benefit of a railroad
company and also a deed from it. The certification was
wrongfully made, and the company in fact took no title. The
purchaser sought protection under these statutes. Before any
certification, or any pretence of right in the company, as well
as at the time of the conveyance to its grantee, there was and
had been for many years a party in actual possession of the
land under a title _primafacie regular and valid, and it was
held that the grantee, charged with notice of that occupancy
and that claim of title, could not be adjudged a bona7fde purchaser from the railroad company within the meaning of the
statute. "The statute was not intended to cut off the rights
of parties continuing after the certification, and of which at
the time of his purchase the purchaser had notice. Only the
purely technical claims of the Government were waived."
Nothing of that kind appears here; no independent and out-

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO.

55

Opinion of the Court.

side facts are shown, no title in any third party-sinply a
the Governchange of opinion on the part of the officers of
Comment as to the validity of the title of the Southern Pacific
like
statutes
pany, and it would be harsh, indeed, if remedial
of
reason
by
these were shorn of their beneficent application
had changed
the fact that the officials of the Government
was right
Court
Circuit
the
think
We
their views of the law.
in confirming the title to the lands patented.
With reference to the uqnpatented lands, they, like the former,
road of the
were so situated with respect to the constructed
scope of its
the
within
Southern Pacific as to be apparently
here as
appropriate
are
grant, and the same general comments
only
refers
1896
of
in reference to the patented land. The act
contracted
who
to lands patented or certified, and the parties
for protecwith the company for unpatented lands nmust rely
in respect
tion upon the act of 1887. Most of the transactions
that
to them were after the date of this act, and it is contended
to proit is not prospective in its operation and only purports
tect prior transactions.
The ruling of the Land Department has been to the contrary
a purchase
effect. In SetIvmian v. Clise, 17 Land Dec. 307,
of 1887,
act
the
to
prior
made
from the railroad company was
and it
transferee,
a
to
but after the act the purchaser conveyed
statute.
the
under
relief
to
was held that the latter was entitled
and it
"The act directed the manner of making adjustments,
fifth
the
in
was the evident intention of Congress, as expressed
grants,
section of the act, that when, in the adjustment of these
railroad
it was ascertained that land had been bought from the
such
title,
companies for which they could convey no good
to
buyers or their transferees, if bona fide, should be allowed
difno
purchase the tracts claimed by them. And it can make
to purference, I think, whether a transferee, otherwise entitled
approval
chase, bought the land before or after the day of the
any
from
faith
good
in
purchased
of the act, if it was originally
312.
p.
said company."
In Andrus et al. v. BaZch, 22 Land Dec. 238, was presented
after the act
the case of a purchase from the railroad company
prevent the
not
did
that
that
of March 3, 1887, and it was held

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

operation of the act. The same proposition was reaffirmed in

Briley v. Beach et al., 22 Land Dec. 549 ; Carlton Seaver et al.,
23 Land Dec. 108; Grandin et al. v. La Bar, 25 Land Dec.
194; Neilsen v. Central Pacofi Railroad Company, 26 Land

Dec. 252. There has been no decision to the contrary. This
uniform ruling and practice of the Land Department would, in
case of doubt, be of great weight in determining the true construction of the act. -Knowlton v. .Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 56, 92;
-Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S. 283-306.

But the act itself bears upon its face evidence that it was not
intended to be limited to cases of purchases from the railroad
company prior to its date. While the first section directs the
Secretary of the Interior "to immediately adjust" the several
land grants, section 3 provides "that if, in the adjustment of
said grants, it shall appear that the homestead or preemption
entry of any bonafde settler has been erroneously cancelled on
account of any railroad grant or the withdrawal of public lands
from market, such settler upon application shall be reinstated
in all his rights and allowed to perfect his entry by complying
with the public land laws." This seems to imply an intent that
all mistakes of the nature referred to which shall have occurred
up to the very completion of the adjustment may be rectified.
Section 4 makes provision for the issue of patents to certain purchasers from railroad companies, providing proof shall be made
"within such time and under such rules as may be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior, after the grants respectively
shall have been adjusted." While other sections may not be so
specific, yet placing them alongside of those from which quotations have been made it is reasonable to hold that the act applies not merely to transactions had before its date, but to any
had before the time of final adjustment. In this case the several grants to the Southern Pacific have not yet been finally
adjusted. Further, it must be borne in mind that this is a remedial statute, and is to be construed liberally, and so as to effectuate the purpose of Congress and secure the relief which
was designed, and the mere date of the transaction between the
purchaser and the railroad company is not of itself vital in de-

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO.

57

Opinion of the Court.

termining whether there is or is not an equity in behalf of the
purchaser. As said in Potter's Dwarris on Statutes, 231:
"A remedial act shall be so construed as most effectually to
meet the beneficial end in view, and to prevent a failure of the
remedy-. As a general rule, a remedial statute ought to be construed liberally. Receiving an equitable, or rather a benignant interpretation, the letter of the act will be sometimes
enlarged, sometimes restrained, and sometimes it has been said
the construction made is contrary to the letter; which should
be read-ultra the letter, and confined to ancient statutes."
See also the letter of Attorney General Garland to the Secretary of the Interior, in response to a question as to the true
construction of this act. 6 Land Dec. 275.
"The whole scope of the law from the second to the sixth
section, inclusive, is remedial. Its intent is to relieve from loss
settlers and bona ftde purchasers who, through the erroneous or
wrongful disposition of the lands in the grants, by the officers
of the Government, or by the railroads, have lost their rights
.
The fifth section expressly refers
or acquired equities. .
to such lands as had been sold, which had not been conveyed
' to or for the use of such companies.' It is not required that
the sale by the railroad companies shall have been made on its
part in good faith, but only that the purchaser shall have
bought in good faith. That it was sold under a claim of the
grant to another in good faith is the ground of his equity."
The remaining question arises on the ruling that one of the
defendants, Jackson A. Graves, was a bona fide purchaser, and
entitled to the protection of the fifth section of the act of
March 3, 1887, and affects something like thirty-five thousand
acres. These were purchased from the railroad company in
1885 by the Atlantic and Pacific Fibre Importing and Manufacturing Company, Limited, a corporation organized under the
laws of Great Britain. This suit was commenced on May 17,
1890. On September 25,1891, an amended bill of complaint was
filed, in which the Fibre Company was made party defendant.
Its answer was filed March 14, 1892. On January 27, 1893, it
conveyed the lands to Graves, who thereafter caused himself to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

be substituted for it as party defendant. Said section five, so
far as is applicable, reads:
"SEc. 5. That where any said company shall have sold to
citizens of the United States, or to persons who have declared
their intention to become such citizens, as a part of its grant,
lands not conveyed to or for the use of such company, said
lands being the numbered sections prescribed in the grant, and
being coterminous with the constructed parts of said road, and
where the lands so sold are for any reason excepted from the
operation of the grant to said company, it shall be lawful for
the bonapfide purchaser thereof from said company to make
payment to the United States for said lands at the ordinary
government price for like lands, and thereupon patents shall
issue therefor to the said bonafide purchaser, his heirs or assigns."
The Fibre Company was an alien, and therefore not within
the terms of the section. Graves, it is true, was a citizen, and
the ruling of the department has been that the right of purchase
from the Government conferred by this section is not limited to
the immediate purchaser from the company, but may be exercised by a subsequent grantee, who has the necessary qualifications, and that in such case it is immaterial what were the qualifications of such purchaser. See letter of Secretary Noble to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, (11 Land Dec. 229,)
in which the Secretary said:
"It can make no difference, in my judgment, whether the
applicant is the immediate purchaser from the company, or a
purchaser one or more degrees removed. If he is a bona fide
purchaser of the land and has the required qualifications as to
citizenship he is within the intendment of the statute, and if he
be not the original purchaser from the company it is immaterial what the qualifications of his immediate grantor, or the intervening purchasers, may have been. If his immediate grantor
was a foreigner, and his purchase was simply for the purpose of
acquiring title from the Government for the benefit of the foreigner, he would not be a bona fde purchaser, and would not
therefore come within the terms of the act." Union PacificBy.
Co. v. Mcoinley, 14 Land Dec. 237; Union Colony v. Fulrmele,

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R'D CO. 59
Opinion of the Court.

16 Land Dec. 273; ethman v. Clise, 17 Land Dec. 307; Ray
v. Gross, 27 Land Dec. 707.
Within the scope of these rulings Graves is entitled to the
protection of the statute if he can be considered a bona fda purchaser. He boughtpendente lite, and while he testified that he
purchased in good faith and for value, that he was holding the
lands under the conveyances, and had paid all legal taxes and
assessments levied and assessed since the deeds, he further tesfled as follows:
"Q. 19. Did you buy these lands in good faith? A. Yes,
expecting to make title to them.
"Q. 20. And do you hold them as said purchaser and as a
citizen of the United States? A. I do.
"Q. 21. And as an innocent purchaser? A. Well"Q. 22. For value received? A. I hold them for'a valuable
consideration.
"Q. 23. Well, do you claim to be an innocent purchaser of
said lands, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887? A. I
think I am protected under the act of Congress of 1887. I
What you mean
would like to understand this 'innocent.'
by that? Of course I have notice of the defect-I have notice
of the Congressional action taken, and- of the pendency of this
suit; had it when I bought. Outside of that I consider myself
an innocent purchaser. Of course I had that notice of that suit.
There is no use denying that. At the same time, I understand-I think I understand, the act of Congress of 1887, and
I think I am protected under it."
Cross-examination:
"Q. 24. How much did you pay the Atlantic and Pacific
Fibre Importing and Manufacturing Company for these lands?
A. I have not paid them anything in coin. But I have agreements with them which are the equivalent of the coin.
"Q. 25. What is the nature of the agreements? A. I am to
protect them in the title, that is, protect them in their original
purchase money; make what I can out of it over and above
that.
"Q. 26. And devote your legal services to that end? A. Yes.
They have to have somebody on this end."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Now while the statute is, as we have stated, remedial and to
be liberally construed in order to carry out the purpose of its
enactment, yet to sustain this purchase as one made in good
faith would ignore the plainest provisions of law in respect to
bonafde purchasers and would uphold almost any kind of speculative purchase. Congress expressly limited the privileges
granted by the act of 1887 to citizens of the United States or
those who had declared their intention to become such. It
excluded aliens, and in so doing acted in harmony with the general scope of public land legislation. True in the act of 1896 in
respect to patented lands it recognized aliens as entitled to the
benefits of a bona Jfde purchase, but the fact that in a later
statute, and in respect to a different class of lands, it extended
certain privileges, is no reason for ignoring the limitations contained in this act as applied to the lands covered by it.
While according to the construction of the Land Department
the grantee of a purchaser from the railroad company is entitled to invoke the protection of this statute yet it is one who is
himself a bonaflde purchaser and not one whose "purchase was
simply for the purpose of acquiring title from the Government for
the benefit of the foreigner." It seems to us that the testimony
plainly discloses a purely speculative transaction. Graves paid
nothing. His agreement was, as he says, to protect the company in its title, or rather in its purchase money, and then he
would make what he could over and above that. He was not
buying with the purpose of owning the land but was simply
engaged in an effort to secure to the original purchaser from
the railroad company the money which it had invested in its
purchase, advancing, it is true, in that effort, some money in
the way of taxes and devoting his legal services to that end,
and hoping to make a profitable speculation out of the matter.
Another matter worthy of notice as tending to show a community of interest with the Fibre Company is his testimony in
respect to the matter of possession. When asked, "Q. Are you
in possession of the same?" he replied, "A. Well, we are exercising possession; we are keeping other people off of them.
Not farming them, but-yes, we are in possession."
We do not think that defendant Graves has shown that he

KING v. PORTLAND CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

was a pirchaser in good faith. As to him, the decree caniiot
be sustained.
The decree of the Court of Apeals will, therefore, be affirmed
in all respects exept as to the lands standing in the name
of Jackson A. Graves. As to those lands it will be reversed,
and the case remanded to the Circuit Courtfor the Southern
Districtof California,forfurtherproceedingsin conformity with this opinion.

KING v. PORTLAND CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No 307. Argued November 18,19, 1901.-Decided January 27,1902.

Under the facts of this case, and the interpretation given of the charter of
the city of Portland by the Supreme Court of the State of Oregon, this
Court is of opinion that the plaintiffs in error have not been deprived of
their property without due process of law.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.A. Martin L. Pipes for plaintiffs in error. Xr. Arthur
P. Tift was on his brief.
21r. Joel X. long for defendants in error.
MR.

JUsTIcE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The object of this suit was to restrain the enforcement of
certain street assessments levied upon the property of the plaintiffs in error, under the charter of the city of Portland, Oregon.
The question presented is whether the ordinances under which
the assessments were made deprived plaintiffs in error of their
property without due process of law, and thereby violated the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The assessments were sustained by the trial court, and its

