OCTOBER TERMN,

1901.

Syllabus.

enactment is not necessarily, for that reason, invalid. It may
be, as suggested by counsel, that the steady, vigorous enforcement of this statute will materially interfere with the handling
or moving of vast amounts of grain in the West which are disposed of by contracts or arrangements made in the Board of
Trade in Chicago. But those are suggestions for the consideration of the Illinois legislature. The courts have nothing to do
with the mere policy of legislation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
4ffirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and

RIv.JusTIE PEOHAMi

dissented.

GOODRICH v. DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 123. Argued January20, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.

Where a statute providing for the opening of streets requires notice to the
parties whose land is to be taken for the street, the fact that it makes
no provision for giving notice to the owners of land liable to be assessed
for the improvement, does not deprive such owners of their property
without due process of law, and is not otherwise obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The interest of neighboring property owners, who may possibly thereafter
be assessed for the benefit to their property accruing from opening a
street, is too remote to require notice of such improvement, in which
they have no direct interest.
No notice is required to be given to individual property owners of a resolution fixing an assessment district and levying a gross amount thereon for
benefits, where the statute provides for a hearing in relation to the proportion each piece of property shall bear to the whole cost of the improvement, and an opportunity is given to the owner of the land to be
heard upon the question of the benefit derived by him from the improvement.
The fact that certain parcels of land condemned for the improvement are
defectively described, is no defence to a proceeding to assess benefits
upon other property.

GOODRICH v. DETROIT.
Statement of the Case.

THis was a bill in equity filed in the circuit court for the
county of Wayne by Goodrich and another against the city of
Detroit and its treasurer, to enjoin the defendants from enforcing the collection of certain taxes assessed upon several parcels
of property owned by the plaintiffs, for benefits derived from
the opening of Milwaukee avenue, upon the ground, amongst
others, that such assessment was in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and deprived plaintiffs of their property without
due process of law.
These proceedings were taken under the authority of certain
sections of the Compiled Laws of 1897, c. 90, printed in the
margin.'
1 SEc. 3394. The city, village or county clerk shall make and deliver
to such attorney, as soon as may be, a copy of such resolution certified under
seal, and it shall be the duty of such attorney to prepare and file in the
name of the city, village or county, in the court having jurisdiction of the
proceedings, a petition signed by him in his official character and duly
verified by him; to which petition a certified copy of the resolution of the
common council, board of trustees or board of supervisors shall be annexed, which certified copy shall be prima facie evidence of the action
taken by the common council, board of trustees or board of supervisors,
and of the passage of said resolutions. The petition shall state, among
other things, that it is made and filed as commencement of judicial proceedings by the municipality or county in pursuance of this act to acquire
the right to take private property for the use and benefit of the public,
without consent of the owners, for a public improvement, designating it,
for a just compensation to be made. A description of the property to be
taken shall be given, and generally the nature and extent of the use thereof
that will be required in making and maintaining the improvement shall
be stated and also the names of the owners and others interested in the property, so far as can be ascertained, including those in possession of the premises. The petition shall also state that the common council or board of
trustees or board of supervisors has declared such public improvement
to be necessary and that they deem it necessary to take the private property described in that behalf for such improvement for the use or benefit
of the public. The petitionshall ask that a jury be summoned and empaneled
to ascertainand determine whether it is necessary to make suchpublic improvement, whether it ts necessary to take such private property as it is proposed
to take, for the use or benefit of the public, and to ascertain and determine
the just compensation to be made therefor. The petition may state any
other pertinent matter or things and may pray for any other or further
relief to which the municipality or county may be entitled within the objects of this act.

VOL. oLxxxiv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The proceedings in the case were substantially as follows:
On November 14, 1893, a resolution was passed by the common council providing for the opening and extending of 1,ilwaukee avenue, and on January 6, 1894, a petition by the city
was filed in the recorder's court, together with a map or plan
of the private property proposed to be taken, certified as correct by the city engineer. The owners and persons interested
in the real estate proposed to be taken were duly summoned;
a jury impanelled, a hearing had, and a verdict rendered condemning certain lands, and fixing the total amount of damages
at $15,214.75. This verdict was confirmed by the court.
Thereafter, and on August 7, 1894, a resolution was adopted
by the common council, which was rescinded on November 20,
and on January 22, 1895, another was adopted of which the
following is a copy:
"1Resolved, that the said common council of the city of Detroit do hereby fix and determine that the following district
and portion of said city of Detroit, to wit: (Here follows list
of descriptions, many of which are different from those in first
assessment district) is benefited by the opening of Milwaukee
avenue, from Chene street to the easterly city limits, where not
already opened. And further resolved, that there be assessed
and levied upon the several pieces and parcels of real estate
included in the above descriptions, the amount of $15,214.75,
in proportion, as near as may be, to the advantage which each
"SEc. 3395. Upon receiving such petition, it shall be the duty of the clerkc
of said court to issue a summons against the respondents named in such petition, stating briefly the object of said petition, and commanding them, in
the name of the people of the State of Michigan, to appear before said
court, at a time and place to be named in said summons, not less than
twenty nor more than forty days from the date of the same, and show
cause, V" any they have, why the prayer of said petition should not be
granted.
"SEc. 3399. The jury shall determine in their verdict the necessity for the
proposed improvement and for taking such private property for the use or
benefit of the public for the proposed improvement and in case they find such
necessity exists they shall award to the owners of such property and others
interested therein such compensation therefor as they shall deem just," etc.
Section 3406, which is also pertinent, is reprinted in full in Voigt v. City
of Detroit, ante, p. 115.

GOODRICH v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

lot or parcel is deemed to acquire by this improvement. And
further resolved, that the board of assessors of the city of Detroit be, and they are hereby, directed to proceed forthwith to
make an assessment roll in conformity with the requirements
of the charter of the city of Detroit relating to special assessments for collecting the expense of public improvements when
a street is graded, comprising the property hereinbefore described, upon which they shall assess and levy the amount of
$15,214.75, each lot or parcel to be assessed a ratable proportion, as near as may be of -said amount, in accordance to the
amount of benefit derived by such improvements."
On March 12, 1895, the assessors reported an assessment roll
for defraying the expenses of opening the avenue, which was
affirmed by the common council April 4, 1895. The property
of plaintiffs was included in the assessment district, which was
fixed and determined by the common council.
Defendants filed an answer, which was a little more than a
demurrer to the bill, and upon hearing upon pleadings and
proofs the bill was dismissed, an appeal taken to the Supreme
Court, by which the decree of the circuit court was affirmed.
123 Mich. 559.
-Y'.Ellhridge F. Baoon for plaintiffs in error.
.A&. Timothy E. Tarsney for defendants in error.
MR.JusTicE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case raises the question whether certain proceedings
taken under the Compiled Laws of Michigan for the assessment of benefits upon neighboring lots derived from the opening of Milwaukee avenue, in the city of Detroit, deprived the
owners of such lots of their property without due process of
law.
These proceedings began with a resolution of the common
council declaring the necessity of opening the street. Thereupon the city petitioned the recorder's court for a jury to determine the necessity of such improvements and of taking

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

private property, (a map or plan of which was annexed to the
petition,) and "to ascertain and determine the just compensation to be made for such private property proposed to be taken,"
and for the issue of a summons to all persons mentioned in the
petition as being interested in the property proposed to be taken.
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the necessity of opening
the avenue, of taking private property therefor, and fixed the
compensation at the aggregate sum of $15,214.75.
Thereupon the common council passed another resolution fixing the district benefited by the opening, and declaring that
there should be assessed upon the real estate included in such
district the sum of $15,214.75, "in proportion, as near as may
be, to the advantage which each lot or parcel is deemed to acquire by this improvement." The resolution further required
the board of assessors to make an assessment roll to that
amount, assessing upon each lot "a ratable proportion, as
near as may be, of said amount in accordance to the amount
of benefit derived by such improvements." Thereupon the
matter was referred to the board of assessors, who reported
the amount assessed against each lot. The bill averred that
none of the plaintiffs' land thus assessed abutted upon those
parts of the street opened by these proceedings, but that they
had already dedicated to the city all that portion of Milwaukee
avenue lying in front of their lands, without cost or expense to
the city.
Plaintiffs made a large number of objections to the validity
of such assessment, none of which require to be noticed, except
so far as they are pertinent to the provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment, concerning due process of law.
1. The first of these objections is that while the statute provides for a notice to the parties whose land is to be taken for
the street, no provision is made for giving notice to the owners
of the land liable to be assessed for the improvement. Section 3394 provides for the filing of a petition by the city attorney
for the condemnation of land, and that the petition, among other
things, shall contain "a description of the property to be taken,
.

.

.

also the names of the owners and others interested in

the property, so far as can be ascertained, including those in

GOODRICH v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the premisds." Section 3395 provides that, "upon
receiving such petition, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said
court to issue a summons against those named in such petition,"
that is, all interested in the property to be taken, "commanding
them,

.

.

to show cause, if any they have, why the prayer

of such petition should not be granted."
It will be observed that this section makes no express provision for notice to the owners of property not to be taken, but
assumed to be benefited by the improvements. These owners,
however, are not then known, because the proceedings for the
condemnation of the property taken precedes the determination
of the benefits and the fixing of the assessment district. The
sections of the statute taken together provide for two distinct
and separate proceedings: (1) for the assessment of compensation for property taken, and (2) for the assessment of benefits to
property not taken. In the former, only the owners of the land
taken are interested. Their rights are amply protected by sections 3394 and 3395, requiring notice to be given to show cause
why the petition should not be granted.
The argument of the plaintiffs is that the owners of the
property liable to be assessed for the bene.ets are just as much
interested in the question as to the necessity of making the improvement and the amount of compensation as are the owners
of land to be taken for such improvement, and the same reasons for notice apply in the one case as in the other. A number of cases are cited which, it is argued, give countenance to
this position. Paulv. Detroiti 32 Mich. 108; Commissioners
v. Faklor,132 Ind. 426 ; The State v. Fond du Lao, 42 Wis.
281; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183; Scott v. Toledo, 36 Fed.
Rep. 385.
But whatever weight be given to these authorities, the law
in this court is too well settled to be now disturbed, that the
interest of neighboring property owners, who may possibly
thereafter be assessed for the benefit to their property accruing
from opening a street, is too remote and indeterminate to require notice to them of the taking of lands for such improvement, in which they have no direct interest. The position of
the plaintiffs. in this particular would require a readjustment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the entire proceedings, and a determination of the property incidentally benefited, before any proceedings are taken for the
condemnation of land directly taken or damaged by such improvement. It might be argued upon the same lines that,
whenever the city contemplated a public improvement of any
description, personal notice should be given to the taxpayers,
since all such are interested in such improvements and are liable to have their taxes increased thereby. It might easily
happen that a whole district or ward of a particular city would
be incidentally benefited by a proposed improvement, as, for
instance, a public school, yet to require personal notice to be
given to all the taxpayers of such ward would be an intolerable
burden. Hence it has been held by this court that it is only
those whose property is proposed to be taken for a public improvement that due process of law requires shall have prior
notice.
Thus in Spencer v. iferchant, 125 U. S. 345, it was held that,
if a state legislature direct the expense of laying out a street to
be assessed upon the owners of lands benefited thereby, and
also determine the whole amount of the tax and what lands are,
in fact, benefited, and provides for notice to and hearing of
each owner, at some stage of the proceedings, upon the question
what proportion of the tax shall be assessed upon his land, there
is no taking of property without due process of law. Said
Mr. Justice Gray (p. 356): "But the legislature has the power
to determine, by the statute imposing the tax, what lands,
which might be benefited by the improvement, are in fact
benefited; and if it does so, its determination is conclusive
upon the owners and the courts, and the owners have no right
to be heard upon the question whether their lands are to be
benefited or not, but only upon the validity of the assessment,
and its apportionment among the different parcels of the class
which the legislature has conclusively determined'to be benefited." So, in Parsonsv. Districtof Columbia, 170 IT. S. 45, it
was held that an enactment by Congress that taxes levied for laying water mains in the District of Columbia should be at a certain rate per front foot against all lots or lands abutting upon
the street in which the main should be laid, was conclusive alike

GOODRICH v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

of the necessity of the work and of its benefit to all abutting
property. So, also, it was said in Williams v. Eggleston, 170
U. S. 304, 311: "Nor can it be doubted that, if the state constitution does not prohibit, the legislature, speaking generally,
may create a new taxing district, determine what territory shall
belong to such district, and what property shall be considered
as benefited by a proposed improvement. And in so doing it
is not compelled to give notice to the parties resident within
the territory or permit a hearing before itself, one of its committees, or any other tribunal, as to the question whether the
property so included within the taxing district is in fact benefited." Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed. p. 149.
This question, however, is decided in the case of Yoigt v. Detroit City, ante, p. 115, recently disposed of, and will not be
further considered here. Indeed, so far as this question is concerned, this case might be affirmed upon the authority of that.
2. The second objection is that the resolution of January 22,
1895, fixing the assessment district and levying a gross amount
thereon for benefits, does not expressly state that the property
included therein is benefited to the amount ordered to be assessed. This resolution was passed in pursuance of section 3406,
reprinted in the Voigt case, (ante, p. 115,) which provides that
"if the common council . . . believe that a portion of the
city . . . will be benefited by such improvement, they may

determine that the whole or any just proportion of the
compensation awarded by the jury shall be assessed upon the
owners or occupants of real estate deemed to be thus benefited
and thereupon they shall by resolution fix and determine the
district or portion of the city . . . benefited, and specify
the amount to be assessed upon the owners or occupants of the
taxable real estate therein. The amount of the benefit thus
ascertained shall be assessed upon the owners or occupants of
such taxable real estate, in proportion, as nearly as may be, to
the advantage which such lot, parcel or subdivision is deemed
to acquire by the improvement."
The resolution declares that the "common council do hereby
fix and determine that the following district
fited by the opening of Milwaukee avenue,"

.

.

.
.

.

.

is beneand "that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

there be assessed and levied upon the several pieces and parcels
of real estate, included in the above description, the amount of
$15,214.75, in proportion, as near as may be, to the advantage
which each lot or parcel is deemed to acquire by this improvement." If this resolution be not a literal, we think it is a substantial, compliance with the statute, declaring that if the common council believe that the property will be benefited by such
improvement, they may determine the proportion of the compensation to be assessed uipon the owners; but whether this be
so or not, there was no want of due process of law within the
Fourteenth Amendment, inasmuch as section 3406 expressly
provides, following the language already quoted, "that the
assessment shall be made and the amount collected in the same
manner and by the same officers and proceeding, as near as may
be, as is provided in the charter of the municipality for assessing, levying and collecting the expense of a public improvement
when a street is graded." Interpreting this, the Supreme Court
of Michigan held in the case of Voigt v. The City of -Detroit,123
Mich. 547, that "the statute provides for a hearing in relation
to the proportion each piece of property shall bear to the whole
cost of the improvement;" and further, that "when the proceeding has reached that stage when it becomes necessary to
decide what proportion of the cost of a proposed improvement
shall be assessed to any given description of land, there must
be an opportunity given to the owner of the land to be heard
upon that question." There was, in that case, as well as in the
one under consideration, no claim in the bill that plaintiffs'
property was not benefited by the proposed improvement in
excess of the amount assessed, nor was there any claim that
he was not allowed to be heard in relation to the amount which
should be assessed against his property. Upon such hearing
the property owner may insist that his property was not benefited to the amount assessed, or that it was not benefited at all,
and thus obtain every advantage which he might obtain were
he informed of every step of the proceedings. The terms of
the resolution, that each lot shall be assessed "in accordance
with the amount of benefits derived from such improvements,"
opens the whole question of the amount of benefit derived by

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Syllabus.

the lot, even to showing that no benefit whatever was occasioned by the improvement. It does not follow, however, that
he has a right to be heard upon the extent of the territory to
be embraced within the assessment district.
3. The last objection, that there were several of the parcels
of land constituting the extension of Milwaukee avenue so defectively described that the judgment of condemnation was absolutely void, is untenable. Not only is it not shown that the
plaintiffs were interested in the lands alleged to be misdescribed,
but it is obviously impossible, in a proceeding to assess benefits
upon other property, to show a misdescription in the lands taken
for such improvement. 17 oorhees v. Bank of United States, 10
Pet. 449; Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396. It is not only
an attempt to raise the question collaterally by one who has no
interest in it, but it is exceedingly doubtful if a simple misdescription involves any Federal question whatever. The errors,
too, were merely clerical, since a map of the property taken,
annexed to the condemnation proceedings, exhibits accurately
the lands affected thereby.
There was no error in the decree of the Supreme Court affirming the dismissal of the bill, and it is therefore
Affirmed.
MR.

JusTiCE HARLA

did not sit in this case.

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 169. Argued and submitted January31, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.
Under the Court of Private Land Claims Act a party holding from the
Spanish or Mexican government a title that was complete and perfect at
the date of the treaty, may apply for a confirmation of such title upon
condition that, if any portion of such lands has been sold or granted by
the United States to any other person, such title from the United States
to such other person shall remain valid; and in such case the grantee

