OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

T/he decree of the Court of Private Land Claims is therefore
reversed, and the case remanded to that court forfarther
.proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in

this case.

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAT.S JOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 38. Argued October 21, 22,1901.-Decided February 24, 1902.

An unconstitutional law cannot be held valid as to particular parties on
the ground of estoppel, and executed as a law.
In accordance with a certain act of the General Assembly of Illinois, bonds
had been issued by commissioners appointed for the purpose of constructing a levee, and assessments had been made to pay for them against
lands alleged to have been benefited; some of the land owners contested
judgment on the assessments, and the act was adjudged by the Supreme
Court of the State to be unconstitutional; the bonds and the assessments
fell with the act, and the land owners were not estopped from denying
its validity.
A party who has received the full benefit of proceedings under a law found
to be unconstitutional may, on occasion, be compelled to respond on the
theory of implied contract.
But in this case the land owners had not received and could not receive the
benefits contemplated. The scheme embraced not only the construction
but the maintenance of the levee, and its maintenance by compulsory
process failed with the law; the consideration was indivisible and incapable of apportionment, and the evidence showed that by the breaking of the levee the land owners had sustained losses in excess of the
amount of the bonds.
If any ground of relief as on implied contract had ever existed, the want
of diligence presented an insuperable bar to its assertion.
Bond holders had filed a bill against the commissioners to compel the collection of assessments, to which the land owners were not parties, which
went to a decree July 7, 1880, finding certain amounts due to complainants, without prejudice, and giving them leave to file "a bill or bills,
original, supplemental, or otherwise" against the land owners for the
recovery of the amounts due, but no bill was filed until April 22, 1889.
The act under which the proceedings were taken was held to be uncon-

O'BRIEN v. WIEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.
stitutional at January term 1876 of the state Supreme Court. Ueld:
That the present bill was an original bill as to the land owners, and not
having been filed until thirteen years after the act was declared to be unconstitutional and nearly nine years after the leave granted, there had
been such laches as precluded granting the relief sought, the conditions
of the property and the relations of the parties having in the meantime
greatly changed as detailed in the opinion.

Tis case is brought here by certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois, 78 Fed. Rep. 673, affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
95 Fed. Rep. 883. The bill relates to certain proceedings under
an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved
April 24, 1871, entitled "An act to provide for the construction
and protection of drains, ditches, levees and other works."
The opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals was delivered by
Mr. Justice Harlan, presiding as Circuit Tustice, and the case
is therein stated thus:
"1By the above act of the General Assembly of Illinois, it was
provided that whenever one or more owners or occupants of
lands desired to construct 'a drain or drains, ditch or ditches,
across the lands of others, for agricultural and sanitary purposes, such person or persons may file a petition in the county
court of the county in which the drain or drains, ditch or ditches,
shall be proposed to be constructed, setting forth the necessity
of the same, with a description of its or their proposed starting
point, route and terminus, and if it shall be deemed necessary
for the drainage of the land of such petitioners that a levee or
other work be constructed, the petitioners shall so state, and
set forth a general description of the same as proposed, and
may pray for the appointment of commissioners for the construction of such work, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.' § 1.
"The act required notice by publication to be given of any
petition filed unddr its provisions, and that: ' Such notice shall
state when and in what court the petition is filed, the starting
point, route and terminus of the proposed drain or drains, ditch
or ditches, or levees, and if a levee or other work is intended

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

to be constructed in connection therewith, shall so state, and
at what term of court the petitioners will ask a hearing upon
such petition.' § 2.
"If the drain or drains, ditch or ditches, levee or other work
proposed to be constructed, was to pass through or over, or be
constructed upon, lands lying in different counties, the petition
could be filed in the county court of either county. § 4.
"The court in which the petition was filed was empowered
to determine all matters pertaining to the subject-matter of the
petition.
"If it appeared that the proposed drain or drains, ditch or
ditches, levee or other work, was necessary or would be useful
for the drainage of the lands for agricultural and sanitary purposes, the court was required to so find, and appoint three competent persons as commissioners to lay out and construct such
proposed work. § 5.
"It was made the duty of the commissioners to examine
the lands proposed to be drained, and those over or upon which
the work was proposed to be constructed, and determine:
'(1) Whether the starting point, route and terminus of the proposed drain or drains, ditch or ditches, and if a levee or other
work is proposed, the proposed location thereof, is or are in all
respects proper or most feasible, and if not, what is or are so;
(2) The probable cost of the proposed work, including all incidental expenses, and the expenses of the proceeding therefor ;
(3) What lands will be injured thereby, and the probable aggregate amount of all damages such lands will sustain by reason
of the laying out and construction of the proposed work;
(4) What lands will be benefited by the construction of the
proposed work, and whether the aggregate amounts of benefits will equal or exceed the costs of constructing such work,
including all incidental expenses and costs of the proceeding.'

§9.
"If the commissioners found and reported that the expense
would more than equal the benefits, the proceedings were to be
dismissed ; if less, then they were to have plans, profiles, surveys, and specifications made, and report the same to the court.

§§ 10, 11.

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

"The commissioners were not confined to the point of commencement, route, or terminus of the drains or ditches, or to
the number, extent, or size of the same, or the location, plan, or
extent 6f any levee or other work, as indicated in the petition.
But they were directed to locate, design, lay out, and plan the
same as they thought would drain the petitioner's land with
the least drainage, and for the greatest benefit of all the lands
to be affected thereby. All plans proposed by the commissioners could be changed by the court on the application by them
or by any person interested. § 12.
"The act required due notice by publication to be given of
any application to confirm the report, and the privilege was
given to all persons interested to appear and contest its confirmation, or to ask any modification thereof. If no objections
were made to the report, or if the objections made to it were
not well taken, it was to be confirmed. If the court was of
opinion that the report should be modified, it was given authority to make such modification as would be equitable. § 13,
14.
"If the report was confirmed, then the court was authorized
to impanel a jury of twelve men competent to serve as jurors,
who, being duly sworn, were required to assess damages and
benefits according to law ; or the court could direct that a jury
be impaneled before a justice of the peace for the assessment of
damages and benefits, in which case the commissioners could
apply to any justice of the peace in the county, who should immediately, without the formality of any written application,
proceed to summon and impanel a jury of six men competent
to serve as jurors, who should be sworn in the samemanner as
was provided in case of a jury impaneled by the court in which
the proceeding is pending, the justice to enter upon his docket
a minute of such proceeding before him, and the names of the
jurors. § 16.
"The duty of the jury was to examine the land to be affected by the proposed work; ascertain to the best of their
ability and judgment the damages and benefits sustained by or
accruing to the land affected by the construction of the proposed work; make out an assessment roll, in which should be

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

set down in proper columns the names of owners, when known,
a description of the premises affected, in words or figures, or
both, as was most convenient, the number of acres in each
tract, and, if damages were allowed, the amount of the same;
and in case damages were allowed to, and benefits assessed
against the same tract of land, the balance, if any, should be
carried forward to a separate column for damages or benefits,
as the case might be. § 17.
"In making the assessment the jury were required to award
and assess damages and benefits in favor of and against each
tract of land separately, in the proportion in which such tract
of land would be damaged or benefited; and in no case should
any tract of land be assessed for benefits in a greater amount
than its proportionate share of the estimated cost of the work
and expenses of the proceeding, nor in a greater amount than
it would be benefited by the proposed work, according to the
best judgment of the jury. § 18.
"The commissioners, or any person who made objection to
the assessment, were given the right of appeal from the finding
of the jury. If, upon such appeal, there were corrections of the
assessment, or if the assessment roll was confirmed, then the
roll was to be spread upon the record, with right of appeal or
writ of error therefrom. §§ 24, 26.
"At the time of confirming the assessment the court could
order the assessment of benefits to be paid in instalments of such
amounts and at such times as would be convenient for the accomplishment of the proposed work; otherwise, the whole
amount should be payable immediately upon the confirmation,
and should be 'a lien upon the lands assessed until paid.' § 27.
"It was made the duty of the clerk, immediately after the
entry of the order of confirmation, to make out and certify to
the commissioners a copy of the assessment roll, and also to
make out and deliver to the commissioners separate copies of
the same, pertaining to the lands situated in different counties,
to be recorded in the recorder's office of the respective counties
in which the lands were situated, and which should be notice
of the lien thereon to all persons. § 28.
"Upon receiving a certified copy of such assessment, the com-

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

missioners could proceed to collect the same, or any instalment
thereof, or certify the assessment of any instalment thereof
which they might be entitled to collect at the time to the county
clerk of the county in which the lands assessed were situated,
who was required to 'extend the same, in a separate column,
upon the proper tax books for the collection of state and county
taxes: Provided, the owner, agent or occupant of any land
through or on which any drain, ditch or levee shall be constructed shall have the right, under the direction of said commissioners, within such time as they shall prescribe, to construct
such drain, ditch, or levee, or any part thereof, at his own cost;
and in case he shall so construct the same, he shall be allowed
for the value thereof upon his assessment.' § 29.
"In case the assessment for benefits should be payable in instalments, such instalments were to draw interest at the rate of
ten per centum per annum from the time they became payable
till they were paid, and the interest could be collected and enforced as part of the assessment. § 30.
"Other sections of the act are as follows:
"' § 31. When the commissioners shall have elected to collect
any assessment or instalment thereof themselves, or shall not
have caused the same to be extended upon the state and county
tax books, and any assessment or instalment shall be due and
uncollected, and as often as any instalment shall become due
and be uncollected at the time for making return of the tax books
for the collection of state and county taxes next succeeding the
time of the receipt of the certified copy of the assessment by
the commissioners, or the falling due of any instalment, the commissioners may return a certified list of such delinquent lands,
with the amount due thereon, to the officer who shall be authorized by law to receive the return of the books for the collection
of state and county taxes in the counties or respective counties
where the lands are situated, who shall proceed to collect and
enforce the same in the same manner as other taxes or special
assessments are enforced, and shall pay over the amounts so collected to the commissioners.'
"' § 31. The commissioners, when appointed and qualified pursuant to this chapter, may do any and all acts that may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

necessary in and about the surveying, laying out, constructing,
repairing, altering, enlarging, cleaning, protecting and maintaining any drain, ditch, levee or other work for which they shall
have been appointed, including all necessary bridges, crossings,
embankments, protections, dams and side drains, and may employ all necessary agents and servants, and enter into all necessary contracts, and sue and be sued.
"'§ 35. The commissioners may borrow money, not exceeding
in amount the amount of assessment unpaid at the time of borrowing, for the construction of any work which they shall be
authorized to construct, and may secure the same by notes or
bonds, bearing interest at a rate not exceeding ten per centum
per annum, and not running beyond one year after the last
assessment on account of which the money is borrowed shall
fall due, which notes or bonds shall not be held to make the
commissioners personally liable for the money borrowed, but
shall constitute a lien upon the assessment for the repayment
of the principal and interest thereof.'
"'§ 37. All damages over and above the benefits to any tract
of land shall be payable out of all the amounts assessed against
other lands for benefits, and shall be paid or tendered to the
owner thereof before the commissioners shall be authorized to
enter upon his land for the construction of any work thereon.
In case the owner is unknown, or there shall be a contest in
regard to the ownership of the land, or the commissioners cannot, for any reason, safely pay the same to the owner, they may
deposit the same with the clerk of the court, and the court may
order the payment thereof to such party as shall appear to be
entitled to the same.'
11§ 45. Any person who shall wrongfully and purposely fill
up, cut, injure, destroy or in any manner impair the usefulness
of any drain, ditch or other work constructed under this chapter,
or that may have been heretofore constructed, for the purposes
of drainage or protection against overflow, may be fined in any
sum not exceeding two hundred dollars, to be recovered before
a justice of the peace in the proper county; or if the injury be
to a levee, whereby lands shall be overflowed, he may, on conviction in any court of competent jurisdiction, be fined in any

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, or imprisoned in the
county jail not exceeding one year, or both, in the discretion of
the court. All complaints under this section shall be in the
name of the people of the State of Illinois, and all fines when
collected shall be paid over to the proper commissioners, to be
used for the work so injured.
"11§46. In addition to the penalties provided in the preceding section, the person so wrongfully and purposely filling up,
cutting, injuring, destroying or impairing the usefulness of any
such drain, ditch, levee or other work, shall be liable to the
commissioners having charge thereof for all damages occasioned
to such work, and to the owners and occupants of lands for all
damages that may result to them by such wrongful act, which
may be recovered before a justice of the peace, if within his
jurisdiction, or before any court of competent jurisdiction.'
Laws of Ill. 1871-2, pp. 356-365.
"Proceeding under the above act, numerous owners and occupants of the lands known at the time as the ' Mississippi bottom lands,' in the counties of Adams, Pike, and Calhoun, Illinois,
filed a petition in the county court of Pike County, expressing
their desire to construct drains and ditches, and also a levee
and other works, across the lands of others in that bottom, for
agricultural and sanitary purposes, so as to reclaim the bottom
land from overflow by the waters of that river, 'in order to
make the location salubrious, and render the soil available for
tillage and otherwise develop the agricultural resources of said
bottom ]and.' They represented that 'said bottom land has
been from time immemorial, and now is, a low and nearly level
tract of land formed by deposits of alluvion from said river;
that it is traversed throughout nearly its entire length by a
slough or bayou known as ' the Sny Cartee slough;' that said
bottom land is also variously intersected by other and smaller
sloughs, some of which are short channels putting out from the
river and returning thereto, while others start from and return
to the said Sny Cartee slough, and others are, again, lateral
branches connecting said Sny Cartee slough with the river;
that the said bottom land is below the level of the high water
mark of said river, and absolutely without protection there-

OCTOBER TERf, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

from; that the greater part thereof is nearly every year inundated by the waters of said river, and all are subject to inundation, and have been repeatedly submerged by said overflow,
the river on such occasions being a stream from about four to
eight miles wide, and running from bluff to bluff on either side; '
'that, by reason of said exposure to overflow, the mass of the
said bottom land has been allowed to remain in its primitive
condition, and will so remain unless reclaimed; that it is but
sparsely populated, and that the occupants thereof support
themselves almost exclusively by the cultivation of the soil;
that they are every year greatly embarrassed in putting in
their crops by the peculiar character of the rise in said river,
which has no regular time for reaching its maximum height,
nor any fixed number of rises during a season; that their crops
when planted are frequently destroyed by an unexpected rise
in said river, and in such cases they are either compelled to
replant their crops, or the crops are destroyed so late in the
year as to render the operations of the season a total failure;'
'that upon the subsiding of the waters the said bottom land is
left in a wet and marshy condition, so that the stagnant water
is left on various parts of its surface, and the succeeding heat
of summer and autumn evolve therefrom malaria and disease;'
'that by reason of said facts said bottom land not only now
remains sparsely populated, while the territory around it is
thickly settled, but the same is practically incapable of supporting any further population, so that the average taxable value
of the lands now subject to overflow is no more than about
fifty cents per acre, and the present occupants of said bottom
lands have been in most cases induced to remain solely by the
prospect of the ultimate reclamation of said land, a consummation which has been the theme of their enterprise and endeavor
ever since the settlement of the bottom land described.'
"The petitioners called the attention of the court to the act
of 1871, and asked the appointment of commissioners, in accordance with the provisions of that law, ' for the purpose of constructing a levee on the Mississippi River, from a point on
said river at or near the head of the Sny Cartee, in the county
of Adams and State of Illinois, and thence in a southerly direc-

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

tion along or near the east bank of the Mississippi River, as
shall be deemed advisable for the safety of the proposed work,
to a point at or near the mouth of Hamburg Bay, in the county
of Calhoun, State of Illinois, and to do and perform any and
all acts, as provided in said law, for the surveying, laying out,
and constructing, altering, repairing, enlarging, protecting, and
maintaining, said proposed levee, or to render it efficient for
the protection and reclamation of the lands lying east of the
said levee, and between it and the bluffs, and now subject to
overflow by the Mississippi River and other streams.'
"After asking a confirmation of the report of the commissioners, if they found and reported that the proposed levee could
be constructed at a cost not exceeding $5 per acre for all lands
benefited and reclaimed from overflow, the petitioners prayed:
' That the assessment for benefits upon the property to be affected
by the construction of said work shall be paid in ten equal annual instalments, the first instalment being due and payable
three years after the date of the commissioners' report and the
filings of the plans and specifications with the court, and onetenth of such assessment, with accrued and accruing interest,
each year thereafter, until the whole amount shall have been
paid.'
"The county court of Pike County having found that the
proposed work was necessary, appointed in 1871, William Dustin, George W. Jones and John G. Wheelock commissioners,
and they duly qualified and acted in that capacity. In the
same year the commissioners reported the result of their examination, and in their report indicated, by map and profiles, the
work to be done. The report was confirmed without objection,
and a jury of twelve was organized to assess damages and benefits, and make an assessment roll. The assessments were made
and put upon the record of the court. Certified copies of the
assessments were recorded in Pike, Adams, and Calhoun Counties. An order was made requiring the assessments to be paid
in ten annual instalments, with interest from October, 1872.
"In conformity with the order of the court, the commissioners issued bonds from time to time, upon estimates made by the
engineer as the work progressed, to be used in the construction

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

and completion of the work. They were delivered directly to
the contractors as they were earned. The first issue of bonds
amounted to $499,500, of which Francis Palms purchased
$202,500. A second issue was made, amounting to $148,500,
which were also purchased by him. That issue was the result
of a second petition under the act of 1871, proceedings under
which resulted in further assessments.
"It may be here stated that by an act of the general assembly
of Illinois, approved April 9, 1872, it was provided that whenever it appeared by the findings of the court before which proceedings were pending or might be had, under the act of April 24,
1871, that any drain, ditch, levee, or other work authorized by
that act to be made would be of public benefit for the promotion of the public health, or in reclaiming or draining lands,
the same should be deemed ' a public work;' and that it should
be lawful for the commissioners appointed under the act of 1871
to register at the office of the auditor of public accounts any
bonds issued by them under order of court; such registration
to show the date, amount, number, maturity, and rate of interest of the bonds, and the fact of such registration to be certified
by the auditor, under his seal of office, upon each bond. The
act contained other provisions, but it is not necessary to refer
to them.
"All of the bonds issued by the commissioners were in the
same form. We give here a copy of one of them, issued in
1872:
$500.
United States of America.
"'Sny Island Levee Bond.
"'State of (Ten per cent interest bond.) Illinois.
"'The commissioners appointed by the county court of Pike
County and State of Illinois, on the petition of John Morris
and others, to locate and construct a levee on the Mississippi
River, in the counties of Adams, Pike, and Calhoun, by virtue
of an act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois entitled "An act to provide for the construction and protection of
drains, ditches, levees and other works," and by power vested
in them by said act, acknowledge themselves, as such commis"'No. 6.

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

sioners, held. and firmly bound unto John G. Wheelock or
bearer in the sum of five hundred dollars, lawful money of the
United States, payable in the city of New York, at the bank
or agency used by the treasurer of the State of Illinois, on the
first day of October, A. D. 1882, with interest at the rate of ten
per cent per annum, interest payable on the first day of July
in each year, on the surrender of annexed coupons as severally
due.
"' This bond is one of a series of five hundred thousand dollars
issued for the purpose aforesaid, and after an order of the
county court of Pike County aforesaid approving of the assessment made by a jury of the cost of said levee.
"' In witness whereof, the said commissioners,' etc.
"Annual interest coupons, payable to bearer, were attached
to each bond.
"On each bond was endorsed a certificate in these words:
"'Auditor's Office, Illinois.
"'Springfield, Nov. 12th, 1872.
"' I, Charles E. Lippincott, auditor of public accounts of the
State of Illinois, do hereby certify that the within bond has
been registered in this office this day pursuant to the provisions
of an act entitled " An act to provide for the registration of
drainage and levee bonds, and secure the payment of the same,"
approved April 9th, 1872, and in force July 1st, 1872.
In testimony whereof,' etc.
"At the January term, 1876, of the Supreme Court of Illinois, the case of U1 ,dike v. lVight, 81 Ill. 49, was decided.
That case involved, among other questions, the constitutionality
of the above act of April 24, 1871, providing for the construction and protection of drains, ditches, levees, and other works.
The case related to certain proceedings taken for the construction of a levee on the banks of the Wabash River. The representation to the county court was that the lands of the petitioners were subject to overflow from that river, that their
fences and crops were liable to be swept away and destroyed
by such overflow, and that the same could be prevented by an
earthwork levee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"After observing that the above act of 1871 was evidently
passed in view of article 4, section 31, of the Illinois constitution of 1870, declaring that 'the general assembly may pass
laws permitting the owners or occupants of lands to construct
drains and ditches for agricultural and sanitary purposes across
the lands of others,' Chief Justice Scott, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court, said: ' Apparently, an effort was
made to have the law enacted conform to the constitutional
provisions in every particular. Hence it is declared the work
to be done is the construction of drains and ditches for agricultural and sanitary purposes, and if it becomes necessary, in
the construction of a system of drainage, that a "levee or other
work" be adopted to make that system available, such levee
or other work may be constructed under the provisions of
the statute. But it is nowhere intimated the owners or occupants of land may undertake, under the provisions of this law,
the building and maintenance of an immense levee on the borders of a river, not connected with any system of drainage by
ditches. Neither the constitution nor the statute contemplates
any such work. What was in the minds of the framers of the
constitution, and the legislators who enacted the law in pursuance of its provisions, must have been the drainage of lands
by means of drains and ditches, and what is said in the statute
on the subject of a "levee or other work" is always in connection with a system of drainage in that mode. The work outlined by the constitution and the statute is comparatively insignificant, and may be done at no great cost; but that which is
undertaken in this case is the construction of a levee on the
banks of the Wabash River, of many miles in length, and estimated to cost a great many thousands of dollars. No system
of drainage by drains and ditches was planned, nor deemed necessary for agricultural and sanitary purposes. The representation to the county court is, the lands of the petitioners are
subject to overflow from the Wabash River; that their fences
and crops are liable to be swept away and destroyed by such
overflow; and that the same can be prevented by an earthwork
levee. The undertaking is one of great magnitude, and will
require the expenditure of large sums of money. The assess-

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

ment on complainant's land is over $10,000. And the allegation in the bill is that, unless all further assessments proposed
to be made be arrested, the levee will cost more than the land
is worth. Any construction of the statute that would warrant
the owners or occupants of lands to enter upon such an immense and costly work seems forced and unreasonable. It is
only in connection with drainage for agricultural and sanitary
purposes that "levees or other works" may be undertaken, as
auxiliary to the drainage of the lands. Our opinion is, this is
the only construction the statute will bear, consistently with
the constitution; otherwise, one owner, whose lands are subject to overflow at certain seasons of the year from a river,
could set in motion the proceedings for the erection of a levee
sufficient to protect his lands, no matter how expensive, and
have the cost levied upon the lands of others in the vicinity
which commissioners appointed by the court might deem benefited by the improvement. Such a work cannot be said to be
draining lands by drains and ditches over the lands of others;
nor is such a levee, in any just sense, in the language of the
statute, "necessary to the drainage of the lands." The work
of constructing a great levee along the banks of a river subject
to overflow, which defendants are about to do, is not embraced
within the provisions of the statute, and is therefore without
authority of enabling law.'
"But the court proceeded to observe that the decision could
be placed on the ground that the general assembly possessed
no power under the constitution to vest commissioners or juries
selected, or the county court, with authority to assess and
collect taxes or special assessments for the contemplated improvement. It said: ' Section 5, article 9, of the constitution
of 1848, which declared "the corporate authorities of counties,
townships, school districts, cities, towns and villages may be
vested with the power to assess and collect taxes for corporate
purposes, such taxes to be uniform in respect to persons and
property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the
same," was always construed by the decisions of this court as
a limitation upon the power of the general assembly to grant
the right to assess and collect taxes to any other than the cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

porate or local authorities of the municipalities or districts to
be taxed. Board of Director8v. Hlouston, 71 Ill. 318; Earward v. T/ie St. Clair and .Monroe Levee and Drainage Co.,
51 Ill. 130; South Park Commis8ioners v. Salomon, 51 Ill. 37;
Gage v. Graham, 57 Ill. 144; He8sler v. Drainage Commissioners, 53 Ill. 105. It was also held that power in the legislature was subject to the further limitation that a local burden
of taxation or special assessments could not be imposed upon a
locality without the consent of the taxpayers to be affected.
That section of the constitution of 1870, upon this subject, provides: " The general assembly may vest the corporate authorities of cities, towns and villages with power to make local improvements by special assessments, or by special taxation of
For all other corporate
contiguous property, or otherwise.
purposes, all municipal corporations may be vested with authority to assess and collect taxes, but such taxes shall be uniform in respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction
of the body imposing the same." The clause in the present
constitution, like that in the constitution of 1848, must be construed as a limitation on the power of the legislature. Giving
it that construction, the general assembly can only vest cities,
towns, and villages with power to make local improvements by
special assessments or special taxation upon contiguous property benefited by such improvement. By necessary implication, it is inhibited from conferring that power upon other
municipal corporations or upon private corporations. Only
cities, towns, and villages are within the constitutional provisions; and, although other municipal corporations may be vested
with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes,
the limitation is absolute, such taxes shall be uniform in respect
to persons and property within the jurisdiction imposing the
same. With equal propriety, this clause of the present constitution must be regarded as restricting the general assembly
in conferring the power to levy and collect taxes, either general or special, to the mode and manner therein indicated. We
do not understand the legislature possesses plenary power, unlimited and unrestricted, to invest whomsoever it may choose
with authority to assess and collect either special assessments

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

or taxes for every conceivable purpose. As we have seen, only
cities, towns, and villages may levy special assessments or special taxation for local improvements, and all other municipalities can only be vested with jurisdiction to assess and collect
taxes for corporate purposes; and that, too, under the positive
inhibition such taxes shall be uniform in respect to persons and
property. It would seem, therefore, to follow, as a corollary
from the propositions stated, that neither the commissioners or
the juries selected, nor the county court, is such a body as,
under the constitution, may be given power to make local
improvements by special assessments or by special taxation upon
contiguous property. There is still another consideration that
has an important bearing upon the decision of the case. The
clause of the constitution we have been considering, like that
in the constitution of 1848, must be understood, in the light of
the decisions of this court, as forbidding the general assembly
from imposing a burden by taxation upon any locality, without the consent of the citizens affected. Under this law, the
people whose property is subject to taxation or assessments
have never given any consent to it, if we exclude those who
may have signed the petition addressed to the county court. No
opportunity was afforded them to do so, nor does the law make
any provision for submitting the question to a vote, to ascertain the will of those whose property is subjected to this local
burden. It is imposed upon them under the statute, by the
decision of the county court. Obviously, that section of the
constitution that declares "the general assembly may pass laws
permitting the owners or occupants of lands to construct drains
or ditches, for agricultural and sanitary purposes," implies that
the community whose property is to be taxed may have the
right of election in the matter. Otherwise, an onerous burden
may be imposed upon them, without their consent, and such
proceedings might be had as would result in the deprivation
of property. How can the land owners be permitted to construct drains and ditches, unless some election is guaranteed
to them? The language employed implies voluntary action.
Illustration will make the inconsistency of the present law apparent. For example, the privilege is given to any occupant,
VOL. cLxxxIv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

as well as the owner of land, of presenting a petition to the
county court. Should the construction contended for prevail,
a tenant residing upon land adjacent to a river subject to overflow might present a petition, and, under the decision of the
court, the work of erecting a levee miles in length, and costing
large sums of money, might be entered upon, and the expenses
assessed upon the property in proximity to the river that might
in any degree be deemed benefited. An intention to confer
such unwarranted power upon one man, who would himself be
subject to none of the burdens imposed, ought not to be inputed to the legislature. Any laws not permitting an election
as to the propriety of undertaking the work are vicious, and
within the inhibition of the constitution. It does not militate
against this construction that the land owner may appear before the county court when the petition is presented, and resist the application, or may contest the assessment upon his
property when made. Whether the contemplated work shall
be undertaken, and his property subjected to taxation, is not
made to depend upon his election, but upon the decision of
the court. It would be a solecism to call that privilege an election.'
"At the same term of the court, the case of Webster v. The
Peop7e (unreported) was decided. That case related to the
above work undertaken under the authority of the county
court of Pike County. The efforts of the commissioners to
collect instalments of interest on the assessments were resisted
by certain land owners. The Supreme Court of Illinois said:
'The principal questions raised and discussed in this case are
the same as in Ujpdike v. WTright, decided at the present term,
and for an expression of our views reference is made to the
opinion in that case. For the reasons there given, the judgment in this case will be reversed, and the cause remanded.'
"It may be well to state in this connection that the Supreme
Court of the United States, in Harterv. KYernochan, 103 U. S.
562, 570, referring to section 5, article 9, of the Illinois constitution, declaring that the corporate authorities of counties, town.
ships, school districts, cities, towns, and villages may be vested
with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes.

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

has said: ' It is the settled law of the State, as heretofore recognized by this court, that this constitutional provision was intended to define the class of persons to whom the right of
taxation might be granted, and the purposes for which it
might be exercised, and that the legislature could not constitutionally confer that power upon any other than corporate
authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns,
and villages, or for any other than corporate purposes. County
of Livingston v. .Darlington, 101 U. S. 411;' lVeightman v.
Clarke, 103 U. S. 256, 259.
"After the above decision in Webster v. The Peovle, certain
land owners undertook to provide for the protection of their
lands from overflow by the execution of deeds of trust to the
commissioners. Under these deeds as much, perhaps, as $30,000
was raised and expended by the commissioners.
"In May, 1878, while those deeds were in force, Palms, on
behalf of himself and others instituted a suit in equity in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Illinois against the levee commissioners. The bill in that case
recited the above legislation, and the proceedings resulting in
the appointment of the commissioners, the assessments by the
jury, and the issuing of bonds by the commissioners, and charged
that the expense of the work was paid by the commissioners
with money furnished by Palms and others, of which, it was
alleged, the owners and' occupants of the lands benefited and
assessed were at the time well aware. Referring to the twentyninth section of the act of 1871, prescribing the duties of the
commissioners, and also to the above act of 1872, that bill alleged that the commissioners made efforts 'to collect the
amount of some of the instalments of said assessments, and
the interest thereon, but the courts of the State of Illinois,
before whom the question of the collection of such assessments
and the instalments thereof under said statutes was brought,
refused to give effect to the provisions of said acts, so far as
they purported to authorize the collection of the same by the
collectors of taxes under extensions on the tax books; and no
means are left for the collection of such assessments and interest, except such as may be supplied by the general authority of

OTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

the courts that have jurisdiction of such questions. And your
orator would further show unto your honors: That the whole
amount of the moneys advanced by him, and by other purchasers of the bonds, with interest thereon, remains unpaid,
and that said commissioners remain and continue in the actual
use and possession of the said levee and other works constructed
with the moneys borrowed of your orator and others, by the
said commissioners, under the proceedings aforesaid ; and they
do also, by and under the direction of the owners of said lands,
keep and use the said works to protect their own lands, and the
lands of the other owners and occupants, from overflow from
said river. And your orator further shows unto your honors:
That the said commissioners refuse to pay to your orator and
the other holders of said bonds, the whole or any portion of
their principal-money loaned to them for the purposes aforesaid, or interest, and they also refuse to enforce the collection
of said assessments on the several tracts of land described in
said Exhibit A, or the interest thereon, as it is their duty to
do, and the owners and occupants of said lands refuse to pay
said assessments, or the interest thereon, so that the moneys
loaned by your orator for the construction of said works is
wholly lost, together with the interest thereon. And your orator would further show unto your honors: That the owners
and occupants of said lands are very numerous, as will appear
by the lists of land and the names of the owners thereof, as
stated and set forth in the said Exhibit A, and the names of
many of them are unknown to your orator, but all of them
reside in other of the States of the United States than the State
of Michigan; the greater number of them are residents and
citizens of the States of Illinois and MNissouri; and that the
said commissioners, John G. Wheelock, George AV. Jones, and
Benjamin F. Westlake are citizens of the State of Illinois, and
of the Southern District aforesaid.'
"The relief asked was a decree directing an account to be
taken of ' the moneys loaned and advanced' by Palms to the
commissioners, ' to be used by them in the purchase and acquisition of the lands required for the location and construction
of the said levee and other works, and for the construction and

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOOK.
Statement of the Case.

the completion of the said levee and all the works and improvements connected therewith, together with interest thereon at
the rate of ten per cent per annum, according to the terms of
said bonds and the coupons thereto attached;' the amount due
Palms being ascertained, then that such amount be adjudged
a lien in favor of Palms ' upon the said levee and other works,
and the lands acquired, owned, and held by the said commissioners for the site of said levee, and all other improvements,
and upon the said assessments upon all of the said lands described in the said Exhibit A, for the benefits to said lands afforded by the said levee and other works, and the interest
thereon;' and that 'the said commissioners proceed at once,
under the order and direction of your honors, to collect such
assessments upon all and every of said tracts of land and the
interest that has, or that may hereafter, accrue thereon, or so
much thereof, from time to time, as will be sufficient to pay
the interest money or the principal, payable to your orators as
the same falls due; or that it may please your honors to appoint one or more competent persons, as receiver or receivers,
to take possession and charge of the said levee and other works,
and manage and control the same, together with all the books,
papers, and properties of said commissioners, and with authority to collect, under the order and direction of this honorable
court, the said assessments and interest thereon, as often and
in such. sums as may be sufficient to meet and satisfy the claims
of your orators as aforesaid.'
"The commissioners answered in that case, insisting, among
other things that the bonds in question having been registered
with the auditor of public accounts under the act of 1872, they
were not responsible for the failure to collect the money to pay
interest, and were without any duty in respect to the said assessments. They referred to the fact that certain land owners
had at all times opposed the proceedings instituted to assess
their lands for benefits on account of the said levee, and refused
to pay interest on assessments, in consequence whereof the
township collector had returned nearly all the land owners involved in the proceedings as delinquents; that thereupon the
county collector made application to the Pike County Court to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

enforce said assessments against the delinquent lands; that some
of the land owners opposing the assessments filed objections to
judgment for such assessments, setting up that the law under
which the assessments were imposed was unconstitutional; that
the commissioners employed counsel to prosecute the application for judgment and for the collection of said assessments, and
the county court gave judgment against the lands; that the
land owners appealed to the circuit court, which affirmed the
judgment of the county court; that thereupon the land owners
carried the case by appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
stipulating that one appeal should be decisive of all the assessments; that the commissioners themselves employed counsel
in the argument of the case in the Supreme Court of the State,
and said court decided adversely to the right to collect said assessments; and that such decision of the highest court of the
State was decisive of any question of right on their part to enforce assessments. The case referred to by the commissioners
in their answer was the above case of TIebster v. People. The
commissioners also averred that'as such commissioners they
are not now, and never have been, in any actual possession of
any part of said levee or other work, except for the purpose of
constructing, maintaining, and repairing the same; that they
have never had title to any portion of the said levee, as they
are likewise advised and believe on account of the unconstitutionality of the law under which said work was done; and that
since said law was declared unconstitutional these respondents,
as commissioners, have only exercised authority over said levee
in warning parties against injuring said levee, but this was in
their private capacity, at the request of a portion of the land
owners, who supplied them with funds for that purpose, in
whose behalf they have, in like private capacity, tried to keep
said levee in repair.'
"On the 13th day of March, 1879, that cause was heard
upon bill and answer in the Circuit Court of the United States.
IBy that court it was adjudged and decreed 'that the said defendants [the commissioners] take, retain, and hold the right
of way, levee, and other works and property in question, and
described in the pleadings, and keep, take care of, preserve,

O'I3IIEN v. W=IEELOOK.
Statement of the Case.

and protect the same, under the order and control of this
court, for the benefit and on behalf of the complainant and all
other parties interested therein, or who may hereafter be found
to be interested in the same, in whole or in part.'
"It was further decreed 'that the complainants and all
other persdns who may have loaned or advanced money to the
defendants for the acquisition by those of the said right of
way, or for the construction of the said levee and other works
and property connected therewith, or who may be the holder
of any of the, bonds issued by said defendants to raise money
for the purposes aforesaid, or to pay for such right of way or
the construction of such levee and other works, or to pay any
of the proper expenses connected therewith, who may come
into this suit, contributing their proper proportion to the expenses thereof, have liberty to go before the master and produce these said bonds and coupons for interest thereon, and
make proof of the amount due them of principal and interest
on account of such loans, advances, and bondi; and the cause
is referred to John A. Jones, master in chancery, for the purposes aforesaid, who will, upon the application of the complainants, or other persons who may come into the cause as
complainants upon the terms hereinbefore prescribed, and reasonable notice to the defendants or their solicitors, proceed to
take the proofs of the amounts due to the complainants, and
allow parties who may have before that time come into the
cause, and, after such proofs are taken, make a report to the
court of the amounts found by him to be due each and any
party who may appear before him, and the ground, and facts
of his several findings and conclusion;' and 'that after the
coming in of the master's report of the amount or amounts
found by him to be due to the complainant or other persons
who may come into the cause as aforesaid, and the approval of
said report, and the determination and adjustment by the court
of the amount or amounts due to the complainant or other persons who may come into the cause for moneys advanced or
loaned on bonds held as aforesaid, the said complainants or
other persons have the liberty to exhibit and file their supplemental bill or bills against any or all the present or former

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

owners of the said lands alleged in said bill to be benefited by
the said levee and other works, or who have heretofore or who
may now be in any way interested in the said levee and other
works, or the lands benefited thereby, to compel them to contribute to the payment of the amount or amounts which may
be found due to the said complainant or other persons as aforesaid, and for such other and further relief as they may be advised they are entitled to; and the court reserves all other
questions of relief to the parties, and of the costs, to be considered hereafter. And the said complainant is at liberty to
use the names of the defendants in any such proceeding by
way of supplemental bill, if they are advised it is necessary to
do so, upon rendering them a sufficient indemnity against all
costs and expenses.!
"The master to whom the cause was referred to ascertain
the amount of the several bonds and coupons made his report,
showing the names of various persons, and the amount of bonds
held by them, respectively. The amount reported as due to
Francis Palms on the bonds held by him was $221,228.26. The
total amount found due to him and certain parties who became
co-plaintiffs with him in the cause was $304,908.26. In the decree confirming the master's report it was declared: 'And it is
further ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court that the said
several sums of money so found to be due to the said complainants as aforesaid are a lien upon the assessments made under
the order of the county court of Pike County, in the State of
Illinois, upon the lands described in the bound book, Exhibit "A"
with complainants' bill, and upon the said lands, as provided in
the twenty-seventh and thirty-seventh sections of an act of the
general assembly of the State of Illinois entitled "An act to
provide for the construction and protection of drains, ditches,
levees and other works," approved April 24, 1871. And it further appearing to the court that the defendants, commissioners
under the several orders of the county court of Pike County,
aforesaid, have no money in their hands for the payment of the
amounts so found and adjudged to be due to the said several
complainants, and it also appearing to the court from the allegations of the complainants' bill, and not denied by the said

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

defendants in their answer thereto, that they have taken no steps
for the collection of the assessments made upon said lands for the
repayment of the moneys borrowed by them, and the bonds and
coupons issued by them, it was ordered by the court that the
complainants have the right and liberty to proceed inthis court,
in the name of the said defendants as complainants as such commissioners, or in their own names as complainants, against the
lands described in the said Exhibit "A," and the owners thereof,
or such of such lands and the owners.thereof, or other persons,
and said commissioners, as they may be advised, are liable for
or bound to pay the sums found to be due to the complainants
as aforesaid, jointly or severally, by a bill or bills, original, supplemental, or otherwise, as they may be advised, for the recovery of the amounts found due them as aforesaid, and also for
the costs of this suit.'
"It should be here stated that after the decision in Webstmr
v. People, and after the institution by Palms of the suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States, the following amendment
to the constitution of Illinois was adopted: 'The general assembly of Illinois may pass laws permitting the owners of lands
to construct drains, ditches and levees for agricultural, sanitary
or mining purposes across the lands of others, and provide for
the organization of drainage districts, and vest the corporate
authority thereof with power to construct and maintain levees,
drains and ditches, and to keep in repair all drains, ditches and
levees heretofore constructed under the laws of this State by a
special assessment upon the property benefited thereby.' 1 Starr
& Curtis' Anno. Stat. Ill. p. 122.
"Subsequently the legislature of Illinois passed an act which
took effect May 29, 1879, entitled ' An act to provide for the
construction, reparation and protection of drains, ditches and
levees across the lands of others for agricultural, sanitary and
mining purposes, and to provide for the organization of drainage
districts.' 1 Starr & Curtis' Anno. Stat. Ill. p. 919.
"Some of the defendants in the present case made efforts to
secure the passage of the act last referred to. That act provided for the formation of drainage districts with authority
not only to construct drains, ditches, and levees for agricultural,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

sanitary, and mining purposes, but also to maintain and keep in
repair any such drains, ditches or levees ' heretofore constructed
under any law of this State;' and, in cases where a levee had
been theretofore built ' under any law of this State,' the annual
assessment for keeping the same in repair was made due and
payable on the first of September annually.
"Subsequently, on the 26th of January, 1880, some of the
land owners whose lands were described and included in the
original assessments and in the original bill filed by Palms instituted proceedings under the act of 1879. In their petition
they described the route and terminus of the levee, alleging that
the levee ' was constructed, under the laws of Illinois then in
force, in the counties of Adams, Pike, and Calhoun, for the
years 1872, 1873, and 1874.' They further alleged that, by
proper repair and maintenance of the levee, the lands aforesaid
(which are alleged to be part of the lands described in the original bill and in the present bill, amounting in the aggregate to
about 90,000 acres) would be reclaimed and brought into cultivation ; that, in addition, it would greatly improve the sanitary
condition of the locality through which the levee passed; and
that it was absolutely necessary for the health and proper drainage and protection of the said land that the levee be repaired
as speedily as possible. They prayed that a drainage district,
to be know as 'Shy Island Levee Drainage District,' be formed
out of the lands subject to periodical overflow by the Mississippi
River in the townships named, for the repair and maintenance
of such levee, according to the statute; that commissioners be
appointed under the act of 1879, with directions to do all acts
provided in the law for repairing levees, ditches, and drains,
through assessments to be ordered; and for other and further
relief.
"Such proceedings were had that the county court of Pike
County duly created the Sny Island Drainage District, and in
1880 it received the surrender of the levee from the original Sny
levee Commissioners, and now retains possession and control
of the same.
"Palms died on the 24th day of November, 1886, more than
six years after the last order made in the suit brought by him
in the Federal court.

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

"The present suit was brought by his executors; the defendants herein being the surviving Commissioners, Wheelock
and Jones, and numerous individuals who own lands within the
territory described in the proceedings instituted in the county
court of Pike County under the act of 1871.
"The bill proceeded upon the general ground that each tract
of land in question was chargeable in equity with the amounts assessed against it under the act of 1871, with interest, and that the
plaintiffs had a lien on each tract for such sums as had fallen
due and might become due under such assessments. It alleged
that each defendant owned or claimed one or more tracts (Exhibit 'IA' showing a description of the various tracts, and the
names of the persons against whom the assessments were
made); that each defendant who acquired title to any of the
lands after the assessments of 1872 and 1873 did so with full
knowledge of such assessments and the above issue of bonds,
as well as of the, fact that the plaintiffs had purchased the
bonds, and that the levee was constructed with the proceeds
thereof; that, with like notice and knowledge, each of the defendants had appropriated and used the levee for the protection
of their lands, and continued so to do; that all the defendants
named in Exhibit ' A' participated in causing said bonds to be
issued and sold, and the proceeds expended by actively soliciting the passage of the act of 1871 ; that before and at the passage of the act of 1871 the reclamation and protection of the
lands described in that exhibit had been a subject of consideration and discussion amongst the owners and occupants of the
same, as well as others, and it was understood by all parties interested in such lands that in order to reclaim and protect the
same a statute was absolutely necessary, under the provisions
of which the persons interested in the lands could be united
and organized, and a common agency created, with authority
to make all necessary plans, estimates, and contracts for the
location of the levee, and to borrow money upon bonds or
otherwise, to be secured by assessments or pledges of the lands
benefited; that the defendants, through the agency of their codefendant Charles M. Clark, 'had procured the passage of that
statute, and caused its provisions to be made known to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

people interested, and thereupon devised a plan for the organization of a corporation composed of persons interested in the
lands, for the purpose of raising money to put the act into
effect; that a large number of the defendants subscribed to the
capital of that corporation in order to effect the objects of its
creation; that the other defendants purchased lands through
such last-named land owners, with full notice of the equities of
the plaintiffs; that all of the defendants who purchased after
May 4, 1878, did so with full notice of said assessments, and
that the same were unpaid, and also that said original suit
in the Federal court was pending ; that certain other defendants participated in causing the said bonds to be issued and
sold to the plaintiffs' testator, and the proceeds thereof to be
expended in the construction of the levee, and in causing the said
assessments to be made by signing the original petition to the
Pike County court in the year 1872; that certain other defendants purchased lands from other land owners who had joined in
the petition, with full knowledge of what had previously taken
place; that other defendants participated in procuring the
bonds to be sold, and the proceeds to be expended as stated,
and in causing said assessments, by signing on the 20th day of
November, 1874, a petition for a second assessment under the
act of 1871; and that other defendants purchased from or
through persons of the class last mentioned, with full knowledge
of all the facts.
"The plaintiffs also alleged that certain named defendants,
after the above decision by the Supreme Court of Illinois,
knowing the levee to be constructed with the plaintiffs' money,
and having full notice of all the facts, executed to Tones,
Wheelock, and Westlake deeds of trusts; that said deeds were
made for the purpose of defeating the claims of the plaintiffs,
and it was stipulated between the trustees and the last named
defendants that no part of the funds collected by the former
should ever be applied to the payment of any indebtedness
created by or on account of the original levee; that said
deeds of trust continued in force until 1887, when the same
were canceled, said Jones, Wheelock, and Westlake having, it
is alleged, devised another scheme for defeating the claim of

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

the plaintiffs; and that certain other defendants purchased
from defendants of the class last mentioned, with full notice of
all the facts.
"It was further alleged that after the decree of March 13,
1879, namely, on January 26, 1880, certain defendants named
filed a petition in the county court of Pike County setting
forth that they owned certain lands, and alleging that a certain
levee (the one heretofore described) had been constructed under the laws of the State of Illinois; that said petition set
forth the purposes for which the levee had been constructed;
that the same was in bad repair; that, in the faith that the
same would be properly constructed and repaired, they had expended large sums of money, had improved farms, and that all
such improvements would be washed away, unless the levee
should be repaired and kept up; and that the lands subject to
overflow amounted to an aggregate of 90,000 acres. The bill
set forth the substance of the petition, and the various steps
taken, as already stated, for the formation of a new drainage
district, to be known as the ' Sny Island Levee Drainage District,' and alleged that all the defendants so joining had full
notice of all the facts and of the making of the assessments
aforesaid; that certain other defendants purchased lands from
the defendants of the class last mentioned, with notice of all the
facts; that certain other named defendants, pursuant to the
statute of Illinois approved May 29, 1879, were severally made
parties to, and had notice of, all the proceedings for the organization of the Sny Island Levee Drainage District, as well as of
the contents of the petition therefor, and were bound by such
proceedings and the appropriation of the levee aforesaid ; that
certain other named defendants acquired title to said lands, or
interest therein, after July 26, 1880, and were bound by said
proceedings and the appropriation of said levee; that certain
other defendants named were heirs at law and took title to portions of said lands from ancestors who took part in some or all
of the aforesaid proceedings; that certain other defendants
had acquired title to some of said lands by accepting deeds of
conveyance expressly recognizing the lien of plaintiffs on said
tracts; and that every one of the present defendants had full

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

iotice of the claims of plaintiffs and of the facts aforesaid;
and that all of the defendants now appropriated said levee and
other works and refuse to contribute anything to the payment
of the plaintiffs.
"The bill alleged that the Sny Island Levee Drainage District had every year made large assessments, and, contriving and
intending to defeat the plaintiffs, had caused many of the tracts
of land to be sold for non-payment of such assessments (such
sales, it was alleged, being merely colorable, as against the
rights of the plaintiffs, and mere clouds on the title to said
land); that before the construction of said levee the lands were
wet, and not worth exceeding fifty cents per acre; that the
average amount assessed against the lands for the cost of the
levee was greatly in excess of the then value of the lands, but
it was expected that the work would, when constructed, drain
every tract, and so enhance the value of the same as to make
the lands ample security for the money borrowed; that the
plaintiffs, relying on this and on the assurances of the land
owners and commissioners, purchased the bonds in question;
and that the lands were enhanced in value by said expenditures
until they became worth $25 per acre.
"It was also alleged that, if the levee had been kept up, it
would have afforded full protection, and would have caused
the lands to have continued to be good security; that defendants had spent some money in repairing said work, but made
such improvements and repairs so unskillfully that they were
insufficient; and that by neglect of defendants the lands had
again become wet and overflowed, and were not now good security for the plaintiffs.
"After stating that the defendants were, by reason of the
matters and things set forth in the bill, bound to preserve,
protect, improve, and repair the said levee and other works
described, by sufficient contribution in money, ratably or otherwise, and by further assessments upon the lands, in order to
protect and keep the security of the plaintiffs adequate and sufficient, the plaintiffs prayed that by the appointment of a receiver with ample powers, and by other appropriate order, the
defendants should be compelled to preserve, protect, repair, im-

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Statement of the Case.

prove, and make said levee and other works protective of said
lands, ' or to give and confer upon such receiver the power to
make needful assessments upon said lands in proportion to benefits and the relative value of each tract thereof, and with the
money arising therefrom, or by the mortgage of such assessments and the lands upon which they are made, raise the money
necessary for the repair and improvement of the said levee and
other works, and with the money so raised proceed to repair
and improve said levee until it is made adequate for the drainage and protection of all of the said lands; that each and every
of said defendants herein may be enjoined by this honorable
court from selling, transferring, or assigning the title to said
lands owned by them, or any part thereof, upon which any of
said assessments may rest, except subject to the lien of said assessments, as the same shall be determined by this honorable
court, or in any manner whatsoever changing, altering, or affecting the title thereto so as to in anywise impair, diminish,
hinder, or prejudice the lien of said assessments thereon, or on"
any portion thereof, and that the Sny Island Levee Drainage
District, its officers and agents, be enjoined from selling or offering for sale any lands covered by any of the assessments
herein in question, for any pretended assessments or alleged
liens by said district attempted to be assessed, except subject
to the lien of all assessments and liability on said lands, respectively, as the same shall be determined by this honorable court.'
"It was further asked in the bill that the court order, determine, and declare the amounts due to the plaintiffs and all other
holders of bonds and coupons who would come in and contribute to the expense of this suit, ' and the amount due for principal and interest on the several assessments made against and
upon each tract of land described in the pleadings and exhibits,
and the proportion of the amount of such assessments upon each
tract of land necessary to the payment of the amount of the
principal and interest now due upon the bonds and coupons of
your orators and others who may come into the cause and contribute as before mentioned, and that each of the said tracts of
land be sold under the order and decree of this court for
the amount chargeable upon and against the same, unless the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

owner of the same, or some other person for him, shall, within
a day limited, pay said amount, with a just proportion of the
costs of this suit;' and also that the court would 'appoint one
or more commissioners or receivers in the place and stead of
the said John G. Wheelock and George W. Jones, or appoint
a commissioner in the place of the said Benjamin F. Westlake,
deceased; and, if one or more commissioners or a receiver or
receivers are appointed in the place and stead of the said John
G. Wheelock and George W. Jones, the said Wheelock and
Jones may be ordered and directed to turn over and deliver to
such commissioners or receivers so appointed all books, papers,
documents, and property now in their possession or under their
control.'
"The defendants demurred to the bill, and the demurrers
were overruled. They subsequently filed answers, which put
the plaintiffs upon proof of many essential allegations of their
bill, without proof of which, independently of the question of
law arising upon the face of the bill, no part of the relief asked
could have been granted. In the view which is taken of the
case by this court, it is unnecessary to extend this opinion by
setting forth the averments and denials of the several answers.
"Upon final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill."
. -Henry X. Dujeld for complainants.
-Mr. Thomas Worthington and -Mr. W. H. H Xiller for certain respondents. A&. Asa C. Matthews, -Mr.Harry Higbee,
and A r. J. Otis Humphrey were on their brief.
Mr.

CHiEF JUsTicE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The Circuit Court held in substance, among other things, that
the decretal order of that court on the bill first filed adjudging
the amounts reported by the master to be due the several com.
plainants and giving them liberty to file a supplemental bill
against the owners of the lands benefited to eomnpol them to
contribute to the payments of the amounts thus reported, was
not an adjudication which precluded the land owners from deny-

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

ing their liability; that as it was thirteen years after the act
was declared to be unconstitutional and nine years after leave
was given to file the supplemental bill, before any step was taken
except as against those who were originally commissioners, there
had been such laches as precluded complainants from having
the relief sought, the conditions of the property and the relations of the parties having in the meantime greatly changed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that even when exercising
an independent judgment a Federal court should give effect to
rules of construction previously established by the highest court
of a State, and not act upon a different view unless compelled
to do so to prevent an absolute denial of justice; that, applying
the settled rule of construction of the State to the state constitution relating to the subject, the act of April 24, 1871, was
unconstitutional, and assessments made thereunder were not
enforceable; that the fact alone that land owners advocated and
used their influence to secure the passage of a law under which
bonds were issued, to be paid by special assessments against
their lands, which law was subsequently declared unconstitutional, and the assessments void, did not afford ground on which
a court of equity should declare a lien on such lands in favor of
the bondholders, in the absence of fraud, and where both the
land owners and the purchasers of the bonds acted in the mistaken belief that the bonds were valid; and that where bonds
issued by commissioners in payment for the construction of a
levee to protect lands from overflow, were void, a court of
equity had no power to determine that certain lands received
the benefit of the expenditure, and on that ground to declare
a lien thereon in favor of the bondholders. The decree of the
Circuit Court was not affirmed on the ground of laches, but the
Circuit Court of Appeals nevertheless said (95 Fed. Rep. 110):
"The plaintiffs can take nothing, as against the individual land
owners, defendants in this cause, by reason of any order made
in the suit instituted by Palms in the Circuit Court of the United
States against the commissioners designated under the act of
1871; for the present defendant land owners were not parties
to that suit, and could not be concluded by any order made in
it. It is evident from the orders entered in that case that Judge
voL. CLXXXIV-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Drummond did not intend to pass upon the rights of the land
owners, but was of opinion that if Palms had any ground of
action against them, in respect of the lands attempted to be
specially assessed under the act of 1871, he must bring them
before the court by supplemental bill. He was given leave to
file such a bill by an order entered in 1879. But be died in
1886 without availing himself of the privilege so given, although
a large amount of interest was unpaid, and although nearly
$100,000 of the bonds of the first issue had fallen due. The
present bill was not filed until 1889,-about nine years after it
could have been filed. If the case depended alone upon the
question of laches, there would be strong ground for holding
that the plaintiffs and their testator so long delayed the institution of proceedings against the land owners that a court of
equity ought to decline giving them any relief. The application
of such a principle would be peculiarly appropriate, because it
is provided by statute in Illinois that no execution can issue
upon a judgment after the expiration of seven years from the
time it becomes a lien, except upon the revival of the same by
scire facias, and that an action to recover real estate shall be
barred by seven years' residence thereon under a title of record,
etc.; by seven years' adverse possession under color of title and
payment of taxes; or, as to unoccupied land, by seven years'
payment of taxes under color of title. 2 Starr & C. Ann. Stat.
Ill. p. 1386, c. 7, § 6; Id. pp. 1538, 1539, 1547, c. 83, §§ 4, 6, 7.
In this case-most of the defendants made proof of adverse possession. Besides, as said in Johnston v. Mining Company, 148
U. S. 360, 370, 'the mere institution of a suit does not of itself
relieve a person from the charge of laches,' and 'if he fail in the
diligent prosecution of the action, the consequences are the same
as though no action had been begun."
The bill is stated by counsel to be a bill to "enforce severally
against the lands of certain defendants the lien of separate assessments for the construction of the levee, with the proceeds
of which the levee was built, upon the grounds, 1st, that such
assessments were levied in strict conformity with the terms of
the statute of 1871, which was a valid law; and, 2d, that even
if that statute was unconstitutional, many of the defendants

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

owning such lands are estopped to deny the constitutionality
of said act and attack the assessments on that ground. It is
not a bill to compel contributions to, or collect proportionate
amounts of, a gross sum, but is a bill in the nature of a foreclosure bill to enforce, on the several and separate parcels of
land, the liens of several and specific assessments upon the faith
of which the moneys which built the levees were advanced."
It is insisted that it is not a bill to collect a tax, or a bill "to
hold any municipal corporation or any individual liable, directly
or indirectly, at law or in equity."
The bill purports to be an original bill in the nature of a supplemental bill, supplemental to the bill originally filed by Palms,
either by way of enforcing the decretal order entered on that
bill, treated as a final decree, or, treating that order as interlocutory merely, of obtaining a decree on the whole case as
against new parties. Which view is taken is perhaps not material, for "where a party returns to a court of chancery to obtain its aid in executing a former decree, it is at the risk of
opening up such decree as respects the relief to be granted on
the new bill." Lawrence -. anufacturingCompany v. Tanesvillo
.ills, 138 _U. S. 552, 561. And, moreover, the bill is an original bill as to the land owners.
Palms filed that bill, on behalf of himself and others similarly situated, 'May 4, 1878, against Wheelock, Jones and Westlake, as commissioners appointed under the act of April 24, 1871,
praying that the moneys "loaned and advanced" by complainant to those commissioners be ascertained, and a decree entered
that complainant was entitled to a lien on the levee, and other
works and lands, acquired by the commissioners, and the assessments for benefits to said lands, which had been made; and
further that the commissioners be decreed to proceed at once
to collect the assessments, or so much thereof from time to time
as would be sufficient to pay the interest and principal payable
to complainant as the same fell due, or that the court appoint
a receiver or receivers with authority to collect said assessments.
The commissioners were not impleaded as representing the
land owners in the litigation. Their duties were such as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

act of 1871 defined, if that act were valid, and their powers
were created and limited thereby, and did not include the power
to bind all or any of the land owners of the district in such a
suit. The suit was brought to compel the commissioners to
discharge the duty, under the act, of enforcing the collection of
assessments in the interest of the bondholders, as creditors, and
in that sense, they occupied an adverse relation to the land
owners who were qua&i debtors.
The commissioners had filed in the county court of Pike
County their assessment roll in 1872, and objections thereto by
certain land owners having been decided adversely to them by
the county court, and, on appeal, by the circuit court of the
county, they took the case to the Supreme Court of the State,
which decided that the act of 1871 was unconstitutional. This
judgment was pronounced at January term 1876. It was after
this that, interest being overdue on the bonds held by him, Mr.
Palms filed his bill. Some other bondholders became parties
complainant, and on March 13, 1879, an order was entered permitting complainants to bring the land owners into court and
test the question of their liability, and the cause was referred
to a master. July 7, 1880, the report of the master was confirmed and the court adjudged and decreed that there was due
to Palms $221,228.66, and to various other complainants some
thousands of dollars as specified, the whole aggregate sum
found due complainants being $304,908.26, it being added:
"The above amounts are found due without prejudice." It
was further decreed that the sums of money found due were
"a lien upon the assessments made under the order of the
county court of Pike County, in the State of Illinois, upon the
lands described in the bound book Exhibit A" as provided in the
twenty-seventh and thirty-seventh sections of the act of April 24,
1871. The order proceeded that it appearing that the commissioners had no moneys in their hands for the payment of the
amounts so found due, and that they had taken no steps for
the collection of the assessments, it was further ordered by the
court "that the complainants have the right and liberty to proceed in this court in the name of the said defendants as complainants and as such commissioners, or in their own names as

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

complainants against the lands described in the said Exhibit A
and the owners thereof, or such of such lands and the owners
thereof, or other persons, and said commissioners as they may
be advised are liable for or bound to pay the sums found to be
due to the complainants as aforesaid, jointly or severally, by a
bill or bills, original, supplemental or otherwise, as they may
be advised, for the recovery of the amounts found due them as
aforesaid and also for the costs of this suit." Both these orders
show that the Circuit Judge was of opinion that to subject the
lands to the assessments in that suit the land owners must be
made parties; and even the amounts found due were in terms
so found without prejudice to their rights.
No steps were subsequently taken, and Mr. Palms died November 24, 1886. His executors, on April 22, 1889, filed the
present bill against some thousand land owners of the district
as well as Wheelock and Jones, two of the alleged levee commissioners, Westlake in the meantime having deceased.
It was an original bill as to these new parties and they were
entitled to all the defences which existed when it was filed, and
were unaffected by the principle of liopendens. The Supreme
Court of Illinois had held in 1876 that the act of April 24, 1871,
was in contravention of the constitution of the State and void.
This decision was made after the bonds in question had been
issued and purchased by Palms from the contractors, but the
judgment was rendered on objections by the land owners to the
confirmation of the assessments, the collection of which was relied on for the payment of the principal and interest of the
bonds, so that it might well be held to be binding on the Federal courts. But we agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals
that even if the Circuit Court was not obliged to accept that
decision, yet that there was so little doubt of its correctness as
to require the 'same conclusion. The rulings of the state Supreme Court were that the work of constructing a great levee
along the bank of a river subject to overflow, and independent
of a system of drainage, was not embraced within the act of
1871; that section 31 of article IV of the constitution of 1870,"
that "The General Assembly may pass laws permitting the
owners or occupailts of lands to construct drains and ditches

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

for agricultural and sanitary purposes across the
lands of others," did not authorize the construction of a levee
independent of drainage; that section 9 of article IX of that
constitution was a limitation on the power of the Legislature,
which could only vest such power in such municipalities and
not in any other bodies, though other municipalities might be
vested with jurisdiction to assess and collect taxes for corporate
purposes subject to the rule of uniformity as to persons and
property; and that the burden of taxation by special assessment
could not be imposed on a locality without the consent of the
taxpayers to be affected. And the court held, in respect of the
act of 1871, "that neither the commissioners or the juries selected, nor the county court, is such a body as, under the constitution, may be given power to make local improvements by
special assessments or by special taxation on contiguous property ;" and also that "under this law, the people whose property
is subject to taxation or assessments have never given any consent to it, if we exclude those who may have signed the petition addressed to the county court."
Section 5 of article IX of the state constitution of 1848 provided: "The corporate authorities of counties, townships, school
districts, cities, towns, and villages may be vested with power
to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes; such taxes
to be uniform in respect to persons and property within the
jurisdiction of the body imposing the same."
Section 9 of article IX of the constitution of 1870 read:
"The General Assembly may vest the corporate authorities of
cities, towns, and villages with power to make local improvements by special assessment, or by special taxation of contiguous property or otherwise. For all other corporate purposes,
all municipal corporations may be vested with authority to assess and collect taxes ; but such taxes shall be uniform, in respect
to persons and property, within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the same."
These provisions of the two constitutions are substantially
identical, and while prior to the act of 1871, the clause of the
constitution of 1870 had not been construed by the Supreme
Court of the State, the similar provision id the constitution of

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

1848 had been construed in several instances. And it was ruled
that the right of taxation could not be granted by the general
assembly in any form to private persons, or to private corporations ; that the provision limited the power of the general assembly to grant the right to assess and collect taxes to the
corporate or local authorities of the municipalities or districts
to be taxed; that a local burden of taxation or special assessment could not be imposed upon a locality without the consent
of the taxpayers to be affected; and that corporate authorities
were municipal officers directly elected by the people of the
municipality or appointed in some mode to which they had
given their assent. Harwardv. St. Clair and .Monoe Levee
& Drainage Company, 51 Ill. 130; Hessler v. Drainage Commissioners, 53 Ill. 105; Lovingston v. Wider, 53 Ill. 302; Wider
v. City of East St. Louis, 55 Ill. 133 ; People v. Salomon, 51
Ill. 37.
The construction of the state constitution in Harward'scase
and others has been repeatedly recognized by this court as authoritatively established.
And as this was the settled law of the State when these bonds
were issued, and the constitution of 1870 admitted of no other
construction, we concur in the opinion that the act of 1871 was
repugnant to the constitution of Illinois; the bonds due under
it were void-; and the lands intended to be benefited could not
be specially assessed by any action taken in conformity with the
provisions of that act.
The case of Blake v. Peoqple, 109 Ill. 504, conducts to no
other result. That case arose under the act of May 29, 1879,
which was passed after the amendment of the state constitution adopted in 1878. That amendment provided that the
general assembly might pass laws permitting the owners of
lands to construct drains, ditches and levees across the lands of
others, and to organize drainage districts and vest the corporate
authorities thereof with power to construct and maintain levees,
drains and ditches, "and to keep in repair all drains, ditches
and levees heretofore constructed under the laws of this State,
by special assessment upon the property benefited thereby."
The new levee district was organized under this act to repair

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the levee which had been built under the invalid law of 1871.
The objection was raised by a land owner, on the application
of the collector of the county for judgment against his land
on an assessment, that the old levee had not been built under
a law of the State within the meaning of the act and of the
constitution, because the act of 1871 was no law. The court
held that the point should have been raised before the confirmation of the assessment roll, and came too late. The
court also held that it could not take judicial notice that
the purpose for which the corporation was created was not
to keep in repair levees theretofore constructed under a law
of the State, but assuming the question to be properly before
the court, that while the act of 1871 was unconstitutional as
affecting those over whose lands the drains, levees, etc., were
to be constructed without the owners' consent, and those against
whose property it was proposed to assess the cost of constructing such drains and levees without their consent, yet that there
might be some person so situated as to be precluded from raising the question of the validity of the law. And while, strictly
speaking, there neither was nor could be any levee in Illinois
constructed under a law of the State, yet that the legislature
plainly meant to authorize the completion and repair of levees
that had been constructed under an act purporting to be a law,
though it was not. The court said: "There was no law in
force authorizing the construction of levees over the lands of
others (save the act of April 24, 1871) at the time U7.pdike
v. Wigh, and Webster v. Ievee Commissioners, were decided.
To obviate the effect of those decisions-allow the construction of levees, as well as drains, upon the lands of othersand to authorize the formation of municipal corporations for
the purpose of constructing drains and levees, the amendment
to section 31, article IV, was submitted to, and adopted by, the
people, at the November election, in 1878. The act of Mvay 29,
1879, but repeats, in this respect, the language of that amendment. The levees, therefore, which must have been referred
to, because none other could reasonably have been intended,
were the levees which had been constructed, but could not be

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

kept in repair because of the decisions in Updike v. Wright,
and Webster v. Ievee Commissioners."
The act of April 24, 1871, being invalid, the corporate existence of the levee commissioners, and the assessments made at
their instance, and the collection of the latter under that act,
or under the act of April 9, 1872, entitled "An act to provide
for the registration of drainage and levee bonds, and secure the
payment of the same," failed with it. But it is contended that
while all this may be so as to the general public, yet that appellees, or some of them, have so conducted themselves that
they are estopped from asserting such invalidity, and that the
Circuit Court should have enforced the assessments exactly as
if the law had been a constitutional enactment. The bill sought
to collect not only the assessments already made, but asked to
have further assessments made to pay the bonds in full, and to
maintain and preserve the security; and the court was also
asked to declare that the assessments created valid liens upon
the lands, and to decree that the bonds sued on were a lien on
the assessments and to enforce their collection. In other words,
that the court execute the act, either as in itself wholly valid
or valid as to these defendants. We are unwilling to assent to
the doctrine of legislation by estoppel. The courts cannot, by
the execution of an unconstitutional law as a law, supply the
want of power in the legislative department.
In South Ottawa v. Perkihs, 94: U. S. 267, this court said:
"There can be no estoppel in the way of ascertaining the existence of a law. That which purports to be a law of a State is a
law, or it is not a law, according as the truth of the fact may be,
and not according to the shifting circumstances of parties. It
would be an intolerable state of things if a document purporting to be an act of the legislature eould thus be a law in one
case and for one party, and not a law in another case and for
another party; a law to-day, and not a law to-morrow; a law in
one place, and not a law in another in the same State. And
whether it be a law, or not a law, is a judicial question, to be
settled and determined by the courts and judges. The doctrine
of estoppel is totally inadmissible in the case."
In that case the invalidity of the law grew out of the fact

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

that the journals of the Senate and House did not show the
passage of the bill as the constitution required it to be shown.
Bonds had been issued, bought innocently, and the town had
paid one installment of interest, but it was held that the bonds
could not be sustained on the doctrine of estoppel. In this
case the bonds were signed, issued and sold by the commissioners,
and the interest which was paid was paid by the commissioners.
The land owners had no control of the question whether bonds
should be issued, and were not in privity of contract with the
purchasers of the bonds. As the act, the assessments, and the
bonds were void, the land owners, when it was sought to subject their property to those assessments for the payment of the
void bonds, could not be estopped on the ground that the law
itself, though void, was valid as to them.
Even in the instance of contracts of a corporation beyond
the scope of its corporate powers, the law is well settled in this
court that nothing which has been done under them or the action of the courts can infuse any vitality into them. Central
Tran portation Company v. Pullman Company, 139 U. S. 24.
.Daniels v. Tearney, 102 U. S. 415, though not precisely in
point, is illustrative of the distinction between enforcing an invalid law in an executory way, and awarding relief in respect
of things accomplished under it. In that case, the secession
convention of the State of Virginia had passed an ordinance
providing that any person whose property had been taken on
execution, might, by giving a bond for the payment of the judgment, have his goods released so long as the law should remain
in force. Porter recovered a judgment against Daniels in the
Circuit Court of Jefferson County, and Daniels availed himself
of the ordinance by filing the required bond. To a suit brought
on the bond by Tearney e* al., executors of Porter, after the
close of the civil war, the defence was made that the law under
which the bond was given was unconstitutional, and so that the
bond was void. There was a difference of opinion in the court
as to whether the bond was good as a voluntary bond or not,
but it was held that conceding the bond to have been wholly
void, the judgment upon it ought not to be reversed, on the
principle that where a party has availed himself for his benefit

O'BRIYN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

of an unconstitutional law he is estopped as between himself
and others not occupying that position from setting up its unconstitutionality as a defence. The obligee of the bond sued
on had not availed himself of the void ordinance, but was deprived of his rights by it. He had not in any way, expressly
or impliedly, made himself a party to the illegal proceeding, or
affirmatively agreed to take any advantage from it, while the
consideration of the bond had been fully received by the obligor,
who could not, under such circumstances, be permitted to deny
a liability put upon the obligee in invitum.
It follows that this bill cannot be maintained on the theory
of the validity of the act of 1871, even though some other equity
might have been asserted if in the exercise of reasonable diligence. The result is not inconsistent with the cases that hold
that although a law is found to be unconstitutional, a party who
has received the full benefit under it, may be compelled to pay
for that benefit according to the terms of the law. This is upon
the theory of an implied contract, the terms of which may be
sought in the invalid law, and which arises when the full consideration has been received by the party against whom the contract is sought to be enforced.
In the case before us, the land owners did not and could not
receive the benefits which it was contemplated would accrue to
them from the proceedings if they had been valid. As the Circuit Court of Appeals pointed out what the land owners, who
promoted the passage of and proceeded under the act of 1811,
had in view "was not simply to have a levee constructed, but
to have a sufficient levee, which could be repaired from time to
time and permanently maintained under legal authority." The
scheme embraced not only the construction but the maintenance
of the levee and must be looked at in its entirety. "If it be said
that the plaintiffs' testator would never have purchased the
bonds except in the belief that the act of 1871 was valid, with
equal truth it may be said the land owners would never have
sought nor desired such legislation except in the belief that the
levee would be maintained by the same authority that constructed it." When the law fell, the method of maintaining it
by compulsory process also failed, and if it be said that there

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

was only a partial failure of consideration, it is plain that the
consideration was indivisible and not susceptible of apportionment, while the evidence demonstrates that the losses suffered
by the land owners by reason of the breaking of the levee exceeded the amount of the bonds in question.
The grounds of estoppel claimed in this case seem to be, that
one or more of the defendants secured the passage of the act of
1871; that others actively participated as petitioners and otherwise in the organization of the levee district before the bonds
were issued; that others who took no part whatever in any of
the proceedings, after the bonds were issued and the law was
held to be unconstitutional, united in an attempt to maintain
and repair the levee by voluntary contributions; that others,
who neither said nor did anything, knowing that the proceedings were pending and that the levee was in course of construction, remained quiescent; that others paid interest on their
assessments for the years 1873 and 1874; that others participated in the organization of the new and legal levee district after
the constitution of Illinois had been amended and a law passed
authorizing the formation of levee districts; and that others
purchased lands after the Webster case was decided, and their
deeds contained certain references to the act of 1871.
We think that the evidence fails to show that Palms relied,
or had the right to rely, on the acts, or assurances, or silence,
of any of these different classes of land owners, and was thereby misled. He purchased the bonds, not of the land owners,
or any of them, nor from the levee commissioners, but in the
open market, and on the advice of counsel as to the legality of
the proceedings. The land owners who participated in any
way in the creation of the drainage district were as vitally interested in the matter as any purchaser of bonds could be, and
they acted equally in the mistaken belief that the law was valid.
"It is a novel idea," as the Supreme Court of Illinois remarked
in Holcomb v. Boynton, 151 Ill. 300, "in the law of estoppel
that the doctrine should be applied to a person who has been
guilty of no fraud, simply because, under a misapprehension of
the law, he has treated as legal and valid an act void and open
to the inspection of all." But we need not pursue the discus-

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

sion, for, in view of the invalidity of the proceedings, if complainants had a cause of action, that cause of action arose before
M[ay 4, 1878, when Palms filed his bill, yet the land owners were.
not proceeded against until the 22d of April, 1889.
The statute of limitations of Illinois provided that actions on
unwritten contracts, express or implied, and all civil actions not
otherwise provided for, should be commenced within five years
next after the cause of action accrued. Courts of equity usually
consider themselves bound by the statutes of limitation which
govern courts of law in like cases. In the second aspect of
their bill appellants did not rely on their bonds as legal instruments, but they sought the aid of a court of equity for the enforcement of a lien in payment of the bonds by reason of an
estoppel in yais, and the cause of action so created would seem
to have been barred by that statute. But courts of equity go
farther in the promotion of justice, and where laches exist, deny
the relief sought, even though the statutory period may not have
run under the applicable statute.
The doctrine of courts of equity to withhold relief from those
who have delayed the assertion of their claims for an unreasonable length of time is thoroughly settled. Its application depends on the circumstances of the particular case. It is not a
mere matter of lapse of time, but of change of situation during
neglectful repose, rendering it inequitable to afford relief.
Palms purchased these bonds of the contractors to whom
they had been delivered by the commissioners, who assumed a
right to issue and make that disposition of them by virtue of
the power to borrow money granted by the act of 1871. The
enterprise of erecting such a barrier to the incursions of the
river was, in its nature, hazardous, and the levee required not
only the utmost skill in construction, but the utmost effort and
vigilance in its repair and maintenance. The transaction was
in its nature speculative as the value of the reclaimed lands
depended on the permanency of the structure.
The enforcement of the assessments for benefits on which
the payment of the cost of the work depended was resisted from
the first by certain land owners, who had opposed the scheme
as attempted to be authorized, and their legality was brought

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to the test as soon as in the orderly progress of judicial proceedings it could be done. The result was that in 1876 the act
of 1871 was held void and the assessments illegal. In that
same year the levee broke and the lands were devastated. In
1877 some of the land owners raised some thousands of dollars,
giving trust deeds as security, for the repair of the levee, the
money to be devoted to that purpose exclusively, and repairs
were made.
May 4, 1878, Mr. Palms filed his bill, to which the land owners
were not made parties. The principal of the first and largest
assessment was payable one tenth annually beginning with 1882,
but the interest, at the rate of ten per cent per annum from
October 1, 1872, was collectible annually, and the interest on
the bonds was also payable yearly. The instalments of interest for 1875, 1876 and 1877 had not been paid, and those succeeding remained unpaid.
In 1880 the Circuit Court entered the order permitting Palms
to bring in the land owners by filing a supplemental or an original bill ; and in that same year there were numerous breaks in
the levee.
During the same year a new drainage district was organized
under the provisions of the act of 1879, which had been passed
in accordance with the constitutional amendment of 1878.
Large assessments were levied upon the lands, aggregating hundreds of thousands of dollars, and the money was put into the
property. In 1881 the levee broke again, but the new drainage corporation went on with its work. The levee broke again
in 1888, and additional assessments were levied.
Palms did not avail himself of the order, in the original cause,
of July 7, 1880. lie took no further steps, and died November 24, 1886. His executors filed this bill April 22, 1889. The
record affords no explanation of the delay, and it seems to us
that this was such laches as forbid relief. To enforce these
bonds against those by whose courage, energy and expenditure
the lands have attained whatever value they now possess, would
in our judgment be too inequitable to be permitted.
Mr. Palms knew of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois in the lFeb~ser and Updike cases; of the breaks in the

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

levee; of the efforts of the land owners to rebuild and maintain
it by large expenditures of money; and he could not lie by until
after such expenditures, and with the condition of the district
and the personnel of its people constantly changing, and then
insist that during all this time the parties were under a liability
to him which, in equity, they were estopped to deny.
So far as part of the old levee became part of the new levee,
the new drainage corporation used it because they could not do
otherwise, and besides Palms, as a purchaser of bonds in the
open market, was a stranger to the work. Even if the contractors could have claimed an equitable lien on the structure itself,
Palms could not, and, indeed, any resort to subrogation is disclaimed by appellants' counsel. Such a claim could not have
been successfully maintained under our decision in .Etna Insurance Co. v. Xfiddeport, 124 U. S. 534. There the town of
Tiddleport had issued certain bonds to aid in the construction
of a railroad; the road was constructed and the bonds delivered
to the railroad company in payment of the work, and were
afterwards sold to the complainant. The Supreme Court of
the State of Illinois held the bonds void, and a bill was filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States to enforce their collection
on the theory of subrogation to the right of the railroad company to enforce the contract evidenced by a vote of the town
appropriating the amount involved to pay for the railroad, and
the acceptance and fulfillment of the contract by the railroad
company., But it was decided that complainant having bought
the bonds as negotiable securities from the railroad company,
could not be substituted to any rights which it might have had
against the defendants; that no right of subrogation existed;
that subrogation was applicable only in cases where a junior
incumbrancer was forced to pay off a superior lien for the protection of his rights, or in some similar case; and that a mere
volunteer was not entitled to claim the right.
It is worthy of remark that the decree of the Circuit Court
in that case was placed on the ground that the right of action
of the railroad company, resting only in parol, was barred by
the statute applicable to contracts not in writing. Blodgett, J.,
31 Fed. Rep. 874.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Here no bonds were ever sold by the commissioners to Palms
or any one representing him. They were delivered to the contractors and were taken in payment at ninety cents on the
dollar of their face value. If the acts of any of the land owners
created any equities against them it was in favor of the contractors, and these equities could not be asserted by Mr. Palms,
unless by subrogation, which could not be availed of. And if
it could be held that the money of Mr. Palms did enter into the
construction of the levee, yet it was inextricably intermingled
with that furnished by private individuals, by the new levee
and drainage district, by three railroad companies, and by the
United States government, the total aggregating half a miion
dollars, from 1871 to 1893.
In Litchfleld v. Ballou, 114 U. S. 190, it was held that a
creditor who had loaned to a municipal corporation, in excess
of the amount of the indebtedness authorized by the constitution, money which had been used in part for the construction
of public works, was not entitled to a decree in equity for the
return of his money, because the municipality had parted with
the specific money and it could not be identified; that a bill in
equity praying for the return of specific and identical moneys
borrowed by a municipal corporation from complainant in violation of law would not support a general decree that there
was due from the municipality to him a sum named, which
was equal to the amount borrowed; and further, that a constitutional provision forbidding the municipality from borrowing money operated equally to prevent moneys loaned to it in
violation of this provision and used in the construction of a public work, from becoming a lien upon the works constructed
with it.
And if in this case any ground of relief on the theory of implied contract ever existed, the want of diligence presented an
insuperable bar to its assertion.
Decree aafirmed.
1MR. JusTicE BRowN did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision of this case.

