McDONALD v. THOMPSON.
Statement of the Case.

XcDONALD v. THONPSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 95. Argued January 13,14, 1902.-Decided February 3,1902.
To a bill in equity by a receiver of a national bank to recover an assessment
made by the Comptroller of the Currency to the amount of the par value
of the shares formerly owned by one of the stockholders, defendant
pleaded the statute of limitations. The statute provided that actions
upon contracts in writing should be brought within five years, but that
actions brought upon contlcts not in writing or upon liabilities created
by statute should be brought witlin four years. Held: That a bill to
recover the assessment in question was not brought upon a contract in
writing, but upon an implied contract not in writing, or upon a liability
created by statute, and that the suit was barred.

was a bill in equity originally filed 'May 20, 1898, in
the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska, by Kent K.
Hayden, receiver of the Capital National Bank of Lincoln,
Nebraska, (of whom the present appellant is the successor in
office,) against David E. Thompson, to recover defendant's proportion of an assessment upon the stockholders of the bank to
the amount of the par value of their shares. The bank failed
on January 23, 1893, and a receiver was shortly thereafter appointed. On June 10, 1893, the Comptroller of the Currency
ordered the assessment, which was made payable July 10, 1893.
The bill alleged Thompson to have been the owner of 210
shares of the capital stock, which he had acquired upon subscription to such stock and as a part of the original issue; that
he, knowing the bank to be in a failing condition and practically
insolvent, and in anticipation of its approaching failure, had
sold and caused such stock to be transferred to certain irresponsible parties, and that such transfer was made with intent
to defraud the bank, its depositors and creditors.
Defendant demurred upon the ground, that it appeared by
the bill that the cause of action was barred by the statute of
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

limitations. The demurrer was sustained, the bill amended,
another demurrer interposed and sustained, and the bill dismissed. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court.
-Mr. .R. W ebster for appellant. Mr. Jahn H. .Ames and
X7ri.A. E. Harvey filed a brief for same.
.Mr. Hallec_F. Rose for appellee.
MR. JusTICE BRowN, after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
This bill is founded upon Rev. Stat., ยง 5151, which declares
that "the shareholders of every national banking association
shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and
not one for another, for all contracts, debts and engagements
of such association, to the extent of the amount of their stock
therein, at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such shares," etc. By section 5234 the Comptroller of
the Currency is authorized to appoint a receiver of insolvent
banks, who "may, if necessary to pay the debts of such association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders."
The case turns upon the applicability of the state statute of
limitations, which, so far as it is material, reads as follows:
"SEc. 5. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
time prescribed in this title after the cause of action shall have
accrued."
"SEc. 10. Within five years, an action upon a specialty, or
any agreement, contract or promise in writing, or foreign judgment.
"Sno. 11. Within four years, an action upon a contract not
in writing, express or implied; an action upon a liability created
by statute other than a forfeiture or penalty."
As the cause of action in this case accrued on July 10, 1893,
when the assessment was made payable, Hawkins v. Glenn, 131
U. S. 319; Glenn v. Marbury, 145 U. S. 499; Thompson v.
German Insurance Company, 16 Fed. Rep. 892; Van Pelt v.

11cDONALD v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Gardner,54 NSeb. 701, and the action was begun on May 20,
1898, more than four but less than five years thereafter, the
case really turns upon the question whether the action is upon
a "contract or promise in writing," or "upon a contract not in
writing, express or implied," or "upon a liability created by
statute." If the cause of action be upon a written contract, the
action was brought in time. If upon a contract not in writing,
or a statutory liability, the statute of limitations is a complete
bar.
Used in this connection and as distinguished from a contract
not in writing, express or implied, we think it entirely clear that
section 10 contemplates an action between the immediate parties or their privies to a written contract, and that the only contract covered by that definition in this case is the one arising
from the allegation of the bill that Thompson was the owner of
210 shares of the original capital stock, and "that he acquired
the same upon subscription to such capital stock," and by a
receipt of certificates for such shares. The only contract to be
gathered from this allegation is one between the bank on the
one hand and the defendant on the other, by which the latter
agreed to take and pay for a certain number of shares, and the
former agreed to issue certificates to him for the same. Had
the action been brought upon this contract, as for instance by
the bank to recover an unpaid assessment upon the original
shares, the case would have fallen within section 10, and the suit
might have been brought within five years.
But there was no contract in writing with the creditors or
depositors of the bank, and none with the bank itself, to which
the receiver could be said to be a privy, except to pay for the stock
as originally issued. Granting there was a contract with the
creditors to pay a sum equal to the value of the stock taken, in
addition to the sum invested in the shares, this was a contract
created by the statute, and obligatory upon the stockholders by
reason of the statute existing at the time of their subscription;
but it was not a contract in writing within the meaning of the
Nebraska act, since the writing-that is, the subscription-contained no reference whatever to the statutory obligation and no
promise to respond beyond the amount of the subscription. In

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

none of the numerous cases upon the subject in this court is this
obligation treated as an express contract, but as one created by
the statute and implied from the express contract of the stockholders to take and pay for shares in the association. Carrol
v. Green, 92 U. S. 509, 512; Terry v. Little, 101 U. S. 216;
Concord First Mational Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364; Afatteson v. Dent, 176 U. S. 521; Tfkitman v. Oxford National
Bank, 176 U. S. 559.
While section 10 does not use the words "express contract"
but the words "contract or promise in writing," we think that,
taken in connection with section 11, which is confined to contracts not in writing, express or implied, express contracts are
primarily and principally intended by the earlier section.
These are defined to be those contracts in which the terms of
the agreement are fully and openly incorporated at the time
the contract is entered into, while implied contracts are such
as arise by legal inference and upon principles of reason and
justice from certain facts, or where there is circumstantial evidence showing that the parties intended to make a contract.
2 Black. Com. 443. As contracts for subscription to stock
contain no stipulation with reference to the rights of creditors
and depositors, it is clear that such rights can only be asserted
upon the theory that the subscriber impliedly bound himself
to respond to any liability arising indirectly from his contract
of subscription.
Whether the promise raised by the statute was an implied
contract not in writing or a liability created by statute, it is
iminaterial to inquire. For the purposes of this case it may
have been both. The statute was the origin of both of the right
and the remedy, but the contract was the origin of the personal responsibility of the defendant. Did the statute make a
distinction between them with reference to the time within
which an action must be brought it might be necessary to
make a more exact definition; but as the action must be brought
in any case within four years, it is unnecessary to go farther than
to declare what seems entirely clear to us, that it is not a contract in writing within the meaning of section 10 of the Nebraska act. lawins v. FirnaceCompany, 40 Ohio St. 507.

McDONALD r. THOMPSON.

Opinion of the Com-t.

Plaintiff, however, insists that defendant's contract, here
sought to be enforced, was not entered into between him and
the bank, but between him and the creditors of the bank; that
the order of the Comptroller of the Currency for the assessment
of the shareholders did not create a cause of action or set the
statute of limitations running, nor in any way affect the validity
or duration of the right which belongs to the creditors to have
this liability enforced; and that the action, not being upon the
contract of subscription but upon the contract of the shareholder with the creditors of the bank, entered into by himself
with the creditors through the agency of the officers of the
bank, different considerations apply, and the statute of limitations does not operate as a bar so long as there are any outstanding claims against the bank.
In support of this proposition we are referred to section 2 of
the act of June 30, 1876, c. 156, 19 Stat. 63, which declares:
"That when any national banking association shall have gone
into liquidation under the provisions of section 5220 of said
[Revised] statutes, the individual liability of the shareholders
provided by section 5151 of said statutes may be enforced by
any creditor of said association, by bill in equity in the nature
of a creditor's bill, brought by such creditor on behalf of himself and all other creditors of the association against the shareholders thereof," etc.; and we are cited to several cases holding
that claims against shareholders under similar statutes do not
become barred until the expiration of the time at which the
claims against the corporation also became barred.
There are several answers to this position. Section 5220, to
which the second section of the act of June 30, 1876, is supplementary, contemplates only a voluntary liquidation, providing,
as.it does, that "any association may go into liquidation and
be closed by the vote of its shareholders owning two-thirds of
its stock." Richmond v. Irons, 121 U. S.27, 47. Now, the
Capital National Bank did not go into voluntary liquidation,
but, as averred in the bill, " the Comptroller of the Currency of
the United States became and was satisfied of the insolvency
of the said Capital National Banking Association," and thereupon appointed a receiver. In other words, the proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

were taken under section 5234 as supplemented by section 1 of
the act of June 30, 1876, authorizing the Comptroller of the
Currency to appoint a receiver when the association had refused to pay its circulating notes and is in default, or he is
otherwise satisfied of its insolvency.
But it is also sufficient to say of this that the action is not
brought by the creditors under the second section of the act of
June 30, 1876, but by the receiver under Rev. Stat. sec. 5234. In
such cases no debt becomes due to the receiver as such until a
deficiency has been ascertained and an assessment made, when
the statute begins to run. Scovill v. Tltayer, 105 U. S. 145;
Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319. Upon the theory of the
plaintiff, if the statute of limitations were pleaded, it would
become necessary for the receiver to show that there were outstanding claims against the bank which were not barred by the
statute, and therefore that the bill might be maintained. This
would involve a departure from the whole theory of the bill in
this case, which is based upon the allegation that the Comptroller of the Currency made an assessment upon the stockholders June 10, 1893, payable July 10, from which latter date
plaintiff claimed interest. Defendant demurred to this upon
the ground that the bill set forth a cause of action barred by
the statute, and plaintiff went to a hearing upon this demurrer
and was defeated. Obviously he cannot now set up a right to
recover, if the creditors had brought a bill under another statute,
to which no allusion is made in the bill in this case, and which
provides for a wholly separate and independent remedy.
Plaintiff's final contention, that no cause of action arises until a demand has been made, is also fully met by the allegation
of the bill that on June 10, 1893, the Comptroller of the Currency made an order in which he declared that he had made
an assessment and requisition upon the shareholders, "and that
he did thereby make demand upon each and every share of the
capital stock of the said association," and directed the receiver
to take proceedings by suit to enforce the individual liability of
the shareholders. Having made this allegation himself, we do
not understand upon what theory the plaintiff now assumes
that no demand was made.

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Counsel for Parties

In the view we take of the statute of limitations, we have
not thought it worth while to consider the points made by the
defendant that the action should have been at law and that the
bill is defective for the want of proper parties.
There was no error in the decree of the. court below, and it
is therefore
-Afflrmed.

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued March 15, 1901.-Decided February 3,1902.
This case was before this court in Illinois Central Railroad Company v. liinois, 146 U. S. 387, and in that case the history of the litigation relating
to the property involved is fully disclosed, and the court found that the
structures made in the lake by the Railroad Company did not extend beyond the point of practical navigability; and upon the return of this cause
to the Circuit Court, nothing was before that court except to inquire
whether the structures erected by the Railroad Company extended into
the lake beyond the point of practical navigability.
There was no error in holding that, in view of the manner in which commerce was conducted on the lake during the period of the investigation
below, the structures erected by the Railroad Company did not extend
into the water beyond the point of practical navigability.
The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals having concurred in
finding that the structures in question did not extend into the lake beyond
the point of practical navigability, the decree below should not be disturbed, unless it was clearly in conflict with the evidence.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John H. Hamline for appellant. 2.. Edward C. Akin,
-Mr.Frank H. Scott and M'. Frank E. Zord were on his brief.
-Y. John 3T. Jewett and -Y. Benjamin F. Ayer for appellees. MrA. . 2. Dickinson was on their brief.

