UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Syllabus.

the lot, even to showing that no benefit whatever was occasioned by the improvement. It does not follow, however, that
he has a right to be heard upon the extent of the territory to
be embraced within the assessment district.
3. The last objection, that there were several of the parcels
of land constituting the extension of Milwaukee avenue so defectively described that the judgment of condemnation was absolutely void, is untenable. Not only is it not shown that the
plaintiffs were interested in the lands alleged to be misdescribed,
but it is obviously impossible, in a proceeding to assess benefits
upon other property, to show a misdescription in the lands taken
for such improvement. 17 oorhees v. Bank of United States, 10
Pet. 449; Comstock v. Crawford, 3 Wall. 396. It is not only
an attempt to raise the question collaterally by one who has no
interest in it, but it is exceedingly doubtful if a simple misdescription involves any Federal question whatever. The errors,
too, were merely clerical, since a map of the property taken,
annexed to the condemnation proceedings, exhibits accurately
the lands affected thereby.
There was no error in the decree of the Supreme Court affirming the dismissal of the bill, and it is therefore
Affirmed.
MR.

JusTiCE HARLA

did not sit in this case.

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
No. 169. Argued and submitted January31, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.
Under the Court of Private Land Claims Act a party holding from the
Spanish or Mexican government a title that was complete and perfect at
the date of the treaty, may apply for a confirmation of such title upon
condition that, if any portion of such lands has been sold or granted by
the United States to any other person, such title from the United States
to such other person shall remain valid; and in such case the grantee

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
may obtain judgment against the United States for the value of lands so
granted.
Though the act requires that the petitioners shall set forth in their original petition the names of such adverse patentees, or persons in possession, if it be admitted that such adverse possessors or claimants do hold
under grants from the United States, and there is no dispute as to boundaries, they need not be made parties, as they could not be affected by
the decree.
So while the act contemplates that notice shall be given such adverse holders, and the claim for a money judgment incorporated in the original
petition, relief would not be refused solely upon that ground, if sufficient
excuse were shown for the omission to make these grantees parties.
But where the original petition for confirmation alleged that there were
no such adverse holders or claimants, and no effort appears to have been
made to ascertain the facts for more than seven years after such petition
was filed, although it appeared such facts were easily ascertainable, it
was held that some excuse should be set forth for this long delay, and
that a supplemental petition for the value of the lands patented would
not be entertained.
THIS was a petition, under the fourteenth section of the Court
of Private Land Claims Act, for a money judgment against
the United States for lands within a Spanish land claim, which
lands had been patented by the United States to third parties
before the Spanish land grant had been acted upon or confirmed.
The original proceeding, out of which the present claim for
indemnity grew, was a suit begun February 28, 1893, by the
present appellees, who, with one exception, claimed to be the
heirs at law and legal representatives of Juan Jos6 Lobato,
against the United States, in the Court of Private Land Claims,
for the confirmation of a grant alleged to have been made to
Lobato August 24, 1740, of which juridical possession was given,
and the grant ratified and confirmed by the proper authorities
June 15, 1744. In their petition it was alleged that the same
tract had been previously granted to Cristobal de Torres, but
that his grant had been revoked in 1733 and the tract declared
to be crown lands; that from the date of the grant to Lobato
in 1740 and for a period of 153 years, (down to the time of
filing the petition,) he and his legal representatives had been in
peaceable adverse possession of the same, and that "there are
no adverse holders, possessors or claimants of or to any portion

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.

443

Statement of the Case.

of said tract." The suit resulted in a decree in favor of the
claimants (appellees) confirming the grant, and finding the title
complete and perfect in the claimants, at the date of the cession by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The decree fixed
the boundaries of the tract as shown in a map annexed to the
petition. From this decree no appeal was prosecuted, and becoming final, it was executed by a survey approved by the
court, and the land patented to the grantees.
More than six years after the confirmation of the Lobato
grant the petitioners filed the present petition, alleging that several parcels of land, amounting to 2056 acres in the aggregate,
had been disposed of, granted and patented by the United
States to certain persons named in an exhibit to the petition;
that the lands so granted lay wholly within the boundaries of
the Lobato grant as confirmed, and were among the most valuable parts of such grant. The petition concluded with a
prayer for judgment against the United States for the value of
the lands so patented.
The United States answered, admitting the confirmation of
the Lobato grant, and averring that the plaintiffs neglected to
make the holders of the patented land parties defendant to the
suit as required by law, but that they proceeded to try their
cause, obtain a degree of confirmation, which had long since
become final; and that by failure to make the patentees parties
defendant, and by averring that there were no adverse claimants to any portion of the tract, "they thereby waived and disclaimed all right, if any they had, to challenge any disposition
theretofore made under the laws of the United States to any
portion of said grant."
The petitioners filed a general demurrer to this answer, accompanied by an affidavit to the effect that the plaintiffs, until
the survey of said grant, did not and could not know or certainly allege and affirm that the lands granted and disposed of
by the United States, as set forth in their petition, were within
the exterior limits of their grant, and consequently no allegation with relation thereto was made in their original petition,
and that such knowledge only came to the petitioners within
the last two years.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The demurrer to the answer was sustained, the case submitted upon an agreed statement of facts, and a judgment rendered against the United States for $2320.91, for 1856.73
acres, at $1.25 per acre, in accordance with the prayer of the
petition-Justices Sluss and Murray dissenting.
Xr.Solicitor General Richards and .M .. ilatthew G. Rey-

nolds for the United States.
Ab'. George luill Howard and .Mr. Henry ..Earle for appellees submitted on their brief.
MR. JUsTicE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case raises the question whether, after a land grant has
been confirmed by the Court of Private Land Claims, that court
may, after an unexplained delay of over six years, entertain a
supplemental petition for the value of certain parcels disposed
of and patented by the United States to third parties, before
the filing of the original petition.
The following sections of the Court of Private Land Claims
Act, 26 Stat. '854, act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, are pertinent in
this connection:
"SEc. 6. That it shall and may be lawful for any person
claiming lands within the limits of the territory derived by the United States from the Republic of Mexico
by virtue of any such Spanish or Mexican grant
which
Congress,

.

.

. have not been confirmed by act of
and which are not already complete and

perfect, in every such case to present a petition, in writing, to
the said court," etc.
"The petition shall set forth fully the nature of their claims
to the lands, .
.
the name or names of any person or persons in possession of or claiming the same, or any part thereof,

otherwise than by the lease or permission of the petitioner;
and a copy of such petition, with a citation to any adverse possessor or claimant, shall, immediately after the filing
of the same, be served on such possessor or claimant in the ordinary legal manner of serving such process in the proper
State or Territory," etc.

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

"Szc. 8. That any person or corporation claiming lands in
any of the States or Territories mentioned in this act under a
title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government that was
complete and pe:fect at the date when the United States acquired sovereignty therein, shall have the right (but shall not
be bound) to apply to said court in the manner in this act provided for other cases of confirmation of such title.
"8. If in any such case a title so claimed to be perfect shall
be established and confirmed, such confirmation shall be for
so much land only as such perfect title shall be found to cover,
always excepting any part of such land that shall have been disposed of by the United States," etc.
"SEC. 14. That if in any case it shall appear that the lands
or any part thereof decreed to any claimant under the provisions of this act shall have been sold or granted by the United
States to any other person, such title from the United States to
such other person shall remain valid, notwithstanding such decree, and upon proof being made to the satisfaction of said court
of such sale or grant, and the value of the lands so sold or
granted, such court shall render judgment in favor of such
claimant against the United States for the reasonable value of
said lands so sold or granted, exclusive of betterments, not exceeding one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre for such lands;
and such judgment, when found, shall be a charge on the Treasury of the United States."
Under these sections the holder of a complete and perfect
title may resort to either of two remedies: he may bring suit
in the local courts upon his title against any one in possession
of the land covered by the grant, or any portion of it, United
States v. Pellerin,13 How. 9; Ainsa v. New uexico 6 Arizona
Railroad,175 U. S.76; or, he may file his petition in the Court
of Private Land Claims under section 8, subject to the condition,
that the "confirmation shall be for so much land only as such
perfect title shall be found to cover, always excepting any part
of such land that shall have been disposed of by the United
States." In such case, however, while he affirms the title of the
patentee of the United States he may, under section 14, if "it

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

shall appear that the lands or any part thereof decreed to any
claimant

.

.

.

shall have been sold or granted by the United

States to any other person," recover a money judgment against
the United States "for the reasonable value of said lands so
sold or granted."
As the petitioners in this case elected the latter remedy they
are entitled to a recourse against the United States to recover
the value of the land patented, unless they have in some way
estopped themselves to make the claim at this time. The argument of the Government in this connection is that, under
section 6, the petitioners were bound to set forth in their original petition "the name or names of any person or persons in
possession of or claiming the same, or any part thereof, otherwise than by the lease or permission of the petitioners," and
that "a copy of such petition, with citation to any adverse possessor or claimant, shall, immediately after the filing of the
same, be served upon such possessor or claimant in the ordinary legal manner," etc., whose duty it shall be to enter an
appearance and plead, answer or demur to said petition; in
default of which the court is at liberty to proceed to hear the
case upon the petition and proofs presented. Apparently,
however, the only object of requiring notice to be given the
adverse possessors or claimants is to compel them to show the
location and boundaries of their claims and that they are not
mere squatters or trespassers, but hold the land under a grant
from the United States, in which case, under section 14, such
title from the United States to such other person "shall remain
valid notwithstanding such decree." If, however, it appear,
as it does in this case, that the petitioners admit that the adverse possessors or claimants do hold under grants from the
United States, and there are no disputed boundaries, there
would appear to be no substantial reason for making them
parties, inasmuch as they could not be affected by the decree.
The only consequence of an omission to serve on them a copy
of the petition is an acknowledgment of their title and of its
boundaries.
The Government could doubtless exonerate itself from payment by showing that it had never granted or disposed of the

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

lands; but no attempt of that kind was made, and the proof
that the lands were entered under the homestead laws and subsequently patented comes from the land office at Santa F6, as
well as by the express stipulation of the parties. It is true that
in United States v. loore, 12 How. 209, 223, it was said with
regard to a similar act that persons holding under patents from
the United States "should be compelled to produce their title,
so that, if a decree was made for complainant, the court could
ascertain what part of the ]and should be granted to him by
patent; and as this could only be done by a specific ascertainment of interfering claims, the decree must of necessity specify
their boundaries and quantities." But where, as in this case,
the quantities and boundaries of the lands patented or otherwise
disposed of are expressly stipulated between the United States
and the claimants of the land grant, and the rights of the entrymen cannot be affected by the decree, we see no occasion
for making them parties.
The second objection is that the language of section fourteen,
"that if in any case it shall appear that the lands or any part
shall have been sold or granted," limits the re.
.
thereof
covery of the value of such lands to cases wherein it appears in
the original petition for confirmation that such lands have been
granted, and that the original petition in this case having gone
to a decree affirming the survey, the court lost control of the
grant; and in addition thereto that the petitioners had, by the
lapse of six years, waived and abandoned their claim, and are
guilty of inexcusable laches. The original petition for confirmation was filed February 28, 1893, the decree of confirmation
pronounced December 4, 1893, and the decree approving the
survey October 19, 1895. The present petition for the value of
the lands granted was filed April 23, 1900, over seven years
after the original petition was filed, and over four years from
the time of the decree approving the survey. While section
fourteen evidently contemplates that the names of the adverse
holders shall be set forth in the original petition, that notice
shall be given them and that the claim for a money judgment
for the lands granted them, shall be incorporated therein, we
should not refuse relief solely upon that ground, if sufficient

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

excuse were shown for the omission to make these grantees
parties; since it might well be that, if the grant were a large
one and its boundaries indefinite or unsettled, entries might inadvertently be made within the exterior limits of such grant
and patents issued therefor in good faith and without the knowledge of the original grantee. In such event the right to reimbursement ought not to be denied, if due diligence to ascertain
the facts were exercised at the time the petition for confirmation was filed.
But we are unwilling to admit that a claimant may wait an
unlimited time and then, upon a simple allegation that certain
lands within the grant had been disposed of, may recover their
value. We think the claimant is bound to act with promptness, and if a long delay has occurred, to explain it by proper
averments. The original petition for confirmation in this case
not only suggested no adverse claimants, but alleged positively
that "there are no adverse holders, possessors, or claimants of
or to any portion of said tract," when a simple reference to the
records of the land office at Santa F6 would have shown the
facts stated in Exhibit A annexed to the petition in this case,
that fifteen homesteads had been entered upon this tract before
the original petition was filed, in all but five of which patents
had already issued. Not the slightest effort appears to have
been made to ascertain these facts, and it was not until more
than seven years thereafter that the petition in this case was
filed. The petition sets forth that several parcels of land, aggregating 2056 acres, within the Lobato grant, were disposed
of by the United States to other parties, but there is no allegation explaining why these grantees were not made parties to
the original petition, or why the long delay occurred in making the claim for a money judgment.
The answer of the United States sets up the failure of the
petitioners to make the patentees parties to the original petition, and alleges that they thereby waived and disclaimed all
right to a money judgment. Upon the same day this answer
was filed, April 26, 1900, a demurrer thereto was filed, together
with a deposition or affidavit setting up the fact that "prior
and up to the survey of said grant, under the decree of con-

UNITED STATES v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

firmation," neither the original claimants nor their solicitor
"knew or could know, or certainly allege and affirm, that the
lands granted and disposed of by the United States as set forth
and shown in the above said petition were within the exterior
limits of the said Lobato grant," and that the facts were not
ascertained "until within the past two years." How this affidavit came upon the record is not shown. No order was
made permitting it to be filed. No reference to it or to the
allegations it contains was made in the stipulation or agreed
statement of facts upon which the case was tried, nor in the
finding of facts incorporated in the decree of the court. For
aught that appears, it was thrust upon the files without authority. But even if the affidavit were treated as a proper part of
the record, it fails to show the slightest diligence to ascertain
the real facts, although a map annexed to the original petition
exhibited the claimed boundaries of the tract, and a reference
to the records of the land office would have shown the description of each parcel entered as a homestead. Indeed it virtually
confesses a neglect to file the petition for two years after the
facts came to the knowledge of the petitioners.
The case then comes to this: Whether upon a petition for
value filed seven years after the original petition for confirmation, a decree against the United States can be entered upon a
simple allegation that certain parcels had been conveyed and
patented by the United States, with'ut showing some excuse
for the delay in presenting the petition, or some diligence in
ascertaining the real facts. Under the Court of Claims Act petitions must be presented to that court within six years from the
time the cause of action accrues, act of March 3, 1881, c. 359,
21 Stat. 505, and while there is no limitation of the time for
petitions of this character to be filed in the Court of Private
Land Claims, we have held that a similar act required that
cases should be heard and disposed of upon equitable principles,
and that we were "bound to give due weight to lapse of time."
United States v. l)oore, 12 How. 209, 222; Indiana v. Kentucy,
136 U. S. 479, 509, 510. We think there has been such unexplained delay in this case as to justify the court in holding that
petitioners had abandoned their claim for a pecuniary judgment.
VOL. oLxxxiv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

T/he decree of the Court of Private Land Claims is therefore
reversed, and the case remanded to that court forfarther
.proceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in

this case.

O'BRIEN v. WHEELOCK.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAT.S JOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 38. Argued October 21, 22,1901.-Decided February 24, 1902.

An unconstitutional law cannot be held valid as to particular parties on
the ground of estoppel, and executed as a law.
In accordance with a certain act of the General Assembly of Illinois, bonds
had been issued by commissioners appointed for the purpose of constructing a levee, and assessments had been made to pay for them against
lands alleged to have been benefited; some of the land owners contested
judgment on the assessments, and the act was adjudged by the Supreme
Court of the State to be unconstitutional; the bonds and the assessments
fell with the act, and the land owners were not estopped from denying
its validity.
A party who has received the full benefit of proceedings under a law found
to be unconstitutional may, on occasion, be compelled to respond on the
theory of implied contract.
But in this case the land owners had not received and could not receive the
benefits contemplated. The scheme embraced not only the construction
but the maintenance of the levee, and its maintenance by compulsory
process failed with the law; the consideration was indivisible and incapable of apportionment, and the evidence showed that by the breaking of the levee the land owners had sustained losses in excess of the
amount of the bonds.
If any ground of relief as on implied contract had ever existed, the want
of diligence presented an insuperable bar to its assertion.
Bond holders had filed a bill against the commissioners to compel the collection of assessments, to which the land owners were not parties, which
went to a decree July 7, 1880, finding certain amounts due to complainants, without prejudice, and giving them leave to file "a bill or bills,
original, supplemental, or otherwise" against the land owners for the
recovery of the amounts due, but no bill was filed until April 22, 1889.
The act under which the proceedings were taken was held to be uncon-

