UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Statement of the Case.

erhaueser v. 3finnesota, 1M6 U. S. 550, and cases cited; .Kng v.
City of Portland,ante, 61.
Judgment afflrmed.
-M . JusTiE HARLAN did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision.

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
BARLOW v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FRO J THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 127=,128. Argued January 23,1902.-Decided February 24,1902.
Under the contract with the United States for the construction of a dry dock
which is set forth and referred to in the statement of facts and in the
opinion of the court, the decision of the engineer in charge of the work
upon the quality of the sandstone employed by the constructor was final
when properly exercised, but it could not be exercised in advance of the
work, and forestall his judgment of stone furnished or about to be used,
or the judgment of any other competent officer, or person, or persons
who might be designated by the Navy Department.
The Court of Claims did not pass upon the issue raised as to the quality of
the stone furnished, but accepted the decision of the engineer as final as
matter of law. This court limits the recovery of claimants to the price
of stone inspected and approved.
There was nothing in the contract or in the specifications which required
the contractors to experiment with the water jet system; their obligation
was to drive the piles in the construction of the dock to a sufficient depth,
and it is not found that the depth when the Secretary of the Navy interfered was not sufficient.
The measure of damages adopted by the Court of Claims was correct.

TimsE are cross appeals. The appellees in No. 127, appellants
in No. 128, filed three separate petitions against the United
States in the Court of Claims for extra work done and extra
materials furnished under a contract with the United States.
The petitions were consolidated and tried as one case. On some
of the claims the decision was in favor of petitioners and on
others in favor of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The claimants entered into a contract with the Tnited States
for the construction of a dry dock at Puget Sound, in the State
of Washington. The contract was in writing, and was very full.
There are only a few of its provisions in controversy, and
those only need be quoted:
"First. The constructors will . . . construct and complete, ready to receive vessels, a dry dock, to be located at the
place shown on a plan accompanying this contract, at the naval
station, Puget Sound, Washington; and will, at their own risk
and expense, furnish and provide all labor, materials, tools, implements and appliances of every description-all of which shall
be of the best kind and quality adapted for the work as described in the specifications-necessary or requisite in and about
the construction of said dry dock and the caisson, pumping machinery, pumphouse, culverts, and all other accessories and appurtenances, in accordance with the aforesaid plans and specifications, subject to the approval of the civil engineer, or such other
competent officer or person or persons as may for that purpose be
designated by the party of the second part; it being further
mutually stipulated and agreed that the officer or officers, person or persons, thus designated shall and may, from time to
time, during the progress of the work, inspect all material furnished and all work done under this contract, with full power
to reject any material or work, in whole or in part, which he or
they may deem unsuitable for the purpose or purposes intended,
or not in strict conformity with spirit and intent of this contract
and with the aforesaid plans and specifications, and to cause
any inferior or unsafe work to be taken down, by and at the
expense of the contractors; and that all such rejected material
shall be at once removed from the station and replaced by material satisfactory to such inspector, and that all such inferior
or unsafe work shall be replaced by satisfactory work, by and
at the expense of the contractors. Such inspectors shall at all
times during the progress of the work have full access thereto,
and the contractors shall furnish them with full facilities for
the inspection and superintendence of the same."
"Seventh. The construction of the said dry dock and its ac-

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Statement of the Case.

cessories and appurtenances herein contracted for shall conform
in all respects to and with the plans and specifications aforesaid, which plans and specifications are hereto annexed, and
shall be deemed and taken as forming a part of this contract,
with the like operation and effect as if the same were incorporated herein. No omission in the plans or specifications of any
detail, object or provision necessary to carry this contract into
full and complete effect, in accordance with the true intent and
meaning hereof, shall operate to the disadvantage of the United
States, but the same shall be satisfactorily supplied, performed
and observed by the contractors, and all claims for extra compensation by reason of, or for or on account of, such extra performance, are hereby, and in consideration of the premises,
expressly waived; and it is hereby further provided, and this
contract is upon the express condition, that the said plans and
specifications shall not be changed in any respect, except upon
the written order of the Bureau of Yards and Docks; and that if
at any time it shall be found advantageous or necessary to make
any change or modification in the aforesaid plans and specifications, such change or modification must be agreed upon in writing by the parties to the contract, the agreement to set forth
fully the reasons for such change, and the nature thereof, and the
increased or diminished compensation, based upon the estimated
actual cost thereof which the contractors shall receive, if any:
Provided, That whenever the said changes increase or decrease
the cost by a sum exceeding five hundred dollars ($500) the actual
cost thereof shall be determined by a board of naval officers
appointed for the purpose, and the contractors shall be bound
by the determination of said board, or a majority thereof, as to
the amount of increased or diminished compensation they shall
be entitled to receive in consequence of such change or changes:
And provided also, That no further payment shall be made
unless such supplemental or modified agreement shall have been
signed before the obligation arising from such change or modification was incurred, and until after its approval by the party
of the second part: And provided further, That no change
herein provided for shall in any manner affect the validity of
this contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"Eighth. The aforesaid dry dock and its accessories and the
appurtenances and each and every part thereof, shall be constructed of approved materials and in a thoroughly substantial
and workmanlike manner, in accordance with the true intent,
meaning and spirit of the contract, plans and specifications, to
the satisfaction of the party of the second part.
"Fourteenth. It is expressly understood, covenanted and
agreed by and between the parties to the contract, that if any
doubts or disputes as to the meaning or requirements of any
thing in the contract, or if any discrepancy appear between the
aforesaid plans and specifications and this contract, the matter
shall be at once referred for the consideration and decision of
the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and his decision
thereon shall be final, subject, however, to the right of the contractors to appeal from such decision to the Secretary of the
Navy, who, in case of such appeal, shall be furnished by the
contractors with a full and complete statement of the grounds
of their appeal, in writing, and shall thereupon take such action
in the premises as, in his judgment, the rights and interests of
the respective parties to this contract shall require, and the parties of the first part hereby bind themselves and their heirs and
assigns, and their personal and legal representatives, to abide
by his, the said Secretary's, decision in the premises."
The specifications referred to in the contract contain the following provision:
"The ashlar must be of granite or sandstone, of quality approved by the engineer. All stones must be hard, clean and
free from seams and imperfections, and of good bed and build.
They must be laid true on their natural beds, and without
pinning."
The largest item in the contentions of the parties arises on
that provision of the specifications.
The court found that a bid based on the use of sandstone
was accepted, and that shortly after the inception of the work
the claimants tendered to U. S. G. White, civil engineer in
charge of the work, a sample of the sandstone which was proposed to be used in the ashlar of the dock, and offered at the

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Statement of the Case.

same time to exhibit to him the quarry from which the stone
was taken. Early in the spring of 1893 the engineer visited
the quarry, satisfied himself by certain inspections (which are
detailed in the findings) of the quality of the stone, observed
its satisfactory use elsewhere, and made numerous examinations
with a glass magnifying six or eight diameters, looking to the
detection of any mica or other substances in its composition,
and found none, the texture appearing uniform and good under
the glass, and he subsequently made a test to determine the
percentage of absorption. As a result of this examination he
approved the sandstone from the Tenino quarry, and informed
the claimants that the same would be accepted for all work
under the contract.
On May 4, 1893, the claimants (appellees), relying on the
assurance of the engineer, entered into a contract "with the
owners of the quarry to furnish them from said quarry all of
the sandstone required for the work." By the contract (which
is set out in full in the findings) the Tenino Stone Quarry Company covenanted to furnish and deliver "all of the sandstone
required for the stone entrance of the United States dry dock,
Puget Sound, Washington, according to drawings and schedules of courses, numbers and sizes furnished by the parties of
the second part, and which form a part of this contract, for
the sum of forty (40) cents per cubic foot, and all of the stone
for the boiler and pump house trimmings for the sum of fiftyfive (55) cents per cubic foot." And it was covenanted "that
the stone shall be Tenino bluestone of good, even, regular texture, of quality approved and acceptable to the civil engineer,
United States Navy, in charge of construction." Also that
"payments of 90 per cent to be made monthly for all stone
delivered the previous month upon acceptance, approval dnd
estimate of the civil engineer, United States Navy, in charge
of construction, and as soon as payment is received therefor
from the Government by the parties of the second part, and
the remaining ten per cent upon completion of the setting of
the stonework and upon the approval and acceptance of the
stone by the said civil engineer, United States Navy."
Afterwards the claimants entered into a contract with Albert

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

and Lewis Beaudette, stonecutters, to cut the stone. Subsequently 2377 cubic feet of stone arrived at the site of the dock,
which amounted to $1545.05 at 65 cents per foot, and was
included in the vouchers rendered by claimants in the month
of June, 1893, to which the following certificates, signed by the
engineer officially, were annexed:
"Having fully examined the labor and materials above
charged, I certify that they are of good quality and in all
respects in conformity with the written contract of date October 29, 1892."
"Received the above labor and materials in good order at
Puget Sound Naval Station this first day of July, 1893."
The amount rendered by the claimants, which included the
said sum $1545.05, was approved by the Commandant, John
C. Morong, July 8, 1893. The Navy Department struck out the
item for $1545.05 on account of a communication from the
Tacoma Trades Council of the State of Washington, complaining of the quality of the stone. A report on the quality of the
stone was called for from the Commandant., and the latter in
turn called for a report from the engineer in charge. The
engineer reported favorably on the quality of the stone, and
attached to his report letters from the chief engineer of the
Northern Pacific Railroad and others. The Commandant accepted the report as his own, and forwarded it to the Navy
Department.
June 14, 1893, the claimants addressed a letter to the Department describing the qualities of the stone, and stated that
the protest against it was prompted by a " spirit of boycotting."
On the 21st of August, 1893, the claimants sent a letter to
the engineer in charge, including their bill for the sandstone,
and reciting the circumstances which led to its selection, and
insisted "on immediate payment for said stone and the Bureau's
decision as to the remaining stone."
On the 31st day of August, 1893, the Chief of the Bureau of
Yards and Docks announced by letter to the Commandant of
the Puget Sound Naval Station that the Tenino stone would
not be accepted as material for construction, and on the 8th
of September, 1893, the engineer in charge notified the claimants of this decision.

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Statement of the Case.

Upon being informed of this decision the claimants protested
against the requirement, but offered stone from Sucia Island,
and also from Dog Fish Point, which was accepted and used
in the construction of the dock.
Upon their tendering such stone to the civil engineer in
charge, he wrote them under date of March 29, 1894:
"-ESSRs.

ByRoN BARLOW & Co.,

"Charleston, Washington.
"Gentlemen: The receipt of your favor of yesterday is acknowledged, and in reply would say that the stones referred to
therein, having been approved by the Bureau, will be accepted
by me, subject to inspection under such specifications as I may
be furnished with by the Bureau.
"2. The specifications forming a part of your contract being
of no effect under existing circumstances, I have asked for such
specifications as will doubtless be furnished therewith before any
stone will be delivered here.
U. S. G. WHITE,
"Very respectfully,
"Civil Engi?eer, U. S. 2ravy, in Ckarge of Construction."
Upon receiving the communication in regard to the quality
of the Tenino stone the Navy Department, through the Bureau
of Yards and Docks, instituted an examination into the qualities of the stone and its fitness, "with the result that said Navy
Department, through the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and
Docks, reached the conclusion that said Tenino sandstone was
not fit and suitable for the purposes to which it was proposed
to use said stone; that said stone did not fulfil the requirements of the contract and specifications as above recited; that
it was not a hard stone, nor a clean stone, nor free from imperfections; that its absorbent qualities were too high; that its
crushing strength was too low, and that it was in many essential particulars totally unfit and unsuitable and undesirable for
the use in the ashlar of this dry dock; and thereupon, to wit,
on the 29th day of August, 1891, the contractors were notified
of this decision of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and were
required to furnish other and better sandstone. From this decision of the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and .Docks the
vOL. cLxxxV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

claimants appealed to the Secretary of the Navy, who concurred in the opinion of the said Chief of the Bureau of Yards
and Docks, and concurred in his order requiring a different and
better sandstone. The tests and analyses of said Tenino sandstone were made from samples furnished to the Bureau of Yards
and Docks by the contractors and by the Commandant of the
Puget Sound station. The delay in arriving at the ultimate
determination to require a better quality of sandstone, which
was reached on the 24th of August, 1894, was partly caused by
the fact that the claimants were in correspondence with the
Secretary of the Navy in an endeavor to persuade him to accept said Tenino sandstone. The tests and analyses of said
stone, as above recited, were made promptly."
And it was found by the court:
"The amount of Tenino sandstone quarried, cut and delivered
was 2349 cubic feet, amounting, at 65 cents a cubic foot, to
$1526.85.
"The claimants had also, before receiving notice of the rejection of the Tenino sandstone by the Bureau of Yards and Docks,
caused to be quarried and cut, but not transported, '280 cubic
feet, amounting, at 65 cents a foot, less the cost of transportation, 10 cents a foot, 54A. cents a foot, to $3967.60, making a
total for stone actually quarried and cut, and part of which was
delivered, of $5494.45. That sum, however, has not been paid
by the claimants to the owners of the said Tenino stone quarry,
nor does it appear that any action or suit has ever been brought
against the said claimants for said sum of money.
"The total amount expended by the claimants for furnishing,
delivering and cutting the stone which actually went into the
construction of said dry dock from Sucia Island and Dog Fish
Point, as aforesaid, was $33,556.23.
"If they had been allowed to furnish Tenino stone they could
have done so at a cost of $17,948.80. The additional cost, therefore, to the claimants of furnishing the stone which they did
furnish, over and above what it would have cost them to furnish the Tenino stone, is the difference between the two sums
last named, amounting to $15,607.43."
In the -execution of the contract claimants made a mistake in

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Statement of the Case.

the cutting off of certain piling, which mistake could be corrected in two ways. One of the ways was accepted by the
Navy Department and executed by the claimants as required,
but claimants were also required to make some additions which
"had no relation to the error which had been made in the
original construction of the sheet piling, but would have been
required irrespectively of any such error having been made.
The additional cost to the contractors amounted to $59.30."
Finding IX.
It was discovered during the progress of the work that the
soil at the bottom of the dock was of a very tenacious and unyielding character, so as to be difficult of penetration for piles
driven by the ordinary drop-hammer process, and was so reported by the contractors.
It was stated, on the 15th of February, 1894, that penetration was from 8 to 10 feet, and while the Bureau of Yards and
Docks thought this might be satisfactory, yet the Bureau also
thought that the piles should be driven, if possible, fifteen feet
below the bottom of the excavation. There was no claim made
by the contractors at that time that they could not reach a
greater depth than theretofore reported. After some correspondence the Bureau telegraphed definite instructions to accept
no piles driven to a less depth than fifteen feet. The contractors made no attempt to show that this could not be done, but
employed experts to give an opinion, after tests upon the piles
driven, that the Bureau was wrong. "In view of these facts,
the Secretary of the Navy, on the 21st day of May, 1894, and
upon the occasion of a visit to said dock by that official, verbally authorized and directed the contractors to sink the piles
by a method known as the water-jet system; that is to say, by
forcing water into the ground by means of a sink pipe operated
by the hydraulic system, thus forming a hole into which the
pile is set. The contractors objected to and protested against
this method of driving the piles upon the ground that it -destroyed and weakened the bottom of the pit, and subsequently
a board of naval experts was convened for the purpose of reporting upon the advisability of sinking the piles by this system.
The board reported adversely to this system, and recommended

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

that the piles be driven in accordance with the provisions of the
contract and by the ordinary drop-hammer process, the piles to
be driven to a minimum of 6 feet. The remaining 696 piles,
which were driven after this report by the drop-hammer process,
reached an average depth of 10 feet 4 inches."
The same board of naval experts, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Navy, passed upon the expense caused the contractors by the use of the water-jet system, and recommended
an allowance of $1156.76. The allowance was approved by the
Secretary and a voucher drawn therefor; "but when the same
came before the Auditor for the Navy Department for audit
and before the Comptroller of the Treasury for payment, it was
refused, upon the ground that the services required were not
extra and additional, but that they were such as the contract
contemplated, and upon the further ground that the Secretary
of the Navy, under the specific requirements of section 7 of the
original contract, had no power or authority to authorize or
direct the incurring of this expense unless the cost of the same
was first ascertained by a board of officers provided for that
purpose before the expense was incurred, and reduced to writing, as required by the seventh clause of the contract. Whereupon the Secretary of the Navy procured the reference of this
item to this court under and pursuant to the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 1063." Finding XI.
The reasonable value of the work set forth and described in
the finding is $1156.76.
The foregoing statement of facts is applicable to the appeal
of the United States. The findings applicable to the appeal of
claimants (INo. 128) are given in the opinion.
As-Yr. George Hines Gorman for the United States. .Mr.
sistant Attorney General Pradtwas on his brief.
.. George A. Ring for Barlow.
was on his brief.
M

-Mr. Rufus H. Thayer

. JUSTICE MOKENNA, after stating the case as above, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
The principal claim of appellees and the largest item in the

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment awarded them grows out of the rejection of the
Tenino sandstone. That item was based upon the provision in
the specifications which required it to be "of quality approved
by the engineer." But that provision, it is contended by the
United States, must be read and construed with those covenants
of the contract which require (1) that all materials used in the
dry dock shall be of the best kind, "subject to the approval of
the civil engineer, or such other competent officer or person or
persons as may for that purpose be designated by the party of
the second part," which officer or persons may, "from time to
time during the progress of the work, inspect all material frnished,

.

.

.

with full power to reject any material, in

whole or in part, which he or they may deem unsuitable for the
purpose or purposes intended, or not in strict conformity with
the spirit and intention of this contract, and the aforesaid plan
and specifications." And the United States also relies upon
the covenants contained in the fourteenth subdivision of the
contract set out in the statement of facts.
And we think these provisions are harmonious and determine
the rights of the parties. We think, indeed, that the engineer
in charge of the work was the appointee of the parties, and that
his decision upon the quality of sandstone was final when properly exercised, but it could not be exercised in advance of the
work and forestall his judgment of stone furnished or about to
be used, or the judgment of any "other competent officer or
person or persons" who might be designated by the Navy Department. To so hold would destroy the power reserved by the
United States to appoint any competent person to inspect the
work and material. The engineer was given power to judge,
not a type of stone, but particular stones. It was such stones
which were to be "hard, clean and free from seams and imperfections, and of good bed and build." Such was the power of
the engineer in charge, but who should be the "engineer in
charge" depended upon the appointment of the Navy Department; and the power of appointment was reserved to be exercised at any time. A useless right if one appointee could anticipate and control the judgment of his successor.
The influence which these considerations have in the inter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

pretation of the contract is not destroyed by answering that
every stone from the Tenino quarry might have satisfied every
requirement and have been approved by every and any person
designated to inspect the work. This, indeed, might be so;
but, on the other hand, not one stone might have passed the
test. Besides, claimants are not in a position to urge that consideration. Every stone which might be tendered for inspection was subject to be rejected, but claimants seek to recover as
for an acceptance. They rely not upon approval of stones, but
upon the approval of the quarry, and they rest the quality of
the quarry upon the general inspection of the engineer and certain instances of satisfactory use. In opposition stands the
covenants of the contract already mentioned, and the test the
Bureau of Yards and Docks made of samples of Tenino stone
furnished by claimants. And there is no pretence that the test
was unfairly made. It, at least, convinced the Bureau that the
Tenino stone was not a hard stone, nor a clean stone, nor free
from imperfections.
The Court of Claims did not pass upon the issue raised as to
the quality of the stone. It accepted the decision of the engineer as being final as a matter of law. We cannot concur to
the full extent of the decision, and must limit, therefore, the
recovery of claimants to the price of stone inspected and approved. On this the finding is that "the amount of Tenino
sandstone quarried, cut and delivered was 2349 cubic feet,
amounting, at 65 cents a cubic foot, to $1526.85."
These views render it unnecessary to consider that provision
of the contract which makes the decision of the Chief of the
Bureau of Yards and Docks final, only subject to appeal to the
Secretary of the Navy, of "any doubts or disputes as to the
meaning or requirement of anything" in the contract.
2. The next item of importance is the expense to which the
claimants were subjected in experimenting with the water-jet
system. The court found that the experiment was ordered by
the Secretary of the Navy against the protest of the claimants,
and the board of inspectors found that the cost of the experiment to the claimants was $1156.76, and recommended the
payment of that sum. This action was approved by the Secre-

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Opinion of the Court.

tary, and vouchers drawn accordingly. It was refused when
it came for audit and payment, because "under the specific requirements of section 7 of the original contract, [he] had no
power or authority to authorize or direct the incurring of this
expense unless the cost of the same was first ascertained by a
board of officers provided for that purpose before the expense
was incurred, and reduced to writing, as required by the seventh
clause of the contract. Whereupon the Secretary of the Navy
procured the reference of this item to this court under and pursuant to the provisions of Revised Statutes, section 1063."
There was certainly nothing in the contract or in the specifications which required the contractors to experiment with
the water-jet system. There was nothing in the contract which
required them to experiment with ineffectual or detrimental
methods. Their obligation was to drive the piles in the construction of the dock to a sufficient depth, and it is not found
that the depth attained, when the Secretary of the Navy interferred, was not sufficient. The Bureau of Yards and Docks
conceived a greater depth to be necessary and that it could be
attained. Some controversy arose, and there were reports to
and correspondence with the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and
finally the Bureau "telegraphed definite instructions" "to accept no piles driven to a less depth than 15 feet." In view of
the facts the Secretary of the Navy, on the occasion of a visit
to the dock, "verbally authorized and directed the contractors
to sink the piles" by the water-jet system. The contractors
protested and predicted failure. Failure occurred and the system was abandoned upon an adverse opinion of its utility given
by a board of naval experts.
It is contended by the *United States that the direction of
the Secretary of the Navy was a change or modification of the
contract within the meaning of the seventh subdivision of the
contract, and that the Secretary had no power to direct or consent to such change more than the "humblest laborer employed
upon the work," and besideg, that no such change could be
made except by an agreement in writing.
We have no doubt of the power of the Secretary of the Navy.
His power is manifest from the contract and is given by law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The duties of the bureaus of the Navy Department are performed under the control of the Secretary of the Navy. Their
orders are considered as emanating from him and have "full
force and effect as such." Section 420, Rev. Stat. And the
act of 1891, which provided for the construction of the dry
dock, authorized the Secretary of the Navy to have it constructed by contract. He especially stood for the United States
in such contract, and was invested with its power, and was
charged with the duty of seeing that the dock was adequately
constructed.
It is further contended by the Government that the experiment with the water-jet system was a "change or modification"
of the contract, and because not agreed to in writing by the
parties that the expense incurred by the contractors in making
the experiment cannot be recovered.
If both contracting parties were individuals, it would easily
be seen that subdivision seven was inserted in the contract for
their benefit, to be insisted upon or waived as to them might
seem best. What precluded that freedom and useful power to
the Government ? If not precluded it certainly could have been
exercised, and, as we have seen, through the Secretary of the
Navy. If the power to insert the provision in the contract or
to omit it was given, the power to dispense with it was also
given, unless it was necessary to be inserted, and could not be
dispensed with, on account of some injunction of the law. Such
injunction, as we understand counsel, is claimed by virtue of
section 3744 of the Revised Statutes, which requires the Secretary of the Navy to cause all contracts made by his Department to be reduced to writing and signed by the contracting
parties with their names at the end thereof. It is certainly
disputableif the requirement of the section applies to alterations,
which may become necessary in the progress of work regularly
conducted under contract. And this court has held that the
requirements of the section did not preclude a recovery for
property or services "as upon an implied contract for a quantumrmeruit." Clark v. United States, 95 U. S. 539. But we
are not required to decide on this record the question suggested. We do not think that the order of the Secretary of

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Opinion of the Court.

the Navy directing the experiment with the water-jet system
was a "change or modification" of the contract within the
sense of subdivision seven. It was an exercise of superintendence and unwarrantable superintendence. The experiment
was forced upon the contractors. They were powerless to do
anything but protest and yield. The interference with the
work of driving the piles by the drop-hammer process was an
improper interference, and brings the claim of the contractors
within the rule in Clark's case, 6 Wall. 546; Smoot's case, 15
Wall. 4:7 ; the case of the Amoskeag Company, and within the
ruling of United States v. Srnithi,, 94 U. S. 214, where the other
cases are cited and approved. By denominating the order
of the Secretary as an improper interference, we mean in a legal
sense. The facts show that he considered the order as a proper
exercise of his authority, and beneficial to the United States.
Nor did he intend to be oppressive to the contractors. He subsequently recognized their rioht to reimbursement for the expenses which they had incurred.
The measure of damages adopted by the Court of Claims, we
think, was correct. The expense caused to the claimants by the
suspension of the regular work was as definite and as directly
assignable to the action of the Secretary as the expenditure in
the experiment.
There was no error in allowing the sum of $59.30 for the extra work set forth in Finding IX.
The summary of our views upon the appeal of the United
States is that the Court of Claims erred in .allowing the following claims:
Tenino stone quarried and not delivered ..... $ 3,967 60
Difference in cost between Tenino stone and
15,607 43
that which was furnished .................
$19,575 03
The appeal of the claimants is based on the action of the
Court of Claims in denying recovery for the extra work and
materials described in Findings VIII and X.
Those findings are as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"VIII. The plans for the foundations of the boilers and boiler
house were submitted to the civil engineer in charge of the work
and approved by him, and the work was then done on said
foundations in accordance with the directions of said engineer.
The foundations for the boiler house were completed and accepted by said engineer and included in his 'monthly estimate
and paid for. The foundations for the boilers were made in
accordance with the drawings so submitted to said engineer,
and were completely laid at about the time the engineer first in
charge of said work was detached therefrom. Subsequently
another engineer was placed in charge of the work. In his
opinion the foundations were imperfect and insecure because of
defective construction on the part of the claimants, and he required that they be relaid. The claimants, protesting that it
was not competent to require them to change the foundations
after they bad laid the same to the acceptance of the engineer
in charge at the time of the original construction, relaid the
same in accordance with the direction of the engineer thus subsequently in charge. The matter was subsequently referred to
the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and he decided
that the work was required to be done by the terms of the contract. It does not appear that the claimants appealed to the
Chief of the Bureau before doing the work, or that it was ordered
by him.
"The total additional cost of said work to the claimants
wasFor the extra foundations for the boiler house... $312 12
And for the extra foundations for the boilers.... 384 56
Making a total of ..................... $696 68"
"X. In refilling the dirt after the altars were in place no
part of the filling was rammed or sluiced except the clay puddling. This was in accordance with the instructions of the engineer in charge of the work. The claimants discussed the
matter with him, and he informed them that it was not required to be rammed or sluiced. He embraced the work done
in that way in his monthly estimates, and the claimants received
payment for a large portion of the work done in that way at

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Opinion of the Court.

the contract rate of 'Filling and grading per cubic yard, 30
cents.' In the latter part of August, 1894, however, there was
a change in the office of engineer in charge of the work for the
United States. The new engineer then placed in charge required the claimants to ram or sluice all back fillings. The
claimants protested, insisting that the contract did not require
anything more than depositing the material and evenly grading
the surface to correspond with the grade of the station. The
new engineer, however, required all the work to be thoroughly
sluiced with water, and all but a small part thoroughly rammed,
and the claimants did the work in that way under protest.
"The additional cost to the claimants of doing this work,
over and above what would have been required had they not
been required to ram or sluice the same, would be ten cents a
yard, making, for 37,227 yards, $3722.70. The engineer who
ordered the work done in the manner stated referred the question of so requiring it, at the request of the claimants, to the
Chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and the latter informed said engineer that the Department approved his requirement, for the reason, as shown by the Bureau, that the contract
plainly required it."
The claims were rightly disallowed. Some of the observations already made apply to them. The contract is very explicit in that all labor and materials "shall be of the best kind
and quality adapted for the work," and subject not only to the
approval of the civil engineer at a particular time, but subject
to the approval of any engineer subsequently appointed, "with
full power to reject any material or work, in whole or in part,
which he or they (some other competent officer, or person or
persons) may deem unsuitable for the purpose or purposes intended.

.

.

And to cause any inferior or unsafe work to be

taken down by, and at the expense of the contractors,
and replaced by material satisfactory to such inspector
by and at the expense of the contractors."
In addition to these views we quote from the opinion of the
Court of Claims as follows:
" As to the causes of action set forth in Findings VIII and
X, the court is of the opinion that the claimants should have

OCTOBER TERM11, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

submitted the requirements of the engineer in charge to the
Chief of the Bureau before proceeding with the work. They
were required to do so by the terms of the contract, and authority to compel them to do additional work was thereby reserved to the Chief of the Bureau."
Judgment is reduced to the sum of $5367.96, and for that
amount
Affi
ed.
dissented.
MR. JUSTICE IARLAN did not hear the argument, and took
no part in the decision.
MiR. JUSTICE BREWER and MiR. JUSTICE PECKHAm

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
APPEAL FROM1 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 225. Argued November 12, 13, 1901.-Decided February 24,1902.

Construing the act of March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22 Stat. 487, and the act of
June 12, 1866, 14 Stat. 59, both relating to the salaries of postmasters, as
their terms require, the judgment of the Court of Claims in this case is
erroneous; but the charges of misconduct, maladministration and fraud
against the officers of the Post Office Department, so freely scattered
through the briefs of counsel for appellee, are entirely unwarranted by
anything contained in the record.

THE Government appeals from a judgment of the Court of
Claims awarding to the petitioner the sum of $1264.83, upon a
readjustment of salary for his services as postmaster at Gadsden,
in the State of Alabama, between July 1, 1866, and June 30,
1874. The original petition was filed in October, 1888, in consequence of the passage of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22
Stat. 487, which reads as follows:
"That the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to readjust the salaries of all postmasters and
late postmasters of the third, fourth and fifth classes, under the

