OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

STUDEBAKER v. PERRY.
ERROR TO TE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
CIRCUIT.

FOR THE SEVENTH

No. 122. Argued January 17, 20,1902.-Decided February 24, 1902.
The single question for the determination of the court in this case is,
whether the Comptroller of the Currency, acting under the national
banking laws, can validly make more than one assessment upon the
shareholders of an insolvent national banking association, and it is held
that he can, the language of the statutes on that subject being plain and
free from doubt.

ON November 9, 1899, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, John Perry, as receiver of the National Bank of Kansas City, brought an action
against Clement Studebaker, to recover an assessment made by
the Comptroller of the Currency on stock held by the defendant in said bank.
The declaration set forth the incorporation of the National
Bank of Kansas City; the ownership by the defendant of 189
shares of its capital stock of the par value of $100 each; the
insolvency of the bank; an assessment by the Comptroller of
the Currency on February 11, 1896, of sixteen per cent on the
stock; the payment by the defendant of said assessment; a
finding by the Comptroller of the Currency on February 25,
1899, that the first assessment was insufficient and the necessity of an additional assessment of seven per cent; the levy
of said second assessment; the direction by the Comptroller to
the receiver to collect it, and the refusal of the defendant to pay.
A demurrer was filed raising the question of the sufficiency
in law of the declaration. The demurrer was overruled, and
the defendant electing to stand by his demurrer, judgment was
rendered for the amount of the second assessment upon the stock
owned by the defendant. A writ of error was allowed, and the
cause was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh
Circuit, where the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed.

STUDEBAKER c. PERRY.

259

Opinion of the Court.

102 Fed. Rep. 941.
The case was then brought to this court
by a writ of error duly allowed.
Mr. Hugh C. Ward for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George W. Ward and -r. FrancisF. Oldham for defendant in error. Mr. Walter W. Ross and Mir. ... .T Kirkman
were on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE SuRnAs, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The single question for our determination is whether the
Comptroller of the Currency, acting under the national banking laws, can validly make more than one assessment upon the
shareholders of an insolvent national banking association.
It is not denied by the plaintiff in error that the first assessment, which he voluntarily paid, was insufficient to pay the
debts and liabilities of the bank, but his contention is that the
Comptroller of the Currency exhausted his power to levy
assessments upon the shareholders of stock in an insolvent
national bank by a single exercise of that power. He advances
two arguments in support of his contention: First, that the
individual liability of national bank shareholders is contractual,
and that hence only one assessment and suit to enforce the same
is authorized by law; and, second, that by a course of practice
for many years the Comptrollers of the Currency, charged with
the execution of the laws, construed them to atithorize but one
assessment, and that such construction is now conclusive upon
the courts.
Those portions of the statutes which are involved in this controversy are found in section 5151 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, in the following terms:
"The shareholders of every national banking association
shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and
not one for another, for all contracts, debts and engagements of
such association to the extent of the amount of their stock
thereih, at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

vested in such shares, except that shareholders of any banking
association now existing under state laws, having not less than
five millions of dollars of capital actually paid in and a surplus
of twenty per centum on hand, both to be determined by the
Comptroller of the Currency, shall be liable only to the amount
invested in their shares.
And in section 5234 in the following terms:
"On becoming satisfied, as specified in sections 5226 and 5227,
that any association has refused to pay its circulating notes as
therein mentioned, and is in default, the Comptroller of the
Currency may forthwith appoint a receiver and require of him
such bond and security as he deems proper. Such receiver, under the direction of the Comptroller, shall take possession of
the books, records and assets of every description of such association, collect all debts, dues and claims belonging to it, and
upon the order of a court of record of competent jurisdiction
may sell or compound all bad or doubtful debts, and, on a like
order, may sell all the real and personal property of such association, on such terms as the court shall direct; and may, if
necessary to pay the debts of such association, enforce the individual liability of the stockholders. Such receiver shall pay
over all money so made to the Treasurer of the United States,
subject to the order of the Comptroller, and also make report
to the Comptroller of all his acts and proceedings."
And section 5236, as follows :
"From time to time, after full provision has first been made for
refunding to the United States any deficiency in redeeming the
notes of such association, the Comptroller shall make a ratable
dividend of the money so paid over to him by such receiver on
all claims as may have been proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, as the proceeds
of the assets of such association are paid over to him, shall make
further dividends on all such claims previously proved or adjudicated ; and the remainder of the proceeds, if any, shall be
paid over to the shareholders of such association, or their legal
representatives, in proportion to the stock by them respectively
held."
The proposition of the plaintiff in error, as expressed in the

STUDEBAKER v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

brief of his counsel, is "that section 5234 simply authorizes the
Comptroller to enforce the individual liability of shareholders
in a national bank, if necessary to pay the debts of such bank;
that the Comptroller is therefore plainly authorized to decide
as to the necessity of enforcing such liability and as to the time
when the same is to be enforced, and fix the amount to be collected; that there is to be a decision by the Comptroller as to
these matters, and then a demand or requisition by him, followed by one suit, at law or in equity, as circumstances require; that it is this decision, which is termed an assessment;
that the Comptroller is nowhere expressly authorized to enforce such liability by several decisions and suits ;"that he is
simply authorized to enforce the individual liability of national
bank stockholders according to law; and that there can be but
one decision by the Comptroller as to the time, necessity and
extent of enforcing this liability, and, therefore, but one assessment, as the statute certainly does not authorize an assessment
which could not be enforced by suit."
It is further urged, in behalf of the plaintiff in error, that as
the liability of a shareholder of an insolvent national bank for
all contracts, debts and engagements of such association to the
extent of the amount of his stock therein, at the par value
thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such shares, is
contractual in its nature, it therefore follows that the general
rule that the plaintiff cannot split up a single and entire cause
of action and make it the subject of different suits applies.
We do not deem it necessary in the case before us to enter
at length into the discussion suggested. It is sufficient that,
by entering into the relation of a shareholder in a national
banking association, the plaintiff in error subjected himself to
the obligation created by the statute, and the only question is
whether the Comptroller of the Currency has power to make
and to enforce by a suit at law more than one assessment upon
the shareholders of an insolvent national bank, if necessary to
pay the debts thereof. The general purpose of the statute undoubtedly was to confer upon the creditors of the bank a right
to resort to the individual liability of the shareholders to the
extent, if necessary, of the amount of their stock therein, and it

OCTOBER TERIM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

would be a singular construction of law that would empower
the Comptroller, by making an inadequate assessment, to relieve the shareholders, upon paying such assessment, from their
entire liability.
The logic of the plaintiff in error requires him to convince us
that his voluntary payment of one assessment, made when the
Comptroller was imperfectly acquainted with the amount of
the bank's indebtedness, amounts to a satisfaction in toto of his
obligation. Such may be the true construction of the statute;
but, defeating, as it would in the case supposed, the main and
obvious purpose of the enactment, such a construction will only
be made by a court when compelled by the necessary meaning
of the language. The inconvenience that would be occasioned
by the meaning proposed are so great and obvious as to lead
us to expect to find that a reasonable construction of the law
does not require us to adopt it.
If it be the duty of the Comptroller to give the creditors of
an insolvent national bank the remedy providing for the individual liability of the shareholders, and if the law be that he
can do so by one assessment only, then he must, no matter
what the condition of the bank may appear to be, make an assessment upon the shareholders up to the entire amount of
their liability. In many instances, the value of the bank's assets might make it altogether probable that but a small portion
of the shareholders' contribution would be needed. To require
payment in full of money which might be held for years while
the bank's affairs were being wound up, and then be returned
without interest, would certainly be a hardship upon the shareholders. If, to avoid that hardship, the Comptroller should
postpone the assessment until he could fully inform himself of
the condition of the bank's affairs, in the time that might thus
elapse, some of the stockholders might become insolvent or remove their property from the reach of legal proceedings, and
thus a loss be thrown upon the creditors.
There is nothing in the language of the sections involved to
compel us to adopt a view of the law which would result in
such manifest inconveniences.

STUDEBAKER v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

In .fennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498, 505, some aspects of the
question were considered. Mr. Justice Swayne said:
"The receiver is the instrument of the Comptroller. He is
appointed by the Comptroller, and the power of appointment
carries with it the power of removal. It is for the Comptroller
to decide when it is necessary to institute proceedings against
the stockholders to enforce their personal liability, and whether
the whole or a part, and, if only a part, how much shall be
collected. These questions are referred to his judgment and
discretion, and his determination is conclusive. The stockholders cannot controvert it. It is not to be questioned in the
litigation that may ensue. He may make it at such time as he
may deem proper and upon such data as shall be satisfactory
to him. This action on his part is indispensable whenever the
personal liability of the stockholders is sought to be enforced,
and must precede the institution of suit by the receiver. The
fact must be distinctly averred in all such cases, and if put in
issue must be proved.
"The liability of the stockholders is several and not joint.
The limit of their liability is the par of the stock held by each
one. Where the whole is sought to be recovered, the proceeding must be at law. Where less is required, the proceeding
may be in equity, and in such case an interlocutory decree may
be taken for contribution and the case may stand over for the
farther action of the court, if such action should subsequently
prove to be necessary, until the full amount of the liability is
exhausted. It would be attended with injurious consequences
to forbid action against the stockholders until the precise
amount to be collected shall be formally ascertained. This
would greatly protract the final settlement and might be attended by large losses by insolvency and otherwise in the intervening time. The amount must depend in part upon the
solvency of the debtors and the validity of the claims. Time
will be consumed in the application of these tests, and the result
in many cases cannot be foreseen. The same remarks apply
to the enforced collections from the stockholders. A speedy
adjustment is necessary to the efficiency and utility of the law;
the interests of the creditors require it, and it was the obvious

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

policy and purpose of Congress to give it. If too much be collected, it is provided by the statute that any surplus which may
remain after satisfying the demands against the association
shall be paid over to the stockholders. It is better they should
pay more than may prove to be needed than that the evils of
delay should be encountered."
These observations clearly imply that the Comptroller, in the
exercise of his discretion, may levy successive assessments as
they may appear to be necessary. If the power can be exercised only once no reason is apparent why equity should have
jurisdiction for the collection of an assessment less than one
hundred per cent. If the stockholders' liability is fixed once
for all by the first assessment of the Comptroller, the legal remedy for the collection of a ten per cent assessment is as full,
adequate and complete as it is for the collection of the one hundred per cent assessment. The reason why, when the assessment is for the one hundred per cent, the proceedings must be
at law, and when for a less amount it may be in equity, is obvious. When the full amount is assessed there can be but one
suit against each stockholder. He is suable for his full liability
at once, and there is no reason for equitable jurisdiction. If a
partial assessment is made, there may be other assessments,
when the receiver has liberty to sue at law for even a partial
assessment, though equity has concurrent jurisdiction to prevent
a multiplicity of suits.
Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 613, was the case of a suit at law by

the receiver of a national banking association to enforce the
individual liability of a shareholder. It was there contended
that the defendant was bound to contribute ratably, and that
the proper amount could be ascertained only in equity; that
the defendant was bound to contribute ratably a large sum ;
that this sum was not stated in the declaration, and hence what
would be ratable and proper did not appear; that the obligation of the defendant was to pay into the hands of the Comptroller of the Currency a ratable portion of the debts of the
association proved before him, and that the declaration did not
show that any debts had been so proved; and that the declaration demanded a larger sum than the defendant is required by

STUDEBAKER v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute to pay, and also an additional sum by way of interest. But it was held by this court that "in regard to the first
three of these objections it is sufficient to say that -Ennedyv.
Gibson),8 Wall. 498, is conclusive against them. It is there said
that the amount to be paid rests in the judgment and discretion
of the Comptroller; that his determination cannot be controverted by the stockholders in suits against them, and that, when
the order is to collect the full amount of the par of the stock, the
suit must be at law. It is unnecessary to reproduce the reasoning of the court in support of these propositions. The sum to
be paid being liquidated, and due and payable when the Comptroller's order was made, it follows that the amount bears interest from the date of the order."
In United States v. Enox, 102 U. S. 422, an attempt was
made to enforce a deficiency, caused by the insolvency of some
of the shareholders of an insolvent national bank, against solvent
shareholders, but it was held that the liability of the shareholders was several, and was not affected by the failure of any other
shareholder to pay the amount assessed against him, and it was
said by this court that "although assessments made by the
Comptroller, under the circumstances of the first assessment in
this case, and all other assessments, successive or otherwise, not
exceeding the par value of all the stock of the bank, are conclusive upon the stockholders."
GermanicaNational Bank v. Case, 131 U. S. (Appendix, 144),
was a case where the Comptroller had levied an assessment for
an amount on each shareholder, not sufficient to justify an ap.
peal from the Circuit Court of the United States, and where a
motion to dismiss the appeal was made in this court, but the
motion was denied, Chief Justice Waite saying, "If the decree
asked and obtained in this cause had been confined to an order
for the payment of the seventy per cent upon the amount of
the stock held by the appellants respectively, which the Comptroller of the Currency has already instructed the receiver to
collect, the objection taken by the appellee to our jurisdiction
might have been good; but the decree as given goes further,
and after providing for the seventy per cent, adjudges that each
of the appellants shall be liable to further contribution as stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

holders until a sufficient sum is realized to pay the debts of the
bank, and that the bill be retained until it shall be certain that
no further contribution will be required. This fixes the liability of each of these appellants to contribute in this suit to the
extent of the nominal amount of his stock if necessary, and as
the bill alleges that at least twenty-five per cent more will be
required, it is apparent ' that the matter in dispute' is not alone
the amount already decreed, but a sum in addition that may
amount to thirty per cent of the stock, and is now expected to
reach twenty-five per cent. Their liability generally as stockholders to make contribution has been finally established. That
can never again be contested in this suit except under this appeal.
For the purposes of jurisdiction, we may consider that as in
dispute which would be settled by the decree if it had not been
appealed from." The right of the Comptroller to levy a further
assessment was thereby plainly implied.
Bushnell v. Leland, 164 U. S. 684, was a late case, in which
the power of the Comptroller to determine the necessity and
amount of an assessment upon the shareholders was challenged
on constitutional grounds, but it was held, in the language of
Mr. Justice White: "All these alleged errors may be reduced
to the simple contention that under the national banking law
the Comptroller of the Currency is without power to appoint
a receiver to a defaulting or insolvent national bank, or to call
for a ratable assessment upon the stockholders of such bank
without a previous judicial ascertainment of the necessity for
the appointment of the receiver and of the existence of the
liabilities of the bank; and that the lodgment of authority in
the Comptroller, empowering him either to appoint a receiver
or to make a ratable call upon the stockholders, is tantamount
to vesting that officer with judicial power, in violation of the
Constitution. All of these contentions have long since been
settled, and are not open to further discussion. Jennedy v.
Gibson, 8 Wall. 498; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673; United
States v. Knox, 102 U. S. 422."
The precise question raised in the present case has several
times been argued and determined in the lower Federal courts.
In Aldrich v. Yates, 95 Fed. Rep. 78, the question was thus

STUDEBAKER v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

stated and answered by District Judge Evans in the Circuit
Court for the District of Kentucky: "The question, then, remains, has the Comptroller of the Currency the power to make
a second assessment in any event? The ultimate liability of
the shareholder in such cases is for the full amount of the par
value of the stock, under the statutory conditions, if by the
Comptroller they are found to exist. A mistake of that officer
in making an estimate of the amount of a needed assessment
cannot be held to release the shareholder from the full statutory
liability. A mistake of such a character would be natural, if
not inevitable, in many instances, in view of the uncertain value
of assets; and the indisposition, in the first instance, to make
an assessment unnecessarily large, may well excuse its not being done, when there is certainly no statutory provision, prohibiting, in terms or by necessary implication, further assessments, if the necessity exists. In practice, second assessments
have frequently been made. The court is of opinion that such
a course is within the power of the Comptroller, in the exercise
of his duty to see that the liability of the stockholder is sufficiently enforced to pay the debts of the bank, and that practice
has been recognized as proper by the Supreme Court. United
States v. Knoxe, 102 U. S. 422."
In Aldrich v. CanmpbelZ, 97 Fed. Rep. 663, it was held by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, that the action
of the Comptroller of the Currency in ordering an assessment
against the stockholders of an insolvent national bank, whether
a first assessment or one subsequently made, is a determination
of the necessity for such assessment, which is conclusive on the
stockholders, and cannot be questioned by them in any litigation which may ensue, either at law or in equity.
In Deweese v. Smith, 97 Fed. Rep. 309, it was held by the
Circuit Court that a judgment against a shareholder of an insolvent national bank on a first assessment was a bar to a second suit brought to recover a later assessment, but this judgment was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, in Deweese v. Smith, 106 Fed. Rep. 438. And,
as already stated, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit held in the case now before us that it was discretionary

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

with the Comptroller to make one or more assessments, Studebaker v. Perry, 102 Fed. Rep. 947, Woods, Circuit Judge, saying:
"The dominant purpose of the parts of the statute touching
this question is that the shareholders of an insolvent national
bank shall be liable for its debts ' to the extent of the amount
of their stock therein,' and rules of construction are not to be
invoked in a way to defeat that purpose. Under the direction
of the Comptroller the receiver is authorized to enforce the
shareholders' liability; but the power to enforce does not include a power to cut off or limit, and by no proper application
of general rules of construction can the statute be so read as to
permit the failure of its main design."
The cases cited by the plaintiff in error wherein courts of
high authority have held that, where some particular act involving judicial discretion is to be performed by an executive
officer, the power is exhausted by its single exercise, are not applicable to cases like the present, where the law merely provides
that the shareholder shall pay what may be necessary to meet
the debts and obligations of the bank. How much that is may
not be ascertained at once, but as it is important that the settlement shall progress without delay, it is a reasonable construction of the statute that, while it is just and for his benefit
that the stockholder be called on for no more than seems to be
necessary, so it is just to the creditor that further calls may
be made when necessary. This is a case where the power to assess belongs exclusively to the Comptroller, and the power to
enforce the assessment belongs to the courts, and the construction contended for on behalf of the plaintiff in error confuses
the remedy provided for by this statute of the United States
with the ordinary remedy for the enforcement of statutory
liability of stockholders by the courts.
It is finally argued on behalf of the plaintiff in error that
the doctrine of contemporaneous and practical construction put
upon a statute by executive officers is applicable. It is said
that former Comptrollers of the Currency held, in several instances, that the power to assess under the national banking
law was exhausted by a single exercise; that subsequent

STUDEBAKER v. PERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

Comptrollers ought not to have departed from that construction; and it is urged that this court should, by its decision in
this case, set aside the construction at present prevailing and
restore the former one.
The doctrine invoked is a useful one, but its application
should be restricted to cases in which the construction involved
is really one of doubt and where those to be affected have relied on the practical construction, and rights have accrued by
reason of such reliance. The rule is well expressed in Cooley
on Constitutional Limitations, sec. 69, 5th ed. :
"If the question involved is really one of doubt the force of
their (officers') judgment, especially in view of the injurious consequences that may result from disregarding it, is fairly entitled to turn the scale in the judicial mind. Where, however,
no ambiguity or doubt appears in the law, we think the same
rule obtains here as in other cases, that the court should confine its attention to the law and not allow intrinsic circumstances to introduce a difficulty where the language is plain.
To allow force to a practical construction in such a case would
be to suffer manifest perversions to defeat the evident purpose
of the lawmaker."
That the language of the statute under consideration is plain
and its construction free from doubt are sufficiently shown by
the decisions of the courts heretofore cited; and it would be
absurd to claim that the plaintiff in error bought his stock in a
national banking association with a right to rely on the contingency that the Comptroller might inadvertently or mistakenly make an insufficient assessment should the bank become insolvent.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Ajfbimed.

