VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
Syllabus.

the value of the shares that portion of the capital of the company invested in the United States bonds.
The answer to the contention is obvious and may be brief.
The contention destroys the separate individuality recognized,
as we have seen, by this court, of the trust company and its
shareholders, and seeks to nullify one provision of the Revised
Statutes of the United States (section 5219) by another (section
3701), between which there is no want of harmony. And what
the constitution of the State of Ohio requires, or what the
statutes of the State require as to taxation, must be left to be
decided by the Supreme Court of the State, and whether that
court has decided, logically or illogically, that a tax authorized
by the laws of the United States on the shares of the company
satisfies the' constitution of the State as a tax on the corporation, is not open to our review or objection. The manner of
taxation being legal under the statutes of the United States,
its effect cannot be complained of in the Federal tribunals. We
do not mean to be understood as implying that the plaintiff's
view of the constitution of the State, or of the laws of the State,
is correct. The inquiry is not necessary. Accepting such view
as correct, plaintiff shows no right, under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, which has been violated.
Judgment cjjimed.
MR. JusTICE HARLhAN did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision.

VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 83. Argued December 6,1901.-Decided February 24,1902.
The Supreme Court of the State of Michigan having decided that the
amount of taxes in a case like the present which may be assessed upon
a district, or upon any given parcel of land therein cannot exceed the
benefits, on a hearing given him the property owner could have shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
that there was a violation of that rule, if it had been violated, and such
violation would have relieved his land from the tax; but he was not entitled to a notice of every step in the proceedings.

THIs is a bill in equity brought by plaintiff in error in the
circuit court for Wayne County, Michigan, to restrain the sale
of his lands for an assessment levied by the city of Detroit,
for the city improvements, on the ground that the law under
which the assessment was imposed is repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
and that the assessment, therefore, puts a cloud upon plaintiff's
title. A demurrer was filed to the bill by defendants, which
was sustained, and the bill dismissed. That action was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. 123 Mich. 547.
A writ of error was then allowed by the Chief Justice of the
State, and the case brought here.
The bill alleged that plaintiff was the owner of certain lots,
(describing them,) which were a part of the subdivision of the
"Voigt Park Farm," a plat of which had been made and recorded by plaintiff. Upon the plat was designated a street
called "Second avenue," and to extend that street proceedings
were instituted, which resulted in a verdict opening the same
as a public necessity. Damages were awarded for the property taken to the amount of $73,732.68.
The verdict was confirmed by the court, and the judgment
of confirmation was transmitted to the common council of the
city, and was referred to the committee on street openings.
The committee reported, recommending that $49,155.12 of the
award be assessed on a local assessment district and the balance
be paid by the city. A resolution was then adopted by the
common council fixing and determining the assessment district,
and including therein the property of plaintiff. The resolution
recited "that it is hereby determined that the sum of $49,155.12
is a just proportion of the compensation awarded by the jury
for the property taken for said improvement which should be
paid by the owners," of the property included in said assessment district; and it was further resolved that said amount be
assessed and levied upon the several parcels of said property
by the board of assessors of the city. It was also alleged that

VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff in error "had no notice of the intention of said common council to impose and have assessed upon a local assessment district a part of the damages awarded by the jury in
said condemnation proceedings, and no notice to appear before
said council or any committee thereof in relation to the matter
of determining the limits of such district and the amount to be
assessed thereon, and that he was given no opportunity to
appear and be heard before said common council or any committee thereof with reference thereto."
An assessment roll was subsequently prepared, "being street
assessment roll No. 111," and confirmed by the common council. By the assessment roll the sums assessed against the property of plaintiff aggregated the sum of $9957. The roll was
placed in the hands of the defendant, Thomas M. Lucking, receiver of taxes of the city, for collection, and plaintiff notified
of the assessment against his property, and payment of the
amount assessed was demanded. And it is alleged that the
receiver will, unless restrained, advertise and sell plaintiff's
property for the amount assessed thereon.
The condemnation proceedings were instituted and conducted
under the provisions of section 3406 of the Compiled Laws of
the State of Michigan, and it is alleged that those provisions violate the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, in that they deprive plaintiff of his property without
due process of law, for the following reasons:
"I. Because said law does not provide for giving to the property owners interested any notice of the proceedings of the
common council for the determination of the limits of the local
assessment district, and the amount or proportion of the award
of the jury to be assessed thereon, and does not provide for the
giving to the property owners interested notice of any hearing
by such common council as to the amount of land to be included
in such assessment district and as to the amount or proportion
of such award to be assessed thereon.
"II. Because said law does not fix the basis upon which or
the standard by which the common council are to determine
what is the just proportion of the compensation awarded by the
jury to be assessed upon the assessment district.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"III. Because the said law does not require that the amount
ef the award of the jury which the common council may order
to be assessed upon such assessment district shall not exceed
the total amount of the benefits derived by the lands in said
district from the improvement to pay the expense of which
such award was made.
"That the proceedings of said common council, hereinbefore
set forth, in determining said assessment district and the amount
to be assessed upon it are invalid for the reasons aforesaid, and
for the further reason that it does not appear by the resolution
fixing said district and determining the amount to be assessed
thereon upon what basis or standard or by what method the
council determined the proportion of the award to be assessed
upon said district, or that the amount to be assessed did not
exceed the total amount of benefits derived by the property to
be assessed from the improvement."
.fr. Hinton E. Spalding for plaintiff in error.
Post was on his brief.

M'. Hoyt

.A&.. Char.les D. Joslyn and .Xr. Timothy E. Tar'sney for defendants in error.
M . JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The proceedings in this case were had under the provisions of
an act of the State of Michigan entitled "An act to authorize
cities and villages to take private property for the use and benefit of the public, and to repeal act No. 26, Public Acts of
1882." This act is reproduced in the Compiled Laws of Michigan of 1897 as sections 3392 to 3415.
The particular provisions attacked are contained in section
3406 (section 15 of the original act), and are as follows:
"When the verdict of the jury shall have been finally confirmed by the court, and the time in which to take an appeal is
expired, or, if an appeal is taken, on the filing in the court be-

VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

low of a certified copy of the order of the Supreme Court affirming the judgment of confirmation, it shall be the duty of
the clerk of the court to transmit to the common council, board
of trustees, or board of supervisors, a certified copy of the verdict of the jury, and of the judgment of confirmation, and of the
judgment, if any, of affirmance; and thereupon the proper and
necessary proceedings, in due course, shall be taken for the collection of the sum or sums awarded by the jury. If the common council, or board of trustees, or board of supervisors believe that a portion of the city, village or county in the vicinity
of the proposed improvement will be benefited by such improvement, they may, by an entry in their minutes, determine
that the whole or any just proportion of the compensation
awarded by the jury shall be assessed upon the owners or occupants of real estate deemed to be thus benefited; and thereupon they shall, by resolution, fix and determine the district or
portion of the city (or) village or county benefited, and specify
the amount to be assessed upon the owners or occupants of the
taxable real estate therein. The amount of the benefit thus ascertained shall be assessed upon the owners or occupants of such
taxable real estate, in proportion, as nearly as may be, to the
advantage which such lot, parcel or subdivision is deemed to
acquire by the improvement. The assessment shall be made
and the amount levied and collected in the same manner and
by the same officers and proceeding, as near as may be, as is
provided in the charter of the municipality for assessing, levying and collecting the expense of a public improvement when a
street is graded. The assessment roll containing said assessments, when ratified and confirmed by the common council,
board of trustees, or board of supervisors, shall be final and conclusive, and primafacieevidence of the regularity and legality
of all proceedings prior thereto, and the assessment therein contained shall be and continue a lien on the premises on which
the same is made until payment thereof. Whatever amount or
portion of such awarded compensation shall not be raised in the
manner herein provided shall be assessed, levied and collected
upon the taxable real estate of the municipality, the same as
other general taxes are assessed and collected in such city, vil-

OCTOBER TERMA, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

lage or county. At any sale which takes place of the assessed
premises, or any portion thereof, delinquent for non-payment
of the amount assessed and levied thereon, the city (or) village
or county may become a purchaser at the sale."
Plaintiff in error makes two objections to the law:
"First. That it does not afford to the property owner notice
and opportunity of hearing upon the questions of what lands,
if any, are specially benefited by the improvement, and therefore to be included in the assessment district, and what is the
amount of the special benefit, and therefore the maximum
amount to be paid by the district.
"Second. That it does not require the amount imposed upon
the district to be limited to the amount of special benefit."
The common council proceeded as required by the ordinance.
They determined that a portion of the city was benefited by
the improvement, created a district of the property benefited,
determined also that $49,155.12 was a just proportion of the
compensation awarded by the jury to be assessed upon the property owners of the district created, and directed the board of
assessors to make the assessment. The assessment roll was subsequently made out and was ratified and confirmed by the council. The assessment against the property of plaintiff in error
was nearly $10,000.
Passing on the ordinance, the Supreme Court said: "No provision is made for a notice to property owners of a time and
place of hearing upon either the question of fixing a taxing district or the question of the amount of the award to be spread
thereon." But the court observed that such notices were not
necessary to vindicate the statute from the charge of being unconstitutional, because "the statute provides for a hearing in
relation to the proportion each piece of property shall bear to
the whole cost of the improvement, and the proper notice of
this hearing was given." And further:
"When the proceeding has reached that stage where it becomes necessary to decide what proportion of the cost of the
proposed improvement shall be assessed to any given description
of land, there must be an opportunity given to the owner of the
land to be heard upon that question.

VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
Opinion of the Court.

"There is no claim in the bill of complaint that his property
is not benefited by the proposed improvement, in excess of the
amount assessed, nor is there any claim that he was not allowed
to be heard in relation to the amount which should be assessed
against his property, thus avoiding the difficulties found in the
cases cited by the counsel for complainant. We do not think
it can be said that complainant's property is taken without due
process of law. This statute has been construed in Beecher v.
Detroit, 92 Mich. 268, and Smith et al. v. Common Council, 6

Detroit Legal News, 281, and the action taken by the common
council thereunder upheld."
It was urged by plaintiff in error in the Supreme Court of
the State, as it is now urged here, that"The act is bad because it does not fix any rule or standard
by which the council are to determine the just proportion of
the award of the jury to be assessed upon the district, nor limit
the total assessment of the district to the amount of its benefits.
"The constitutional limit of the amount to be imposed upon
the district is the total benefit to the district. The law might
therefore permit the council, when, in their judgment, a portion of the city in the vicinity of the improvement is benefited
thereby, to determine the amount of such benefit and to require a just proportion of the compensation awarded by the
jury, not exceeding the total benefit, to be assessed upon such
local district. This act contains no such limitation. The
council are empowered, when they believe that a local district
is benefited, to assess what in their judgment is a just proportion of the whole award upon the district, without requiring
that proportion to be limited by the amount of benefit."
To the contention the Supreme Court of the State replied:
"We do not think this is a fair construction of the language
of the statute. Before the council can create the district at all
they must believe that a portion of the city in the vicinity of
the proposed improvement will be benefited by such improvement, and then provide for an apportionment of the compensation awarded by the jury upon the property deemed to be benefited. ' The amount of the benefit thus ascertained shall be
assessed upon the owners or occupants of such taxable real es-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

tate in proportion, as nearly as may be, to the advantage which
such lot, parcel or subdivision is deemed to acquire by the improvement.' We think this language makes it clear that the
amount of tax which may be assessed upon the district or upon
any given parcel of land cannot exceed the benefit. Provision
is then made for the assessment levy and collection of the tax."
The law, then, as we understand the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State, provides for the formation of a district in
the vicinity of the proposed improvement, the limits of the district to be determined by the benefits derived from that improvement, and further provides that the common council shall
determine what proportion of the cost of the improvement
(" compensation awarded by the jury ") shall be assessed upon
the owners of the real estate benefited. The language of the
statute is: "The amount of the benefit thus ascertained shall
be assessed upon the owners or occupants of such taxable real
estate, in proportion, as nearly as may be, to the advantage
which such lot, parcel or subdivision is deemed to acquire by
the improvement."
It would be difficult to find any provision fairer than this in
purpose and which so essentially satisfies every requirement of
due process of law. And such purpose cannot be defeated if a
hearing to the property owner can prevent defeat. He is given
a thoroughly efficient opportunity to be heard to test the legality of the charge upon him. And it is only with the charge
upon him that he is concerned, and of that alone can he complain. In the legality of that charge is necessarily involved
the legality of all which precedes it and of which it is the consequence. The Supreme Court of the State decided, as we
have seen, "that the amount of the taxes which may be assessed upon the district or upon any given parcel of land cannot exceed the benefits." On the hearing given, therefore, the
property owner can show a violation of the rule, if a violation
there be, and the showing will take his land out of the district
and relieve it from the tax.
The contentions of. plaintiff in error seem to be based on the
assumption that a property owner must have notice of every
step of the proceedings. Such assumption is untenable. Wy-

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
Statement of the Case.

erhaueser v. 3finnesota, 1M6 U. S. 550, and cases cited; .Kng v.
City of Portland,ante, 61.
Judgment afflrmed.
-M . JusTiE HARLAN did not hear the argument and took
no part in the decision.

UNITED STATES v. BARLOW.
BARLOW v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FRO J THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 127=,128. Argued January 23,1902.-Decided February 24,1902.
Under the contract with the United States for the construction of a dry dock
which is set forth and referred to in the statement of facts and in the
opinion of the court, the decision of the engineer in charge of the work
upon the quality of the sandstone employed by the constructor was final
when properly exercised, but it could not be exercised in advance of the
work, and forestall his judgment of stone furnished or about to be used,
or the judgment of any other competent officer, or person, or persons
who might be designated by the Navy Department.
The Court of Claims did not pass upon the issue raised as to the quality of
the stone furnished, but accepted the decision of the engineer as final as
matter of law. This court limits the recovery of claimants to the price
of stone inspected and approved.
There was nothing in the contract or in the specifications which required
the contractors to experiment with the water jet system; their obligation
was to drive the piles in the construction of the dock to a sufficient depth,
and it is not found that the depth when the Secretary of the Navy interfered was not sufficient.
The measure of damages adopted by the Court of Claims was correct.

TimsE are cross appeals. The appellees in No. 127, appellants
in No. 128, filed three separate petitions against the United
States in the Court of Claims for extra work done and extra
materials furnished under a contract with the United States.
The petitions were consolidated and tried as one case. On some
of the claims the decision was in favor of petitioners and on
others in favor of the United States.

