GWIN v. UNr'ED STATES.
Syllabus.

disposition to be made of this case, because in the plaintiff's
cause of action is stated a claim for the recovery of a tax, which,
as alleged, it has been wrongfully compelled to pay. While
the Circuit Court may not have jurisdiction of an action for
that claim on account of the small amount thereof, it would
not be right to leave the present judgment as a bar to an action
in a court that could take jurisdiction. The proper judgment
is, and it is so ordered, that the case be remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to set aside its judgment and enter
one, abating the action by reason of the death of the defendant.
Case No. 194, between the same parties, involves the same
question, and will be disposed of in the same way.
MRh.

JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the decision of this case.

GWIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 172. Argued February 26, 28, 1902.-Decided March 24, 1902.

A decree of the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, rendered in 1855, was affirmed by this court, and remanded to the District Court, where a final decree was entered in 1859.
Subsequently in 1899, after a large amount of intermediate litigation, a
petition of intervention was filed in the District Court in the original
case, praying that the decree of 1859 might be ordered to be executed,
the proceedings having been originally begun in 1852 before the board
of land commissioners of California. A demurrer wqs filed to this petition, which was sustained and the petition dismissed. This was followed by another similar petition filed in 1900 which was also dismissed,
and an appeal taken to this court. Held: that the appeal originally allowed to this court by the act of 1851 was repealed in 1864, and an appeal
allowed to the Circuit Court of the United States; that this act was repealed by the act of 1891, which provided for an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and that the appeal to this court must therefore be
dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

THis is an appeal from an order of the District Court of the
United States for the iNorthern District of California sustaining
a demurrer to, and dismissing the petition of, the appellants,
intervenors, who prayed that a certain decree of the abovenamed District Court, made on November 30, 1859, be ordered
to be executed.
It appears that on January 31, 1852, certain persons by the
name of Peralta presented to and filed with the board of land
commissioners, under the act of Congress "to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California," passed
March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, a petition for the confirmation
of the rancho of San Antonio. Subsequently the four claimants divided the lands among themselves in severalty, and the
board, proceeding to examine the claim upon the evidence, decided in favor of its validity, but restricted the areh of the grant
by fixing the northern boundary line at San Antonio Creek,
which included about one half of the claim. Both parties appealed from this decision, and the claim was certified to the
District Court for the Northern District of California, in which
court a transcript of the proceeding was filed September 23,
1854. The District Court upon the trial reversed the decree of
the land commissioners, and declared the claim as set forth in
the petition to be valid, by decree entered January 26, 1855.
From this decree the United States appealed to this court,
which affirmed the decree of the District Court (1857).
United
States v. Peralta,19 How. 343. Two controversies were decided: first, that the officers issuing the grant had power to
make grants of land; and, second, that the northern boundary
of the land extended beyond San Antonio Creek, according to
the claim of the petitioners. Upon the mandate of this court
being filed in the District Court a final decree was entered
therein on November 30, 1859, slightly amending its former
decree in substantial compliance with such mandate. This decree is still in force.
Afterwards, and on August 10, 1860, the surveyor general
returned into court a corrected plat of a survey, purporting to
be in conformity with the decree of November 30, 1859. Thereupon, and on October 8, 1860, one Carpentier and others filed

GWIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

a petition of intervention, in which they claimed adversely so
much land as lay under the waters of the estuary of San Antonio, up to the highest tide lands, through mesne conveyances
from the State of California, and afterwards filed in court their
exceptions to the survey. The United States also filed exceptions thereto. The litigation thus inaugurated continued for
more than ten years, aid finally resulted in a decree of the
District Court, August 4, 1871, approving a modified survey of
the tract, a certified plat of which had been filed in the clerk's
office. An appeal was taken from this decree by the United
States to the Circuit Court for the Ninth Judicial Circuit, by
which couit the appeal was dismissed July 31, 1874, and a decree entered that the claimants have leave to proceed under the
decree confirming the survey as a final decree. The Commissioner of the'General Land Office thereupon caused to be prepared and recorded a patent of the United States for that portion of the lands included in the survey.
Thirty-seven years after the entry of the decree of November 30, 1859, and twenty-two years after the dismissal of the
above appeal in the Circuit Court, the successors in title of one
of the Peraltas presented to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, September 2, 1896, a plat of a survey of the rancho
San Antonio made by the surveyor general of California, November 25, 1895, under the act of Congress of July 23, 1866,
14 Stat. 218, with certified copies of the decree of November 30,
1859, with a request that he issue to the petitioners a patent in
accordance with such plat of survey, which the Commissioner
declined to do, September 22, 1896, and the Secretary of the
Interior affirmed his decision. The appellants thereupon and
on July 27, 1899, filed in the District Court for the Northern
District of California a petition of intervention in the original
case of the United States v. Peralta,praying that the decree
of November 30, 1859, might be ordered to be executed; that
the government be required to issue to the appellants its patent
for so much of the lands of the rancho as had not theretofore
been patented to them, or any of them. The United States
demurred to the petition, which, on January 29, 1900, was dismissed,

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

This was followed by another similar petition, filed March 29,
1900, based upon the survey of 1895, which was also demurred
to, and resulted in a decree, rendered May 28, 1900, sustaining
the demurrer and dismissing the petition. Whereupon petitioners appealed to this court.
Mr.Jamnes T'. Boyd for appellants.
on his brief.

MAr. George A. King was

X. Xatthew G. Reynolds for the United States. .Mr'. Solioitor General was on his brief.
M

. JusTIcE BROWN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appeal in this case is taken from the decree of May 28,
1900, sustaining the demurrer to, and dismissing the petition
of, the appellants, which was filed March 29, 1900.
Our jurisdiction of this appeal depends upon certain statutes,
which it becomes necessary to consider. By the original act of
March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, to ascertain and settle the private
land claims in the State of California, a commission of three
persons was constituted (sec. 1) to settle such claims, whose
duty it was (sec. 8) to decide upon their validity and to certify
the same, with their reasons, to the district attorney of the
United States. By sec. 9, an appeal was given to the District
Court, which was empowered to review the decision of the
commissioners, and to decide upon the validity of such claim.
By sec. 10, the District Court was required, on application of
the party against whom judgment was rendered, to grant an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States. It was
held in United States v. Fossatt, 21 How. 445, that the jurisdiction of the board of commissioners extended not only to the
adjudication of questions relating to the genuineness and authenticity of the grant, but also to all questions relating to its
location and boundaries; and that it did not terminate until
the issue of a patent conformable to the decree.
The law remained in this condition until 1864, when on July 1
an act was passed, 13 Stat. 332, "to expedite the settlement

GWIN -v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of titles to lands in the State of California," the second section
which provided "that where proceedings for the correction or
confirmation of a survey are pending . . . it shall be lawful for such District Court to proceed and complete its examination and determination of the matter, and its decree thereon

shall be subject to appeal to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district, in like manner, and with like effect, as
hereafter provided for in appeals in other cases to the Circuit
Court." By section three it was enacted "that where a plat
and survey have already been approved or corrected by one of
the District Courts, . . . and an appeal from the decree
of approval or correction, has already been taken to the Supreme Court of the United States, the said Supreme Court shall
have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal. But where
frbm such decree of approval or correction no appeal has been
taken to the Supreme Court, no appeal to that court shall be
allowed, but an appeal may be taken within twelve mouths
after this act shall take effect, to the Circuit Court of the
United States for California, and said Circuit Court shall proceed to fully determine the matter."
It appears perfectly clear from section three that the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was taken away, except
as to cases where an appeal had already been taken. With this
exception appeals must be taken under that act to the Circuit
Court. The law remained in that condition until the passage
of the Court of Appeals Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, by
the fifth section of which appeals can only be taken directly
from the District Court to this court in cases where the jurisdiction of the District Court is in issue, in prize cases, criminal
cases, constitutional cases, or cases involving the validity or
construction of a treaty. As to all other cases, by section six,
appeal must be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals. As we
said in .MrLih v. 1 of, 141 U. S.661, this act provides for the
distribution of the entire appellate jurisdiction of our national
judicial system between the Supreme Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals. As this case does not fall within any of the
classes excepted by section five, it is clear that if any appeal
-willlie at all, it should have been taken to the Circuit Court
voL. oLXxIv-43

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of Appeals, and that we have no jurisdiction to enforce the execution of this decree by appeal from the District Court. If
the decree of November 30, 1859, rendered by the District
Court in pursuance of the mandate of this court, were not a
final decree, it became final either August 4, 1871, when the
modified survey was approved, and an appeal was taken to the
Circuit Court and the appeal dismissed by Mr. Justice Field,
July 31, 1874, or upon May 28, 1900, from which the appeal
was taken in this case.
It is clear that, so far as concerns appeals from final decrees,
they must be taken under laws then in existence, and to the
court provided by such laws. To say that a decree rendered
in 1900 may be appealed to a court, whose jurisdiction to review
it was taken away in 1864, is beyond belief. Even if the Court
of Appeals Act do not apply to this case, the jurisdiction of
this court was clearly taken away by the act of 1864, and
transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States for California, except as to appeals which had already been taken. If
there had been no reservation of pending cases, even such cases
would have fallen within the law. ]ailroad Co. v. Grant, 98
U. S. 389, 401. In that case a writ of error had been sued out
on December 6, 1875, to reverse a judgment of $2250 by the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. At that time the
appeal was properly taken to this court, but on February 25,
1879, Congress passed an act limiting writs of error from this
court to judgments exceeding the value of $2500, and it was
held that the writ of error must be dismissed. Said the Chief
Justice: "The act of 1879 is undoubtedly prospective in its
operation. It does not vacate or annul what has been done
under the old law. It destroys no vested rights. It does not
set aside any judgment already rendered by this court under
the jurisdiction conferred by the Revised Statutes when in
force. But a party to a suit has no vested right to an appeal
or a writ of error from one court to another. Such privilege
once granted may be taken away, and if taken away, pending
proceedings in the appellate court stop just where the rescinding act finds them, unless special provision is made to the contrary. The Revised Statutes gave parties the right to remove

GWIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

their cases to this court by writ of error and appeal, and gave
us the authority to re6xamine, reverse or affirm judgments or
decrees thus brought -up. The repeal of that law does not
vacate or annul an appeal or a writ of error already taken or
sued out, but it takes away our right to hear and determine
the cause, if the matter in dispute is less than the present jurisdictional amount. The appeal or the writ remains in full force,
but we dismiss the suit because our jurisdiction is gone."
Similar cases are by no means infrequent in this court. Thus
in Yeaton v. United States, 5 Cranch, 281, it was held that if
the law, under which a sentence of forfeiture was inflicted, expired or was absolutely repealed after an appeal and before
sentence by the appellate court, the sentence must be reversed.
See also The Schooner Rachel, 6 Cranch, 329; United States v.
Preston,3 Pet. 57; 2orris v. Crocker, 13 How. 429. In Insurance Co. v. _Ritchie, 5 Wall. 541, it was held that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts between citizens of the same State
in internal revenue cases, conferred by the act of 1864, was taken
away by the act of 1866, and that cases pending at the passage
of the act fell with its repeal. Ejvarte 2fcCardle,7 Wall. 506.
These cases fully establish the proposition that a repealing statute which contains no saving clause operates as well upon pending cases as upon those thereafter commenced.
In the case under consideration there was a saving of suits
already begun, but there was an expregs proviso that, where
no appeal had been taken to the Supreme Court, no appeal to
that court should be allowed. That law remained unchanged
until the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, to which all appeals
from Circuit or District Court must now be taken, with a few
specified exceptions.
The appeal must be
Dimised.

