OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

of the patent had been infringed by appellant. The finding
is not absolutely disputed. The assignment of error is "that
the patented machine used by defendant, in view of the state
of the art preceding Jones' invention, did not infringe any
claims of the patent in suit." That is, appellant contends that
the evidence exhibits a complete anticipation, or so limits and
narrows the Jones invention as to make the differences between the Jones press and that which was used by appellant
more than formal. We have decided. that the Jones press had
not been anticipated, and both of the lower courts have found
that the differences between it and appellant's press were not
substantial. The evidence sustains the finding. The witnesses
on behalf of appellees testified to the differences between the
presses. They pointed out the essential resemblances of the
presses and the merely formal character of the differences.
There was no opposing testimony.
The accounting in the lower court, however, was had upon
the basis of the validity of the process, (claim 5,) and therefore
Thiejudgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed and the
cause remanded, with directions to that court to reverse the
judgment and decree of the Supreme Court and remand
the cause to the latter court for further _proceedings, in accordance with this opinion, and it is so ordered.

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 1. Argued December 6, 1901.-Decided .March 17, 1902.

A case arises under the Constitution of the United States, when the right
of either party depends on the validity of an act of Congress, which is
the fact in this case.
In this case the cause of action survived the death of the defendant, and
was rightfully revived in the name of his executrix.

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Statement of the Case.
The tax on manufactured tobacco is a tax on an article manufactured for
consumption, and imposed at a period intermediate the commencement
of manufacture and the final consumption of the article.
The tax which is levied thereby is an excise.
Taxation may rn pari passu with expenditure, and the courts cannot
revise the action of Congress in this respect.
A general tax may be charged upon property once charged with an excise;
and the power to tax it as property, subject to constitutional limitations
as to the mode of taxing property, is not defeated by the fact that it has
already paid an excise.
The legislative determination as to the reasonableness of an excise in
amount or as to the property to which it is applied, is final.
It is within the power of Congress to increase an excise, at least while the
property is held for sale, and before it has passed into the hands of the
consumer.

QN July 14, 1899, plaintiff in error, as plaintiff below, com-

menced this action in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against J. D. Brady, collector of internal
revenue for the second district of Virginia. In his declaration
he alleged that in May, 1898, he had purchased in the open
market and in the regular course of business 102,076 pounds of
manufactured tobacco; that all the requisites of the internal
revenue laws of the United States then existing had been fully
complied with, stamps placed upon the boxes containing the tobacco, and regularly and duly canceled subsequent to April 14,
1898, and the tobacco removed from the factory, and that when
he made his purchase the entire tax due the United States under and by virtue of such laws had been paid. The declaration then proceeded:
"After the act of Congress approved June 13, 1898, entitled
'An act to provide ways and means to meet war and other
expenditures, and for other purposes,' had been enacted, the defendant, James D. Brady, who is the collector of internal revenue for the second district of the State of Virginia, in which
he and plaintiff reside, and in the month of June, 1898, demanded of plaintiff that he pay the sum of $3062.28 as an additional tax to be paid upon said tobacco, which he claimed
was imposed upon the same by the second paragraph of the
third section of said act. Plaintiff refused to pay the same;
whereupon the defendant threatened plaintiff that unless he did
oLxxxrv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Plaintiff in error.

pay it he would treat plaintiff as a delinquent, and would seize
his property under the provisions of an act of Congress applicable to such case, and would sell the same. Under the coercion of this demand and threat plaintiff paid the sum of $3062.28
to the defendant, but he did so under protest and with notice
to the defendant that he would sue him to recover it back.
"Plaintiff avers that said section 3 of said act of June 13,
1898, imposing said additional tax upon his tobacco is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and said acts of
Congress authorizing the defendant to seize plaintiff's property
and sell it if he did not pay the same are also repugnant to
said Constitution, and that his suit therefore arises under the
Constitution of the United States.
"On the 17th day of June, 1899, the plaintiff set out all of
the foregoing facts in an application to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue of the United States, according to the laws
in that regard and the regulations of the Secretary of the United States established in pursuance thereof, and he appealed to
said Commissioner of Internal Revenue to have said money so
unlawfully extorted from him returned to him; but said Commissioner of Internal Revenue on the - day of July, 1899,
rejected said appeal and refused to direct said money to be
returned to plaintiff. The said Commissioner did not reject
said appeal because of any informality in the manner in which
it was made, but because he was of opinion that said act of
Congress imposing said tax was consistent with the Constitution of the United States, and that said tax was lawfully collected ; by all of which acts and doings the plaintiff is damaged
six thousand dollars, and therefore he sues."
Summons having been served the case came on for hearing
on the motion of the United States attorney for the district to
dismiss the action on the ground that the act of Congress set
forth in the declaration was not repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, which motion was sustained, and on September 22, 1899, the action was dismissed. To review such
ruling plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
Mr. William L. Royall and .Xr. FEred. Harper for plaintiff
in error. Afr. John W. Daniel was on their brief.

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

.AEr. Assistant Attorney General Beck for defendant in error.
IME. JUSTICE BREWER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The first contention of the defendant is that the Circuit
Court did not have jurisdiction. The parties, it is true, were
both citizens of Virginia, but the question presented in the
declaration was the constitutionality of an act of Congress.
The plaintiff's right of recovery was rested upon the unconstitutionality of the act, and that was the vit 1 question. The
Circuit Courts of the United States "have original cognizance,
concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all suits of
a civil nature at common law or in equity

.

.

.

arising un-

der the Constitution or laws of the United States." Act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866; 25 Stat. 433.
That a case arises under the Constitution of the United
States when the right of either party depends on the validity
of an act of Congress, is clear. It was said by Chief Justice
Marshall that "a case in law or equity consists of the right of
the one party, as well as of the other, and may truly be said to
arise under the Constitution or a law of the United States whenever its correct decision depends on the construction of either,"
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 379; and again, when "the
title or right set up by the party may be defeated by one construction of the Constitution or law of the United States, and
sustained by the opposite construction." Osborn v. Bank of
the United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 822. See also Gold- ashing
& Water Company v. Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 201; Tennessee v.
Davis, 100 U. S. 257; White v. G-reenkow, Treasurer,1f4 U. S.
307 ; RailroadCompany v. Mississippi,102 U. S. 135, 139. In
the latter case the following statement of the controversy was
given in the opinion : "From this analysis of the pleadings, and
of the petition for removal it will be observed that the contention of the State rests in part upon the ground that the construction and maintenance of the bridge in question is in
violation of the condition on which Mississippi was admitted
into the Union, and inconsistent with the engagement, on the

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

part of the United States, as expressed in the act of March 1,
1817. On the other hand, the railroad company, in support of
its right to construct and maintain the present bridge across
Pearl River, invokes the protection of the act of Congress
passed March 2, 1868." And upon these facts it was held
that the case was rightfully removed to the Federal court.
Within these decisions obviously the Circuit Court had jurisdiction.
A second contention of the defendant is this: After the case
had been brought to this court the defendant, J. D. Brady,
died. WhereupQn the plaintiff took steps to revive the action,
and on November 4, 1901, Maggie A. Brady, the executrix of
the deceased, was substituted as party defendant. Now it is
insisted that the action was one based upon a tort, and, as such,
abated by reason of the death of defendant.
Congress has not, speaking generally, attempted to prescribe
the causes which survive the death of either party. Section 955, Rev. Stat., provides that"When either of the parties, whether plaintiff, or petitioner,
or defendant, in any suit in any court of the United States,
dies before final judgment, the executor or administrator of
such deceased party may, in case the cause of action survives
by law, prosecute or defend any such suit to final judgment."
This does not define the causes which survive. In the absence of some special legislation the question in each case must
be settled by the common law or the law of the State in which
the cause of action arose. United States v. Daniel,6 How. 11 ;
Henshav,v. Xliller, 17 How. 212; Schreiber v. Shagpless, 110
U. S. 76; Aartin v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 151 U. S.
673; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company v. Joy, 173 U. S.
226, 229. It matters not whether we consider the common
law or the statute law of Virginia as controlling. By either
the cause of action stated in the complaint survived the death
of defendant.
Section 2655 of the Code of Virginia (Code of 1887) reads as
follows:
"An action of trespass or trespass on the case may be maintained by or against a personal representative for the taking or

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

carrying away any goods, or for the waste or destruction of or
damage to any estate of or by his decedent."
The term "goods" is broad enough to include money, and as
used in this statute must be held to be so inclusive, for it would
be strange that a cause of action for taking and carrying away
a thousand pieces of silver, should survive the death of the defendant, while a like action for taking and carrying away a
thousand dollars in money should not. In Te Elizabeth and
Jane, 2 Mason, 407, 408, Mr. Justice Story said: "It cannot be
doubted that money, and, of course, foreign coin, falls within
the description of goods at common law." But more than
that, the estate of plaintiff was reduced to the amount of three
thousand dollars and over, by the action of decedent, and such
reduction was a direct damage and comes within the rule laid
down by the Court of Appeals in Afumyower v. Bristol, 94
Va. 737, 739, in which the court held that: "The damages allowedr to be recovered by or against a personal representative
by section 2655 of the code are direct damages to property,
and not those which are merely consequent upon a wrongful
act to the person only," and in which the presiding judge of
the court, delivering the opinion and showing that the act sued
for was not within the scope of the statute, said:
"The wrongful act which the defendant is alleged to have
committed and for the injury resulting from which the plaintiff
sues, consisted in maliciously and without probable cause suing
out an injunction against the plaintiff, whereby the operation
of his mill was suspended. It is quite obvious that this injunction did not operate to take or carry away the goods of the
plaintiff, nor cause the waste or destruction of, or inflict any
damage upon, the estate of the plaintiff. It is true that the
language of the statute is comprehensive, and embraces damage
of any kind or degree to the estate, real or personal, of the person aggrieved; but the damage must be direct, and not the consequential injury or loss to the estate which flows from a
wrongful act directly affecting the person only. No part of
the defendant's property was taken or carried away; no part
of it was wasted or destroyed. The plaintiff's use of his property, and not the property itself, was affected by the act of
which he complains."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

See also Fe'rill v. Brewis' Adm'r, 25 Gratt. 765, 770, and
Lee's Adm'r' v. Hill, 87 Va. 497.
If we turn to the common law, there the rule was that if a
party increased his own estate by wrongfully taking another's
property an action against him would survive his death, and
might be revived against his personal representative. In the
case of United States v. Daniel, 6 How. 11, which was an action
against one who had in his lifetime been marshal of a district,
to recover damages which the plaintiffs had sustained by reason
of false returns made on certain executions by one of defendant's deputies, it was held that the action did not survive, because the decedent had received no benefit and had not increased
his estate by means of the wrongful act. The court, referring
to the common law, said:
"If the person charged has secured no benefit to himself at
the expense of the sufferer, the cause of action is said not to
survive; but where, by means of the offence, property is acquired which benefits the testator, there an action for the value
of the property shall survive against the executor. . . . If
the deputy marshal, in the misfeasance complained of, received
money or property, the marshal being responsible for such acts,
the cause of action survived against his executors. But this is
not the case made in the present action."
Now the gravamen of the plaintiff's complaint is that he was
compelled to pay the defendant the sum of $3062.28 to protect
his property from unlawful seizure for illegal taxes. In such
cases, having paid under protest, he can recover in an action of
assumpsit the amount thus wrongfully taken from him.
"Appropriate remedy to recover back money paid under protest on account of duties or taxes erroneously or illegally assessed is an action of assumpsit for money had and received.
Where the party voluntarily pays the money he is without
remedy; but if he pays it by compulsion of law, or under protest, or with notice that he intends to bring suit to test the validity of the claim, he may recover it back, if the assessment
was erroneous or illegal, in an action of assumpsit for. money
had and received." Philadelphiav. The Collector, 5 Wall. 720,
731. See also Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222.

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

It is true there are one or two sentences in the declaration
appropriate to an action sounding in tort, such as the one last
quoted, in which the pleader alleges that "by all of which acts
and doings the plaintiff is damaged $6000, and therefore he
sues." But nevertheless the substance of the charge is that the
defendant wrongfully took from plaintiff the sum of $3062.28.
By virtue thereof there was an implied promise on the part of
the defendant to repay the same, and that implied promise lies
at the foundation of the action.
In Schreiber v. Sharpless, 110 U. S. 76, 80, it was said:
"1The right to proceed against the representatives of a deceased person depends not on forms and modes of proceedings
in a suit, but on the nature of the cause of action for which the
suit is brought.

.

.

.

Whether an action survives depends

on the substance of the cause of action, not on the forms of proceedings to enforce it."
And in Lee's Adm'r v. Hill, supra, the court observed
(p. 500):
"The true test is, not so much the form of the action, as the
nature of the cause of action. Where the latter is a tort unconnected with contract, and which affects the person only, and
not the estate, such as assault, libel, slander and the like, there
the rule actio_yersonalis, etc., applies. But where, as in the
present case, the action is founded on a contract, it is virtually
ex contraetu, although nominally in tort, and there it survives."
And also quoted the following from Booth v. Nyorthroy, 27
Coun. 325:
"In determining whether a cause of action survives to the
personal representative, the real nature of the injury or claim
ought to be regarded, and not the form of the remedy by which
it is sought to be redressed or enforced."
For these reasons, and under these authorities, we are of
opinion that this cause of action survived the death of the defendant, and was rightfully revived in the name of his executrix.
We pass, therefore, to consider the merits of the case, and
here the first question is, what is the nature of the tax? Obviously it was intended by Congress as an excise.
In the chapter in the Revised Statutes on internal revenue,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

section 3368, it was provided that "upon tobacco and snuff manufactured and sold, or removed for consumption or use, there
shall be levied and collected the following taxes:" Then followed statements of the amounts of the prescribed taxes. Section 30 of the Tariff Act of 1890, 26 Stat. 619, reads:
"That on and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, the internal taxes on smoking and manufactured tobacco shall be six cents per pound, and on snuff six
cents per pound."
On June 13, 1898, Congress passed an act to provide ways
and means to meet the expenditures of the Spanish-American
War, 30 Stat. 448. Section 3, so far as is applicable, is as follows:
"SEc. 3. That there shall, in lieu of the tax now imposed by
law, be levied and collected a tax of twelve cents per pound
upon all tobacco and snuff, however prepared, manufactured and
sold, for consumption or sale.
"And there shall also be assessed and collected, with the exceptions hereinafter in this section provided for, upon all the
articles enumerated in this section which were manufactured,
imported and removed from factory or customhouse before the
passage of this act bearing tax stamps affixed to such articles
for the payment of the taxes thereon, and canceled subsequent
to April fourteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and
which articles were at the time of the passage of this act held
and intended for sale by any person, a tax equal to one half the
difference between the tax already paid on such articles at the
time of removal from the factory or customhouse and the tax
levied in this act upon such articles.
"Every person having on the day succeeding the date of the
passage of this act any of the above described articles on hand
for sale in excess of one thousand pounds of manufactured tobacco and twenty thousand cigars or cigarettes, and which have
been removed from the factory where produced or the customhouse through which imported, bearing the rate of tax payable
thereon at the time of such removal, shall make a full and true
return, under oath, in duplicate, of the quantity thereof, in
pounds as to the tobacco and snuff and in thousands as to the

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

cigars and cigarettes so held on that day, in such form and under
such regulations as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with
the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, may prescribe.

.

Ever since the early part of the civil war there has been a
body of legislation, gathered in the statutes under the title Internal Revenue, by which, upon goods intended for consumption, excises have been imposed in different forms at some time
intermediate the beginning of manufacture or production and
the act of consumption. Among the articles thus subjected to
those excises have been liquors and tobacco, appropriately selected therefor on the ground that they are not a part of the
essential food supply of the nation, but are among its comforts
and luxuries. The first of these acts, passed on July 1, 1862,
12 Stat. 432, in terms provided for "the collection of internal
duties, stamp duties, licenses or taxes imposed by this act," and
included manufactured tobacco of all descriptions. Subsequent
statutes changed the amount of the charge, the act of 1890 reducing it to six cents a pound. Then came the act in question,
which, for the purpose of providing means for the expenditures
of the Spanish war, increased the charge to 12 cents a pound,
specifying distinctly that it was to be "in lieu of the tax now
imposed by law." Nothing can be clearer than that in these
various statutes, the last included among the number, Congress
was intending to keep alive a body of excise charges on tobacco, spirits, etc. It may be that all the taxes enumerated in
these various statutes were not excises, but the great body of
them, including the tax on tobacco, were plainly excises within
any accepted definition of the term.
Turning to Blackstone, vol. 1, p. 318, we find an excise defined: "An inland imposition, paid sometimes upon the consumption of the commodity, or frequently upon the retail sale,
which is the last stage before the consumption." This definition is accepted by Story in his Constitution of the United
States, sec. 953. Cooley in his work on Taxation, page 3, defines it as "an inland impost levied upon articles of manufacture or sale, and also upon licenses to pursue certain trades, or
to deal in certain commodities." Bouvier and Black, respec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

tively, in their dictionaries give the same definition. If we turn
to the general dictionaries, Webster's International calls it "an
inland duty or impost operating as an indirect tax on the consumer, levied upon certain specified articles, as tobacco, ale,
spirits, etc., grown or manufactured in the country. It is also
levied on licenses to pursue certain trades and deal in certain
commodities." The definition in the Century Dictionary is
substantially the same, though in addition this is quoted from
Andrews on Rev. Law, sec. 133: "Excises is a word generally
used in contradistinction to imposts in its restricted sense, and
is applied to internal or inland impositions, levied sometimes
upon the consumption of a commodity, sometimes upon the
retail sale of it, and sometimes upon the manufacture of it."
Some of these definitions were quoted with approval by this
court in the Income Tax cases, and while the phraseology is
not the same in all, yet so far as the particular tax before us is
concerned, each of them would include it. The tax on manufactured tobacco is a tax on an article manufactured for consumption, and imposed at a period intermediate the commencement of manufacture and the final consumption of the article.
It is practically conceded by one counsel for plaintiff in error
that this is an excise tax. After discussing the question at some
length he says:
"To determine then what excise means we have for our guidance, first, an enumeration of the articles that it fell on in Great
Britain in 1787. We have, second, the nature of the tax as judicially determined; and we have, third, the definition of it,
or the common understanding of men about it, as given by the
Encyclopedia Britannica and the Century Dictionary. Taking
these three sources of information and combining them, it would
seem that the leading idea of excise is that it is a tax, laid without rule or principle, upon consumable articles, upon the process
of their manufacture and upon licenses to sell them. . .
Since tobacco was supposed to be one of the subjects to which
excise was applied in England when the Constitution was framed,
I shall assume that the court will hold that the tax in this case
is an excise."
It is true other counsel in their brief have advanced a very

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

elaborate and ingenious argument to show that this is a direct
tax upon property which must be apportioned according to
population within the rule laid down in the Income Tax cases,
but, as we have seen, it is not a tax upon property as such but
upon certain kinds of property, having reference to their origin
and their intended use. It may be, as Dr. Tohnson said, "a
hateful tax levied upon commodities;" an opinion evidently
shared by Blackstone, who says, after mentioning a number of
articles that had been added to the list of those excised, "a
list which no friend to his country would wish to see further
increased." But these are simply considerations of policy and
to be determined by the legislative branch, and not of power,
to be determined by the judiciary. We conclude, therefore,
that the tax which is levied by this act is an excise, properly
so called, and we proceed to consider the further propositions
presented by counsel.
It is insisted: "That Congress may excise an article as it
pleases so that the excise does not amount to spoliation or confiscation. But that having excised it, it has excised it, and the
power is exhausted. It cannot excise a second time." But why
should the power of imposing an excise tax be exhausted when
once exercised ? It must be remembered that taxes are not
debts in the sense that having once been established and paid
all further liability of the individual to the government has
ceased. They are, as said in Cooley on Taxation, p. 1 : "The
enforced proportional contribution of persons and property,
levied by the authority of the State for the support of the government and for all public needs,".and so long as there exists
public needs just so long exists the liability of the individual to
contribute thereto. The obligation of the individual to the
State is continuous and proportioned to the extent of the public
wants. No human wisdom can always foresee what may be
the exigencies of the future, or determine in advance exactly
what the government must have in order "to provide for the
common defence" and "promote the general welfare." Emergencies may arise; wars may come unexpectedly; large demands upon the public may spring into being with little forewarning; and can it be, that having made provision for times

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of peace and quiet, the government is powerless to make a
further call upon its citizens for the contributions necessary for
unexpected exigencies.
That which was possible in fact existed. A war had been
declared. National expenditures would naturally increase and
did increase by reason thereof. Provision by way of loan or
taxation for such increased expenditures was necessary. There
is in.this legislation, if ever such a question could arise, no
matter of color or pretence. There was an existing demand,
and to meet that demand this statute was enacted. The question, therefore, is whether Congressional provision must reach
through an entire year and at the beginning finally determine
the extent of the burden of taxes which can be cast upon the
citizen during that year, with the result that if exigencies arise
during the year calling for extraordinary and unexpected expenses the burden thereof must be provided for by way of loan,
temporary or permanent; or whether there inheres in Congress the power to increase taxation during the year if exigencies demand increased expenditures. On this question we can
have no doubt. Taxation may run pariyassuwith expenditure.
The constituted authorities may rightfully make one equal the
other. The fact that action has been taken with regard to
conditions of peace does not prevent subsequent action with
reference to unexpected demands of war. Courts may not in
this respect revise the action of Congress. That body determines the question of war, and it may therefore rightfully prescribe the means necessary for carrying on that war. Loan or
tax is possible. It may adopt either, or divide between the
two. If it determines in whole or in part on tax, that means
an increase in the existing rate or perhaps in the subjects of
taxation, and the judgment of Congress in respect thereto is
not subject to judicial challenge. Wisely was it said by M[r.
Justice Cooley in his work on Taxation, page 34:
"'The legislative makes, the executive executes, and the
judiciary construes the laws.' Chief Justice Marshall, in Mayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 46. The legislature must therefore determine all questions of state necessity, discretion or
policy involved in ordering a tax and in apportioning it; must

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

make all the necessary rules and regulations which are to be
observed in order to produce the desired returns, and must decide upon the agencies by means of which collections shall be
made. ' The judicial tribunals of the State have no concern
with the policy of legislation. That is a matter resting altogether in the discretion of another cordinate branch of the
government. The judicial power cannot legitimately question
the policy or refuse to sanction the provisions of any law not
inconsistent with the fundamental law of the State.' Chief
Justice Redfield, in In re Powers,25 Yt. 261, 265. . . . But
so long as the legislation is not colorable merely, but is confined
to the enactment of what is in its nature strictly a tax law, and
so long as none of the constitutional rights of the citizen are
violated in the directions prescribed for enforcing the tax, the
legislation is of supreme authority. Taxes may be and often
are oppressive to the persons and corporations taxed; they may
appear to the judicial mind unjust and even unnecessary, but
this can constitute no reason for judicial interference."
In a general way these observations on the power of Congress
to meet exigencies by increased taxation are not questioned by
counsel, but it is specifically insisted that the power of imposing
an excise once exercised is gone, even though the property may
thereafter remain subject to ordinary taxation upon property
as such. We quote the language of counsel:
"Possibly the property is not therefore to go free of taxation
thereafter because it has been excised. If a man who has paid
an excise upon a thousand boxes of tobacco chooses to stack it
up in a warehouse and keep it there ten years, the tobacco is
not, possibly, to go tax free because it has borne an excise. It
receives the protection of the laws, and it should bear its part
of the burdens of the laws. But it is to be taxed thereafter according to the principles of taxation, and not according to the
arbitrariness of excise. Taxation upon it thereafter is to be
direct taxation imposed according to population, which makes
it bear a burden that is proportional to that borne by other property."
Doubtless a general tax may be cast upon property once
Qharged with an excise; and the power to tax it as property,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

subject to constitutional limitations as to the mode of taxing
property, might not be defeated by the fact that it has already
paid an excise. But what is the difference in the nature of an
excise and an ordinary property tax which forbids a repetition
or increase in the one case and permits it in the other? They
are each methods by which the individual is made to contribute
out of his property to the support of the government, and if an
ordinary property tax may be repeated or increased when the
exigencies of the government may demand, no reason is perceived why an excise should not also be repeated or increased
under like exigencies. Counsel speaks of the power to impose
an excise as an arbitrary, unrestrained power, but the Constitution, art. 1, sec. 8, provides that "all duties, imposts and excises
shall be uniform throughout the United States." The exercise
of the power is, therefore, limited by the rule of uniformity.
The framers of the Constitution, the people who adopted it,
thought that limitation sufficient, and courts may not add thereto. That uniformity has been adjudged to be a geographical
uniformity. In the Head-Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 594, it
was said:
"The tax is uniform when it operates with the same force
and effect in every place where the subject of it is found. The
tax in this case, which, as far as it can be called a tax, is an excise duty on the business of bringing passengers from foreign
countries into this, by ocean navigation, is uniform, and operates
precisely alike in every port of the United States where such
passengers can be landed. . . . Perfect uniformity and perfect equality of taxation, in all the aspects in which the human
mind can view it, is a baseless dream, as this court has said more
than once. (State Railroad Tax cases, 92U. S. 575, 612.) Here
there is substantial uniformity within the meaning and purpose
of the Constitution."
So also in the recent case of Knowlton v. .Moore, 178 U. S.
41, 106:
"By the result, then, of an analysis of the history of the
adoption of the Constitution it becomes plain that the words
' uniform throughout the United States ' do not signify an intrinsic but simply a geographical uniformity. And it also results

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
Opinion of the Court.

that the assertion to which we at the outset referred, that the
decision in the Head-.Money Cases, holding that the word uniform must be interpreted in a geographical sense, was not authoritative, because that case in reality solely involved the clause
of the Constitution forbidding preferences between ports, is
shown to be unsound, since the preference clause of the Constitution and the uniformity clause were, in effect, in framing the
Constitution, treated as respected their operation, as one and
the same thing, and embodied the same conception."
Geographical uniformity being therefore that only which is
prescribed by the Constitution the courts may not add new
conditions, and the statute in question fully complies with that
requirement. It is not the province of the judiciary to inquire
whether the excise is reasonable in amount, or in respect to
the property to which it is applied. Those are matters in respect to which the legislative determination is final.
Neither can it be said that the change in the ownership of
the tobacco in the case at bar had placed it beyond the reach
of an excise. It is true that it had passed from the manufacturer, but it had not reached the consumer. By section 3 of
the statute the charge is placed upon articles which "were at
the time of the passage of this act held and intended for sale,"
and this tobacco was purchased and held for sale by the plaintiff. Within the scope of the various definitions we have quoted
there can be no doubt that the power to excise continues while
the consumable articles are in the hands of the manufacturer
or any intermediate dealer, and until they reach the consumer.
Our conclusion, then, is that it is within the power of Congress to increase an excise as well as a property tax, and that
such an increase may be made at least while the property is
held for sale and before it has passed into the hands of the consumer; that it is no part of the function of a court to inquire
into the reasonableness of the excise either as respects the
amount, or the property upon which it is imposed.
The act in controversy, so far as the charge upon this plaintiff is concerned, is constitutional; and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Affkmd.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and AIR. JUSTICE GRAY took no part in

the decision of this case.

RELOJ CATTLE COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND

CLAIMS.

No. 30. Argued and submitted October 21, 1901.-Decided March 17, 1902.

Ainsa v. United States, 161 U. S. 208, reaffirmed.
The grant asked to be confirmed was a grant by quantity according to the
laws when it was made.
As the lawful area of the grant was south of the boundary line between
the United States and Mexico, there could be no confirmation in this
country, and moreover, the owners had obtained full satisfaction thereof
from Mexico before this petition was filed, and no legal or equitable claim
therefor existed against the United States.
Claims for demasias or overplus, in respect of which the conditions were
unfulfilled, are imperfect claims, and such a claim as set up in this case
was barred by limitation.

THE Reloj Cattle Company, claiming to be the owner in fee
of a tract of land in the county of Cochise, Arizona, which it
described as the San Pedro grant, filed its petition for confirmation in the Court of Private Land Claims, May 29, 1897.
The petition alleged that the grant contained 37,000 acres in
the United States, and, by a sketch map attached, 19,000 acres
in the Republic of Mexico, or a total of 56,000 acres, within its
exterior boundaries. It gave a description of the grant by
courses and distances from certain natural objects, and relied
on a survey made by one Howe. The petition further alleged
that plaintiff was the owner of the tract by virtue of certain
instruments in writing, by which it had acquired from Rafael
Elias, the original grantee, title to all the property he had
therein; that the grant title bore date May 2, 1833, and was
duly made, executed and delivered by Don Jos6 Maria Mendoza, treasurer general of the State of Sonora, in the name of
that State, under and by virtue of article 11 of the general

