BOOTH v. ILLINOIS.
Syllabus.

sult of this litigation and is not a party to the record the court
ought not to determine the important question before us in the
absence of material evidence, which we are not at liberty upon
this record to doubt would be in the record but for the somewhat precipitate action of the trial court.
Without considering the merits
The decree must be reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Supreme Court of .NTew Jiexico with directionsto reverse the
decree of the _District Court and to remand the case with
direction to grant leave to both sides to adducefurther evidence. It is so ordered.
I

M.R. JUSTICE GRAY and MiR. JUSTICE MoKENNA did not sit in
this case nor participate in its decision.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS dissented.

BOOTH v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 201. Argued November 6, 1901.-Decided March 3,1902.
If, looking at all the circumstances which attend, or may ordinarily attend
the pursuit of a particular calling, a State thinks that certain admitted
evils cannot be successfully reached unless that calling be actually prohibited, the courts cannot interfere unless, looking through mere forms

and at the substance of the matter, they can say that the statute, enacted'
professedly to protect the public morals, has no real or substantial relation to that object, but is a clear, unmistakable infringement of rights
secured by the fundamental law.
It must be assumed with regard to section 130 of the Criminal Code of Illinois touching options to sell or buy grain or other property at a future
time, that the legislature of the State was of opinion that an effectual
mode to suppress gambling grain contracts was to declare illegal all op
tions to sell or buy at a future time; and this court cannot say that the
means employed were not appropriate to the end sought to be attained
and which it was competent for the State to accomplish.
This court cannot adjudge that the legislature of Illinois transcended the
limits of constitutional authority, when it enacted the statute in question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ab'. Chiarles -H. Aldrich for plaintiff in error.
Mlathias was on his brief.

.M-r. lee D.

.Xr. Howard J Hamlin and .M.. -lbert S. Smith for defendant in error.
M . JUSTiE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

By section 130 of the Criminal Code of Illinois it is provided
that" whoever contracts to have or give to himself or another
the option to sell or buy, at a future time, any grain, or other
commodity, stock of any railroad or other company, or gold,
or forestalls the market by spreading false rumors to influence
the price of commodities therein, or corners the market, or attempts to do so in relation to any of such commodities, shall be
fined not less than ten dollars nor more than one thousand dollars, or confined in the county jail not exceeding one year, or
both; and all contracts made in violation of this section shall
be considered gambling contracts, and shall be void." Rev.
Stat. Ill. Crim. Code, (by IHurd, 1901) ยง 130.
The defendant was indicted in the Criminal Court of Cook
County, Illinois, being charged with violating this statute so
far as it related to options to buy grain or other commodities
at a future time.
The memorandum of the option purchased by the defendant
was as follows:
"B.
Al. V. Booth, grain and provision broker.
10 Weare Com. Co.
CHICAGO, Aug. 16, 1899.
Sep. corn, 1899. C., 31J. Paid.
Good till close of 'change, Sat., Aug. 26, 1899.
"WEARE C. Co.
"J. C. C."
The defendant was found guilty and adjudged to pay a fine
of one hundred dollars and the costs of the prosecution.
At the trial, by motions to quash the indictment, in arrest

BOOTH v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

of judgment, and for a new trial, the accused insisted that the
statute under which he was prosecuted was repugnant to that
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States declaring that no State shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law, nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws." This cohltention was overruled both in the trial
court and in the Supreme Court of Illinois. 186 Illinois, 43.
There was no dispute as to the meaning of the above memorandum. It meant that on the 16th day of August, 1899, the
defendant, a grain and provision broker, and the Weare Commission Company made an agreement whereby, in consideration
of the sum of ten dollars paid by Booth, he obtained from the
company and was given the option of purchasing from it 10,000
bushels of corn at 31J cents a bushel-the option to remain
good until the close of business on the 26th day of August,
1899.
In Schneider v. Tirner,130 Illinois, 28, 39, the question was
whether the statute embraced an agreement in these words:
"Chicago, November 11, 1885. In consideration of one dollar
and other valuable considerations, the receipt of which is hereby
acknowledged, I hereby agree to sell to George Schneider,
Walter L. Peck and Fred W. Peck seventeen hundred and
eighty-six shares of the capital stock of the North Chicago City
Railway at six hundred dollars per share, if taken on or before
the 15th day of December, 1885. V. C. Turner."
It was contended that that agreement was not prohibited by
the statute; that the legislature only intended to make such
option contracts unlawful as were gambling contracts, that is,
option contracts that did not contemplate the delivery or acceptance of any property and which only required a settlement
by "differences;" whereas, it was insisted, the option there in
question had no element of gambling, being only one that entitled the parties obtaining it to elect on or before a named
day whether they would buy the stock described in the agreement.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in that case, observed that at
common .law all gambling contracts were void, and that an

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

agreement for the sale of property was a mere wager or gambling contract and void, if made with the understanding of
the parties that no property was to be delivered or accepted
but could be satisfied by an adjustment simply on the basis of
the difference between the contract and the market price. It
said: "It must be presumed that the object of the legislature
was to declare that unlawful which theretofore had been lawful.
1Prior to this act it was lawful to have or give an option to sell
or buy, at a future time, grain or other commodity. Such contracts were neither void nor voidable at the common law. The
statute makes them unlawful or void in Illinois."
That such is the scope and effect of the statute in question
was recognized by the Supreme Court of Illinois in the present
case. Booth v. People &c., 186 Illinois, 43.
Taking the statute to mean what the highest court of the
State says it means, is it unconstitutional?
In support of the position that the statute is repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment, the learned counsel for the plaintiff advance many propositions that meet our entire approval.
They cite, as in their judgment controlling, what this court
said in AZlgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S. 578, 589, namely, that
the liberty mentioned in the Fourteenth Amendment "means
not only the right of the citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the right
of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of all his faculties;
to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and work
where he will; to earn his livelihood by any lawful calling;
to pursue any livelihood or vocation, and for that purpose to
enter into all contracts which may be proper, necessary and
essential to his carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned."
These declarations state, in condensed form, principles which
had been announced in previous cases, and which may be regarded as expressing the deliberate judgment of this court.
But those declarations do not, in themselves, determine the question now presented. When it is said that the liberty of the
citizen includes freedom to use his faculties "in all lawful ways,"
and to earn his living by any "lawful calling," the inquiry re-

BOOTH v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

mains whether the particular calling or the particular way
brought in question in a given case is lawful, that is, consistent
with such rules of action as have been rightfully prescribed by
the State.
It is, however, said that the statute of the State, as interpreted by its highest court, is not directed against gambling
contracts relating to the selling or buying of grain or other
commodities, but against mere options to sell or buy at a future
time without any settlement between the parties upon the basis
of differences, and therefore involving no element of gambling.
The argument then is, that the statute directly forbids the citizen from pursuing a calling which, in itself, involves no element
of immorality, and therefore by such prohibition it invades his
liberty as guaranteed by the supreme law of the land. Does
this conclusion follow from the premise stated? Is it true that
the legislature is without power to forbid or suppress a particular kind of business, where such business, properly and honestly
conducted, may not, in itself, be immoral? We think not. A
calling may not in itself be immoral, and yet the tendency of
what is generally or ordinarily or often done in pursuing that
calling may be towards that which is admittedly immoral or
pernicious. If, looking at all the circumstances that attend, or
which may ordinarily attend, the pursuit of a particular calling,
the State thinks that certain admitted evils cannot be successfully reached unless that calling be actually prohibited, the courts
cannot interfere, unless, looking through mere forms and at the
substance of the matter, they can say that the statute enacted
professedly to protect the public morals has no real or substantial relation to that object, but is a clear, unmistakable infringement of rights secured by the fundamental law. Xugle r v.
Eansas,123 U. S. 623, 661; .Minnesotav. Barber,136 U. S. 313,
320; Brirmmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78; Joightv. Wright, 14:1
U. S. 62.
We cannot say from any facts judicially known to the court,
or from the evidence in this case, that the prohibition of options
to sell grain at a futu'e time has, in itself, no reasonable relation to the suppression of gambling grain contracts in respect
of which the parties contemplate only a settlement on the basis

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of differences in the contract and market prices. Perhaps, the
legislature thought that dealings in options to sell or buy at a
future time, although not always or necessarily gambling, may
have the effect to keep out of the market, while the options
lasted, the property which is the subject of the options, and
thus assist purchasers to establish, for a time, what are known
as "corners," whereby the ordinary and regular sales or exchanges of such property, based upon existing prices, may be
interfered with and persons who have in fact no grain, and do
not care to handle any, enabled to practically control prices.
Or, the legislature may have thought that options to sell or
buy at a future time were, in their essence, mere speculations
in prices and tended to foster a spirit of gambling. In all this
the legislature of the State may have been mistaken. If so,
the mistake was not such as to justify the conclusion that the
statute was a mere cover to destroy a particular kind of business not inherently harmful or immoral. It must be assumed
that the legislature was of opinion that an effectual mode to
suppress gambling grain contracts was to declare illegal all
options to sell or buy at a future time. The court is unable to
say that the means employed were not appropriate to the end
sought to be attained and which it was competent for the State
to accomplish.
The Supreme Court of the State in this case said: "The practice of gambling on the market prices of grain and other commodities is universally recognized as a pernicious evil, and that
the suppression of such evil is within the proper exercise of the
police power has been too frequently declared to be open to
discussion. The evil does not consist in contracts for the purchase or sale of grain to be delivered in the future, in which the
delivery and acceptance of the grain so contracted for is bona
ftde contemplated and intended by the parties, but in contracts
by which the parties intend to secure, not the article contracted
for, but the right or privilege of receiving the difference between the contract price and the market price of the article.
The object to be accomplished by the legislation under consideration is the suppression of contracts of the latter character,
which are in truth mere wagers as to the future market price

BOOTH v. ILLINOIS. ,
Opinion of the Court.

of the article or commodity which is the subject-matter of the
wager. Clearly a contract which gives to one of the contracting parties a mere privilege to buy corn but does not bind him
to accept and pay for it is wanting in the elements of good
faith to be found in a contract of purchase and sale where both
parties are bound, and offers a more convenient cover and disguise for mere wagers on the price of grain than contracts which
create the relation of vendor and vendee. Such contracts are
in the nature of wagers, that contracted for being the mere
privilege to buy the grain should its market value prove to be
greater than the price fixed in the contract for such privilege.
The prohibition of the right to enter into contracts which do
not contemplate the creation of an obligation on the part of
one of the contracting parties to accept and pay for the commodity which is the purported subject-matter of the contract,
but only to invest him with the option or privilege to demand,
the other contracting party shall deliver him the grain if he
desires to purchase it, tends materially to the suppression of the
very evil of gambling in grain options which it was the legislative intent to extirpate, for the reason such evil injuriously
affected the welfare and safety of the public. The denial of
the right to make such contracts tended directly to advance
the end the legislature had in view and was not an inappropriate measure of attack on the evil intended to be eradicated.
So far as that point is concerned, the act must be deemed a
valid law of the land, and as such must be enforced, though it
infringe in a degree upon the property rights of citizens. To
that extent private right must be deemed secondary to the
public good." 186 Illinois, 51.
We are unwilling to declare these views of the state court
to be wholly without foundation, and therefore cannot adjudge
that the legislature of Illinois transcended the limits of constitutional authority when enacting the statute in question. In
reaching this conclusion we have recognized the principle, long
established and vital in our constitutional system, that the
courts may not strike down an act of legislation as unconstitutional, unless it be plainly and palpably so.
The statute here involved may be unwise. But an unwise

OCTOBER TERMN,

1901.

Syllabus.

enactment is not necessarily, for that reason, invalid. It may
be, as suggested by counsel, that the steady, vigorous enforcement of this statute will materially interfere with the handling
or moving of vast amounts of grain in the West which are disposed of by contracts or arrangements made in the Board of
Trade in Chicago. But those are suggestions for the consideration of the Illinois legislature. The courts have nothing to do
with the mere policy of legislation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is
4ffirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and

RIv.JusTIE PEOHAMi

dissented.

GOODRICH v. DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 123. Argued January20, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.

Where a statute providing for the opening of streets requires notice to the
parties whose land is to be taken for the street, the fact that it makes
no provision for giving notice to the owners of land liable to be assessed
for the improvement, does not deprive such owners of their property
without due process of law, and is not otherwise obnoxious to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The interest of neighboring property owners, who may possibly thereafter
be assessed for the benefit to their property accruing from opening a
street, is too remote to require notice of such improvement, in which
they have no direct interest.
No notice is required to be given to individual property owners of a resolution fixing an assessment district and levying a gross amount thereon for
benefits, where the statute provides for a hearing in relation to the proportion each piece of property shall bear to the whole cost of the improvement, and an opportunity is given to the owner of the land to be
heard upon the question of the benefit derived by him from the improvement.
The fact that certain parcels of land condemned for the improvement are
defectively described, is no defence to a proceeding to assess benefits
upon other property.

