OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

courts of the United States are governed in requiring the execution of such instruments.
The judgment of the Kansas City Court of Appeals must he
reversed and the cause remandedto that court with directions
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion,
and it is so ordered.

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
ILLINOIS.
No. 46. Argued April 22, 23, 1901.-Decided March 10, 1902.

If a claim is made in the Circuit Court that a state enactment is invalid
under the Constitution of the United States, and that claim is sustained,
or rejected, this court may review the judgment, at the instance of the
unsuccessful party.
If the alleged combination in this case was illegal, it would not follow
that they could, at common law, refuse to pay for pipes bought for thenA
under special contracts.
The contracts between the plaintiff and the respective defendants were col
lateral to the agreement between the plaintiff and other corporations
etc., whereby an illegal combination was formed for the sale of sewer
Opipe.
The first special defence in this case, based alone upon the principles of
the common law, was properly overruled.
The special defence, based upon the act of Congress of July 2, 1890, 26
Stat. 209, was also properly rejected. That act does not declare illegal
or void any sale made by such combination or its agents of property acquired for the purpose of being sold, such property not being at the
time in the course of transportation from one State to another, or to a
foreign country; and the buyer could not refuse to comply with his contract of purchase upon the ground that the seller was an illegal combination, which might be restrained or suppressed in the mode prescribed
by the act of Congress.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry D. Coghlan for plaintiffs in error. .21r. Joseph
A. O'Donnell was on his brief.

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Ar. Herbert Hamin and AfXr. Edwin Walker for defendant
inerror.
MR. JusTio- HARLAw delivered the opinion of the court.

The Union Sewer Pipe Company-a corporation organized
under the laws of Ohio and doing business in Illinois-brought
its action against Thomas Connolly, a citizen of Illinois, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois, on two negotiable promissory notes both executed at
Chicago by the defendant; one, dated December 15, 1894, the
other dated January 15, 1895, and each payable to the order of
the plaintiff corporation ninety days after date at the First National Bank of Chicago.
These notes were given on account of the purchase by the
defendant from the plaintiff of sewer pipe commonly known as
standard Akron pipe, at prices agreed upon between the parties.
The Pipe Company also brought an action in the same court
against William E. Dee, a citizen of Illinois, upon an open account for $2389.26, the value at agreed prices of certain pipe
purchased by him from the plaintiff in June, 1896. The plaintiff supplied the pipe under a written contract executed between
it and the defendant in Illinois under date of August, 1895.
Each of the defendants filed a plea of the general issue, with
notice of special defences and of set-off.
The special defences in each case were substantially the same.
The notice in the Connolly case was that the defendant on the
trial of the action would rely on these special matters:
"First. That the plaintiff is, and at all times since about the
first day of January, 1893, has been a trust or combination of
the capital, skill and acts of divers persons and corporations carrying on a commercial business in the States of Ohio and Illinois and between said States and elsewhere in the United States
of America, and organized for the express purpose of unlawfully and contrary to the common law creating and carrying
out restrictions in trade, to wit, in the trade of buying, selling
and otherwise dealing in certain articles of merchandise, to wit,
sewer and drainage pipes, and also for the express purpose of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

unlawfully and contrary to the common law limiting the production of said articles of merchandise and increasing the market price thereof; and also for the express purpose of unlawfully
and contrary to the common law preventing competition in the
manufacture, making, transportation, sale or purchase of said
articles of commerce; also for the express purpose of unlawfully and contrary to the common law fixing standards or figures whereby the prices of said articles of merchandise intended
for sale, use and consumption in this State should be controlled
and established ; and also for the express purpose of unlawfully
and contrary to the common law being a pretended agency
whereby the sale of said articles of commerce should and might
be covered up and made to appear to be for the original vendors
thereof, and so as to enable the original vendors or manufacturers thereof to control the wholesale and retail price of such
articles of commerce after the title thereto had passed from
such vendors or manufacturers; and for the further express
purpose of unlawfully and contrary to the common law making
and entering into and carrying out a certain contract or certain
contracts by which the several persons or corporations forming the plaintiff, or being the pretended stockholders thereof,
to wit, have bound themselves not to sell; dispose of or transport said article of commerce below certain common standard
figures or card or list prices in excess of the true market values
thereof, and by which they have agreed to keep the prices of
said articles of commerce at certain fixed or graduated figures,
and by which they have established certain settled prices of
said articles of commerce between themselves and others, so as
to preclude a free and unrestricted competition among themselves and others in the sale and transportation of said articles
of commerce, and by which they have agreed to pool, combine
and unite any interests they may have in connection with the
sale and transportation of said articles of commerce so that the
prices thereof may effect advantageously to themselves; that
all of the claims of the plaintiff against the defendant in this
action arise wholly out of and are in respect of sales of said articles of merchandise made between the 1st day of January,
A. D. 1893, and the 1st day of March, 1896, to this defendant by

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff in the ordinary course of its business as such a trust
or combination acting as aforesaid, and that this action is brought
to recover the alleged price thereof and for no other purpose.
"Secondly. That the plaintiff is and at all times since the
1st day of January, 1893, was a combination in the form of a
trust, in restraint of trade and commerce among the several
States, and doing business as such throughout the United States
and between the States of Ohio and Illinois, contrary to the
provisions of an act of Congress of date of July 2, 1890, and entitled 'An act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful
restraints and monopolies,' and that this action is brought solely
to recover the price of articles of merchandise, to wit, sewer
and drainage pipes, sold to the defendant by the plaintiff, then
and there acting and doing business as such a combination, as
aforesaid, in violation of the provisions of said act.
"Thirdly. That the plaintiff is and at all times since the
1st of Janhary, 1893, was a trust doing business as such in the
State of Illinois and elsewhere, contrary to the provisions of
an act of the legislature of the State of Illinois entitled 'An
act to define trusts and conspiracies against trade, declaring
contracts in violation of this provision void, and making certain
acts and violations thereof misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment thereof and matters connected therewith, approved
June 20, 1893, in force July 1, 1893;' that this action is brought
solely to recover the price of articles of merchandise, to wit,
sewer and drainage pipes, sold to the defendant by the plaintiff,
then and there acting and doing business in violation of the
provisions of said act, and that the defendant hereby pleads
said act in defence to this action and the whole thereof."
The set-offs claimed by Connolly were: Treble the amount
of the actual damages sustained and allowed by the act of Congress of July 2, 1890, c. 647, known as the Sherman anti-trust
act, $56,970.44 ; actual damages sustained by reason of the violation by the plaintiff of the provisions of the Illinois statute
of July 1, 1893, $17,323.48; and for money had and received
by plaintiff of defendant contrary to law, $17,323.48.
The set-offs claimed by Dee were of like character but of
larger amounts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Both cases were, by agreement, submitted to the same jury
and were treated as one consolidated case. At the trial the
defendants respectively asked leave to amend their notices of
special defences, but leave was denied.
The Circuit Court disallowed both the first and second of
the above special defences, and in respect of the third its decision was that the Illinois Trust statute of 1893 was in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. It consequently directed the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiff in each case;
in the Connolly case, for the amount of the two notes sued on;
in the Dee case, for the amount of the plaintiff's open account
against him. Verdicts having been returned as directed, and
a motion for new trial in one case, and motions for new trial
and in arrest of judgment in the other, having been overruled,
judgments were entered on the verdicts.
1. The defendant in error insists that these cases should have
gone to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and has moved on that
ground that the writ of error be dismissed. The defence in
each case was based in part on the Illinois statute of 1893. The
plaintiff insisted at the trial that that statute was in violation
of the Constitution of the United States, and its position was
sustained by the Circuit Court. There have been suits in
which the Circuit Court upon the claim of the defendant has
applied the Constitution of the United States to the case before
it and put the plaintiff out of court. Here, the plaintiff claimed
that the state enactment upon which defendants relied was unconstitutional, and its position upon that point was sustained.
In Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179 U. S. 472, 477,

this court said: "The Circuit Court of Appeals Act does not
declare that the final judgment of a Circuit Court in a case in
which there was a claim of the repugnancy of a state statute
to the Constitution of the United States may be reviewed here
only upon writ of error sued out by the party making the
claim. In other words, if a claim is made in the Circuit Court,
no matter by which party, that a state enactment is invalid
under the Constitution of the United States, and that claim is
sustained or rejected, then it is consistent with the words of the
act, and, we think, in harmony with its object, that this court

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

review the judgment at the instance of the unsuccessful party,
whether plaintiff or defendant. It was the purpose of Congress to give opportunity to an unsuccessful litigant to come to
this court directly from the Circuit Court in every case in
which a claim is made that a state statute is in contravention of
the Constitution of the United States." Upon the authority of
that case, the motion to dismiss is denied.
2. The defendant Connolly purchased Akron sewer pipe from
the plaintiff and for the agreed price thereof gave the two
promissory notes upon which he was sued. The defendant Dee
also purchased Akron sewer pipe at an agreed price as shown
by the account upon which he was sued. Eaoh defendant disputed his liability to the plaintiff upon the ground that prior
to the making of the contracts with the defendants respectively
for pipe, the plaintiff corporation entered into a combination
with certain firms, corporations and companies engaged in Ohio
in the manufacture of Akron pipe; which combination, it is
alleged, was in illegal restraint of trade and therefore forbidden
by the principles of the common law as recognized and enforced
both in Ohio and Illinois.
The defence cannot be maintained. Assuming, as defendants contend, that the alleged combination was illegal if tested
by the principles of the common law, still it would not follow
that they could, at common law, refuse to pay for pipe bought
by them under special contracts with the plaintiff. The illegality of such combination did not prevent the plaintiff corporation from selling pipe that it obtained from its constituent companies or either of them. It could pass a title by a sale to any
one desiring to buy, and the buyer could not justify a refusal
to pay for what he bought and received by proving that the
seller had previously, in the prosecution of its business, entered
into an illegal combination with others in reference generally
to the sale of Akron pipe.
In Strait v. NationaZ Harrow Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 819, a suit in
which the plaintiffs sought a permanent injunction, restraining
the defendant from instituting or prosecuting any action against
the plaintiffs for the infringement of letters patent owned by the
defendant covering certain improvements in spring-tooth harVOL. OLXxxIV-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

rows, or from instituting or prosecuting any such suits against
any person using the spring-tooth harrows manufactured by the
plaintiffs, the court said: "In substance, the complaint shows
that the defendant has entered into a combination with various
other manufacturers of spring-tooth harrows for the purpose of
acquiring a monopoly in this country in the manufacture and
sale of the same, and, as an incident thereto, has acquired all
the rights of the other manufacturers for the exclusive sale
and manufacture of such harrows under patents, or interests in
patents, owned by them respectively. Such a combination
may be an odious and a wicked one, but the proposition that
the plaintiffs, while infringing the rights vested in the defendant under letters patent of the United States, is entitled to stop
the defendant from bringing or prosecuting any suit therefor
because the defendant is an obnoxious corporation, and is seeking to perpetuate the monopoly which is conferred upon it by
its title to the letters patent, is a novel one, and entirely unwarranted. The party having such a patent has a right to
bring suit on it, not only against a manufacturer who infringes,
but against dealers and users of the patented article, if he believes the patent is being infringed; and the motive which
prompts him to sue is not open to judicial inquiry, because,
having a legal right to sue, it is immaterial whether his motives are good or bad, and he is not required to give his reasons
for the attempt to assert his legal rights. 'The exercise of the
legal right cannot be affected by the motive which controls it.)
.'f v. Youmans, 86 N. Y. 329."
In .fational Distilling Co. v. Cream City Importing Co., 86
Wisconsin, 352, 355, which was an action to recover the price of
goods sold and delivered, one of the defences was that the plaintiff was a member of an illegal trust or combination to interfere
with the freedom of trade and commerce. The Supreme Court
of Wisconsin said: "The first defence does not deny any allegation of the complaint, but the substance of it is that the
sale and delivery of the goods in question to the defendant
was void as against public policy, because the vendor was at
the time a member of an unlawful trust or combination, formed
to unlawfully interfere with the freedom of trade and com-

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

merce and in restraint thereof and to accomplish the ends
therein set forth.

.

.

Conceding, for the purposes of this

case, that the trust or combination in question may be illegal
and its members may be restrained from carrying out the purposes for which it was created by a court of equity in a suit on
behalf of the public, or may be subject to indictment and punishment, there is, nevertheless, no allegation showing or tending to show that the contract of sale between the plaintiff and
defendant was tainted with any illegality, or was contrary to
public policy. The argument, if any the case admits of, is
that, as the plaintiff was a member of the so-called 'trust,' or
'combination,' the defendant might voluntarily purchase the
goods in question of it at any agreed price, and convert them
to its own use, and be justified in a court of justice in its refusal
to pay the plaintiff for them, because of the connection of the
vendor with such trust or combination. The plaintiff's cause
of action is in no legal sense dependent upon, or affected by the
alleged illegality of the trust or combination, because the illegality, if any, is entirely collateral to the transaction in question, and the court is not called upon in this action to enforce
any contract tainted with illegality, or contrary to public policy.
The mere fact that the plaintiff is a member of a trust or combination, created with the intent and purposes set forth in the
answer, will not disable or prevent it in law from selling goods
within or affected by the provisions of such trust or combination, and recovering their price or value. It does not appear
that it had stipulated to refrain from such transactions. A
contrary doctrine would lead to most startling and dangerous
consequences."
That case was cited with approval by the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Dennehy v. .tY'ulta, 86
Fed. Rep. 825, 827, 829. In that case the court said: "The
mere fact that the corporation, as one of the contracting parties, may constitute an unjust monopoly, and that its general
business is illegal-a status apparently held in Distilling &
Cattle Feeding Co. v. People, 156 Illinois, 448-cannot serve,
so faoto, to create default or liability on its contracts generally; nor can such fact be invoked collaterally to affect in any

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

manner its independent contract obligations." Again: "In
the case of an injurious combination of the nature asserted here,
the remedy is by well recognized and direct proceedings; but
one who voluntarily and knowingly deals with the parties so
combined cannot, on the one hand, take the benefit of his bargain, and, on the other, have a right of action against the seller
for the money paid, or any part of it, either upon the ground
that the combination is illegal, or that its prices were unreasonable."
It is undoubtedly the general rule that a contract made in
violation of a statute is void, and no recovery can be had upon
it; as in Embrey v. Johnson, 131 U. S. 336, 348. That was an
action upon a promissory note given in execution of a contract
for the purchase of" future delivery" cotton, neither the purchase or delivery of actual cotton being contemplated by the
parties, but the settlement in respect to which was to be on the
basis of the "difference" between the contract price and the
market price of cotton futures, according to the fluctuations in
the market. The contract was held to be a wagering contract, and therefore illegal and void. As there could be no recovery upon the original agreement without disclosing the fact
that it was illegal and one that could not, for that reason, be
enforced or made the basis of a judgment, it was held, that
attention could not be withdrawn from the illegality of the
contract by the device of taking notes for the amount claimed
under that contract. So, in X iller v. Agnrnon, 145 U. S.421,
427. That was an action to recover the value of 1125 gallons
of wines sold in Chicago by one who had not obtained a license
to sell liquors at all-an ordinance of that city expressly declaring that no person, firm, or corporation should sell or offer
for sale "any spirituous or vinous liquors in quantities of one
gallon or more at a time, within the city, without having first
obtained a license therefor," under a penalty of not less than $50
or more than $200 for each offence. It was held that the action could not be maintained, because "an act done in disobedience to the law creates no right of action which a court of
justice will enforce." In that case the sale from which it was
attempted to imply the promise of the buyer to pay for what

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

he received, was itself expressly forbidden by law under a penalty. The action there was upon the sale, and there was a
direct connection between it and the purchase of the wines.
So, again, in .cfullen v. Hofmn, 174 U. S. 639, 654, after
an extended review of the cases, American and English, the
court said: "The authorities from the earliest time to the present unanimously held that no court will lend its assistance in
any way toward carrying out the terms of an illegal contract."
In the present case other considerations must control. This
is not an action to enforce or which involves the enforcement
of the alleged arrangement or combination between the plaintiff corporation and other corporations, firms and companies
in relation to the sale of Akron pipe. As already suggested,
the plaintiff, even if part of a combination illegal at common
law, was not for that reason forbidden to sell property it acquired or held for sale. The purchases by the defendants had
no necessary or d'irect connection with the alleged illegal combination; for the contracts between the defendants and the
plaintiff could have been proven without any reference to the
arrangement whereby the latter became an illegal combination.
If, according to the principles of the common law, the Union
Sewer Pipe Company could not have sold or passed title to
any pipe it received and held for sale, because of an illegal
arrangement previously made with other corporations, firms
or companies, a different question would be presented. But we
are aware of no decision to the effect that a sale similar to
that made by the present plaintiff to the defendants respectively would in itself be illegal or void under the principles of
the common law. The contracts between the plaintiff and the
respective defendants were, in every sense, collateral to the
alleged agreement between the plaintiff and other corporations,
firms or associations whereby an illegal combination was formed
for the sale of sewer pipe.
We are of opinion that the first special defence, based alone
upon the principles of the common law, was properly overruled.
3. The special defence based upon the act of Congress of
July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, was also properly rejected.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

That act declares illegal "every contract, combination in
form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade
or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations "-every person making any such contract or engaging
in any such conspiracy being subject to i fine not exceeding
$5000, or to imprisonment not exceeding one year, or to both
punishments in the discretion of the court. § 1. So, every person monopolizing or attempting to monopolize, or combining
or conspiring with any other person or persons to monopolize,
any part of the trade or commerce among the several States or
with foreign nations, is liable by that act to the like penalties
in the discretion of the court. § 2. The several Circuit Courts
of the United States are invested with jurisdiction to prevent
and restrain violations of its provisions. § 41. Any property
owned under any contract or by any combination or pursuant
to any conspiracy (and being the subject thereof), and being
in the course of transportation from one State to another, or to
a foreign country, is subject to be forfeited, seized and condemned. § 6. By another section it is declared: "Any person who shall be injured in his business or property by any
other person or corporation by reason of anything forbidden
or declared to be unlawful by this act, may sue therefor in
any Circuit Court of the United States in the district in which
the defendant resides or is found, without respect to the amount
in controversy, and shall recover threefold the damages by him
sustained, and the costs of suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee." § 7.
Much of what has just been said in reference to the first special defence, based on the common law, is applicable to this part
of the case. If the contract between the plaintiff corporation
and the other named corporations, persons and companies, or
the combination thereby formed, was illegal under the act of
Congress, then all those, whether persons, corporations or associations, directly connected therewith, became subject to the
penalties prescribed by Congress. But the act does not declare
illegal or void any sale made by such combination, or by its
agents, of property it acquired or which came into its possession
for the purpose of being sold-such property not being at the

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

time in the course of transportation from one State to another
or to a foreign country. The buyer could not refuse to comply
with his contract of purchase upon the ground that the seller
was an illegal combination which might be restrained or suppressed in the mode prescribed by the act of Congress; for Congress did not declare that a combination illegally formed under
the act of 1890 should not, in the conduct of its business, become the owner of property which it might sell to whomsoever
wished to buy it. So that there is no necessary legal connection here between the sale of pipe to the defendants by the
plaintiff corporation and the alleged arrangement made by it
with other corporations, companies and firms. The contracts
under which the pipe in question was sold were, as already said,
collateral to the arrangement for the combination referred to,
and this is not an action to enforce the terms of such arrangement. That combination may have been illegal, and yet the
sale to the defendants was valid.
In the case of The CharlesE. WVisewall, 74 Fed Rep. 802, which
was a libel 'in rem by certain tug owners against a steam dredge
to recover the value of certain services rendered by the tug in
towing the dredges, it was sought to avoid payment for the services thus rendered upon the ground that the tug owners were
members of an association which was illegal and void under the
Sherman act. The court, assuming that the agreement by
which the tugs acted in unison was prohibited by that act, said:
"He [the claimant] should not be permitted to repudiate his
just debts to the individual tugs because their association was
illegal. Having asked for their services and having accepted
the benefit thereof, he should pay.

.

.

.

An agreement

by the tug Mayflower to tow the dredge Wisewall, for a reasonable sum, from Albany to Troy, is not void because the
M ayflower is associated with other tugs to regulate the price
of towing at Albany. Should the claimant purchase a pair of
trousers at an Albany clothing shop, he would find it difficult
to avoid paying their actual market price because the vendor
and other tailors of that city had combined to keep up prices."
Nor can the defendants refuse to pay for what they bought
upon the ground that the seventh section of the Sherman act

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

gives the right to any person "injured in his business or property by any other person or corporation by reason of anything
forbidden or declared to be unlawful" by the act, to sue and
recover treble the damages sustained by him. We shall not
now attempt to declare the full scope and meaning of that section of the act of Congress. It is sufficient to say that the action which it authorizes must be a direct one, and the damages
claimed cannot be set off in these actions based upon special
contracts for the sale of pipe that have no direct connection
with the alleged arrangement or combination between the plaintiff and other corporations, firms or companies. Such damages
cannot be said, as matter of law, to have directly grown out of
that arrangement or combination, and are, besides, unliquidated.
Besides, it is well settled in Illinois that "unliquidated damages
arising out of covenants, contracts or torts disconnected with
plaintiff's claim cannot be set off under the statute." Robinson v. Hibbs, 48 Ill. 408, 409, 410; Hawks v. Lands, 3 Gilm.
227,232; Hubbardv. Rogers, 64 Ill. 434,437; Evans v. Hughey,
76 Ill. 115, 120; Clause v. Bullock PrintingPress Co., 118 Ill.
612, 617 ; Dushane v. Benedict, 120 U. S. 630, 648. If the act
of Congress expressly authorized one who purchased property
from a combination organized in violation of its provisions to
plead, in defence of a suit for the price, the illegal character of
the combination, that would present an entirely different question. But the act contains no such provision.
4. We come now to the consideration of the defence based
upon the Trust statute of Illinois of 1893.
As that statute is alleged to be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States, and that its full scope may be seen, it is
here given in full:
"§ 1. That a trust is a combination of capital, skill or acts
by two or more persons, firms, corporations or associations of
persons, or of two or more of them for either, any or all of the
following purposes: First-to create or carry out restrictions
in trade. Second-to limit or reduce the production, or increase
or reduce the price of merchandise or commodities. Third-to
prevent competition in manufacture, making, transportation,
sale or purchase of merchandise, produce or commodities.

CONNOLLY v,. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Fourth-to fix at any standard or figure whereby its price to
the public shall be in any manner controlled or established upon
any article or commodity of merchandise, produce or manufacture intended for sale, use or consumption in this State; or to
establish any pretended agency whereby the sale of any such
article or commodity shall be covered up and made to appear
to be for the original vendor, for a like purpose or purposes,
and to enable such original vendor or manufacturer to control
the wholesale or retail price of any such article or commodity
after the title to such article or commodity shall have passed
from such vendor or manufacturer. Fifth-to make or enter
into, or examine or carry out any contract, obligation or agreement of any kind or description by which they shall bind or
have bound themselves not to sell, dispose of or transport any
article or commodity, or article of trade, use, merchandise, commerce or consumption below a common standard figure, or card
or list price, or by which they shall agree in any manner to
keep the price of such article, commodity or transportation at
a fixed or graduated figure, or by which they shall in any manner establish or settle the price of any article or commodity or
transportation between them or themselves and others to preclude a free and unrestricted competition among themselves
or others in the sale or transportation of any such article or
commodity, or by which they shall agree to pool, combine or
unite any interest they may have in connection with the sale
or transportation of any such article or commodity that its
price might in any manner be affected.
"§ 2. That any corporation holding a charter under the laws
of this State which shall violate any of the provisions of this
act shall thereby forfeit its charter and franchise, and its corporate existence shall cease and determine.
"§ 3. For a violation of any of the provisions of this act by
any corporation mentioned herein it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General or prosecuting attorney, upon his own motion, to institute suit or guo warrantoproceedings, at any county
in this State in which such corporation exists, does business or
may have a domicile, for the forfeiture of its charter rights and
franchise, and the dissolution of its corporate existence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"§ 4. Every foreign corporation violating any of the provisions of this act is hereby denied the right and prohibited from
doing any business within this State, and it shall be the duty of
the Attorney General to enforce this provision by injunction or
other proper proceedings, in any county in which such foreign
corporation does business, in the name of the State on his relation.
"§ 5. Any violation of either or all of the provisions of section 1 of this act shall be and is hereby declared to be a conspiracy against trade, and a misdemeanor; and any person who
may be or may become engaged in any such conspiracy or take
part therein or aid or advise in its commission, or who shall, as
principal, manager, director, agent, servant or employ6, or in
any other capacity, knowingly carry out any of the stipulations, purposes, prices, rates, orders thereunder, or in pursuance
thereof, shall be punished by fine not less than two thousand
dollars nor more than five thousand dollars.
" § 6. In any indictment or information for any offence named
in this act, it is sufficient to state the purposes and effects of the
trust or combination, and that the accused was a member of,
acted with or in pursuance of it, without giving its name or
description, or how or where it was created.
"§ 7. In prosecutions under this act it shall be sufficient to
prove that a trust or combination as defined herein exists, and
that the defendant belonged to it or acted for or in connection
with it, without proving all the members belonging to it, or
proving or producing any article of agreement or any written
instrument on which it may have been based, or that it was
evidenced by any written instrument at all.
"§ 8. That any contract or agreement in violation of the provisions of this act shall be absolutely void and not enforcible
either in law or equity.
"§ 9. The provisions of this act shall not apply to agricultural .productsor live stock while in the hands of the producer
or raiser.
" § 10. Any purchaser of any article or commodity, from any
person, firm, corporation or association of persons, or of two or
more of them, transacting business contrary to any provision
of the preceding sections of this act, shall not be liable for the

CONNOLLY r. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

price or payment of such article or commodity and may plead
this act as a defence to any suit for such price or payment."
Laws, Ill. 1893, p. 182, act of June 20, 1893 ; Hurd's Rev. Stat.
Ill. (1899), p. 618, title "Criminal Code."
Some reference was made to the act of the legislature of
Illinois approved June 10, 1891, amending an act approved
June 11, 1891, in force July 1, 1891, relating to the punishment of persons, partnerships or corporations forming pools,
trusts and combines, and prescribing the mode of procedure
and rules of evidence in such cases. The act of 1897 amended
section one of the act of 1891 so as to read: "If any corporation organized under the laws of this or any other State or
country for transacting or conducting any kind of business in
this State, or any partnership or individual or other association
of persons whosoever, shall create, enter into, become a member of or a party to any pool, trust, agreement, combination,
confederation or understanding with any other corporation,
partnership, individual or any other person or association of
persons, to regulate or fix the price of any article of merchandise or commodity, or shall enter into, become a member of, or
party to any pool, agreement, contract, combination, or confederation to fix or limit the amount or quantity of any article,
commodity or merchandise to be manufactured, mined, produced
or sold in this State, such corporation, partnership or individual
or other association of persons shall be deemed and adjudicated
guilty of a conspiracy to defraud, and be subject to indictment
and punishment as provided in this act: provided, however, that
in the mining, manufacture or production of articles of merchandise, the cost of which is mainly made up of wages, it shall
not be unlawful for persons, firms or corporations doing business in this State to enter into joint arrangements of any sort,
the principal object or effect of which is to maintain or increase
wages." As this act of 1897 was passed after the date of the
transactions here involved, it has nothing to do with the present case. Besides, the special defence was based on theact of
1893. The act of 1897 is referred to only as showing the exemption of another class from the operation of the general law
relating to pools, trusts, combinations and confederations organ-

OCTOBER TERAI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

ized to regulate prices of articles, commodities and merchandise.
Laws, Ill. 1897, c. 38, p. 153; iHurd's Revised Statutes of Illinois, pp. 615, 639.
That the arrangement or combination made between the
Union Sewer Pipe Company and other companies, corporations
and firms, created such a trust as the Illinois statute forbids is
manifest from the evidence in the record. It is equally clear
that if the plaintiff was an Illinois corporation, its charter could
be forfeited and an end put to its corporate existence by proceedings instituted by the Attorney General of the State.
§§ 1, 2 and 3. It is also clear that, if the statute is not altogether invalid the defendants could plead non-liability for the
pipe purchased by them upon the ground that the plaintiff was,
under the statute of Illinois, an illegal combination and the
contracts which it made with the defendants were void. §§ 8,
10. The statute expressly authorizes such a defence. In that
particular, the defence based upon the statute of Illinois differs
from the other special defences.
The vital question, however, is whether the statute of Illinois
of 1893 is not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United
States, by reason of the fact that by the ninth section it declares that "the provisions of this act shall not apply to agricultural products or live stock while in the hands of producer
or raiser." The Circuit Court held this section to be repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, and to be so connected and interwoven with other
sections that its invalidity affected the entire act.
Looking specially at its provisions, it will be seen that, so far
as the statute is concerned, two or more agriculturalists or two
or more live stock raisers may, in respect of their products or
live stock in hand, combine their capital, skill or acts for the
purpose of creating or carrying out restrictions in the sale
of such products or live stock; or limiting, increasing or reducing their price; or preventing competition in their sale or purchase.; or fixing a standard or figure whereby the price thereof
to the public may be controlled; or making contracts whereby
they would become bound not to sell or dispose of such agricultural products or live stock below a common standard figure

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

or card or list price; or establishing the price of such products
or stock in hand, so as to preclude free and unrestricted competition among themselves or others; or by agreeing to pool,
combine or unite any interest they may have in connection
with the sale or transportation of their products or live stock"
that the price might be affected. All this, so far as the statute
is concerned, may be done by agriculturalists or live stock
raisers in Illinois without subjecting them to the fine imposed
by the statute. But exactly the same. things, if done by two
or more persons, firms, corporations or associations of persons,
who shall have combined their capital, skill or acts, in respect
of their property, merchandise or commodities held for sale or
exchange, is made by the statute a public offence, and every
principal, manager, director, agent, servant or employ6 knowingly carrying out the purposes, stipulations and orders of such
combination is punishable by a fine of not less than two thousand nor more than five thousand dollars. Is not this such discrimination against those engaged in business (other than the
sale of agricultural products and live stock in the hands of
producers and raisers) as is forbidden by that clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment which declares that "no State shall
. . deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws ?"
By section 26 of a statute of Illinois it is provided: "Foreign
corporations, and the officers and agents thereof, doing business in this State shall be subjected to all the liabilities, restrictions and duties that are or may be imposed upon associations
of like character organized under the general laws of this State,
and shall have no other or greater powers." 1 Starr & Curtis,
619. The contracts upon which these suits are based were made
in Illinois. The purpose of the above statute was "to produce
uniformity in the powers, liabilities, duties and restrictions of
foreign and domestic corporations of like character and bring
them all under the influence of the same law." Stevens v. Pratt,
101 Ill. 206; -Farmers'Loan and Trust Co. v. Lake St. Elevated
R. R. Co., 173 Ill. 439. These matters are called to our attention as showing-as undoubtedly they do-that the Union Sewer
Pipe Company, while doing business in Illinois, was subject to
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute of Illinois concerning trusts or combinations, and
which, in terms, applies to both domestic and foreign corporations. But the question remains to be decided whether the
statute is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
If it be, then it is not law and cannot be applied for the purpose
of defeating the plaintiff's claims in these actions.
The question of constitutional law to which we have referred
cannot be disposed of by saying that the statute in question
may be referred to what are called the police powers of the
State, which, as often stated by this court, were not included
in the grants of power to the General Government, and therefore were reserved to the States when the Constitution was ordained. But as the Constitution of the United States is the
supreme law of the land, anything in the Constitution or statutes of the States to the contrary notwithstanding, a statute
of a State, even when avowedly enacted in the exercise of its
police powers, must yield to that law. No right granted or
secured by the Constitution of the United States can be impaired or destroyed by a state enactment, whatever may be the
source from which the power to pass such enactment may have
been derived. "The nullity of any act inconsistent with the
Constitution is produced by the declaration that the Constitution is the supreme law." The State has undoubtedly the power,
by appropriate legislation, to protect the public morals, the
public health and the public safety, but if, by their necessary
operation, its regulations looking to either of those ends amount
to a denial to persons within its jurisdiction of the equal protection of the laws, they must be deemed unconstitutional and
void. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Sinvot v. Davenport,
22 How. 227, 243 ; .Missouri,Kansas & Texas Railway v. Haber,
169 U. S.613, 626.
What may be regarded as a denial of the equal protection of
the laws is a question not always easily determined, as the decisions of this court and of the highest courts of the States will
show. It is sometimes difficult to show that a state enactment,
having its source in a power not controverted, infringes rights
protected by the National Constitution. No rule can be formulated that will cover every case. But upon this general ques-

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

tion we have said that the guarantee of the equal protection of
the laws means "that no person or class of persons shall be
denied the same protection of the laws which is enjoyed by other
persons or other classes in the same place and in like circumstances." 3fissouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31. We have also
said: "The Fourteenth Amendment, in declaring that no State
'shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without
due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws,' undoubtedly intended
not only that there should be no arbitrary deprivation of life or
liberty, or arbitrary spoliation of property, but that equal protection and security should be given to all under like circumstances in the enjoyment of their personal and civil rights; that
all persons should be equally entitled io pursue their happiness
and acquire and enjoy property ; that they should have like
access to the courts of the country for the protection of their
persons and property, the prevention and redress of wrongs, and
the enforcement of contracts; that no impediment should be
interposed to the pursuits of any one except as applied to the
same pursuits by others under like circumstances; that no
greater burdens should be laid upon one than are laid upon
others in the same calling and condition, and that in the administration of criminal justice no different or higher punishment
should be imposed upon one than such as is prescribed to all for
like offences." Barbierv. ConnoZ /, 113 U. S. 27, 31. This
language was cited with approval in Yik VWo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356, 369, in which it was also said that "the equal
protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal
laws." In Hayes v. .fissour7, 120 U. S. 68, 71, we said that
the Fourteenth Amendment required that all persons subject
to legislation limited as to the objects to which it is directed,
or by the territory within which it is to operate, "shall be
treated alike, under like circumstances and considerations, both
in the privileges conferred, and in the limitations imposed."
"1
Due process of law and the equal protection of the laws," this
court has said, "1are secured, if the laws operate on all alike, and
do not subject the individual to an arbitrary exercise of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

powers of government." Duncan v. Afissouri, 152 U. S. 377,
382. Many other cases in this court are to the like effect.
These principles, applied to the case before us, condemn the
statute of Illinois. We have seen that under that statute all
except producers of agricultural commodities and raisers of live
stock, who combine their capital, skill or acts for any of the
purposes named in the act, may be punished as criminals, while
agriculturalists and live stock raisers, in respect of their products or live stock in hand, are exempted from the operation of
the statute, and may combine and do that which, if done by
others, would be a crime against the State. The statute so provides notwithstanding persons engaged in trade or in the sale
of merchandise and commodities, within the limits of a State,
and agriculturalists and raisers of live stock, are all in the same
general class, that is, they are all alike engaged in domestic
trade, which is, of right, open to all, subject to such regnlations,
applicable alike to all in like conditions, as the State may legally
prescribe.
The difficulty is not met by saying that, generally speaking,
the State when enacting laws may, in its discretion, make a
clasgification of persons, firms, corporations and associations, in
order to subserve public objects. .For this court has held that
classification "must always rest upon some difference which
bears a reasonable and just relation to the act in respect to
which the classification is proposed, and can never be made arbitrarily and without any such basis. . . . But arbitrary
selection can never be justified by calling it classification. The
equal protection demanded by the Fourteenth Amendment forbids this. . . . No duty rests more imperatively upon the
courts than the enforcement of those constitutional provisions
intended to secure that equality of rights which is the foundation of free government. . . . It is apparent that the mere
fact of classification is not sufficient to relieve a statute from
the reach of the equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and that in all cases it must appear not only that a classification
has been made, but also that it is one based upon some reasonable ground-some difference which bears a just and proper
relation to the attempted classification-and is not a mere ar-

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

bitrary selection." Gulf, Colorado and Santa Fj Railway v.
Ellis, 165 IU.S. 150, 155, 159, 160, 165. These principles were
recognized and applied in Cotting v. KYansas City Stock Yards
Co., 183 U. S. 79, in which it was unanimously agreed that a
statute of Kansas regulating the charges of a particular stock
yards company in the State, but which exempted certain stock
yards from its operation, was repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment in that it denied to that company the equal protection of the laws.
Attention has been called to the cases of Magoun v. Illinois
Trust and Savings Bank, 170 U. S.283, and American Sugar
Refning Co. v. -Louisiana,179 U. S.89; and it is supposed that
the grounds upon which the decision of the present case is placed
are inconsistent with the principles announced in those cases.
We do not think so.
In -fagoun v. Illinois Trust and Savings Bank we held that
the progressive inheritance tax law of Illinois of June 15, 1895,
was not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States
by reason of the fact that the amount of the tax was determinable by valuation so that every person and corporation should
paty in proportion to the value of his, her or its property inherited. The classification made by the statute was held not to
be arbitrary by reason of the fact that inheritances were classified according to amount, and each class taxed at a different
rate; for it was based upon principles of equality between the
members of each distinct class. Such classification was held
not to be inconsistent with the Fourteenth Amendment.
In American Sugar ]efining Co. v. Louisiana, we held that
a statute of Louisiana exempting from its operation planters and
farmers grinding and refining their own sugar and molasses,
but which imposed a license tax upon persons and corporations
carrying on the business of refining sugar and molasses, did
not deny the equal protection of the laws to such persons and
corporations as were thus taxed. It was as if the statute had
imposed a tax upon the business of refining sugar and molasses,
and had declared, as reasonably it might have done, that those
who only refined their own sugar and molasses should not be
regarded as belonging to that class. We said in that case:
VOL. CLXxxIv-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"The power of taxation under this provision was fully considered in Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232,
in which it was said not to have been intended to prevent a
State from changing its system of taxation in all proper and
reasonable ways. It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes
of property altogether; may impose different specific taxes upon
different trades or professions; may vary the rates of excise upon
various products; may tax real and personal estate in a different
manner; may tax visible property only and not securities; may
allow or not allow deductions for indebtedness. ' All such regulations, and those of like character, so long as they proceed
within reasonable limits and general usage, are within the discretion of the state legislature or the people of the State in framing
their constitution."' Again: "The discrimination is obviously
intended as an encouragement to agriculture, and does not deny
to persons and corporations engaged in a general refining business the equal protection of the laws."
The decision now rendered is not at all in conflict with the
views expressed in the two cases just cited. It is sufficient to
say that those cases had reference to the taxing power of the
State, and involved considerations that could not, in the nature
of things, apply to a state enactment like the one involved in
the present case. The power to tax persons and property is
an incident of sovereignty, and the extent to which it may be
exerted has been indicated in numerous cases. Taxing laws, it
has been well said, furnish the measure of every man's duty in
support of the public burdens and the means of enforcing it.
A tax may be imposed only upon certain callings and trades,
for when the State exerts its power to tax, it is not bound to
tax all pursuits or all property that may be legitimately taxed
for governmental purposes. It would be an intolerable burden
if a State could not tax any property or calling unless, at the
same time, it taxed all property or all callings. Its discretion
in such matters is very great and should be exercised solely
with reference to the general welfare as involved in the necessity of taxation for the support of the State. A State may in its
wisdom classify property for purposes of taxation, and the exercise of its discretion is not to be questioned in a court of the

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, so long as the classification does not invade
rights secured by the Constitution of the United States. But
different considerations control when the State, by legislation,
seeks to regulate the enjoyment of rights and the pursuit of
callings connected with domestic trade. In prescribing regulations for the conduct of trade, it cannot divide those engaged
in trade into classes and make criminals of one class if they do
certain forbidden things, while allowing another and favored
class engaged in the same domestic trade to do the same things
with impunity. It is one thing to exert the power of taxation so
as to meet the expenses of government, and at the same time, indirectly, to build up or protect particular interests or industries. It is quite a different thing for the State, under its general police power, to enter the domain of trade or commerce,
and discriminate against some by declaring that particular
classes within its jurisdiction shall be exempt from the operation of a general statute making it criminal to do certain things
connected with domestic trade or commerce. Such a statute
is not a legitimate exertion of the power of classification, rests
upon no reasonable basis, is purely arbitrary, and plainly denies the equal protection of the laws to those against whom it
discriminates.
We must not be understood by what has been said as conceding that the question of a denial of the equal protection of the
laws can never arise under the taxing statutes of a State. On
the contrary, the power to tax is so far limited that it cannot
be used to impair or destroy rights that are given or secured
by the supreme law of the land. We only need to say in this
connection that the constitutional validity of the statute of Ilinois now before us is not necessarily to be determined by the
same principles that apply to taxing laws.
Other cases have been cited, but they are equally inapplicable in the present discussion, and only serve to show the extent
to which the police powers of the States may be exerted without infringing the Federal Constitution.
Returning to the particular case before us, and repeating or
summarizing some thoughts already expressed, it may be observed that if combinations of capital, skill or acts, in respect

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

of the sale or purchase of goods, merchandise or commodities,
whereby such combinations may, for their benefit exclusively,
control or establish prices, are hurtful to the public interests
and should be suppressed, it is impossible to perceive why like
combinations in respect of agricultural products and live stock
are not also hurtful. Two or more engaged in selling dry
goods, or groceries, or meats, or fuel, or clothing, or medicines,
are, under the statute, criminals, and subject to a fine, if they
combine their capital, skill or acts for the purpose of establishing, controlling, increasing or reducing prices, or of preventing
free and unrestrained competition amongst themselves or others
in the sale of their goods or merchandise; but their neighbors,
who happen to be agriculturalists and live stock raisers, may
make combinations of that character in reference to their grain
or live stock without incurring the prescribed penalty. Under
what rule of permissible classification can such legislation be
sustained as consistent with the equal protection of the laws?
It cannot be said that the exemption made by the ninth section
of the statute was of slight consequence, as affecting the general public interested in domestic trade and entitled to be protected against combinations formed to control prices for their
own benefit; for it cannot be disputed that agricultural products and live stock in Illinois constitute a very large part of
the wealth and property of that State.
We conclude this .part of the discussion by saying that to declare that some of the class engaged in domestic trade or commerce shall be deemed criminals if they violate the regulations
prescribed by the State for the purpose of protecting the public
against illegal combinations formed to destroy competition and
to control prices, and that others of the same class shall not be
bound to regard those regulations, but may combine their capital, skill or acts to destroy competition and to control prices
for their special benefit, is so manifestly a denial of the equal
protection of the laws that further or extended argument to
establish that position would seem to be unnecessary.
We therefore hold that the act of 1893 is repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, unless its ninth section can
be eliminated, leaving the rest of the act in operation.

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
M

. JUSTICE MCKENINA, dissenting.

The principles applicable to such a question are well settled
by the adjudications of this court. If different sections of a
statute are independent of each other, that which is unconstitutional may be disregarded, and valid seetions may stand and
be enforced. But if an obnoxious section is of such import that
the other sections without it would cause results not contemplated or desired by the legislature, then the entire statute must
be held inoperative. The first section of the act here in question embraces by its terms all persons, firms, corporations or

associations of persons who combine their capital, skill or acts
for any of the purposes specified, while the ninth section declares that the statute shall not apply to agriculturalists or live
stock dealers in respect of their products or stock in hand. If
the latter section be eliminated as unconstitutional, then the
act, if it stands, will apply to agriculturalists and live stock
dealers. Those classes would in that way be reached and fined,
when, evidently, the legislature intended that they should not
be regarded as offending against the law even if they did combine their capital, skill or acts in respect of their products or
stock in hand. Looking then at all the sections together, we
must hold that the legislature would not have entered upon or
continued the policy indicated by the statute unless agriculturalists and live stock dealers were excluded from its operation
and thereby protected from prosecution. The result is that
the statute must be regarded as an entirety, and in that view
it must be adjudged to be unconstitutional as denying the equal
protection of the laws to those within its jurisdiction who are
not embraced by the ninth section.
Whether it is also within the prohibition against the deprivation of property without due process of law, is a question which
it is unnecessary to consider at this time.
Perceiving no error in the record, the judgment in each case
must be affirmed.
Afflrmed and it is so ordered.
MR. JusTcu MOKENNA dissenting.

The trust statute of Illinois of 1893 is directed against com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissenting.

binations in trade made to affect prices of commodities. The
court holds that the statute is repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States because of the ninth section, which excludes from the operation of the statute "agricultural products
or live stock while in the hands of the producer or raiser." In
other words, and to present the discriminations of the statute
in its application to persons, it punishes as a criminal conspiracy
the acts enumerated in section one, except when they are done
by producers and raisers of agricultural products and live stock
in respect thereto. The statute also takes away a right of action
for the price of the commodities sold. One of the defences of
the plaintiffs in error was based on that provision.
The view of the court is that the legislation is purely discriminative and is not justified by any legal principle of classification. To sustain the view the rule expressed in Gulf, Colo,rado & Santa Fj Railway v. -Ellis,165 U. S. 150, is quoted. It
was there said: "It is apparent that the mere fact of classification is not sufficient to relieve a statute from the reach of the
equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that in all
cases it must appear, not only that a classification has been
made, but also that it is one based upon some reasonable ground
-some difference which bears a just and proper relation to
the attempted classification-and is not a mere arbitrary selection." Undoubtedly. Without the observance of that principle, there can be no classification at all in any proper sense.
There will be arbitrary grouping-not association of persons or
things on account of common properties or characters or relations. But differences are recognized in classification as well as
resemblances, and this court has found it necessary to so state.
In Atchison, Topeka & Santa F9 Railroad v. fatthews, 174
U. S. 96, we said: "Indeed, the very idea of classification is
that of inequality, so that it goes without saying that the fact
of inequality in no manner determines the matter of constitutionality."
It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having inequality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
Viewed rightly, however, the contradiction disappears; indeed,
need not even be expressed. There are very few exertions of

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
M . JUSTICE MCKENNA, dissenting.

government which can be made applicable to all persons as
such. Government is not a simple thing. It encounters and
must deal with the problems which come from persons in an
infinite variety of relations. Classification is the recognition
of those relations, and in making it a legislature must be allowed a wide latitude of discretion and judgment. This has
been decided many times against contentions based on a variety
of facts. I will content myself by citing the later cases and
commenting upon them very briefly. The cases are .Afagoun v.
Bllinois Trust &c. Bank, 170 U. S. 283 ; Clarkv. Kansas City,
176 U. S. 114; Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Petit v.
Minnesota, 177 U. S. 164; Williams v. Fears,179 U. S. 270;
American Sugar Refminng Company v. Louisiana,179 U. S. 89.
In these cases and the cases cited in them classifications were
sustained which depended upon differences in the amounts of
legacies ; on differences between corporations ; on differences between land dependent on its use for agriculture and other purposes in regard to the power of a city to annex it; on differences between fire insurance and other insurance; on the right
of a legislature to declare as a matter of law that the work of
a barber was not a work of necessity, while as to all other
kinds of labor the fact was to be determined by a jury; on the
difference between hiring persons to labor in the State and
hiring persons to labor out of the State; on differences between
sugar refiners based entirely and only on the fact of the production or purchase of the sugar refined.
In American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,a license tax
was imposed on those engaged in carrying on the business of
refining sugar and molasses. It was provided, however, that
the law should not apply to "planters and farmers grinding
and refining their own sugar."
Wherein did the Louisiana statute, which was held constitutional, differ from the Illinois statute, which is held to be unconstitutional? In the former case the distinction (in the opinion
in the case it is called "discrimination ") was between manufacturers of sugar and growers of it. In the case at bar the distinction is between traders in products and growers of them.
Is not a parallel obvious? Can the cases be distinguished because

OCTOBER TERM, 190i.
MR.JUSTICE MOCXENNA, dissenting.

in one a tax was imposed and in the other conduct is regulated or
penalized? Indeed, is not the distinction verbal, each being
means to an end? Besides, what justification for the distinction
is there under the Constitution? None, I submit, can be found in
the words of that instrument. Any state legislation which denies
the equal protection of the laws is prohibited. The prohibition
is independent of form or means. It would be strange, indeed,
if the power of a State is limited and confined by the Constitution of the United States, when the State attempts by law to
regulate conduct, and is unbounded in its discretion when it
imposes taxes; that in one case it may see a difference between
manufacturers and planters, and in the other case may not see
a difference between traders in commodities acquired for the
purposes of sale and such property when held by farmers by
whose labor they were produced.
The reasoning of the cases is as strong and demonstrative as
their instances. We have declared that we could not investigate
or condemn the impolicy of a state law, and that this court is
not a refuge from the mere injustice and oppression of state
legislation. Many of the exercises of government, it has been
pointed out, were addressed to persons, not absolutely or abstractly, but according to their relations, and :that classification,
based on those relations, need not be constituted by an exact or
scientific exclusion or inclusion of persons or things. Therefore,
it has been repeatedly declared that classification is justified, if
it is not palpably arbitrary.
The cases afford not only affirmative examples but also by a
negative deduction illustrate what is legal classification. Mr.
Justice Bradley said in Bell's Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S.232: "Clear and hostile demonstrations against particular persons and classes, especially such as are of unusual
character, unknown to the practice of our government, might
be obnoxious to the constitutional prohibition." That is, the
prohibition upon the States to deny to any citizen the equal protection of the laws. The thought of Mr. Justice Bradley was developed and illustrated by Mr. Justice Brown, speaking for this
court in American Sugar Rejning Co. v. Louisiana,and tests
of the unconstitutionality of the discriminations of a state law

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
MR. JUSTICE MCaKNNA,

dissenting.

were expressed, which were as ready as they were significant.
Speaking of the Louisiana act, which discriminated between
refiners of sugar, Mr. Justice Brown said: "The act in question does undoubtedly discriminate in favor of a certain class of
refiners, but discrimination, if founded upon a reasonable distinction in principle, is valid. Of course, if such discrimination
were purely arbitrary,o_p'esaive or capricious(the italics are
mine), and made to depend upon differences of color, race, nativity, religious opinions, political affiliations, or other considerations having no possible connection with the duties of citizens
as taxpayers, such exemption would be pure favoritism, and a
denial of the equal protection of the laws to the less favored
classes."
Of course, the enumeration of some tests does not exclude
others, but why the enumeration of the special kind ? Did not
the case require it ? What ingenuity can find a difference in
the act and process of sugar refining when done by a purchaser
of raw sugar and a raiser (planter) of it; what difference in the
product after it shall be refined, or in any element, thing or circumstance, which can affect its use or sale. The whole and
only distinction in the classes which the statute made was between the grower of sugar and the buyer of it-the exact and
only distinction of the Illinois law now held to be void, and yet
the Louisiana law was sustained as constitutional.
I have already adverted to the distinction which may be
claimed to exist between taxing laws and regulating laws, but
a few words more may be justified. The opinion of the court
makes a great deal of the penal provisions of the trust law, and
its discriminations are displayed and intensified more by the
recitation and effect of those provisions than by the provision
upon which the defence of plaintiffs in error was based, that is,
the provision (see. 10) which precludes recovery of the price of
"any article or commodity sold" by an offender against the
statute.
The penal provisions of the statute are not before us for judgment. If they were, and the unconstitutionality of the statute
could be attributed to them, they might be construed as separable and be discarded. But, not insisting on that, and consider-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
AIR. JUSTICE McKxENA, dissenting.

ing the comments on those provisions to be more than incidental
illustration of the character of the statute, it is very clear to me
that they do not in any way affect the power of the State. In
other words, the power of the State cannot be impugned or affected by the sanctions which the State may impose to secure
obedience to its commands or prohibitions. It may be through
a tax or it may be through penalties, and the question will always be, is the thing which is directed or forbidden within the
power of the State? And when a statute is assailed as denying
the equal protection of the laws its equal operation is only involved.
The principle of classification, therefore, is not different in tax
laws than in other laws. That principle, as I have said, necessarily implies discrimination between the persons composing the
class and other persons. The equality prescribed by the Constitution is fulfilled if equality be observed between the members
of the class. It is violated if such equality be not observed, and
the latter was the case in Cotting v. Jansas City Stock Y"ards
Co., 183 U. S. 79. That case, therefore, does not sustain the
ruling now made.
Any further remarks may be only repetition, but the application of the cases to the statute now before us should be pointed
out.
The equality of operation which the Constitution requires in
state legislation cannot be construed, as we have seen, as demanding an absolute universality of operation, having no regard
to the different capabilities, conditions and relations of men.
Classification, therefore, is necessary, but what are its limits?
They are not easily defined, but the purview of the legislation
should be regarded. A line must not be drawn which includes
arbitrarily some persons who do and some persons who do not
stand in the same relation to the purpose of the legislation.
But a wide latitude of selection must be left to the legislature.
It is only a palpable abuse of the power of selection which can
be judicially reviewed, and the right of review is so delicate
that even in its best exercises it may lead to challenge. At
times, indeed, it must be exercised, but should always be exercised in view of the function and necessarily large powers of a
legislature.

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE CO.
Irn.

JUSTCE. MoKBNA, dissenting.

What was the purpose of the Illinois statute, and what were
the relations of its classes to that purpose? The statute was
the expression of the purpose of the State to suppress combinations to control the prices of commodities, not, however,
in the hands of the producers, but in the hands of traders,
persons or corporations. Shall we say that such suppression
must be universal or not at all? How can we? What knowledge have we of the condition in Illinois which invoked the
legislation, or in what form and extent the evil of combinations to control prices appeared in that State ? Indeed, whether
such combinations are evils or blessings, or to what extent
either, is not a judicial inquiry. If we can assume them to
be evil because the statute does so, can we go beyond the
statute and determine for ourselves the local conditions and
condemn the legislation dependent thereon? But are there
not, between the classes which the statute makes, distinctions
which the legislature had a right to consider? Of whom are
the classes composed? The excluded class is composed of
farmers and stockraisers while holding the products or live
stock produced or raised by them. The included class is composed of merchants, traders, manufacturers, all engaged in commercial transactions. That is, one class is composed of persons
who are scattered on farms; the other class is composed of
persons congregated in cities and towns, not only of natural
persons but of corporate organizations. In the difference of
these situations, and in other differences which will occur to
any reflection, might not the legislature see difference in opportunities and powers between the classes in regard to the
prohibited acts? That differences exist cannot be denied. To
describe and contrast them might be invidious. To consider
their effect would take us from legal problems to economic
ones, and this demonstrates to my mind how essentially any
judgment or action, based upon those differences, is legislative
and cannot be reviewed by the judiciary.
I am, therefore, constrained to dissent from the judgment of
the court.
JUSTICE GR.AY took no part in the decision of this case.
mR.

