OCTOBER TERM11, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

submitted the requirements of the engineer in charge to the
Chief of the Bureau before proceeding with the work. They
were required to do so by the terms of the contract, and authority to compel them to do additional work was thereby reserved to the Chief of the Bureau."
Judgment is reduced to the sum of $5367.96, and for that
amount
Affi
ed.
dissented.
MR. JUSTICE IARLAN did not hear the argument, and took
no part in the decision.
MiR. JUSTICE BREWER and MiR. JUSTICE PECKHAm

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
APPEAL FROM1 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 225. Argued November 12, 13, 1901.-Decided February 24,1902.

Construing the act of March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22 Stat. 487, and the act of
June 12, 1866, 14 Stat. 59, both relating to the salaries of postmasters, as
their terms require, the judgment of the Court of Claims in this case is
erroneous; but the charges of misconduct, maladministration and fraud
against the officers of the Post Office Department, so freely scattered
through the briefs of counsel for appellee, are entirely unwarranted by
anything contained in the record.

THE Government appeals from a judgment of the Court of
Claims awarding to the petitioner the sum of $1264.83, upon a
readjustment of salary for his services as postmaster at Gadsden,
in the State of Alabama, between July 1, 1866, and June 30,
1874. The original petition was filed in October, 1888, in consequence of the passage of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 119, 22
Stat. 487, which reads as follows:
"That the Postmaster General be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to readjust the salaries of all postmasters and
late postmasters of the third, fourth and fifth classes, under the

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
Statement of the Case.

classification provided for in. the act of July first, eighteen
hundred and sixty-four, whose salaries have not heretofore
been readjusted under the terms of section eight of the act of
June 12th, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, who made sworn
returns of receipts and business for readjustment of salary to
the Postmaster General, the First Assistant Postmaster General, or the Third Assistant Postmaster General, or who made
quarterly returns in conformity to the then existing laws and
regulations, showing that the salary allowed was ten per centum
less than it would have been upon the basis of commissions under the act of eighteen hundred and fifty-four; such readjustments to be made in accordance with the mode presented in
section 8 of the act of June 12th, eighteen hundred and sixtysix, and to date from the beginning of the quarter succeeding
that in which such sworn returns of receipts and business, or
quarterly returns were niade: P ovided, That every readjustment of salary under this act shall be upon :a written application signed by the postmaster or late postmaster or legal
representative entitled to said readjustment; and that each
payment made shall be by warrant or check on the Treasurer
or some assistant treasurer of the United States, made payable
to the order of said applicant, and forwarded by mail to him
at the post office within whose delivery he resides, and which
address shall be set forth in the application above provided
for."
The petitioner claimed that by a readjustment of his salary
under that act he was entitled to be paid a difference of $1264.83
between the salary actually paid him and the amount to which
he was entitled by reason of such act.
By the act of June 22, 1854, 10 Stat. 298, Congress provided
for the compensation of postmasters by allowing them commissions on the postage collected at their respective offices in each
quarter of the year, and in due proportion for any period less
than a quarter. The compensation awarded was as follows:
On any sum not exceeding $100, 60 per centum;
On any sum over and above $100, and not exceeding $400,
50 per centum;
On any sum over and above $400, and not exceeding $2400,
40 per centum;

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

On all sums over $2400, 15 per centum.
This method of compensation was changed by Congress by
the passage of the act of July 1, 1864. 13 Stat. 335. By that act
it was provided that the annual compensation of postmasters
should be at a fixed salary in lieu of commissions, the postmasters to be divided into five classes, with compensation respectively as follows:
First class to receive not more than $4000, nor less than

$3000;
Second class to receive less than $3000, and not less than

$2000;
Third class to receive less than $2000, and not less than
$1000;
Fourth class to receive less than $1000, and not less than

$100;
Fifth class to receive less than $100.
The first section of the act then proceeds as follows:
"Whenever the compensation of postmasters of the several
offices, (except the office of New York,) for the two consecutive years next preceding the first day of July, 1864, shall have
amounted to an average annual sum not less than $3000, such
offices shall be assigned to the first class; whenever it shall
have amounted to less than $3000, but not less than $2000,
such offices shall be assigned to the second class; whenever it
shall have amounted to less than $2000, but not less than $1000,
such offices shall be assigned to the third class; whenever it
shall have amounted to less than $1000, but not less than $100,
such offices shall be assigned to the fourth class; and whenever
it shall have amounted to less than $100, such offices shall be assigned to the fifth class. To offices of the first, second and third
classes shall be severally assigned salaries, in even hundreds of
dollars, as nearly as practicable in amount the same as, but not
exceeding, the average compensation of the postmasters thereof
for the two years next preceding; and to offices of the fourth
class shall be assigned severally salaries, in even tens of dollars,
as nearly as practicable in amount the same as, but not exceeding, such average compensation for the two years next preceding; and to offices of the fifth class shall be severally assigned

UNITED STATES v. EWING.

"143

.Statement of the Case.

salaries, in even dollars, as nearly as practicable in amount the
same as, but not exceeding, such average compensation for
the two years next preceding. Whenever returns showing the
average of annual compensation of postmasters for the two
years next preceding the first day of July, 1864, shall not have
been received at the Post Office Department at the time of adjustment, the same may be estimated by the Postmaster General for the purpose of adjusting the salaries of postmasters
herein provided for. And it shall be the duty of the Auditor
of the Treasury for the Post Office Department, to obtain from
postmasters their quarterly accounts with the vouchers necessary to a correct adjustment thereof, and to report to the Postmaster General all failures of postmasters to render such returns within a proper period after the close of each quarter.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That the Postmaster
General shall review once in two years, and in special cases,
upon satisfactory representation, as much oftener as he may
deem expedient, and readjust, on the basis of the preceding
section, the salary assigned by him to any office; but any
change made in such salary shall not take effect until the first
day of the quarter next following such order, and all orders
made assigning or changing salaries shall be made in writing
and recorded in his journal, and notified to the Auditor for the
Post Office Department."
Subsequently by section 8 of the act of June 12, 1866, 14
Stat. 59, 60, section 2 of the act of 1864 was amended by adding the following:
"Pr"ovided, That when the quarterly returns of any postmaster of the third, fourth or the fifth class show that the
salary allowed is ten per centum less than it would be on the
basis of commissions under the act of 1854, fixing compensation,
then the Postmaster General shall review and readjust under
the provisions of said section."
The Court of Claims finds that the petitioner was, as postmaster of Gadsden, Alabama, paid:
"For his services between July 1, 1866, and
June 30, 1868, $73 per year, or for two years $146 00

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Amount brought forward, $ 146 00
For his services between July 1, 1868, and
June 30, 1870, at $220 per year, or for two
440 00
years ....................................
For his services between July 1, 1870, and
June 30, 1872, at $460 per year, or for two
920 00
years ....................................
For his services between July 1, 1870, and
June 30, 1874, at $540 per year, or for two
years ................................... 1080 00
In addition thereto since said service for the two
years between July 1, 1868, and June 30, 1870,
$45.95 per year, amounting for the two years
91 90
to .......................................
and
1870,
1,
July
between
years
And for the two
June 30, 1872, $47.50 per year, amounting for
95 00
the two years to ..........................
Amounting in all to .................. $2772 90
"During his first biennial term his adjusted salary was less
than $100.
"During his second, third and fonrth biennial terms his adjusted salary was more than $100 and less than $1000 per annum.
"III. He made application in writing to the Postmaster
General for readjustment and payment of salary (under chapter 119 of the laws of 1883) for service as postmaster, in accordance with chapter 61 of the laws of 1854 and section 8 of
chapter 114 of the laws of 1866. This he did prior to January 1,
1887. The Postmaster General thereupon stated plaintiff's account, as shown later in these findings. This statement shows
that (if plaintiff be correct in his contention as to the law) his
salary for the four biennial terms between July 1, 1866, and
June 30, 1874, should have been $4037.73, whereas he has
been paid in all for said terms but $2772.90; so (if he be correct) there is still due him as readjusted salary $1264.83."
The court also sets out certain correspondence between its
clerk (under its direction) and the Postmaster General in regard

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
Opinion of the Court.

to papers in the Post Office Department, showing or tending
to show what action, if any, had been taken by the Department on request of petitioner for readjustment of salary under
the act of 1883. It does not clearly appear therefrom that
Postmaster General Wanamaker, to whom the clerk addressed
his communication, had readjusted the salary, but subsequently
to the correspondence the Court of Claims finds, in its fifth
finding, that on November 19, 1897, Postmaster General Gary
certified and returned to the Court of Claims a readjustment
of the petitioner's salary and documents relating to the action
of the Post Office Department in this and similar cases, and
the court in such fifth finding concludes thus:
"If the foregoing readjustment of Postmaster General Wanamaker is the readjustment prescribed and intended by the
statutes therein referred to, there is no balance of salary remaining due the plaintiff. If the readjustment hereinafter set
forth of Postmaster General Gary is the readjustment prescribed
and intended by the said statutes, there remains due to the
plaintiff the sum of $1264.83."
But the court, by its conclusion of law, finds that no legal
readjustment of salary was made by Postmaster General Wanamaker, and that the readjustment made by Postmaster General Gary was valid under the statute, and therefore ordered
judgment for $1264.83.
XA. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Pradtfor the United States.
.Mr. Harvey Spalding for Ewing.
MR.

JUSTICE PECKHAM,

after stating the above facts, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The question at issue between the parties is as to the proper
construction of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1883,
and which is set forth in the foregoing statement of facts. It
is contended, on the part of the petitioner, that when application is made to the Postmaster General for a readjustment of
salary between the period from 1864: to 1874 it is his duty,
VOL. c0LXXv-lO

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

under the statute of 1883, to compare the salary which the
petitioner received in each biennial period with what he would
have received in commissions on the receipts of his office, as
shown by the sworn returns of the receipts and business of
such office, under the statute of 1854 during the same term,
and if on such comparison it should appear that the salary thus
allowed was ten per centum, or more, less than such commissions, then to readjust the salary for the biennial term by allowing the petitioner the difference between the salary and the
commission for that particular term. This has been done by
the Court of Claims in its judgment in this case.
The Government, on the other hand, contends that to do so
would be a plain violation of the statute, which provides that
the readjustments shall be made in accordance with the mode
prescribed in section 8 of the act of June 12, 1866, and that
they shall date from the beginning of the quarter succeeding
that in which such sworn returns of receipts and business or
quarterly returns were made. In other words, the petitioner
claims that upon a comparison of the actual salary paid him in
a two-year period, with what he would have received for the
same period upon the basis of commissions on the sum of the
quarterly returns for that period, if the salary paid him were
ten per cent less than the commissions, he was entitled to be
paid the difference for that particular biennial term, whereas
the Government contends that by virtue of the statute the readjustment is to date from the immediately succeeding quarter.
Going back to the statute of 1854, providing for compensation by commission, we find the act authorized the Postmaster
General to allow the commissions to postmasters at the rates
named therein and to be based on the postage collected at their
respective offices in each quarter of the year. Then came the
act of July 1, 1864, providing for payment to postmasters by
salary, and classifying them according to the salary received.
There were five classes thus made, and they were arranged at
the commencement by reference to the compensation paid to
the office for the two years next preceding July 1, 1864. The
second section of the act provides for a review by the Postmaster General once in two years, and a readjustment of the sal-

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
Opinion of the Court.

aries on the basis of the preceding section, but any change made
in the salary, the statute provided, should not take effect until
the first of the quarter next following such order. In special
cases, upon satisfactory representation, the Postmaster General
might also review and readjust the salary assigned to any office
as much oftener than once in two years as he might deem expedient.
Prior to this act of 1864: it will be seen that postmasters received their compensation by commission based upon each quarterly return of the amount of sales made at the particular office,
but under the act of 1864, instead of compensation by commission, postmasters were to be paid under that act salaries for two
years based upon the average amount of the receipts at their
offices, as shown by their quarterly returns for the two years
preceding the first day of July, 1864, as provided for in the act
of June 22, 1854, and this salary was to be reviewed every two
years.
Thus at the end of a biennial period the amount of receipts,
as shown by the quarterly returns for the past two years, was
taken, and upon that amount the salary for the coming two
years was fixed, so that, assuming from 1864 to 1866 the amount
of the quarterly receipts made a total of $2000, that sum would
be fixed upon as the salary for the two years from 1866 to 1868.
It was obviously an effort to make the compensation by salary
equivalent to the compensation by commissions, and this was
the way in which it was to be done. It is equally obvious that
a failure to attain this result would frequently occur in the
practical operation of the act. The amount of the compensation by salary from 1866 to 1868, for instance, fixed by a resort
to the quarterly returns for the two years preceding, would, in
rapidly growing communities, fail to reach the amount of compensation which the postmasters would have received had it
been fixed by commissions for those years, 1866 to 1868.
The amount of the sales of stamps might have quadrupled in
those years over the amount of such sales for the period from
1864 to 1866, and yet, as the compensation for the years from
1866 to 1868 was measured by the sales from 1864 to 1866,
there was no relief to be had, and the postmaster in such case

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

would have received less salary than the amount of the compensation he would have received had he been paid by commissions on sales of stamps as under the act of 1854. Such
being the obvious result of the act of 1864, the second section
was amended in 1866, which amendment provided that when
the salary allowed as fixed, pursuant to the provisions of the
act of 1864, proved to be ten per centum less than it would have
been on the basis of commissions, under the act of 1854, fixing
the compensation, then in that event the Postmaster General
was directed to review and readjust the salaries under the provisions of that act. And even then the readjustment would not
take effect until the first day of the quarter next following the
order for the same, as that is the condition of the act of 1864,
which is not altered in that respect by the act of 1866. It has
been held that under this statute of 1866 no action could be
maintained in the Court of Claims until there had been a readjustment of the salary of the petitioner for the period for which
he claimed to recover.

United States v. JXeLean, 95 U. S. 750.

The quarterly returns mentioned in the act of 1866 do not
refer to any one quarterly return during the biennial term.
The question arose in .clean v. Vilas, 124 U. S. 86, when,
referring to the amendment of 1866 to the act of 1864, the
court, through M[r. Justice Miller, said: "What quarterly returns are here meant, as showing that the salary is ten per
cent less than the commissions under the act of 1854? The
argument of counsel is, that when one quarterly return shall
show this condition of affairs, the Postmaster General, on the
request of the postmaster, must make a readjustment, but such
is not the language of the statute. The expression used is
'when the quarterly returns ' shall show this, and inasmuch as
the law had already established that readjustments must be
made on the basis of the quarterly returns for two years, it is
reasonable to suppose that that was the meaning of Congress
in this proviso."
Under such a construction, the readjustment could not be
had until eight quarterly returns of the biennial period had
been made, so that it would appear therefrom that the salary
allowed during that term was at least ten per centum less than

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
Opinion of the Court.

it would have been, if fixed on the basis of commissions under
the act of 1854, in which case the Postmaster General was
directed to review and readjust salaries under the provisions of
said section, but the change was not to take effect until the
first day of the quarter next following such order of the Postmaster General. Then comes the act of 1883, which also provides for a case for readjustment of salary where sworn returns
of receipts and business have been made, or where quarterly
returns, in conformity to the then existing regulations, have
been made, showing that the salary allowed was ten per centurn less than it would have been upon the basis of commissions
under the act of 1854. In such case the Postmaster General
was authorized and directed to readjust those salaries in accordance with the mode prescribed in section 8 of the act of June 12,
1866, already referred to.
The sworn quarterly returns referred to in the act of 1883
are those contained in the biennial period, and the act does not
refer to one return alone, any more than did the act of 1866.
Having stated the circumstances in which a readjustment could
be had, the act of 1883 proceeded to state from what period
such readjustment should take effect, and it stated that it was
"to date from the beginning of the quarter succeeding that in
which such sworn returns of receipts and business or quarterly
returns were made." This language is plain and unambiguous,
and the court is bound by its terms. The readjustment cannot take effect in the same term for which the sworn returns
were reviewed. It is postponed to the beginning of the next
quarter.
It is said that as thus construed the statute leads in many
cases to great injustice, and hence such construction should not
be adopted. The difficulty is that any other construction violates the clear directions of the law, and although the result
may be to withhold its benefits from some who might be regarded as otherwise entitled to it, yet ive cannot for that reason
alter its terms so as to include them, and thus ourselves enact
instead of construing the law.
In United States v. Jerdier,164 U. S. 213, 219, it was held
that the act of 1883 created an indebtedness voluntarily assumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Government in regard to those who claimed under its
provisions. It rested entirely with Congress to say who should
have its benefits and how the same should be arrived at, and
from what date the readjustment should take effect, and as
Congress has plainly stated the date there is nothing for the
court to do but follow the clear direction of the statute. If
Congress had intended to provide for the readjustment taking
effect at the commencement of a biennial term subsequent to
that in which the quarterly returns were made upon which the
compensation was fixed, we are at a loss to think of what language it could use which would more certainly and specifically
prove that intention than does the language actually used in
this statute.
The method of reviewing and readjusting the salaries of postmasters under the act of 1883 with reference to the acts of 1864
and 1866, pursued by the Post Office Department, by which
the readjustments based upon the quarterly returns have been
made prospectively for the next biennial term thereafter, was
approved by Congress as a correct administration of the act of
March 3, 1883, and the readjustments which had been made
under that act and in that method by the Department, were
ratified as a correct disposition of the claims which had been
considered and disposed of, and Congress enacted that in considering all claims not yet readjusted the same method thus approved by it should be pursued, and it directed that any and
every different method of readjustment of salaries during the
period between 1864 and 1874 should be prohibited. 24 Stat.
256, 307, sec. 8; act approved August 4, 1886. When this act
was passed the salary of the petitioner had not been readjusted.
While the declaration of Congress in the act of 1886, approving the construction which had been put upon the act of 1883
by the Post Office Department, and ratifying its method of
reviewing and readjusting salaries under that act, could have
no binding force upon the courts as to the proper construction
of that act in cases of salaries already readjusted, yet its direction, "that in considering all claims not yet readjusted, the
same method shall be pursued which is hereby approved; and
any and every different method of readjustment of salaries of

LAKE BENTON FIRST NAT. BANK v. WATT.

151

Statement of the Case.

such postmasters and late postmasters during the period between July 1, 1864, and July 1, 1874, than is herein approved,
is hereby prohibited," is a valid legislative enactment and must
be followed by the courts. The readjustment of the salary of
petitioner has not been according to this direction.
Construing the acts of 1883 and 1886 as we think their terms
require, the judgment of the Court of Claims is erroneous, and
must be reversed and the case remanded to that court with
instructions to enter a judgment in conformity to the directions of those statutes and the opinion of this court.
We feel called upon to say that the charges of misconduct,
maladministration and fraud against the officers of the Post
Office Department, so freely scattered through the pages of
the briefs of counsel for appellee, are entirely unwarranted by
anything contained in the record before us, and ought not to
have been made.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA did not sit in this case and took no
part in its decision.

LAKE BENTON FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. WATT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 103. Submitted January 15, 1902.-Decided February 24,1902.

The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 5198, that "in case the greater rate of interest has been paid, the person by whom it has been paid, or his legal representatives, may recover back, in an action in the nature of debt, twice
the amount of the interest thus paid," on the one hand causes a forfeiture
of the entire interest to result from the taking, receiving, reserving or
charging a rate greater than is allowed by law, and on the other subjects
the creditor to pay twice the amount of the interest illegally exacted if,
by persistence in wrongdoing, he subjects the debtor to the necessity of
suing to recover.

By this action, which was commenced in a court of the State
of -Minnesota,recovery was sought from the First National Bank

