ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Counsel for Parties

In the view we take of the statute of limitations, we have
not thought it worth while to consider the points made by the
defendant that the action should have been at law and that the
bill is defective for the want of proper parties.
There was no error in the decree of the. court below, and it
is therefore
-Afflrmed.

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 28. Argued March 15, 1901.-Decided February 3,1902.
This case was before this court in Illinois Central Railroad Company v. liinois, 146 U. S. 387, and in that case the history of the litigation relating
to the property involved is fully disclosed, and the court found that the
structures made in the lake by the Railroad Company did not extend beyond the point of practical navigability; and upon the return of this cause
to the Circuit Court, nothing was before that court except to inquire
whether the structures erected by the Railroad Company extended into
the lake beyond the point of practical navigability.
There was no error in holding that, in view of the manner in which commerce was conducted on the lake during the period of the investigation
below, the structures erected by the Railroad Company did not extend
into the water beyond the point of practical navigability.
The Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals having concurred in
finding that the structures in question did not extend into the lake beyond
the point of practical navigability, the decree below should not be disturbed, unless it was clearly in conflict with the evidence.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. John H. Hamline for appellant. 2.. Edward C. Akin,
-Mr.Frank H. Scott and M'. Frank E. Zord were on his brief.
-Y. John 3T. Jewett and -Y. Benjamin F. Ayer for appellees. MrA. . 2. Dickinson was on their brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been heretofore in this court. Illinois Central Railroad Company v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387. The decree
then under review was affirmed in all respects except one, and
as to that one the cause was remanded for further investigation of the facts upon which it depended.
The case involved the asserted ownership by the Illinois
Central Railroad Company of certain piers, docks and wharves
constructed by it on the lake front of the city of Chicago, east
of Michigan avenue.
The State contended that the structures in question were
erected, without authority of law, on lands belonging to it, and
that the decree now before us was erroneous in not so declaring.
The Railroad Company contended that the mandate of this
court on the former appeal left open for consideration by the
Circuit Court only one question, namely, whether those structures extended beyond the point of practical navigability, having reference to the manner in which commerce in vessels is
conducted on Lake Michigan; and that that issue of fact having been found in its favor, the Circuit Court could not properly
have passed any other decree than one confirming the company's title to such structures.
The history of the litigation relating to this property is fully
disclosed in Illinois Central Railroad Company v. Illinois,
above cited. But it will be appropriate and will contribute to
a clear understanding of the present appeal if the essential facts
be restated in this opinion.
In the year 1883 an information was filed in the Circuit
Court of Cook County, Illinois, by the people of that State
against the Illinois Central Railroad Company, the city of
Chicago and the United States of America. That case was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, and a motion to remand it to the
state court was overruled. 16 Fed. Rep. 881. In the same
case the city of Chicago filed a cross-bill against the State and
its co-defendants. At the same time there was pending in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the same District an in-

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.

79

Opinion of the Court.

formation in equity filed by the Government against the Illinois Central Railroad Company, the Michigan Central Railroad Company, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad
Company, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, and the
city of Chicago.
At the hearing of those causes in the Circuit Court certain
maps were used; one being known as the map of "Fort Dearborn Addition to Chicago" made by direction of the Secretary
of WVar, under the authority of an act of Congress, approved
March 3, 1819; the other being known as the Morehouse Map.
Both maps were made part of the opinion of this court in lilinois Central Railroadv. Illinois, and for convenience are here
reproduced:

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Stae df llinoi vs. Illinois CentralRailroad,

ILLINOIS v:" ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

State of Illinois vs. Ilinois CentratRailroad.
MOREHOUSE MAP.

VOL. OLXXXIV-6

8_

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

The questions involved in the above suits are indicated by
the following extract from the opinion of the Circuit Court at
the original hearing: "The State, in the original suit, asks a
decree establishing and confirming her title to the bed of Lake
Michigan, and her sole and exclusive right to develop the harbor of Chicago by the construction of docks, wharves, etc., as
against the claim by the railroad company that it had an absolute title to said submerged lands, described in the act of 1869,1
1 " An act in relation to a portion of the submerged lands and Lake Park
grounds, lying on and adjacent to the shore of Lake Michigan, on the eastern frontage of the city of Chicago. Passed over veto, April 16, 1869."
The third section of that act reads:
"ยง 3. The right of the Illinois Central Railroad Company under the grant
from the State in its charter, which said grant constitutes a part of the consideration for which the said company pays to the State at least seven per
cent of its gross earnings, and under and by virtue of its appropriation, occupancy, use and control, and the riparian ownership incident to such grant,
appropriation, occupancy, use and control, in and to the lands, submerged
or otherwise, lying east of the said line, running parallel with and 400 feet
east of the west line of Michigan avenue, in fractional sections ten and fifteen, township and range as aforesaid, is hereby confirmed; and all'the
right and title of the State of Illinois in and to the submerged lands constituting the bed. of Lake Michigan, and lying east of the tracks and breakwater of the Illinois Central Railroad Company, for the distance of one mile,
and between the south line of the south pier extended eastwardly and a line
extended eastward from the south line of lot twenty-one, south and near to
the round-house and machine-shops of said company, in the South division
of the said city of Chicago, are hereby granted in fee to the said Illinois
Central Railroad Company, its successors and assigns: provided, however,
that the fee to said lands shall be held by said company in 'perpetuity, and
that the said company shall not have power to grant, sell, or convey the fee
to the same; and that all gross receipts from use, profits, leases or otherwise
of said lands, or the improvements thereon, or that may hereafter be made
thereon, shall form a part of the gross proceeds, receipts and income of the
said Illinois Central Railroad Company, upon which said company shall forever pay into the state treasury, semi-annually, the per centum provided for
in its charter, in accordance with the requirements of said charter: and
provided, also, that nothing herein contained shall authorize obstructions
to the Chicago harbor, or impair the public right of navigation; nor shall
this act be construed to exempt the Illinois Central Railroad Company,
its lessees or assigns, from any act of the General Assembly which may be
hereafter passed regulating the rates of wharfage and dockage to be charged
in said harbor: and provided, further, that any of the lands hereby granted
to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and the improvements now, or

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and the right-subject to the paramount authority of the United
States in respect to the regulation of commerce between the
States-to fill the bed of the lake, for the purpose of its business,
east of and adjoining the premises between the river and the
north line of Randolph street, and also north of the south line
of lot 21 ; and also the right, by constructing and maintaining
wharves, docks, piers, etc., to improve the shore of the lake, for
the purposes of its business, and for the promotion, generally,
of commerce and navigation. The State, insisting that the
company has, without right, erected, and proposes to continue
to erect, wharves, piers, etc., upon the domain of the State, asks
that such unlawful structures be directed to be removed, and
the company enjoined from constructing others. The city, by
its cross bill, insists that since June 7th, 1839, when the map of
Fort Dearborn addition was recorded, it has had the control
and use for public purposes of that part of section 10 which lies
east of Michigan avenue, and between Randolph street and fractional section 15; and that, as successor of the town of Chicago,
it has had possession and control since June 13th, 1836, when the
map of fractional section 15 addition was recorded, of the lands in
that addition north of block 23. It asks a decree declaring that
it is the owner in fee, and of the riparian rights thereunto appertaining, of all said lands, and has, under existing legislation,
the exclusive right to develop the harbor of Chicago by the construction of docks, wharves and levees, and to dispose of the
same, by lease or otherwise, as authorized by law; and that the
railroad company be enjoined from interfering with its said
rights and ownership. The relief sought by the United States
is a decree declaring the ultimate title and property in the ' Public Ground' shown on the plat of the Fort Dearborn addition,
south of Randolph street, and also in the open space shown on
the plat of fractional section 15 addition, to be in the United
which may hereafter be, on the same, which shall hereafter be leased by
said Illinois Central Railroad Company to any person or corporation, or
which may hereafter be occupied by any person or corporation other than
said Illinois Central Railroad Company, shall not, during the continuance
of such leasehold estate or of such occupancy, be exempt from municipal
or other taxation."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

States, with the right of supervision and control over the harbor and navigable waters aforesaid; that the railroad companies and the city be enjoined from exercising any right, power
or control over said grounds, or over the waters or shores of the
lake; that the Illinois Central Railroad Company be restrained
from making or constructing any piers, wharves or docks, and
from driving piles, building walls or filling with earth or other
materials in the said lake, or from using any made-ground, or
any piers, wharves or other constructions made or built by or
for it in or about the outer harbor, to the east of the 200-feet
strip of its way-ground, or from taking or exacting any toll for
such use; and that the Illinois Central Railroad Company be
required to abate and remove all obstructions placed by it in
said outer harbor, and to quit possession of all lands, waters and
made-ground taken and held by it without right as aforesaid.
The State, the city and the General Government all unite in
contending that the Lake Front Act of 1869 is inoperative and
void." 33 Fed. Rep. 730, 750.
A final decree was rendered in the Circuit Court on the 24th
day of September, 1888. By that decree it was adjudged that
the fee of certain streets, avenues and grounds was in the city
of Chicago in trust for public use; and that the city of Chicago,
as riparian owner of such grounds on the east or lake front of
said city, between the north line of Randolph street and the
north line of block twenty-three, each of the lines being produced to Lake Michigan, and in virtue of authority to that end
conferred by its charter, had, among other powers, the power
to establish, construct, erect and keep in repair on the lake
front, east of such premises, within the lines given, and in such
manner as would be consistent with law, public landing places,
wharves, docks and levees, subject, however, in the execution
of that power, to the authority of the State by legislation to
prescribe the lines beyond which piers, docks, wharves and
other structures, other than those erected by the General Government, might not be extended into the waters of the harbor
that were navigable in fact, and to such supervision and control as the United States might rightly exercise in and over
such harbor, and subject also to the enjoyment by the Illinois

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Central Railroad Company of the rights then to be defined and
described.
It was further adjudged:
"That the Illinois Central Railroad Company is the owner
in fee of all the wharves, piers and other structures erected by
it in the city of Chicago, east of lfichigan avenue, south of Chicago River, and north of the north line of Randolph street, extended eastwardly as shown upon said Morehouse map, including the station grounds lying west of the slip C, the pier marked
C, lying east of slip C, and represented upon the Morehouse
map to have been built in 1867, andpiers 1, 2 and 3, lying east
of pier C last mentioned, and representedupon saidmap to have
been built as follows: Pier 1 in 1872 and 1873, pier 2 in 1881,
andpier 3 in 1880, and is also entitled to the use, for the purposes of its business, of the slips marked 'on said Aforehouse
map.
"That said company is likewise the owner in fee of all the
wharves, piers and other works made and constructed by it in
the city of Chicago, east of its main tracks, between the north
line of block 23, in fractional section, 15 addition to chicago,
and the center line of Sixteenth street extended, ineluding thepier
or line of piling represented upon the said .forehouse map to
have been built in 1870, and the station grounds lying west of the
saidpier and contiguous thereto; also of the whaif orpierprojecting into the lakefrom the grounds last mentioned, and represented upon the said Alorehouse ' ap to have been built in 1885;
which said wharves, piers and other works so constructe. and
so far as constructed by the said Illinois Central Railroad Company, as aforesaid, are lawful structures and not encroachments
upon the domain of the State of Illinois or upon the public
right of navigation, or upon the property interests orestate of
the said city of Chicago."
"And the court doth further find and declare, and it is hereby
adjudged and decreed, that the third section of the act of the
General Assembly of the State of Illinois, passed over the Governor's veto April 16th, 1869, entitled, IAn act ir relation to a
,portion of the submerged lands and Lake Park grounds lying
on and adjacent to the shore of Lake Michigan, on the eastern

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

frontage of the city of Chicago,' so far, at least, as it confirms
' the right of the Illinois Central Railroad Company under the
grant from the State in its charter, . . . and under and by
virtue of its appropriation, occupancy, use and control, and the
riparian ownership incident to such grant, appropriation, occupancy, use and control in and to the lands, submerged or otherwise, lying east of the said line running parallel with and four
hundred feet east of the west line of Michigan avenue in fractional sections ten and fifteen,' is a valid and constitutional exercise of legislative power and legalizes as well what was done
by said company prior to April 16th, 1869, in the way of filling
in the lake and constructing wharves, piers, tracks, warehouses
and other works between the Chicago River and the north line of
Randolph street extended eastwardly, as its occupancy and use
for way ground of the two said triangular pieces of ground immediately south of Randolph street; and that the subsequent
act of the General Assembly of Illinois, passed April 15th, 1873,
in so far as it sought by repealing the said act of April 16th,
1869, to revoke or annul said confirmatory clause of the last
named act, was void under the Constitution both of Illinois and
of the United States; but the court is of opinion, and so adjudges and decrees, that the said act of April 15tb, 1873, repealing said act of April 16th, 1869, had the effect in law to withdraw
from said railroad company the grant to it, its successors and
assigns, by the third section of said act of April 15th (16th), 1869,
of ' all the right and title of the State of Illinois in and to the
submerged lands constituting the bed of Lake Michigan and lying east of the tracks and breakwater of the Illinois Central
Railroad Company for the distance of one mile, and between
the south line of the pier extended eastwardly and a line extended eastward from the south line of lot twenty-one, south
of and near to the round-house and machine shops of said company, in the south division of said city of Chicago;' and to reinvest the State with such right and title as it had in and to
said premises prior to the passage of said act of April 16th, 1869;
and said repealing act had the further effect to withdraw from
said company the additional power conferred upon it by said
act of April 16th, 1869, to improve the harbor of Chicago, and

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

to engage in the business of constructing and maintaining
wharves, piers and docks for the benefit of commerce and navigation generally, and not in the prosecution of its business, as
defined and limited by its original charter and the laws of the
State, saving, however, to said company as unaffected by said
repeal the right to hold and use as part of its way-ground or
right of way, and not otherwise, the before-mentioned part of
the submerged lands east of its breakwater between Monroe and
Washington streets extended eastwardly, which was reclaimed
from the lake in 1873, presumably upon the faith of the act of
1869, and is marked "on the Morehouse map with the words
'built 1873.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the defendant, the Illinois Central Railroad Company, be, and it is hereby,
perpetually enjoined and restrained from erecting structures in
or filling with earth or other materials any portion of the bed
of Lake Michigan as it now exists and as shown on said .Xorehouse map east or in front of said fractional sections ten and
fifteen-that is, east or in front of the grounds now occupied and
used by it between Chicago River andthe north line of Randolph
street extended eastwardly, or east or in front of the grounds now
occupied and used by it between the north line of Randolph and
the center line of Sixteenth Street, each extended eastwardly, except that said company may complete the slip or basin already
commenced immediately north of Sixteenth street extended, with
a wharf on each side of it not exceeding one hundred feet in
width each, where vessels coming into such slip or basin may
load and unload, and upon which tracks of the company may
be laid; and it is considered and ordered by the court that the
Illinois Central Railroad Company and the city of Chicago each
pay one-half of the costs herein, and that execution issue therefor."
The railroad company. not having obtained all it claimed, the
cause was brought by it to this court, which affirmed the decree
of the Circuit Court except as modified in certainparticulars,to
be presently indicated. Illinois Central Railroad v. illinois,
146 U. S. 387, 449, 464.
Referring to the third section of the act of the Illinois legis-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

lature of 1869 this court said: "The section in questi6n has two
objects in view: one was to confirm certain alleged rights of the
railroad company under the grant from the State in its charter
and under and ' by virtue of its appropriation, occupancy, use
and control, and the riparian ownership incident' thereto, in and
to the lands submerged or otherwise lying east of a line parallel
with and four hundred feet east of the west line of Michigan
avenue, in fractional sections ten and fifteen. The other object was to grant to the railway company submerged lands in
the harbor. The confirmation made, whatever the operation
claimed for it in other respects, cannot be invoked so as to extend
the riparian right which the company possessed, from its ownership of lands in sections ten and fifteen on the shore of the lake.
Whether the piers or docks constructed by it, after the passage
of the act of 1869, extended beyond the point of navigability in
the waters of the lake, must be the subject of judicial inquiry
upon the execution of this decree in the court below. If it be
ascertained upon such inquiry and determined that such piers
and docks do not extend beyond the point of practicalnavigability, the claim of the railroad company to their title and possession will be confirmed; but if they or either of them are found
on such inquiry to extend beyond the point of such navigability,
then the State will be entitled to a decree that they, or the one
thus extended, be abated and removed to the extent shown, or
for such other disposition of the extension as, upon the application of the State and the facts established, may be authorized
by law."
The modifications in the original decree of 1888 which this
court directed to be made are distinctly shown by the following
extract from our opinion:
"It follows from the views expressed, and it is so declared
and adjudged, that the State of Illinois is the owner in fee of
the submerged lands constituting the bed of Lake Michigan,
which the third section of the act of April 16th, 1869, purported
to grant to the Illinois Central Railroad Company, and that the
act of April 15th, 1873, repealing the same is valid and effective
for the purpose of restoring to the State the same control, domin-

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ion and ownership of said lands thatit had prior to the passage
of the act of April 16th, 1869.
"But the decree below, as it respects the pier commenced in
1812, and the piers completed in 1880 and 1881, marked 1, 2
and 3, near Chicago River, and the pier and docks between and
in front of Twelfth and Sixteenth streets, is modiied so as to
direct the court below to order such investigation to be made
as may enable it to determine whether those piers erected by
the company, by virtue of its riparian proprietorship of lots
formerly constituting part of section 10, extend into the lake beyond the point of practical navigability, having reference to the
manner in which commerce in vessels is conducted on the lake;
and if it be determined upon such investigation that said piers,
or any of them, do not extend beyond such point, then that the
title and possession of the railroad company to such piers shall
be a/firmed by the court; but if it be ascertained and determined
that such piers, or any of them, do extend beyond such navigable point, then the said court shall direct the said pier or piers,
to the excess ascertained,to be abated and removed, or that other
proceedings relating thereto be taken on the application of the
State as may be authorized by law; and also to order that similar proceedings be taken to ascertain and determine whether
or not the pier and dock, constructed by the railroad company
in front of the shore between Twelfth and Sixteenth streets extend beyond the point of navigability,and to a4ftlr the title and
possession of the company if they do not extend beyond such
point, and, if they do extend beyond such point, to order the
abatement and removal of the excess, or that other proceedings
relating thereto be taken on application of the State as may be
authorized by law. Except as modified in the particularsmentioned, the decree in each of the three cases on appeal must bearrned,with costs against the railroad company; and it is so
S. 387,
ordered." Illinois Central Railroadv. Illinois, 146 IU.
449, 461.
The mandate of this court embodied the above extract from
its opinion, and upon the return of the causes to the Circuit
Court the parties took additional proof on the single matter so
reserved for investigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon final hearing in the Circuit Court, Ivay, 1896, a decree
was entered by which it was found and adjudged "that the
said piers and docks referred to in the aforesaid judgment and
mandate of the Supreme Court and there described as piers
marked 1, 2, and 3, near Chicago River, and the piers and docks
constructed by the said railroad company in front of the shore
between Twelfth and Sixteenth streets, all in the city of Chicago,
in the State of Illinois, do not extend, nor does either of them
extend, into the lake beyond the point of practical navigability,
having reference to the manner in which commerce in vessels
is conducted on the lake. It is therefore ordered, adjudged
and decreed that the title and possession of the said Illinois
Central Railroad Company to the said piers, and each of them
and every part thereof, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed."
That decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
91 Fed. Rep. 955, and the case is here upon appeal by the State
of Illinois. No appeal was taken by the United States or by
the city of Chicago.
In view of these facts what matters are open for consideration on this appeal? This question was fully discussed at the
bar. It is not in our opinion difficult of solution.
We have seen that by the original decree of the Circuit Court
rendered September 24, 1888, the railroad company was adjudged to be the owner in fee of the particular structures in
question, namely, the piers marked 1, 2 and 3 on the Morehouse
map, as well the piers and docks between and in front of Twelfth
and Sixteenth streets, and were entitled to use and control them
in its business. This court held that view to be correct,.provided
the structures did not "extend into the lake beyond the point
of practical navigability, having reference to the manner in
which commerce in vessels is conducted on the lake." If, upon
investigation, it was found that the structures referred to did,
in fact, extent beyond that point, then the Circuit Court was
directed to make such decree as would effect their removal "to
the excess ascertained;" and if the contrary was found to be
the case, then a decree was to be entered recognizing the rights
of the railroad company in respect of the structures in question
to be such as were declared by the original decree of the Circuit Court.

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

As already shown, the Circuit Court fofnd, upon full inquiry,
that the structures did not extend beyond the point of practical
navigability, having reference to the manner in which commerce was conducted on the lake; and in conformity with the
mandate a decree was entered confirming the title of the railroad company.
In Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488, 492, this court said:
"A final decree in chancery is as conclusive as a judgment at
law. 1 Wheat. 355 ; 6 Wheat. 113, 116. Both are conclusive
on the rights of the parties thereby adjudicated. No principle
is better settled, or of more universal application, than that no
court can reverse or annul its own final decrees or judgments,
for errors of fact or law, after the term in which they have
been rendered, unless for clerical mistakes, 3 Wheat. 591; 3
Peters, 431; or to reinstate a cause dismissed by mistake; 12
Wheat. 10; from whicl it follows, that no change or modification can be made, which may substantially vary or affect it in
any material thing

.

.

.

Whatever was before the court,

and is disposed of, is considered as finally settled. The inferior
court is bound by the decree as the law of the case; and must
carry it into execution, according to the mandate. They cannot vary it, or examine it for any other purpose than execution;
or give any other or further relief; or review it upon any
matter decided on appeal for error apparent; or intermeddle
with it, further than to settle so much as has been remanded.
After a mandate, no rehearing will be granted, and on a subsequent appeal, nothing is brought up, but the proceeding subsequent to the mandate. 5 Cranch, 316; 7 Wheat. 58, 59; 10
Wheat. 443."
In Roberts v. Cooper, 20 How. 467, 481, the court said: "On
the last trial, the Circuit Court was requested to give insttuctions to the jury contrary to the principles established by this
court on the first trial, and nearly all the exceptions now urged
against the charge are founded on such refusal. But we
cannot be compelled on a second writ of error in the same
case to review our own decision on the first. It has been
settled by the decisions of this court, that after a case has been
brought here and decided, and a mandate issued to the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

below, if a second writ of error is sued out, it brings up for revision nothing but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.
None of the questions which were before the court on the first
writ of error can be reheard or examined upon the second. To
allow a second writ of error or appeal to a court of last resort
on the same questions which were open to dispute on the first,
would lead to endless litigation. In chancery, a bill of review
is sometimes allowed on petition to the court; but there would
be no end to a suit if every obstinate litigant could, by repeated
appeals, compel a court to listen to criticisms on their opinions,
or speculate on chances from changes in its members.
We can now notice, therefore, only such errors as are alleged to
have occurred in the decisions on questions which were peculiar
to the second trial." To the same effect are numerous cases,
some of which are cited in the margin.'
It is clear, under the adjudged cases, that upon the return of
this cause to the Circuit Court, nothing was before that court
except to inquire whether the structures erected by the railroad company, and specifically described in the opinion and
mandate of this court, extended into the lake beyond the point
of practical navigability, having reference to the manner in
which commerce in vessels was conducted on the lake. That
matter, and nothing more, had been or could have been determined by the final decree of the Circuit Court, and therefore on
this appeal we can only inquire as to the soundness or unsoundness of its conclusion upon the sole question reserved for investigation. We therefore do not stop to consider, as the appellant
insists we should do, whether this court erred in any particular
I Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 355; Browder v. McArthur, 7
Wheat. 58; Mashington Bridge Co. v. Stewart, 3 How. 413, 425; Chaires v.
United States, 3 How. 611, 620; Corning v. Troy Iron and Nail Factory, 15
How. 451, 466; Peck v. Sanderson, 18 How. 42; JWhyte v. Gibbes, 20 How.
541; E parte Dubuque and Pacifie Railroad, 1 Wall. 69, 73; Noonan v.
Bradley, 12 Wall. 121, 129; Supervisors v. Kennicott, 94 U. S. 498; Stewart
v. Salamon, 97 IT. S. 361; Brooks v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 107; Northern
Pacific Railroad Co. v. Ellis, 144 U. S. 458, 464; Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S.
228, 241; Last Chance Mining Co. v. Tyler Mining Co., 157 U. S. 683, 691;
New Orleans v. Citizens' Bank, 167 U. S. 371, 396; In re Sanford Fork and
Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247.

ILLINOIS i,. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

i its opinion or judgment on the former appeal in respect of
any matter then determined. Every matter embraced by the
original decree of the Circuit Court and not left open by the
decree of this court, was conclusively determined, as between
the parties, by our former decree, and is not subject to reexamination on this appeal.
We come, then, to consider the merits of the case as involved
in the only question now before us, namely, whether the structures referred to extend beyond the point of practical navigability, having reference to the manner in which commerce in
vessels is conducted on the lake.
Judge Showalter in the Circuit Court found that the facts
relating to the structures north of Randolph street and those
between Twelfth and Sixteenth streets fully protected the railroad company under the rule prescribed by the mandate of this
court. Referring to vessels of the largest class continuously
used in lake navigation, he said: "Such vessels, when ladened,
require from 16 to 20 feet of water in which to float. A vessel
drawing more than 12 feet, as I find from the evidence in the
case, would hardly reach the structure here in question in the
ordinary stages of water, and in the lowest water vessels requiring more than 10 feet could not reach or land at these docks.
Without being specific as to the exact depth of the water, I
find that the two piers and docks between Twelfth and Sixteenth streets do not extend into the lake beyond the point of
practical navigability, having reference to the manner in which
commerce in vessels is conducted on the lakes, and I make the
same finding as to the piers and docks north of Randolph
street."
In the Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Jenkins, speaking for
the court, said: "The right [of the riparian owner] is a relative
right, having relation, in the language of the Supreme Court in
this cause, ' to the manner in which commerce in vessels is conducted on the lake.' To serve any useful purpose those piers
must reach water of sufficient depth to float vessels when laden,
and alongside of which vessels can be brought to be conveniently loaded or unloaded. A sufficient depth of water to float
vessels such as navigate the waters of the lake is essential, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

it is a necessary incident of the riparian right that the pier shall
penetrate the water to a distance from the shore necessary to
reach water which shall float vessels, the largest as well as the
smallest, that are engaged in the commerce of the lakes. Atle
v. Packet Company, 21 Wall. 389, 393; Langdon v. 2fayow qf
NYew Fork, 93 N. Y. 151. . . . We must have regard to the
object for which this right is conferred. It is to reach out to
accommodate the vessels that plow the waters of the lake. It
is in aid of the commerce of the lake, and that right for that
purpose should be liberally interpreted and upheld."
After referring to the harbor line adopted by the United
States Government at the request of the city of Chicago, the
court proceeded: "Without undertaking to say to what extent
these proceedings of the city of Chicago were authorized as between it and the people of the State of Illinois, it is sufficient
to say that these things have been done without any adverse
action on the part of the State of Illinois. If they have no
other effect, they tend to strengthen, if support be needed, the
general drift of all the evidence in the case, that the necessities
of the commercial marine of the Great Lakes require substantially a depth of water of twenty feet to float the larger class
of vessels, and indicate that that depth at the present time
marks 'the point of practical navigability, having reference to
the manner in which commerce in vessels is conducted on the
lake.' It is conceded that the piers in question do not intrude
into the waters of the lake to that extent, and that the depth of
water can be obtained at them only by dredging. Conceding
then, as we must, the right of the railroad company to reach
that point of practical navigability, these structures were not
and are not unlawful, and its rights to them must be sustained.
The title to submerged lands resting in the State, are held in
trust in aid of navigation. Courts have at all times been diligent to protect and enforce rights of navigation, in aiding and
protecting whatever may tend to build up and encourage commerce upon the seas. It does not comport with our sense of
duty in the protection of a mere naked legal right to submerged
land, to deny a conceded riparian right-conceded because so declared by the ultimate tribunal-when that bare legal title is

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

held in trust for the very purpose to which these structures are
'devoted, namely, the accommodation of the commerce of the
lake. To compel the abatement or removal of these structures
to the extent demanded, or to any extent, in view of the establishment of the harbor line as indicated, would be to render
them useless for the accommodation of the commerce of the
lakes, and to practically deny to the appellee a substantial and
valuable riparian right to which the Supreme Court has determined it is entitled."
The words of our mandate, "practicalnavigability, having
reference to the manner in which commerce in vessels [on* the
lake] is conducted," admonished the Circuit Court that the
question as to the extent to which the railroad company could
rightfully continue to occupy the bed of the lake with piers,
docks or wharves was not to be determined upon narrow, technical grounds, but upon grounds which, under all the circumstances, would be fair and reasonable as between the company
and the public, having reference to the manner in which commerce was commonly or habitually conducted in vessels of
various sizes.
It is said that in determining whether the piers and docks in
question extended into the lake beyond the point of practical
navigability, the Circuit Court could only take into view the
size and capacity of vessels habitually employed on the lake at
the commencement of this litigation or at the date of the original decree in the Circuit Court.
We are of opinion that nothing in our mandate or opinion
compelled the Circuit Court to frame its decree upon that theory.
That court was directed to ascertain whether the structhres
complained of extended beyond practical navigability, having
reference to the manner in which commerce "is conducted on
the lake." There was no intention to withhold the power to
determine the particular matter reserved for investigation in the
light of the situation as it was when that investigation was
made. If this court had intended that that investigation should
relate to the situation as it was when the litigation commenced,
or when the original decree was rendered, it would have so declared. If, having reference to the manner in which commerce

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

-in vessels was conducted at the time of the investigation below,
the structures in question did not extend into the lake beyond
the point of practical navigability, then the Circuit Court, in
the execution of the mandate of this court, properly confirmed
the title and possession of the railroad company as established
by the original decree.
It appears from the evidence that in 1847 the largest vessel
on the lake had capacity sufficient to carry 18,000 bushels of
corn; that in 1860 some grain vessels carried as much as 20,000
bushels, having a draft of about twelve or twelve and a half
feet. In 1869, some vessels had a draft of thirteen feet. Later,
and during the period covered by the investigation, there were
vessels on the lake carrying 100,000 bushels of corn, while
others carried as much as 160,000 bushels, the latter drawing
from sixteen to eighteen feet of water. The proof shows that
the tendency for many years prior to the rendition of the decree was to increase the carrying capacity of vessels. That was
particularly so in the case of metal steamers, some of which
carried as much as 4000 or 5000 tons, while others varied in
draft from ten to eighteen feet. There were, at the time of
the investigation below, vessels regularly engaged in commerce
on the lake whose draft was as much as twenty feet.
It is safe to say that according to the evidence in the cause
a wharf or pier in the lake would not have adequately accommodated commerce, as carried on in many vessels on the lake,
unless it had reached water not less than from fourteen to eighteen feet deep; and even such a structure could not have been
used by the largest vessels on the lake. It was shown by soundings that the structures in question extended no farther into the
lake than was necessary to accommodate a great number of
vessels of moderate capacity. When the investigation below
was entered upon, pursuant to our mandate, the depth of water
in the channel of Chicago River over the La Salle and Washington street tunnels was about sixteen feet and eight inches-a
greater depth than exists at the outer edge of the piers, docks,
and wharves in question, except that at the mouth of the Chicago River, against the ends of some of the company's structures, there is a depth of from eighteen to twenty feet, obtained

ILLINOIS v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

by' dredging. The average depth of water at the outer line of
the structures in question does not exceed twelve or thirteen
feet at the utmost, which is insufficient for the accommodation
of a vast amount of commerce carried on in vessels on the lake.
An examination of the evidence will disclose this fact beyond
all serious controversy.
We are therefore of opinion that there was no error in holding that, in view of the manner in which commerce was conducted on the lake during the period of the investigation below,
such structures did not extend into the water beyond the point
of practical navigability. Regard being had to the weight of
the proof, the same conclusion would be reached if we looked
at the capacity of the vessels used on the lake at the time of
the original decree in the Circuit Court.
Confirmation of these views will be found in the testimony
of many witnesses whose opinions are entitled to respect. Captain Marshall of the Engineer Corps of the United States Army,
having accurate knowledge of the harbor of Chicago and of its
needs, was asked the question: "Having reference to the manner in which commerce in vessels is now conducted on the lakes
at the port of Chicago, what, in your opinion, is the reasonable
and necessary depth of water in a slip or dock for the accommodation of that commerce?" His answer was: "At present
no vessel with a deeper draft than about sixteen feet can carry
on commerce in the Chicago River, so that I should think that
a foot deeper than that, sevbnteen feet, would be a proper
depth to accommodate the largest as well as the smallest vessels
that come to Chicago now." Hie was also asked: "If you were
to construct a pier or wharf in the said outer harbor for the accommodation of vessels engaged in lake commerce, or were to
advise in relation thereto, what would be the depth of water you
-ould consider it necessary to reach in order that such pier or
dock should be available for the uses intended?" He replied:
"Seventeen feet at present, and ultimately they should construct their docks with twenty feet of water. Piling and bulkheads so as to stand dredging to twenty feet." Many other
witnesses testified substantially to the same effect.
VOL. oLxxxv-7

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

It does not follow from what has been said that the railroad
company can, of right, further extend into the lake either the
structures in question or new structures. While sustaining the
title and possession of the railroad company in respect to piers
and docks, sofar as then constructed, the original decree of 1888
perpetually enjoined the railroad company from erecting structures in or filling with earth or other materials any portion of
the bed of Lake Michigan as it then existed and was shown on
the Morehouse map east or in front of the fractional sections
ten and fifteen, that is, "east or in front of the grounds now [at
the date of the original decree] occupied and used by it between
Chicago River and the north line of Randolph street extended
eastwardly, or east or in front of the grounds now [then] occupied and used by it between the north line of Randolph and
the centre line of Sixteenth street, each extended eastwardly,
except that said company may complete the slip or basin already
commenced immediately north of Sixteenth street extended,
with a wharf on each side not exceeding one hundred feet in
width each, where vessels coming into such slip or basin may
load or unload, and upon which tracks of the company may be
laid." These restrictions imposed by the original decree were
confirmed by the former decree of this court, leaving open only
the question whether the structures complained of, and as then
constructed and maintained, extended into the lake beyond the
point of practical navigability. So that the railroad company
cannot acquire by the present decision any authority to further
extend its structures into the lake. It must stand upon the
original decree of the Circuit Court in respect of its rights.
We may add that the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals having concurred in finding that the structures in
question did not extend into the lake beyond the point of practical navigability-which is largely, if not entirely, a question
of fact-the decree should not be disturbed unless it was clearly
in conflict with the evidence. Compania La Flecha v. Brauer,
168 U. S. 104, 123; Stuart v. Hayden, 169 II. S. 1, 14; Baker
v. Cummings, 169 U. S. 189, 198; The Carib Prince, 170 U.
S. 655.

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
Statement of the Case.

For the reasons stated the decree of which the State complains
must be affrmed and it is so ordered.
The OmEF JUSTICE having been of counsel for the city of
Chicago in the earliest stages of this litigation, took no part in
the consideration or decision of this case.

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 110. Argued January 15,16, 1902.-DecidedFebruary 24, 1902.

The court below had power to authorize the amendment made to the bill.
It is the settled doctrine of this court that the concurrent decisions of two
courts upon a question of fact will be followed, unless shown to be clearly
erroneous; and in this case, after examining the evidence, it seems to this
court that the findings of the court below were justified by it: and that
they established that a trust resulted in favor of Buck.

THE appellants seek a review in this court of the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in this case,
affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
enjoining the appellants from the further prosecution of an
action of ejectment brought by them against appellee Coleman
in the Supreme Court of the District, to recover a one fifth interest in a house and lot in the city of Washington, in the possession of Coleman as tenant of appellee, Leffert L. Buck, who
claims to be 'the owner thereof. The appellees, Buck and Coleman, commenced this suit in April, 1898, and in their bill of
complaint they alleged the bringing of the action of ejectment
on or about July 26, 1897, by William H. Brainard, as one of
the heirs of his brother, the late Charles F. Brainard, to recover
an undivided one fifth interest in the real estate mentioned.
The bill further alleged that the complainant Buck was the
brother of one Cornelia A. Brainard, whose husband was Charles
F. Brainard, both of whom lived in the city of Washington up
to the time of the death of Charles on May 13, 1881, and the

