LAKE BENTON FIRST NAT. BANK v. WATT.

151

Statement of the Case.

such postmasters and late postmasters during the period between July 1, 1864, and July 1, 1874, than is herein approved,
is hereby prohibited," is a valid legislative enactment and must
be followed by the courts. The readjustment of the salary of
petitioner has not been according to this direction.
Construing the acts of 1883 and 1886 as we think their terms
require, the judgment of the Court of Claims is erroneous, and
must be reversed and the case remanded to that court with
instructions to enter a judgment in conformity to the directions of those statutes and the opinion of this court.
We feel called upon to say that the charges of misconduct,
maladministration and fraud against the officers of the Post
Office Department, so freely scattered through the pages of
the briefs of counsel for appellee, are entirely unwarranted by
anything contained in the record before us, and ought not to
have been made.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA did not sit in this case and took no
part in its decision.

LAKE BENTON FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. WATT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 103. Submitted January 15, 1902.-Decided February 24,1902.

The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 5198, that "in case the greater rate of interest has been paid, the person by whom it has been paid, or his legal representatives, may recover back, in an action in the nature of debt, twice
the amount of the interest thus paid," on the one hand causes a forfeiture
of the entire interest to result from the taking, receiving, reserving or
charging a rate greater than is allowed by law, and on the other subjects
the creditor to pay twice the amount of the interest illegally exacted if,
by persistence in wrongdoing, he subjects the debtor to the necessity of
suing to recover.

By this action, which was commenced in a court of the State
of -Minnesota,recovery was sought from the First National Bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of Lake Benton, Minnesota, plaintiff in error here, of twice the
amount of the entire interest which it was alleged had been
paid to that bank by Watt, plaintiff below, who is the defendant in error on this record. The right to the relief was based
on the averment that the bank had, in violation of the law of
the United States, received from Watt usurious interest. The
cause was tried to a jury and a verdict returned in favor of
Watt. From an order denying a motion for a new trial an
appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State of iMinnesota, and that court affirmed the judgment. 76 Minn. 458.
Upon the return of the record to the trial court, judgment was
entered on the verdict of the jury. Another appeal was then
taken and the judgment was affirmed. 79 Minn. 266. The
case was then brought to this court by writ of error.
.r. Frank B. Kellogg and .Mr. C. A. Severance for plaintiff
inerror.
M~r. F. L. Janes for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention of the plaintiff in error is that the state court
erroneously condemned it to pay twice the amount of the entire interest which it had collected because it had taken a usurious rate, whilst under the law of the United States, it is
insisted, the recovery should have been not twice the amount
of the entire interest, but only twice the sum by which the
interest received exceeded the lawful rate. To dispose of this
contention involves ascertaining the meaning of sections 5197
and 5198 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which
are as follows:
"SEc. 5197. Any association may take, receive, reserve and
charge on any loan or discount made, or upon any note, bill of
exchange, or other evidences of debt, interest at the rate allowed by the laws of the State, Territory or district where the
bank is located, and no more, except that where by the laws of

LAKE BENTON FIRST NAT. BANK v. WATT.

153

Opinion of the Court.

any State a different rate is limited for banks of issue organized
under state laws, the rate so limited shall be allowed for associations organized or existing in any such State under this title.
When no rate is fixed by the laws of the State, or Territory,
or district, the bank may take, receive, reserve or charge a rate
not exceeding seven per centum, and such interest may be taken
in advance, reckoning the days for which the note, bill or other
evidence of debt has to run. And the purchase, discount or
sale or a bona jfde bill of exchange, payable at another place
than the place of such purchase, discount or sale, at not more
than the current rate of exchange for sight-drafts in addition
to the interest, shall not be considered as taking or receiving a
greater rate of interest.
"Sxc. 5198. The taking, receiving, reserving or charging a
rate of interest greater than is allowed by the preceding section,
when knowingly done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire
interest which the note, bill or other evidence of debt carries
with it, or which has been agreed to be paid thereon. In case
the greater rate of interest has been paid, the person by whom
it has been paid, or his legal representatives, may recover back
in an action in the nature of an action of debt, twice the amount
of the interest thus paid from the association taking or receiving
the same; provided, such action is commenced within two years
from the time the usurious transaction occurred. (That suits,
actions and proceedings against any association under this title
may be had in any circuit, district or territorial court of the
United States held within the district in which such association
may be established, or in any state, county or municipal court
in the county or city in which said association is located having
jurisdiction in similar cases.)"
The argument that the recovery should have been limited to
twice the amount by which the usurious interest exceeded the
legal rate is predicated on what is assumed to be the correct
construction of the second sentence of section 5198 above
quoted. The sentence relied on is as follows:
"In case the greater rate of interest has been paid, the person
by whom it has been paid, or his legal representatives, may recover back, in an action in the nature of an action of debt, twice

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount of the interest thus paid from the association taking
or receiving the same; provided such action is commenced
within two years from the time the usurious transaction occurred."
It is urged that the statute is penal in its character and must
be strictly construed, therefore the sentence relied upon must
be interpreted as relating solely to the usurious portion of the
interest paid, and not to so much of the rate of interest as was
lawful. Although it be conceded that the statute is penal in
character, we do not consider, even under the strictest rule of
construction, it is possible to give to it the meaning contended
for without departing from its unambiguous letter, and thereby
frustrating its obvious intent. The first sentence of the section
provides that "the taldng, receiving, reserving or charging a
rate of interest greater than is allowed,

when know-

.

.

ingly done, shall be deemed a forfeiture of the entire interest
which the note, bill or other evidence of debt carries with it, or
which has been agreed to be paid thereon." This, without the
slightest, ambiguity, provides for the forfeiture, not of the
amount by which the usurious has exceeded the lawful rate,
but of the entire interest. When the statute then proceeds, in
the very next sentence, to say "In case the greater rate of interest has been paid, the person by whom it has been paid, or
his legal representatives, may recover back

.

.

.

twice the

amount of the interest thus paid," it cannot in reason be held
that the words, "the interest thus paid," refer to any other
sum than the entire interest as provided in the previous sentence. To hold otherwise would be to decide that the statute
forfeited the entire amount of interest whenever a usurious rate
had been taken, received, reserved or charged, and yet limited
the debtor's right to recover back only to twice the amount of
the excess of the usurious over the legal rate. This would be
to interpret the law as in one sentence imposing a forfeiture of
the entire interest, whilst in the next sentence it rendered such
forfeiture, in many cases, absolutely nugatory. That such would
be the result becomes apparent when it is considered that whilst
it is conceded that in case usurious interest is received the entire
amount is forfeited, it is yet argued that in case suit is brought

LAKE BENTON FIRST NAT. BANK v. WATT.

155

Opinion of the Court.

to recover the forfeited usurious interest, the entire interest received cannot be awarded. The contention otherwise stated is
this: The entire interest in the event usurious interest is received is forfeited at the election of the creditor, such election
on his part, by which the forfeiture is escaped, being manifested
by his insisting on retaining the money taken by him in violation of the statute. This, however, involves not only the conflict pointed out by the considerations just mentioned, but the
further contradiction that the greater the violation of the stat:
ute the lesser the penalty which it imposes. The disregard of
the text and the confusion as to the purpose of the law, which
the argument involves, disappears if the statute be harmoniously
enforced according to its letter and spirit. By both it is apparent that the statute on the one hand causes a forfeiture of
the entire interest to result from the taking, receiving, reserving
or charging a rate greater than is allowed by law, and on the
other subjects the creditor to pay twice the amount of the entire
interest illegally exacted if by persistence in wrongdoing he
subjects the debtor to the necessity of suing to recover.
Whilst the question here presented has not been heretofore
passed upon by this court, the Circuit Courts of the United
States have had occasion frequently to consider it, and have
uniformly construed the statute in accordance with its plain import as we have just expounded it. Nat'l Bank of -Madisonv.
Davis, 8 Biss. 100; Bank v. Afoore, 2 Bond, 174; Crocker v.
First Nat'l Bank, 4 Dill. 358; Hill v. Hat'l Bank of Barre,
15 Fed. IRep. 433; Louisville Tust Co. v. Kentucky.Nat'l Bank,.
87 Fed. Rep. 143, 149; S. C., 102 Fed. Rep. 442. The state
courts of last resort have also, as a general rule, upheld the same
construction. Bomer v. Traders' .Yational Bank, 90 Texas,
443, and authorities there cited. True it is that in a few cases
some state courts have hesitatingly taken an opposite view; but
we think, for the reasons which we have given, the letter of the
statute is too plain and its intention too manifest to justify such
an interpretation.
Affirmed.

