OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

the affidavit already referred to, and an affidavit of like import
made by S. Rothschild, one of the plaintiffs in error. The affidavits were introduced by defendants in error. On behalf of
plaintiffs in error Frank J. Rothschild testified as follows:
"These goods (meaning the goods received from McKeon) were
attached by Simon Rothschild & Bro., and were sold by order
of the sheriff. We bought them, that is, Simon Rothschild &
Bro. bought them, at the sheriff's sale."
Assuming, but not deciding, that such evidence was sufficient,
and that a record properly authenticated was not necessary to
give the plaintiffs in error the benefit of the Constitution and
statutory provisions, the proceedings, notwithstanding, did not
constitute a defence to the action. The preference given by
MvicKeon to plaintiffs in error was consummated in Massachusetts. Therefore the proceedings had in New York were immaterial.
Finding no error in the record, judgment is
Affirmed.

SCUERMAN v. ARIZONA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 151.

Submitted January 28, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.

The act of Congress of June 6, 1896, c. 339, 29 Stat. 262, authorizing the refunding of outstanding obligations of the Territory of Arizona, was within
the power of Congress to pass, and by it the bonds therein described
were made valid.
Under the territorial funding act of Arizona, approved March 19, 1891, it
was sufficient for the holder of the bonds to make the demand for the
exchange, and it was not necessary that the demand should be made by
the municipal authorities.
It was the intent of Congress under the said act of June 6, 1896, to provide
that there should be no funding of bonds or other indebtedness which
arose subsequently to January 1, 1897; and the statute was not intended
to limit the mere process of exchanging one bond for the other to the
time specified.
The territorial statute of Arizona of 1887 is the foundation for the appointment of the loan commissioners; and the body thus created comes
directly within its provisions.

SCRUER]IAN v. ARIZONA.
Statement of the Case.

Tins is an appeal by. the defendants below from a judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona affirming a
judgment of the district court granting a mandamus. Upon the
trial of the case certain facts were agreed upon, in susbtance, that
the defendants were the supervisors of the county of Yavapai,
and that prior to the year 1890 the county of Yavapai had issued
what were known as railroad bonds in aid of the Prescott and
Arizona Central Railroad Company, upon which there was due
on the 17th of September, 1897, $260,218.80, and on that day
they were received in exchange by the board of loan commissioners, who thereupon issued 258 funding bonds of the Territory, each of the denomination of one thousand dollars, and
bearing interest at the rate of five per centum per annum, payable semi-annually. On the 18th of November, 1896, the board
of supervisors of defendant county requested the board of loan
commissioners to fund the bonds issued for the aid of the railroad company, but the board subsequently and on December 5,
1896, rescinded such request before it had been acted upon, and
on the 17th of September, 1897, the holders of the bonds requested the board of loan commissioners to refund the same,
which they did upon such demand. The statement of facts
then continues as follows:
"5. At the meeting of said board of loan commissioners at
which said bonds were funded, only two members of said board
were present or acted; the third member of said board of loan
commissioners was at the time of said meeting absent from the
Territory of Arizona, and took no part in the funding of said
bonds, and was not in any manner consulted with relation
thereto.
"16. On January 15, 1898, there became due and payable as
interest on the 258 territorial funding bonds issued in exchange
for the bonds' of said Yavapai County as aforesaid, the sum of
$4288.33 according to the tenor of said territorial funding bonds,
and thereafter on the 15th days of July and January of each
year there became due and payable as interest on said territorial
funding bonds, according to the tenor thereof, the sum of
$6450.00, payable at the office of the territorial treasurer of the
Territory of Arizona.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"7.In compliance with the terms and conditions of said territorial funding bonds the territorial treasurer of said Territory
of Arizona has paid all the interest thereon at the times when
the same became due and payable, amounting in all at the date
hereof to the sum of $23,638.33, and has taken up and cancelled
interest coupons attached to said bonds to that amount."
"9. Save as aforesaid, no demand was ever made by the board
of supervisors of said Yavapai County for the funding of said
P. & A. C. Railroad bonds, and no notice was ever given to
said board of supervisors at or about the time of the funding
that said bonds had been funded.
"10. For the year 1899 the territorial board of equalization
of said Territory, at its annual session for that year, levied the
sum of thirty-seven cents on each one hundred dollars of valuation of the taxable property in said Yavapai County, for the
purpose of paying interest on the funded indebtedness of said
county of Yavapai, including the interest on the territorial funding bonds aforesaid maturing in the year 1900, and the territorial
auditor duly certified the levy of said tax to the board of supervisors of said Yavapai County, that the defendants, comprising
the board of supervisors of said county, failed and neglected to
levy said tax of thirty-seven cents on the hundred dollars, but
only levied the sum of six cents on the hundred dollars for the
purpose of paying interest on the funded indebtedness of said
county ; said sum of six cents on the hundred dollars was sufficient to pay the interest on all the funded indebtedness of said
county other than the territorial funding bonds issued in lieu
of said P. & A. C. Railroad bonds as aforesaid, but was insufficient to pay the interest on said territorial funding bonds or
any part thereof.
"11. The above mentioned P. & A. C. Railroad bonds were
originally issued by the county of Yavapai in aid of the construction of the Prescott & Arizona Central Railroad, a line of
railway running from Prescott Junction or Seligman to Prescott, Arizona, and were granted and issued as a subsidy to the
corporation building and owning said railroad."
The county having refused to levy any taxes for the purpose
of collecting money to pay any of the interest maturing on the

SCHUERMAN v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds of the Territory given in exchange for the bonds issued
by the county, this proceeding was undertaken to compel the
board of supervisors to levy a tax in accordance with the provisions of the statute, for the purpose of paying the interest which
had been paid by the Territory on the bonds.

.-Yr. Reese X Ling for appellants.
.Mr. C. F. Ainsworth for appellee.
MR. JusTioE

PECKHA-,

after stating the above facts, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It is claimed on the part of the defendants below that the
railroad bonds for which the territorial bonds were given were

invalid when issued, and it is only by reason of the passage of
the act of June 6, 1896, 29 Stat. 262, that any action could be
sustained to enforce their payment. That act hasbeen held to
be within the power of Congress to pass, and that by it the
bonds therein described were made valid. Utter v. Franklin,
172 U. S. 416.
Three grounds are now urged why the judgments of the lower
courts should be reversed. They are:
(1) That the railroad bonds were illegally funded, without
any demand having been made by the board of supervisors of
Yavapai County upon the territorial loan commission for such
funding.
(2) That said bonds were funded after January 1, 1897, and
at a time when the board of loan commissioners were by the
terms of the statute without power to fund them.
(3) That the bonds were improperly and illegally funded at
a meeting of the board of loan commissioners of the Territory
of Arizona, at which only two members of the said board were
present, the third member being absent from the Territory and
not in any manner consulted with reference to such funding.
(1) In regard to the first ground, the Supreme Court of the
Territory has held that it was not necessary that a demand
should be made by the municipal authorities, but that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

holders of the bonds could themselves make it by virtue of
section 7 of the territorial funding act of Arizona, approved
March 19, 1891. Act Nwo. 79, p. 120. The seventh section of
that act reads as follows:
"SEc. 7. Any person holding bonds, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness of the Territory, or any county, municipality or school district within the Territory, existing and outstanding on the 31st day of December, 1890, may exchange the
same for the bonds issued under the provisions of this act at
not less than their face or par value, and the accrued interest
at the time of exchange ; but no indebtedness shall be redeemed
at more than its face value and any interest that may be due
thereon."
Where a holder of bonds had made the demand it was held
sufficient under that section. Bravin v. Mayor, 56 IPac. Rep.
719; Yavayai County v. _McCord, 59 Pac. iRep. 99.
This construction of the territorial act by the Supreme
Court of Arizona we think was correct, and that it was not
necessary in order to obtain a refunding of the bonds that the
demand for the same must be made by the municipal authori.
ties.
(2) It appears from the records that the bonds were funded
after January 1, 1897, and it is objected that there was no
power on the part of the board of loan commissioners to fund
such bonds after that date.
The act of Congress under which this question arises was
approved June 6, 1896, 29 Stat. 262, chap. 339, and is set forth
in the margin.1
1 Chap. 339. An act amending and extending the provisions of an act of

Congress entitled " An act approving with amendments the funding
act of Arizona," approved June twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and
ninety, and the act amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto approved August third, eighteen hundred and ninety-four.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Bepresentatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That the provisions of the acts of
Congress approved June twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety, and
August third, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, authorizing the funding
of certain indebtedness of the Territory of Arizona, are hereby amended
and extended so as to authorize the funding of all outstanding obligations

SCHUERMIAN v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of Arizona has decided this contention
against the defendants upon the authority of its previous decisions in Gage v. .eCord, 51 Pac. Rep. 977, decided in 1898,
which was approved in Yavaai County v. _cMCorC, 59 Pac.
Rep. 99, decided in November, 1899. In the first mentioned
case the following is that portion of the opinion which discusses this particular objection:
"Stress is put upon the clause ' until January first, eighteen
hundred and ninety-seven,' found in section 1 of the act, as
bearing out the view that the purpose and intent of Congress
was to limit the time within which the loan commissioners
might act, and to require the completion of the work of funding, by the sale and disposition of bonds and the liquidation of
the indebtedness allowed by this and prior acts to be funded,
of said Territory, and the counties, municipalities and school districts
thereof, as provided in the act of Congress approved June twenty-fifth,
eighteen hundred and ninety, until January first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-seven, and all outstanding bonds, warrants and other evidences of
indebtedness of the Territory of Arizona, and the counties, municipalities,
and school districts thereof, heretofore authorized by legislative enactments
of said Territory bearing a higher rate of interest than is authorized by the
aforesaid funding act approved June twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and
ninety, and which said bonds, warrants and other evidences of indebtedness
have been sold or exchanged in good faith in compliance with the terms of
the acts of the legislature by which they were authorized, shall be funded,
with the interest thereon, which has accrued and may accrue until funded
into the lower interest bearing bonds, as provided by this act.
SEc. 2. That all bonds and other evidences of indebtedness heretofore
funded by the loan commission of Arizona under the provisions of the act
of Congress approved June twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety, and
the act amendatorythereof and supplemental thereto approved August third,
eighteen hundred and ninety-four, are hereby declared to be valid and legal
for the purposes for which they were issued and funded; and all bonds and
other evidences of indebtedness heretofore issued under the authority of
the legislature of said Territory, as bereinbefore authorized to be funded,
are hereby confirmed, approved and validated, and may be funded, as in
this act provided, until January first, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven:
Provided, That nothing in this act shall be so construed as to make the
government of the United States liable or responsible for the payment of
any of said bonds, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness by this act
approved, confirmed and made valid, and authorized to be funded.
Approved, June 6, 1896.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

by January 1, 1897. Even were we restricted to the more
literal meaning of the words used in construing remedial statutes of this kind, the narrow and circumscribed view thus taken
of the statute can hardly be justified if regard be had to the
whole of the statute, including the plain purpose of the act as
expressed in its title. In the latter, it is clearly stated to be an
amendment of previous statutes, and the extension and enlargement of their provisions. Again, an analysis of the body of
the act bears out the view that, instead of the purpose being
to limit or restrict the exercise of any powers, rights or privileges previously granted, the legislative will was to add to,
extend and enlarge these. The first section contains two general provisions-one authorizing the amendment and extension of the Congressional acts approved, respectively, June 25,
1890, and August 3, 1894, so as to include in their provisions
'all outstanding obligations' of the Territory; the other directing the funding of all outstanding bonds, warrants and
other evidences of indebtedness of the Territory, as well as of
the counties, municipalities and school districts thereof, which
had been authorized by legislative enactments, and which bore
a higher rate of interest than is authorized by the funding law,
and which had been sold or exchanged in good faith. The second section likewise has reference to two classes of indebtedness, both of which are recognized obviously so as to confirm,
approve, validate and effectually fix their status as binding obligations upon the Territory.
"The acts of June 25, 1890, and August 3, 1894, being referred to, we must therefore consider the act of June 6, 1896,
in jari materia with the former. The former act confirmed
and approved, with amendments, chapter 1, tit. 31, Rev. Stat.,
passed by the territorial legislature March 10, 1887. These
amendments had reference to the rate of interest, the time
bonds issued for funding purposes should run, and as to what
indebtedness might be funded; the act being amended in this
particular so as to include county, municipal and school indebtedness. Congress added to the legislative enactment a provision
that in effect validated a class of obligations otherwise invalid,
because incurred in violation of the organic law of the Terri-

SCHUERAIAN v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

tory, as found in the I Harrison Act,' and provided for the
funding of all the then existing and outstanding indebtedness, and that which might thereafter be evidenced by warrants issued for the necessary and current expenses of carrying
on territorial, county, municipal and school government for the
the year ending December 31,1890, and added to the foregoing
the declaration that thereafter no warrants, certificates or other
evidences of indebtedness should be allowed to issue or be legal
when the same is in excess of the limit prescribed by the Harrison Act. The act of August 3, 18947, provided ' that an act
entitled "An act approving, with amendments, the funding
act of Arizona," approved June twenty-fifth, eighteen hundred and ninety, and paragraph twenty-two hundred and
fifty-two (section 15) of said act, be and the same is hereby
amended by adding thereto as follows: "Provided, further,
however, that the present outstanding warrants, certificates
and other evidences of indebtedness issued subsequent to December thirty-first, eighteen hundred and ninety, for the -necessary and current expenses of carrying on the territorial
government only, together with such warrants as may be
issued for such purpose for the years ending December thirtyfirst, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, and December thirtyfirst, eighteen hundred and ninety-five, may also be funded and
bonds issued for the redemption thereof ; and thereafter no warrants, certificates or other evidences of indebtedness shall be
allowed to issue, or to be legal where the same is in excess of
the limit prescribed by the Harrison Act." ' It is to be noted
that, in both the acts referred to, the only limitation imposed
had reference to the class of obligations which were permitted
to be funded, and did not in any manner restrict the territorial
officers in the method of their procedure previously prescribed
by the territorial law, or limit the time within which the acts
of funding, by the sale and disposition of bonds, might lawfully be done. Bearing in mind the remedial character of
this legislation, and reading the act of June 6, 1896, in the
light of the previous Congressional enactment upon the same
subject-matter, we construe the former act to express only.
what obviously appears to be the Congressional intent, viz.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to extend and enlarge the class of obligations which may be
funded, and not to limit the time within which the board of
loan commissioners might complete the acts of funding indebtedness, which has expressly been recognized by Congress as
fundable. We therefore read section I of this act as authorizing the funding of all obligations of the Territory which existed and were outstanding prior to January 1, 1897, and not
as limiting the sale and disposition of bonds for funding purposes by the loan commissioners to the absurdly short period
of six months for the successful accomplishment of the funding
of the varied class of obligations validated and recognized by
the act as fundable, and which necessarily amounted to large
sums. It is not to be assumed that Congress would in one
breath grant liberal and generous concessions, and in the next
breath take away their practical benefits by the imposition of
a seemingly unreasonable and unnecessary restriction, and thus
defeat its own purpose and intent. It is to be noted that no
contention is made that any of the indebtedness proposed to
be funded by the sale and disposition of the bonds in question
has been incurred since January 1, 1897, but the sole contention is as to the time within which the funding of the territorial indebtedness as limited by law may be done."
We are disposed to agree with the conclusions arrived at by
the territorial Supreme Court. While it may be said that by
the strict letter of the statute of 1896 there could be no funding of a bond after January 1, 1897, although the bond had
been issued long prior to that date and represented an indebtedness of the county, which was provided for by the act of 1896,
yet taking into consideration the series of acts which have been
passed and the provisions made therein relating to the funding
of the indebtedness of the Territory and of the various counties and other municipal divisions therein, we think the intent
of Congress was to provide that there should be no funding of
bonds or other indebtedness which arose subsequently to January 1, 1897, the date named in the statute, and that date
was named as the limit of the indebtedness that could be refunded, and the statute was not intended to limit the mere
process of exchanging one bond for the other to the time speci-

SCHUERMAN v. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court.

fled. There was no special reason for a limitation of time for
the mechanical exchange of bonds under the statute, so long as
the time was limited which applied to the indebtedness to be
recognized.
Although bonds executed by many counties in favor of railroads had been held invalid because the acts of the legislature
of Arizona permitting the counties to issue such bonds were
violations of the restrictions imposed upon the territorial legislature by Congress, Lewis v. Pima County, 155 U. S. 54, yet
the legislative assembly of the Territory of Arizona had adopted
a memorial asking Congress to pass such curative legislation in
regard to such bonds as would protect the bondholders, when
such bonds had been issued under the authority of the acts of
the territorial legislature. A copy of the memorial is to be
found in the report of the case of Utter v. _Fanklin, 172 U. S.
416, 421.
It was, therefore, the desire of the Territory of Arizona to
have the bonds validated, and that they should be paid and tA
pay them. We think it quite plain that the second section o
the Federal statute of June 6, 1896, was passed in response t
the request of the legislature of Arizona. When these bond
were validated by such statute it would seem hardly reasonabli
that the short period of six months from June 6, 1896, to January 1, 1897, should be given not alone for their presentation
and exchange, but also for all the indebtedness mentioned in
that act; while, on the contrary, having made all such bonds
valid, it would seem to be quite reasonable that the limitation
of time provided for in the Federal act referred to the character
of indebtedness which was to be limited and not to the particular time when the bonds were actually to be exchanged.
It is to be noted that by the acts prior to that of June 6, 1896,
there was no limit whatever placed upon the lime for the board
of loan commissioners to act upon the funding of the indebtedness of the Territory, but the limitation was in regard to the
time when the debts which were to be refunded were created.
The only limit named in the act of Congress of June 25, 1890,
chap. 614, 26 Stat. 175, was as to the date when the indebtedness was created. Section 7 of the territorial act of March 19,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

1891, it will be perceived, did not limit the date of refunding,
but did limit the indebtedness to that which was existing or
outstanding on December 31, 1890. By the act of Congress
approved August 3, 1894, chap. 200, 28 Stat. 224, the time for
the creation of debts of the Territory which might be funded
was extended from December 1, 1890, to December 31, 1895,
which was over a year beyond the date of the passage of the
act, but the time of refunding was not limited.
In none of these acts, as stated, was there any limitation as
to the time of refunding, but the limitation in each was in regard to the indebtedness which was to be refunded. Upon
consideration of all the circumstances existing when the various
acts of Congress were passed, we are inclined to concur with
the Supreme Court of Arizona on the construction it has placed
upon the act of Congress of 1896. While we admit that it is
against the strict letter of the statute, we think the construction
adopted is within its clear meaning and intention.
(3) The last objection raised to the validity of the funding
is that the bonds were improperly and illegally funded at a
meeting of the board of loan commissioners of the Territory of
Arizona, at which only two members of the board were present,
the third member being absent from the Territory, and not in
any manner consulted with reference to the funding.
There is a statute of Arizona (Revised Statutes, par. 2932,
subdivison 2) which reads as follows: "All words purporting
to give a joint authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be otherwise
expressly declared in the law giving the authority."
The objection is made that the loan commissioners of Arizona
obtained their authority from the act of Congress and not from
the territorial legislature, and hence the statute above referred
to does not apply. The Territory of Arizona passed an act in
1887 known as the Revised Statutes, in which was "Title XXXI,
Funding." That act, by paragraph 2039, created the governor
of the Territory, together with the territorial auditor and the
territorial secretary, and their successors in office, a board of
commissioners to be styled the "Loan Commissioners of the

SCHUERMAN r. ARIZONA.
Opinion of the Court

Territory of Arizona," who should have and exercise the powers
and perform the duties provided for in the act, which gave them
power to provide for the payment of the existing territorial indebtedness and such future indebtedness as might be authorized
by law, and granted them power to issue negotiable coupon
bonds of the Territory under the conditions namedl in the act.
This act was somewhat amended and then approved by Congress June 25, 1890, 26 Stat. 17. The powers of the commissioners have been extended from time to time. It is claimed
that the power vested in them came from Congress instead of
the territorial legislature and that therefore the statute relating
to the exercise of powers given to a board of public officers
does not apply.
We think that the territorial statute, although approved by
Congress, is the foundation for the appointment of the loan commissioners, and that the body thus created comes directly within
the provisions of the Arizona statute just referred to. Upon
this subject it was said by the Supreme Court of Arizona as
follows:
"There is no provision in the funding act of 1881, as amended
by Congress in 1890, that the commissioners should jointly act,
but the board was treated as a unit. The funding act is not a
strictly Congressional act; it is a territorial act, passed by the
legislature of the Territory and embodied in the Revised Statutes
of 1887. For the purpose of assuring the validity of the act,
and of placing any issuance of bonds under it beyond dispute,
the act was presented to Congress for its affirmative approval,
which it gave with some few amendments, generally verbal in
their nature and evidently for the purpose of making the act
more specific. The title of the act passed by Congress clearly
carries out that view, for the first provision of that act is ' that
the act of the Revised Statutes of Arizona of 188-7, known as
title XXXI, "funding," be and is hereby amended so as to read
as follows: and that as amended the same is hereby approved
and confirmed, subject to future territorial legislation.' The
act being a territorial act, and the commission being the creation of the Territory, is directly affected by par. 2932, supra."
The record does not show that the absent commissioner had
VOL. OIxxxiv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

not been notified to attend the meeting at which the bonds were
funded. It is not to be presumed that notice of the intended
meeting was not given. Under the provisions of the territorial
act, the proceedings of the board of loan commissioners were
legal.
We think the three objections made by the appellants are
untenable, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona
was right, and must be
Afflrmed.

SKANEATELES WATER WORKS COMPANY v.
SKANEATELES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NVEW YORK.
No 134. Argued January 24, 27,1902.-Decided March 3,1902.

On April 5, 1887, the village of Skaneateles granted a franchise to the waterworks company to maintain and operate within the village a system of
waterworks for furnishing pure and wholesome water to the village and
its inhabitants, under which the company constructed its works, and on
February 1, 1891, contracted to supply water to the village and its inhabitants for the period of five years. At the expiration of the term of this
contract some differences arose about the terms of its continuation, which
resulted in the construction of an independent system of waterworks by
the village authorities. In an action brought by the water company to
restrain the village authorities from proceeding with the construction of
that system or any other system for the village, it is held by the New
York court (1) that the village was not required to institute proceedings
to condemn the property of the plaintiff before commencing the construction of a waterworks system for the use of the village; (2) that the waterworks company under the contract did not acquire the exclusive right to
fnrnish the village with water; (3) that subsequently to the termination
of the contract no contractual relations existed between the water company and the village: Held,
(1) That the power of this court to review the judgment of the New York
Court of Appeals is limited to a consideration of whether any right
of the plaintiff's protected by the Federal Constitution has been
denied;

