OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

By parity of reasoning, we think it follows that no discrimination was intended to be made between non-residents who died
testate, even though the will were made in this country, and
those who died intestate; and as we have held in the preceding
case that the law does not apply to non-residents who died intestate, or testate under a will executed abroad, we think it
follows that it does not apply to deceased persons domiciled
abroad who left property by will executed in this country.
The questions certified must, therefore, be answered in the
negative.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE M KENNA concurred in

the result.

BUSCH v. JONES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF Ct

'";,

No. 96. Argued January 14, 1902.-Decided March 17, 1902.

The appellees' contention as to jurisdiction in this case is not justified for
reasons expressed in Clark v. Wooster, 119 U. S. 322, and Beedle v. Bennett, 122 U. S. 71.

This was an action to recover for infringements of a patent. The lower
courts found as a fact that all the claims of the patent had been infringed
by appellant, and the evidence sustains the finding. The accounting in
the lower court, however, was had upon the basis of the validity of the
process, and therefore the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed and the cause remanded with directions to that court to reverse
to
the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court, and remand the cause
the latter court for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.

THIS suit was brought by appellees against appellant for the
infringement of letters patent No. 204,741, and letters patent
No. 452,898, issued to Joshua W. Jones, one of the appellees.
An accounting was prayed, and also an injunction, pending the
suit. The bill contained the usual allegations of invention and
utility, and of infringement by the defendant (appellant). The

BUSCH v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

answer traversed those allegations, and alleged prior use, disclosure of the invention in prior publications, and also anticipation by prior devices and processes. The answer contained a
list of the devices. No evidence was given as to, and no judgment passed on, patent No. 452,898. This appeal, therefore, is
only concerned with patent No. 204,741. The patent was issued
to Joshua W. Jones, one of the appellees, for a press and process
(the relation of the two is disputed) for "dry pressing" and removing type indentations from printed sheets. The validity
of the patent was sustained, and its infringement by the defendant (appellant) was found by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and decree passed adjudging appellees the
gum of W3491.70 with interest and costs. The decree was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 16 D. C. App. 23. The case
was then brought here. The facts are stated in the opinion.
.Mr, George J. urray for appellant.
Xr.X. T. Jacobs for appellees.
MR.JusTICE MCoKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

1. A question of jurisdiction is raised. It is contended by
appellant that the case was not one of equitable cognizance, the
appellees' remedy being, it is claimed, at law. The specification
of error upon which the contention is based is expressed as_..
follows:
"Because at the time of the hearing it appeared from the
record that the only patent before the court had expired before
the hearing, no motion for preliminary injunction having been
made prior to the expiration of the patent, and defendant being a
mere user of one machine, which machine was destroyed by fire
before the case was brought to hearing."
This seeks to determine the jurisdiction of the court by conditions which came into existence after the commencement of
the suit, not upon those which existed at the time the bill was
filed. It is, however, urged in argument that the contract
between Jones and the W. 0. Hickok Manufacturing Company

d

MM,
ERt

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

conveyed the patent rights to the press only, and not the pkocesg
described in the fifth claim of the patent, and that "the court,
sitting as a court of equity, had no jurisdiction to order an injunction at the time the bill of complaint was filed." But what
the contract provided was an issue to be made in the case, and
pending its decision the preliminary relief by injunction could
have been granted. Appellees' contention as to the jurisdiction is, therefore, not justified, and a discussion of the reasons
for this conclusion is not necessary. They are expressed in
Clark v. Mooster, 119 U. S. 322, and Beedle v. Bennett, 122
U. S. 71.
2. The patent is designated an " Improvement in Bookbinder's
Dry-press and Sheet-tie." That is, a new press and process for
removing type indentations from printed papers or sheets, the
latter when folded being designated technically as "signatures."
The type indentations are made in printing, the type displacing somewhat the fiber of the paper, and the removal of the
indentations is technically known in the art as "dry pressing,"
and the device by which it is done is called a "dry press."
Such a press the patent is intended to cover, and also a particular process for dry pressing. As a process the validity of the
patent is questioned, as a new machine its invention is controverted. An inquiry into the prior art becomes therefore important, and a witness, describing it and its imperfections,
testified as follows:
"Previous to the invention of M r. Jones as described in said
patent, it was the custom to press printed sheets by inserting
them between heavy paper boards, sometimes called ' fullerboards,' but generally now called 'glazed boards,' and putting
said boards with the printed papers between them into a powerful press, by which pressure was produced on said boards by
various means, sometimes by means of screw pressure, sometimes by hydraulic pressure. After the pressure was produced
on the paper it was continued by allowing the press to remain
with its pressure on to its fullest extent for ten or twelve hours
or more, say from one 'night to the next morning, when the
pressure was removed, the papers and boards taken from the
press and separated by removing the boards from the pile of

BUSCH v. JOEg.
Opinion of the Court.

combined boards and paper, and putting the boards on one side
on one pile and making another pile of the printed papers. This
was necessarily comparatively a slow process, inasmuch as with
one press only as much printed paper as the press would hold
when put between the boards could be pressed in about ten or
twelve hours, so that where much work had to be done a number of such presses were necessary. It was also costly as to
labor, because the sheets had to be placed between the boards
and removed therefrom afterwards, which took much time, especially where, as in the case of fine work, only one sheet was
placed between two boards; and when this was done comparatively few sheets could be pressed at once because the boards
took up much more room than the paper did, they being quite
thick."
It was to meet this condition that the Jones patent was conceived, and its object is stated to be first to "furnish a bulkcompressor device, to be used to prepare the matter properly
before it is inserted in the dry-press proper, thus saving time or
repeated travel by the latter, before the operation of tying;
second, to furnish a dry-press proper in which the compressing
parts or heads-that is, the base and plunger-are constructed
dividedly, or with ways through them, to afford access through
them, to readily insert and manipulate the twine, and to tie the
held compressed, thu* securing the
bundles of paperbywhile
a powerful tie, which, when they are rebundle together
moved from the press, retains its force ad libitum ; third, a
press-frame, having sides peculiarly set and arranged, and provided with longitudinal slots therein corresponding with the
ways in the press-heads, above referred to, and for the same
purpose, as well as to rightly lodge and center the paper with
relation to the middle of the press-heads; fourth, certain ledges
in the said press-frame and guides on the plunger thereof, to
properly center different-sized sheets in press to secure the tie
at the middle of the bundles both ways; fifth, a new process
for treating printed and folded sheets of paper in dry-pressing,
consisting of subjecting a collection of such sheets to pressure
without the use of fuller-boards, and while under such pressure
tying them into compact bundles, with end boards thereon;

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

then removing them immediately from the press, and allowing
them to remain tied sufficiently long to fix and complete the
dry-pressing."
The press is described in the patent with particularity, and
illustrated by drawings. It may be said, generally, that it is a
press in which bundles of signatures (sheets) are placed, at the
end of which bundles rigid boards are attached to distribute
the pressure which is exerted by the press. The press moves in
a "trough formed" bed so mounted as to incline laterally "so
that the folded paper may securely lodge and carry therein
while being operated on." Rectangular blocks are rigidly secured at both ends of the bed. The lower block is the base of
what is called in the specifications "a divided head," constructed
with "openings or ways." Opposing this there is a "plunger
or follower," to which there is also attached a "divided head"
having "openings and ways" between the parts of the head.
The "openings and ways" are to enable the operator to pass
his hand between the parts of the press and tie the bundles.
The operation of the press is as follows: A bundle of signatures (sheets) with rigid boards at its ends is placed in the
press, pressure is exerted by means of a screw (other means
may be used) which passes through the upper block and operates on the plunger or follower and the "divided head" attached to it, and as the bundle rests on the lower block and its
"divided head," it is evident that the pressure on the sheets
will be in proportion to the power applied. While under pressure in the press the bundles are tied, access to them being had
through the openings in the "divided head." The bundle is
then removed from the press and allowed "to remain tied sufficiently long to fix and complete the dry pressing."
The advantage of the new method is that it is not so dilatory
as the old and is more economical. In the old method the sheets,
coming damp from the printing press, had to be dried before
dry-pressing, and bad also to be subjected to pressure in the press
a number of hours to effect the smoothing (dry pressing) of the
sheets. The quantity of the work, therefore, was limited by
the number of presses. In other words, as expressed by one of
the witnesses, "where much work had to be done a number of

BUSCH v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

such presses were necessary." And it was further testified that
"it (the old method) was also costly as to labor, because the
sheets had to be placed between the boards (fuller boards) and
removed therefrom afterwards, which took much time, especially
where, as in the case of fine work, only one sheet was placed
between two boards, and when this was done comparatively few
sheets could be pressed at once, because the boards took up much
more room than the paper did, they being quite thick." In the
new method there is no such limitations as to time, nor does it
require the same expenditure of money. In the new method
the initial pressure is applied in the press-the subsequent pressure necessary to remove the type indentations is continued in
the tied up bundle. The operation, therefore, is comparatively
rapid. "Putting the paper in the bundle," a witness testified,
"tieing it up in a bundle and removing it therefrom," takes a
few minutes. And the longer the sheets remain in the bundles
the better the effect. Some time is necessary. Another advantage is claimed. It was testified that in the Jones method
the sheets when folded have the convex impression of one half
of the sheet brought in contact with the convex side of the
other half of the sheet or of the sheet next to it, "and these
convex impressions coming in contact with each other tend,
when under pressure, to efface each other."
There is, however, no revelation in the specifications of the patent of the operation of opposing " convex impressions," nor a
word to indicate that Jones was conscious of the advantage of
that assistance to the pressure upon the sheets. The discovery
seems to have been made by one of the witnesses, and also seems
to have been disclaimed by Jones in the following question and
answer:
"X-Q. 56. Throughout the testimony a good deal has been
said about the advantages derived from your supposed invention
from the fact of the type indentations being concaved or convexed, whatever that may mean. Is there anything saidin the
patent about that?
A. No; neither do I claim that they are produced by my
"1
process."
There is a dispute as to the character of the patent. Appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

lees contend that it is "a-process of 'dry pressing' or removing
type indentationsfromprinted sheets" (claim 5 of the patent).
Second. "A press of peculiar construction and adapted to the
convenient carmying of thisprocess into 6fect. The novel features
of which press are covered by claims one to four inclusive." The
appellees contend that the patent is for a machine (claims 1 to 4)
and also for a process (claim 5). And it is asserted the latter
claim is but an operation or function of the machine. It is
further contended that the machine and process were anticipated.
In discussing these contentions, it is not necessary to minutely
observe the distinctions made and disputed by counsel. Even
if the patent is primarily for a novel process, there is a claim
for a novel press, and, by the consideration of the latter, we
think, the validity of the former will be determined.
Was, then, the press anticipated, including broadly in the
term the inquiry whether the press exhibited invention, in view
of the prior state of the art? Anticipation is a question of fact,
and the burden of establishing it is on the appellant. The patent bears a presumption of novelty and invention, and the lower
courts, passing on the evidence, found against appellant's contention. Such united judgment this court accepts unless there
is a clear showing to the contrary. Brainard et al. v. Buck
et al., ante, p. 99. That showing appellant claims the record
establishes, and even urges that presses of various kinds had become so familiar, before the Jones patent, that judicial knowledge can be invoked for them. Hay presses, cotton presses,
tobacco, wool and other presses are instanced, all of which, it
is said, were used for applying pressure to masses of matter to
compact them into bundles, and in all of which the pressure
was retained by strings, ropes or bands of some kind. But
wherein those presses differed one from the other and received
special characterization and utility would be a matter of proof,
not of assumption, and wherein the Jones patent differs from
either of them and has derived its special applicability is certainly not so clear that it is demonstrated against the judgment
of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals of the District.
Nor are we nearer that demonstration by the specific patents,

BUSCH v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

put in evidence by appellant. There is generic sameness we
concede, but there are differences, and the Patent Office and
both lower courts found novelty and invention in those differences.
The appellant introduced in evidence a patent issued to D.
Kellogg, October 12, 1852, for a wool press; one to W. R.
Dingham, October 20, 1863, for improvement in paper presses;
one to S. Cooley, October 16, 1866, for a wool press; to Thomas
Stibbs, September 19, 1871, for pressing yarn; to W. P. Craig,
for a baling press; to Thomas G. Hardesty, for tobacco press;
to G. B. Archer, for baling manure and other substances; to 0.
Brown, for baling short cut hay, and another for baling short
cut straw; and a patent for a signature press to R. A. Hart.
There was also testimony of the existence of a press used in
the bookbindery of one John Palmer, in Philadelphia. The
press was used in a later stage of bookbinding than "dry pressing," for the purpose of tying printed sheets into bundles for
storing. It was an upright press with opposing platens or heads
in which there were grooves to receive the cords by which the
bundle was tied while under pressure.
There is a certain resemblance between all of the devices.
They are all instruments for exerting pressure upon substances
placed between compressing heads or followers to compact such
substances into bundles and afford facilities for tying the bundles
while they are under pressure. The Dingham patent, the one
most relied on by appellant, may be selected for illustration.
Presses,"
The Dingham device is an "Improvement in Paper
useful
and
and the inventor claimed to have "invented a new
machine for combining and facilitating the operation of pressing and tying paper into reams or bundles," which he called
"the combination paper press and tie engine."
There were defects in the art of pressing and tying paper
very similar to the defects in the art of. dry pressing "signatures," and Dingham described the former as follows:
"The process of pressing and tying paper now generally
employed requires a large and somewhat expensive press, which
is located in some corner of the finishing room, and as the
paper comes from the machine it is carried to the finishing

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

table, there counted and folded, and when sufficient is obtained
to fill the press (usually about one hundred reams) it is conveyed to the press and placed therein, and, by means of a large
screw and follower, pressed for about twelve hours, or during
the night. It is then removed and conveyed to the tie-table
and there tied into reams. After this (it being, when it comes
from the machine, usually double-crown, or double the length
of the ordinary ream of wrapping paper) it is cut into two
reams or single crown. The usual mode of tying paper is by
passing a strong cord or twine around the ream, with a noose
or loop at the end, through which the other end is passed, and
then drawn upon with the hand until the loose ream or bundle
is sufficiently compressed.
This operation is laborious and
tedious, occupying much time, requires strong twine, and unavoidably draws the ream away or the paper out of place."
This language is quite similar to that used by Jones and his
witnesses to describe the defects which existed in the bookbinder's art, and the presses of the inventors also have similarity. In both sheets of paper are pressed by being placed between "compressing heads," which "are constructed dividedly,"
to use the words of the Jones patent, "separate and sufficiently
disconnected (to use the language of the Dingham patent) to
allow the string or cord for tying the paper to pass between."
Each machine, therefore, comprises a compress and tie-table.
In each there is the same rapidity of operation, the same economy of time and means, and in each the pressure first applied
by the machine is retained by cords and continued in the bundle. And it is manifest that this retained and continued pressure, which has for its purpose in the Jones patent to remove
type indentations from the sheets, and in the Dingham patent
to retain the sheets in the bundle, adds nothing to the operation of the press of the former and detracts nothing from the
operation of the press of the latter. But notwithstanding these
resemblances we may ascribe invention to the Jones patent if
it be confined to the press proper. In other words, the press
may be regarded as a form, adapted to the bookbinder's art,
and although preceded by the Dingham patent in a general
way, may be considered as an invention of that form.

BUSCH v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

The fifth claim of the Jones patent-the claim for the process-must be viewed from a different standpoint. The first
four claims of the patent, as we have said, describe the elements,
"In a printer's and bookbinder's dry press and sheet tie." The
fifth claim is as follows:
"5. The process herein described for treating folded printed
sheets of paper in dry pressing, the same consisting of subjecting a collection of such sheets to pressure without the use of
fuller-boards, and while under such pressure tying them into a
compact bundle with end boards, then removing them immediately from the press, and allowing them to remain tied sufficiently long to fix and complete dry pressing."
The dependence, therefore, is not, as counsel for appellees
contends, the press upon the process. It is the other way, the
process upon the press; for it is impossible to consider the fifth
claim as describing anything but the operation and effect of the
press. Indeed, the process is the whole value, the sole purpose
of the press. What, indeed, is the process-what is the force
at work? And the inquiry is entirely independent of questions
as to what onstitutes a patentable process discussed by this
court in Risdon locomotive Works v. fedart, 158 U. S. 68, and
in Westinghouse v. Baden Power Brake Co., 170 U. S. 537.
What, then, is the force at work and how is it applied? It is
force (pressure) applied to sheets of paper placed between "compressing heads." In other words, a special application of pressure begun in the press and continued in the bundle by means
of strings and cords. This, however, is the operation and effect
6f the machine, and it is none the less so because the pressure
is held indefinitely. Its existence in the bundle is not independent of the press. The pressure is as much an effect in the bundle as when first applied. The pressure is applied by the press
and so, substantially, are the bands or cords which continue
the pressure, and we cannot assent to the view that the continuation of the pressure in the bundles with the consequence of
removing type indentations in the printed sheets is anything
but the natural and direct effect of the machine.
Infringement was put in issue by the pleadings and passed on
by the lower courts. They found as a fact that all the claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

of the patent had been infringed by appellant. The finding
is not absolutely disputed. The assignment of error is "that
the patented machine used by defendant, in view of the state
of the art preceding Jones' invention, did not infringe any
claims of the patent in suit." That is, appellant contends that
the evidence exhibits a complete anticipation, or so limits and
narrows the Jones invention as to make the differences between the Jones press and that which was used by appellant
more than formal. We have decided. that the Jones press had
not been anticipated, and both of the lower courts have found
that the differences between it and appellant's press were not
substantial. The evidence sustains the finding. The witnesses
on behalf of appellees testified to the differences between the
presses. They pointed out the essential resemblances of the
presses and the merely formal character of the differences.
There was no opposing testimony.
The accounting in the lower court, however, was had upon
the basis of the validity of the process, (claim 5,) and therefore
Thiejudgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed and the
cause remanded, with directions to that court to reverse the
judgment and decree of the Supreme Court and remand
the cause to the latter court for further _proceedings, in accordance with this opinion, and it is so ordered.

PATTON v. BRADY, EXECUTRIX.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 1. Argued December 6, 1901.-Decided .March 17, 1902.

A case arises under the Constitution of the United States, when the right
of either party depends on the validity of an act of Congress, which is
the fact in this case.
In this case the cause of action survived the death of the defendant, and
was rightfully revived in the name of his executrix.

