INDEX
OF TBN

PRINCIPAL

MATTERS.

ADMIISTRATOR.
1. Where an, administrator sells propeity which had been conveyed to him for
the purpose of securing a debt due to his intestate's estate, his failure to
account for the proceeds amiounts to a devastavit, and renders himself and
his sureties upon? his administration bond liable; but it does not entitle
the heirs to claim the property from a purchaser in good faith for a valuable consideration. Long et al. v. O'Falloih 116,
2. Nor can the heirs, in such a case, claim laid which has been taken up by
the administrator as vacant land, and for which he obtained a patent
from the United States, although such land was included in the conveyance to him. Ibid.
3. Moreover, the facts necessary to sustain the plea of the statute of limitations
"areproved on the part of the defendant in this case, and no charge in the
bill discloses a case of exception from its operation. lt.
ADMIRALTY.
1. The master of a vessel has power to create a lien upon it for repairs and
supplies obtained in a foreign port in a case of necessity; and he does so
without a bottomry bond, when he obtains them, in a case of necessity,
on the credit of the vessel. Thoms d al. v. Osborn, 22.
2. It is not material whether the implied hypothecation is made directly to the
furnishers of repairs and supplies, or to one who lends money, on the
credit of the vessel, in a case of necessity, to pay such furnishers. 1b.
3. This power of the master extends to a case where he is charterer and special
ownerpro hac vie. 'W.

4. But this authority only exists in cases of necessity, and it is the duty of the

lender to see that a case of apparent necessity for a loan exists. bid.
5. Hence, where the master had received freight money, and, with the assistance of the libellants, invested it in a series of adventures as a merchant,
partly carried on by means of the vessel, the command of which he had
deserted for-the purpose of conducting these adventures, and money was
advanced by the libellants'to enable the master to repair and supply the
vessel, and purchase a cargo to be transported and sold in the course of
such private adventures; and the freight money earned by the vessel was
sufficient to pay for the repairs and supplies, and might have been commanded for that use if it had not been wrongfully diverted from it by
the -master,with the assistance of the libellants, it was held that the latter
had no lien on the vessel for their advances. 1W.
6. Where a fiat-boat, whidh was fastened to the bank of the Mississippi river at
night, was run down and sunk by a steamer, the circumstances show that
the steamer was in fault, and must be responsible for the loss. Tra v.
•Co~an etal.,
56.
7. It was not necessary for the fiat-boat, in the position which it occupied, to
show a light during the night Mbid.
8. When a boat or vessel of any kind is fastened for the night at a landing
place to which other boats hay have occasion to make a landing in the

INDEX.

686

ADMIRALTY, (Continued.)
hight, it is certainly prudent for her position to be designated by a light,
on her own account, as well as that the vessel making a landing may
have light to do so. But when a vessel is tied to the bank of a river,
not in a port or harbor, or at a place of landing, out of the line of customary navigation, there is no occasion for her to show a light, nor has
it ever been required that she should do so. Jbid.
9. Maritime liens are striti Juris, and will not be extended by construction.
Vandewater v. Adls, Claimast of the Steamshi.p Yankee .Bla 82.
10. Contracts for the future employment of a vessel.do not, by the maritime
law, hypothecate the vessel. Ibid.
11. The obligation between ship and cargo is mutual and- reciprocal,
and does
-'
not take place till the cargo is on board. 1d.
12. -Ahagreement between owners of vessels to form a line for-carrying passengers and freight between New York and San Francisco, is but a contract
for a limited partnership, and the remedy for a breach of it is in the common-law courts. Ibid.
13. Where a libel for information, praying the condemnation of a vessel for
violating the passenger law of the United States, states the offence in the
words of the statute,-it is sufficient. United States v. Briq Neurea, 92.
14. Where a steamer ran down aid sunk a schooner which was at anchor in a
dark and rainy night, the schooner was to blame for having no light,
'which, at the time of collision, had been temporarily removed for the purpose of being cleansed. .ogers et al.v. Steamer St. Charles et al.,-08.
15. But, inasmuch as the schooner was in a place much frequented as a harbor
in stormy weather, and of which the steamer was chargeable with knowledge, it was the duty of the steamer to slacken her speed on such a night,
if not to have avoided tie place altogether, which could easily have been
done. Ibid.
16. The fact that the steamer carried the United States mail, is-no excuse for
her proceeding at such a rapid rate. Ibid.
17. The case must therefore be remanded to the Circuit Court, to apportion the
loss. Ibid.
18. Where-the decree was for a less sum than two thousand dollars, the appeal
must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Ibid.
19. It cannot be doubted that a master has power to sell both vessel and cargo,
in certain cases of absolute necessity. Post et al.v. Jones et al., 150.
20. But this rule had no application to a wreck where the property is deserted,
or about to become so, and the person who has it in his power to save
the crew, and salve the cargo, prefers to drive a bargain with the master,
- and where the necessity is imperative, because it ig the price of safety.

Ibid.

21. No valid reason'can be assigned for' fixing the reward for salving derelict
property at "not more than a half or less than b tliird of the properly
saved." The true principle'in all eases is, adequate reward according to
the circumstances of the case. Ibid
22. Where the property salved was transported by the salvors from Behring's
Straits to thE Sandwich Islands, and thence to New York, the salvage
service was complete when the property was brought to a port of safety.
The court allowed the salvors the one-half for this service, and also frieght
on the other moiety from the Sandwich Islands to New York. Ibid.
23. To be seaworthy -As respects cargo, the hull of a *vessel must be so tight,
-stanch, and strong, as to resist the ordinary action- of the sea during. the
voyage, without damage or loss of cargo. Dupont de Nernours t Co..v.
Vance e al., 162.
24. A jettison, rendered ncessary by 0 peril of the sea, is a-loss by such peril
within the meaning of the exception contained in bills of lading-ahter,
if unseaworthiness of the vessel caused or contributed to the necessity for
the jettison.. Ibid.
25. The owner of cargo jettisoned has a maritime lien on the vessel for the
contributory share due from the vessel on an.adjtostment of the general
avei-age, -which lien may be enforced 'by a proceeding in rem in the admiialty. Ibid.

INDEX
ADI ATY, (Continued.)
26. Where the libel alleged a shipment of cargo under a bill of lading, and its
non-delivery, and prayed process against the vessel, and the answer set
up a jettison rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, and this defensive
allegation was sustained by the court, it was held that the libellant was
entitled to a decree for the contributory share of general average due
from the vessel. Ibid.
27. There are no technical rules of variance or departure in pleading in the ad' miralty.

Ibid.

28. Where a mortgage existed upon the moiety of a vessel which was afterwards'
libelled, condemned, and sold by process in admiralty, and the proceeds
brought into the registry of the court, the mortgagee could not file a libel
against a moiety of those ploceeds. Schuchardt et al. v. Shhp AngdeiuM 239.
29. His proper course would have been, either to have appeared as a claimantwhen the first libel was filed, or to have applied to the court, by petition,
for a distributive share of the proceeds. Ibid.
-30. Neither rain, nor the darkiiess of the night, nor the absence of a light from a
barge or sailing vessel, nor the fact that the steamer was well manned
and furnished, and conducted with caution, will excuse a steamer for
coming in collision with a barge or sailing vessel, where the barge or
sailing -fessel is at anchor or sailing in a thoroughfare, but out of the
usual track of the steam vesseL New York and Virginia Steamship Comoany v. Calderdood et al., 241.
31. Therefore, Nihere a collision took place between a steamer and a sailing
vessel, the latter being out of the ship channel, and near an edge of
shoals, the steamer must be responsible. Ibid.
32. The sailing vessel had no pilot, and'did not exhibit an efficient light. Although these circumstances did not exonerate the steamer, yet they make
it necessary for this court to say that an obligation rests upon all vessels
found in the avenues of commerce, to employ active diligence to avoid
collisions, and that no inference can be drawn from the fact, that a vessel
is not condemned for an omission of certain pr~eautionary measures in
one case, that another vessel will be excused, under other circumstances,
for omissions of the same description. Ibid.
33. In'urder to 'create a maritime lien for supplies furnished to a vessel, there
must be a necessity for the supplies themselves, and also that they could
bie obtained only by a credit upon the vessel. Pratt et al. v. Reed, 359.
34. Hence, where a running account for coal was kept with a vessel trading upon
the lakes, the master of which was also the owner, it does not appear
that the coal could be procured only by creating a lien upon the vessel.
b

.

35. In a contest, therefore, between a libellant for supplies and mortgagees of
the vessel, the latter are entitled to the proceeds of sale of the boat. •Ibid.
36. This is under the general admiralty law. No opinion is expressed as to the
effect of the local laws of the-States. !bid.
37. The decision in the preceding case of -Pratt, &c., claimants, v. Reed, again
affirmed. Tod et al. v. Steamboat Sultana, 362.
AGENTS.
1. Where a sale was made of merchandise, and two parties, viz: Roots & Coe
as one party, and Henry Lewis as the other party, both claimed to be the
vendors, and to be entitled to the purchase-money, it was proper, under
the circumstances which existed in the previous relations of these parties
towards each other, for the court to instruct the jury as follows, viz:
"1. If they shall find that the merchandise had been made subject to the
order of Roots & Coe; that it was sold by them in their own nam e;
that at .the time of sale it belonged -to them, or that they had an
interest in it for advances' and commissions, and an authority as agents
to dispose of it; and that it was delivered to and received by the vendee
in pursuance of such sale, then Roots & Coe were entitled to the purchase-money!.
"2. That although the jury-may find from the evidence that the merchandise was sold to the purchasers by Henry Lewis, yet if they also find
that it belonged to Roots & Coe, or to the persons for whom they acted

'688

INIXE;X-

AGENTS, (Continued.)
as agents, and if the latter, that Roots & Coe had an interest in and
control over the merchandise to cover advances and commissions; that
the purchasers subsequently promised to pay Roots & Coe the purchase-money, and that the suit was instituted before the, price had
been paid to Henry Lewis;then Roots & Coe were entitled to the purchase-money." McCullough ef al. v. .Roots d al., 349.
2. The existence of warehouse receipts, given by another person, was not a
sufficient reason to justify the purchasers in refusing to pay for the pioperty which they had purchased, and in the possession of which they had
hot been disturbed. Ibid.
S. Under the' circumstances of the case, Roots & Coe had a right to consider
Henry Lewis as -their agent, and to adopt his acts. The purchaser had
no right to allege that Henry Lewis was a tort feasor. -Ibid.
4. Roots & Coe, having made the contracts, and having an interest to the extent of their commissions, had a right to maintain the.suit. Ibid.
,APPEAL.
1. Where an appeal-is taken to' ths court, the transcript of the record must
be filed and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the appeaL
Steamer irginiav. Wet d al., 182.
2. Although the case must be dismissed if the transcript is not filed in time, yet
the. appellat can prosecute another appeal at any time within five years
from the date of the decree, provided the transcript is filed here and the
case docketed at the term next succeeding the date of such second appeal
Ibid.
3. Where-the judgment of the Circuit Court, in an action of ejectment, was
against the defendant, in 7$hich nominal damages only were awarded,
who sued out a writ of errdr in order to bring the case before this court,
this court cannot grant a motion to enlarge the secirity in the appeal
bond, for the purpose of covering apprehended damages, which the plaintiff below thinks he may sustain by baing kept out of his land. Roberts
V. Cooper, 373.
ATTORNEY-AT LAW.
1. By the rules and practice of commonlaw courts, it rests excluaively with
the court t6 detefraine who is qualified to become or continue one of its
officers, as an attorney and counsellor of the court; the power being regulated, however, by a sound and just judicial discretion-guarding the
rights and independence otthe bar as well as the dignity and authority
of the court.
z ParteSecombe, 9.
2, Tbe local law of the Territory of Minnesota has regulated the relation between courts and attorneys and counsellors, but has nut essentially
changed the common-law principle . Ibid.
3. The Minnesota statute authorizes the court to dismiss an attorney or counsellor if he does not maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officers, or for not conducting himself with fidelity to the court. Ibid.
4. The Supreme Court of the Territory dismissed the relator from the office of
counsellor and attorney of the court, stating in the sentence of dismissal
that he was guilty of the offences above mentioned, but not specifying
the act or acts which, in the opiion of the court, constituted the offence.
Ibid.
.5. The order of dismissal is a judicial act done in the exercise of a judicial
discretion vested in the court by law; and a mandamus cannot be issued
by a superior or appellate court, commanding it to reverse its decision,
aid"restore the 'relator to the. office he has lost. Ibid.
6. 'Where a fund is brought into court upon proceedings under a bill to -foreclose a mortgage, it is altogether irregular for the court to order an
- investigation i~to the general a~6ounts between the 'attorney and his
client during past years, dnd to order that the attdrney shall be paid,
out of the -fund in court, the balance which the master may report to be
due. The persons interested in thls.decree were not properly before the
court as parties. Wofet al. v. Lewis; 280.
. The competent parties to agree that a case shall- be settled, and the writ of
error dismissed, are usually the parties upon the. record. If either of

INDEX.

639

ATTORNEY AT LAW, (Continued.
them has assigned his interest, and it be made known to the court, the
interest of such assignee'would be protected. Platt v. Terome, 384..
8. But where there was a judgment for costs in the court below, and the attorney claimed to have a lien upon such judgment for his fees, it is not a
sufficient reason for this court to prevent the parties from agreeing to dismiss the case. Ibid.
BONDS.
uMied States
1. A deid speaks from the time of its delivery, not from its date.
v. Le .Baron, 73.
2. The bond of a deputy postmaster takes effect and speaks from the time that
it reaches the Postmaster General and s accepted by him, and not from
the day of its date, or from the time when it is deposited in the post
office to be sent forward. Ibid.
3. The difference explained between a bond of this description and a -bond
given by a collector of the customs. Ibid.
4. The nomination to an office by the President, confirniatioii by the Senate,
signature of the commission, and affixing to it the seal of the United
States, are all the acts necessary to render the appointment complete.
Ibid.
5. Hence, the appointment is not rendered invalid by the subsequent death of
the President before the transmission of the commission to the appointee,
even where it is nicessary that the person appointed should perform certain acts before he can legally enter upon the duties of the office. Ibid.
CALIFORNIA.
1. When a grant orpatent for land, or legislative confirmation of titles to lane,
has been given by the sovereignty or legislative authority only having the
right to make it, without any provision having been made, in the patent
or by the law, to inquire into its fairness between the grantor and grantee,
or between third larties and the grantee, a third party cannot raise, in
ejectment, the question of fraud as between the grantor and grantee.
Rdd v. Seabury et al., 323.
2. A bill in equity lies to set aside letters patent obtained by fraud, but only
between the sovereignty making the grant and the grantee. Ibid.
3. Such a patent or grant cannot be collaterally avoided atlaw fop fraud. Ibid.
4. The act of March 26, 1851, (California Laws, 764,) makes a grant of all lands
of the kind within the limits mentioned in it which had been sold or
granted by any alcalde of the city of San Francisco, and confirmed by the
ayuntamiento or town or city council thereof, and also registered or recorded in some book of record which was at the date of the act in the
office 3r custody or control of the recorder of the county of San Francisco,
on or before the third day of April, one thousand eight hundred and fifty.
Ib id.
5. The registry.of an alcalde grant, in the manner and within the time mentioned in the act,-is essential.to its confirmation underthe act In that
particular, the grant under which the plaintiff in this suit claimed, is deficient. The defendants brought themselves by their documentary evidence
within the confirming act of March 26, 1852. Ibid.
6. Where a claimant of land in California produced documentary qvidence
in his favor, copied from the archives in the office of the surveyor general and other original grants by Spanish officers, the presumption is in
favor of the power of those officers to make the grants. United Statm v.
.Peraltaet al., 343.
7. If the power be denied, the burden of proof is upon the party who denies it.
Ibid.
8. The history of California, with respect to the power of its Governors to
grant land, examined. Ibid.
9. Theboundaries of the tract of land, as decreed by the District Court, affirmed.
10. That the Spanish grants of land in California were large,is no reason why
this court should refuse to confirm them. United State8 v. Sutherland et
al., 363.
11. A grant of a tract of land known by the name of El Cahon, lying near the

CALIFORNIA, (Continued.)
mission of San Diego, and being that which the map attached to the
official papers expresses, which map is of such a character that a surveyor
could lay off the land, is good, and must be confirmed.
Wbid.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION.
1. Where a question was certified from the Circuit Court to this court, Tiz:
whether a certain letter, written by the cashier of a bank without the
knowledge of the directory, though copied at the time of its date in the
letter-book of the bank, was a legal and valid act of authority; and the
record afforded no evidence relevant to the acts and authority of the
cashier, or to the practice of the bank in ratifying or rejecting similar
acts, this court cannot answer the question, and the case must be remanded to the Circuit Court, to be tried in the usual manner. UnitedStates v.
City Bank of Columbus, 385.
CERTIQRARI.
1. Where there appears to be an omission in the record of an important paper,
which may be necessary for a correct decision of the case oflthe defendant
in error, who has no counsel in court, the court will, of its own motion,
order the case to be continued and a certiorari to be.issued to bring up
the missing paper. Morgan v. Curtenius et aZ.3 8.
CHANCERY.
1. In the present case, where a bill was filed to set aside titles for frauds
alleged to have been committed in 1767, the bill does not make out a
sufficient case; and the evidence does not even sustain the facts alleged.
And the disability to sue, arising from coverture, 'is not satisfactorily
proved. Moore v. Greene et al., 69.
2. In case of alleged fraud, it is true that the statute of limitations does not
begin to run until the fraud is discovered. But then the bill must be
specific in stating the facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud;
and in the present case, this is not done. Ibid.
3. Where property was sold under an administrator's sale, the presumption is
in favor of its correctness; and after a long possession under it, the burden of proof is upon the party who impeaches the sale. ibid.
4. According to the practice prescribed for the Circuit Courts, by this court, in
equity causes, a bill cannot be dismissed, on motion .of the respondents,
for want of equity. after answer and before the hearing. Betts v. Lewis
and Wife, 72.
5. Where an administrator sells property which had been conveyed to him for
the purpose of securing a debt due to his intestate's estate, his failure to
account for the proceeds amounts to a devastaviti and renders himself and
his sureties upon his administration bond liable; but it does not entitle
the heirs to claim the property from a purchaser in good.faith for a valuable consideration. Long et al. v. O'.Fallon, 116.
6. Nor han the heirs, in such a case, claim land which has been taken up by
the administrator as vacant laud, and for which he obtained a patent
from the United, States, although such land was included in the conveyance to him. Ibid.
7. Moreover, the facts necessary to sustain the plea of the statute of limitations
are proved on the part of the defendant in this case, and no charge in the
bill discloses a case of exception from its operation. 2bid.
8. The Harmony Society was established upon the basis of a community of
property, and one of the articles of association provided, that if any
member withdrew from it, he should not claim a share in the property,
but should only receive, as a donation, such sum as the society chose to
give. Baker et al, v. Nachtrieb, 126.
9. One of the members withdrew, and received the sum of two hundred dollars,
as a donation, for which he gave a receipt, and acknowledged that he had
withdrawn from the society, and ceased to be a member thereof. Ibid.
10. A bill was then filed by him, claiming a share of the property, upon the
ground that he had been unjustly excluded from the society by combination and covin, and evidence offered to show that he had been compelled to leave the society by violence'and harsh treatment. Ibid.
11. The evidence upon this subject related to a time antecedent to the date of

-INDEX.
OHAMOERY, (Continued.)
12.
13.

14.

15.
16.
17.

18.

19.
20.
21.

22.

23.

24.

25.
26.

the receipt. There was no charge in the bill impeaching the receipt, or"
the settlement made at its date. 1bid
Held, that nuder the contract, the settlement, was conclusive, unless Impeached by the bill. Ibid.
A court of equity will not entertain a bill, where the complainan seek to
enforce a merely legal title to land; and in the present csae, in the
absence of allegations that the plaintiffs are seeking a partition, or a discovery, or an account, or to avoid a multiplicity of suitsthe bill cannot
be maintained. .ipp atal. v. Babin at al., 271.
Where a fund is brought into court upon proceedings under a bill to fore..
close a mortgage, it is altogether irregular for the court to order &Ai
investigation into the general accounts between the 'attorney and his
client during past years, and to order' that the attorney shall be paid,
out of the fund in court, the balance which the master may report to be
due. The persons interested in this decree were not properly before the
cl . Lewi, 280.
court as parties. Wolfeta
The appellate jurisdiction of this court only includes cases where the j udg.
ment or decree of the Circuit Court is final. Beebe e al. v. Reus8e, 283.
In chancery, a decree is interlocutory whenever an inquiry as to matter of
law or fact is directed, preparatory to a final decision. Ii&.
But when a decree finally decides and disposes of the whole merits of the
cause, and reserves no further questions or directions for the future judgment of the court, so that it will not be necessary to bring the cause
again before the court for its final decision, it is a final decree. -.Ibid.
Therefore, where a case was referred to a master, to take an account of rents
and profits, &c., upon evidende, and from an examination of the partie's,
and to make or not. to make allowances affecting the rights of the parties,
and to report his results to the court, this wis not a final decree. ibid
The preceding cases upon this subject, examined. Tid. .
The rule with respect to -final and interlocutory decrees, which is .applied to
the preceding case of Beebe et al. v. Russell, again affirmed and applied.
Farrdly et al. v- Woodfolk, 288.
Where money was borrowed from a bank upon a proiissory note, signed by
the principal and two sureties, and the principal debtor, byway of counter
security, conveyed certain property to a trustee, for the purpose ofindemnifying his sureties, it was necessary to make the trustee and the cestui
que trust parties to a bill rled by the bank, asserting a special Hen upon
the property thus conveyed. AfrRea et al. v. Branch Bank of Alabama, 376.
But where the principal debtor had made a fraudulent conveyance of the
property, which had continued in his possession, after the execution of
the first deed, and then died, a bill was good, which was filed by the bank
against the administrators, for the purpose of setting aside the fraudulent
conveyance, and bringing the property into the assets of the deceased,
for the benefit of all creditors who might apply. Ibil.
In the present case, where a bill was filed to set aside titles for frauds
alleged to have been committed in 1767, the bill does not make .out a
sufficient case; and the evidence does not even sustain the facts alleged.
And the disability to sue, arising from coverture, is not satisfactorily
pioved. Moore v. Greene et al., 69.
In case of alleged fraud, it is true that the statute of limitations does not
begin to run until the fraud is discovered. But then the bill must be
specific in stating the facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud;
and in the present case, this is not done. Ibid.
Where property was sold under an administrator's sale, the presumption is
in favor of its correctness; and after a long possession under it, the burden of proof is upon the party who impeaches the sale. Ibid.
Where a sale of mortgaged property in Louisiana was made under proceedings 4n insolvency, and the heirs of the insolvent filed a bill to set aside
the sale on the ground of irregularity, it was necessary to make the mortgagees parties. They had been paid theii share of the purchase money,
and had an interest in upholding the sale. Coiron at a. T. llaudon d
al., 113.

VOL. XIX.

41

642

INDEX.

CHANCERY, (Continued.)
27. The fact that such persons are beyond the jurisdiction of the court is not a
sufficient reason for omitting to make them parties. iBid.
28. Neither the act- of Coggress nor the 47th rule of this court enables the Circuit Court to make a decree in i suit in .the absence of a party whose
rights must necessarily be affected by such decree; and the objection may
be taken at any time upon the hearing or in the appellate court. Bid.
29. Parol evidence is admissible to show that a conveyance of property, absolute
upon the face of it, was really a mortgage or deed of trust. Babcock v.
WTyman, 289.
30.. In the present case, parol evidence, taken in conjunction with corroborating circumstances, shows that the deed was not intended to be absolute. Bid.
31. The statute of limitations is not appl.cable, because the possession was not
adverse. So, also, the trustee is not protected by the statutei although
he sold the land and received the proceeds six years before the bill was
filed, because it was his duty to apply those proceeds to the reduction of
the interest and prircipal of the debt due to him when the deed was
made. Ibid.
32. Where there was a judgment for costs against the plaintiff, in a suit where
the defendant pleaed a discharge in bankruptcy, and the attorney for the
defendant taxed those costs, directed the property upon which an execution should be levied for their collection, prepared the advertisements for
the sale of it, caused a sale to be made of fourteen thousand acres of land,
to produce a few dollars as costs; and then became himself the purchaser,
the sale will be decreed fraudulent and void, and ordered to be set aside.
Byem v. Surget, 303.
33. Where bills of lading for goods, shipped on board of a steamboat in the
- river Mississippi, mentioned that the carrier was not to be responsible for
accidents which happened from the "perils of the river," these words did
not include fire amongst those perils; and the carrier was responsible for
losses by fire, although the boat was consumed without any negligence or
fault of the owners, their agents, or servants. Garrionet al. v. Xemphis
insurance Company, 312.
34. The evidence of a witness was not admissible, who offered to testify that he
had not known a case where the omission of the word "fire," in the exceptions mentioned in the bill of lading, was considered to give a claim
against the boat on account of a loss by fire. Ibid.
-35. There is no ambiguity which requires to be explained, and the evidence
fails to establish a usage. Ibid.
36. An insurance company, which paid these losses, had a right to seek relief
from the owners of the boat. Ibid.
37. This relief could be sought in equity, not only upon the general principles
of equity jurisprudence, but also because, in this case, a number of shipments were joined in the same bill, and thus a multiplicity of suits was
avoided. Ibid.,
'CHILDREN AND GRANDCHILDREN.
L Under the act of Congress passed on the 2d of June, 1832, providing for the
relief of certain surviving officers of the Revolution, and its several supplements, the word children in the acts embraces the grandchildren of a
deceased pensioner, whether their parents died before or after his decease. And they are entitled, per stirpes, to a distributive share of the
deceased parent's pension. Walton elal. v. Cotton et al., 355.
CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.
See CONSTITUTIONAL L&w.
COMMERCIAL LAW.
1. The master of a vessel has power to create a lien upon it for repairs and
supplies obtained in a foreign port, in a case of necessity; and he does so
without a bottomry bond, when he obtains them, in a case of necessity,
on the credit of the vessel. Thomas et al. v. Osborn, 22.
2. It is not material whether the implied hypothecation is made directly to the
furnishers of repairs and supplies, or to one who lends money, on the
credit of the vessel, in a case of necessity, to pay such furnishers. Ibid.

INDEX.

.648

COIMMBIRIAL LAW, -(Continued.)
,3. This power of the master extends to a case where he is charterer and spcil
ownerpro Am vice. Ibid.
4. But this authority only exists in cases of neceAty; and it is the duty of the
lends- to see that a case of alpparent necessity for a loan exists. 2
"
b. Hence, where the master had received freight mon6y, and, with the assistance 6f the libellants, invested it in a series of adventures as a merchant,
.partly carried on by means of the vessel, the command of which he had
leserted for the purpose of conducting these adventures, and money was
advanced by the libellants to enable the master to repair and supply the
vessel, and purchase a cargo to be transported and sold in the course of
such private adventures; and the freight money earned by the'vesse was
sufficient to pay for the repairs and supplies, and might have been commanded for that use, if it had not been wrongfully diverted from it by the master, with the assiptance of the libellants, it was held that the .latter
had no lien on the vessel for their.advances.
id.
6. Msxitime liens are 8triatij ris, and will not be extended by construction.
Fandwaterv. .Milla, Claimant oftA e Mamshtq Ya'nkee .B .d 82.
7. Contracts for the future employment of a vessel do not, by the maritime law,
-hypothecate the vessel. Ibid.
"
8. The obligation between ship and cargo is mutual and reciprocal, and does
not take place till the cargo is on board. Ri.
9. An agreeinent between owners of vessels to from a line for carrying passengers, and freight between New York and San Francisco, is but a contract
* for a limited partnership, and the remedy for a breach of it is in the com-.
mon-law courts. rid.
10. It cannot be doubted that a master has power to sell both.vessel and cargo,
in certain cases of a.bsolute necessity. Podt e al. v. noa t Ul., 150.
11. But this rule had no application to a wreck-wher6 the property is deserted,
or about to become so, and the person who has it in his power to save
the crew, and salve the cargo, prefers to drive a bargain with the mater,
and where the necessity is imperative, because it is the prce of safety.
Ibid.'
12. No valid reason can be assigned for fixing the reward for calving derelict
property at "not more than a half or less thali a third of the property
saved." The true principle in all cases is, adequate reward according to
the cirdumstances of the case. rid,
13. Where the property salved was transported by the salvors from Behring's
Straits to the Sandwich Islands, and thence. to New York, the salvage
service was complete when the property was brought to a port of safety.
The court allowed the salvors the one-half for this service, and also
freight on the other moiety from the Sandwich Islands to New York.
Iid.
14. To be seaworthy as respects cargo, the hull of a vessel must be so tight,
stancri; and strong, as to resist the ordinary action of the sea during the
voyage, without damage or loss of cargo
.Dupontde 2Temourit Co. v.
Vrance e al., 162.
15. A jettison, rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, is a loss by such peril
within the meaning of the exception contained in bills of lading--aliter,
if unseaworthiness of the vessel caused or contributed to the necessity for
the jettison. 1W4a.
16. The owner of cargo jettisoned has a maritime lien on the vessel for the
contributory share due from the vessel on an adjustment of the general
average i which lien may be enforced by a proceeding in rem in the admiralty. Ibid.
17. Where the libel alleged a shipment of cargo under a bill of lading, and'its
n6n-delivery, and prayed process against the vessel, and the answer set
up a jettison, rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, and this defensive
allegatidn was sustained by the.court, it was held that the libeliant was
entitled to a decree for the contributory share of general average due
from the vessel. I1id.
18. There are no technical rules of variance or departure in pleading in the admiralty. Ibid.

644

INDEX.

COMMERCIAL LAW, (Continued.)
19. Where a mortgage existed upon the moiety of a vessel which was afterwards
libelled, condemned, and sold by process in admiralty, and the proceeds
brought into the registry of the coirt, the mortgagee could not-file a libel
ogainsta moiety of those proceeds. Schuchardt et al. v. i
Angelique, 239.
20. His proper course would have been, either to have appeared as a claimant
when the first libel was filed, or to have applied to the court, by petition,
for a distributive share of the proceeds. Ibid.
21. Where bills of lading for goods, shipped on board of a steamboat in the
river Mississippi, mentioned that the carrier was not to be responsible for
accqidevts which happened-from the "perils of the river," these words did
not include fire amongst those perils; and the carrier was responsible for
losses by fire, although the boat was consumed without any negligence or
fault of the owners, their agents, or servants. Garrisonet al. v. Memphis
Insurance Company, 312.
22. The evidence of a witness was-not admissible, who offered to testify that he
had n6t known a case where the omission of the word "fire," in the exceptions mentioned in the bill of lading, was considered to. give a claim
against the boat on account of a loss by fire. Ibid.
23. There is no ambiguity which requires to be explained, and the evidence
fails to establish a usage. Ibid.
24. An insurance company, which paid these losses, had a right to seek relief
from the owners of the boat. Ibid.
25. This relief could be sought in equity, not only upon the general principles
of equity jurisprudence, but also because, in this case, a number of shipments were joined in the same bill, and thus a multiplicity of suits was
avoidbd. Ibid.
26. Where application for reinsurance was made on Saturday, upon certain
terms, which were declined, and other terms demanded, and on Monday
these last-mentioned terms were accepted by the applicant, and assented
to by the president, but the policy not made out, because Monday was a
holyday, the agreement to issue the policy must be considered as legally
binding. Commercial Mutual Marine Insurance Co. v. Union Mutual Insurance Co., 318.
27. The law of Massachusetts is, that although insurance companies can make
valid policies only when attested by the signatures of the president and
secretary, yet they can make agreements to issue policies in a less formal
mode. Ibid.
28. By the common law, a promise for a valuable consideration to make a policy
is not required to be in writing, and there is no statute in Massachusetts
which is inconsistent with this doctrine. ibid.
29. Where the power of the president to make contracts for insurance is not denied in the answer, or made a point in issue in the court below, it is
sufficient to bind the company if the other party shows that such had been
the practice, and thereby an idea held out to the public that the president
had such power. Ibid.
30. It is not essential to the existence of a binding contract to make insurance,
that a premium note should have been actually signed and delivered.
Ibid.
31. Where a sale was made of merchandise, and two parties, viz: Roots & Coe
as one party, and Henry Lewis as the other party, both claimed to be the
-vendors, and to be entitled to the purchase-money, it was proper, under
the circumstances which existed in the previous relations of these parties
towards each other, for the court to instruct the jury as follows, viz:
"1. If they shall find that the merchandise had been made subject to the
order of Roots & Coe;. that it was sold by them in their own name;
'that at the time of sale it belonged to them, or that they had an
interest in it for advances and commissions, and an authority as agents
to dispose of it; and that it was delivered to and received by the vendee
in pursuance of such sale, then Roots & Coe were entitled to the purchase-money.
"2. That although the jury may find from the evidence that the merchandise was sold to ihe purchasers by Ifenry Lewis, yet if they also find

IIDEM

6

COMMRCIAL LAW, (Continued.)
that it belonged to Roots & Coe, or to the persons for -whom they acted
as agents, and if the latter, that Roots & Coe had an interest in and
control over the merchandise to cover advances and commissions; that
the purchasers subsequently promised to pay Roots & Coe the purchase-money, and that the suit was instituted before the price had
been paid to Henry.Lewis, then Roots & Coe were entitled to the purchase-money." .MCullouh e al. v. Roots e al., 349.
32. The 'existence of warehouse -receipts, given by another person, was not a
sufficierkt reason to justify the purchasers in refusing to pay for the property which they had purchased, and in.the possession of which they had
not been disturbed. -Ibid.
33. Under the circumstances of the case, Roots & Coe had a right to consider
Henry Lewis as their agent, and to adopt his acts. The purchaser had
no right to allege that Henry Lewis was a tort feasor. Ibid.
'34. Roots & Coe, having made the contracts, and having an interest to the extent of their commissions, had a right to maintain the suit.' 1W.
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.
1. The laws of Louisiana impose a tax often per cent. on the value of all property inherited in that.State by any person not domiciliated there, and not
being a citizen of any State or Territory of the United States.
revot v.
Greneaux, L'
2. In 1853, a treaty was made between the United States and France, by which
Frenchmen were placed, as regards property, upon the same footing as
citizens of the United States, in all the States of the Union whose laws
permit it. 1bid.
3. This treaty has no effect upon the succession of a person who died in 1848.
ibdL
4. The nomination to an office by the President, confirmation by the Senate,
signature of the commission, and affixing to it the seal of the United
States, are all the acts necessary to render the appointment complete.
United States v. Le.Baroni 73.
5. Hence, the appointment is not rendered invalid by the subsequent death of
the President before the transmission of the commission to the appointee,
even where it is necessary that the person appointed should perform certain acts before he can legally enter upon the duties of the office. "Ibid.
6.The rights of property and exclusive use granted to a patentee do not extend to a foreign vessel lawfully entering one of our ports; and the use
of such improvement in the construction, fitting out, or equipment, of
such vessel, while she is coming into or going out of a port of the United
State., is not an infripgement of the rights of an American patentee, provided it was placed upon her in a foreign port, and authorized by the
laws of the country to which she belongs. Brown v. Duchesne, 183.
7. A free negro of the African race, whose ai,cestors were brought to this
country and sold as slaves, is not a "Litizen" within the meaning of the
Constitution of the United States. Ded ,Sott Y. Sandford, 393.
8. When the Constitution was -adopted, they were not regarded in any of the
States as members of the. community which constituted the State, and
were not numbered among its "people or citizens." Consequently, the
special rights and immunities guarantied to citizens do not apply to them.
And not being "citizens" within the meaning of the Constitution, they
are not entitled to sue in that character in a court of the United States,
and the Circuit Court has not jurisdiction in such a iuit. Ibid.
9. The only two clauses in the Constitution which point to this race, treat them
as persons whom it was morally lawful to deal in as articles of property and to hold as slaves. Ibid.
10. Since the adoption. of the Constitution of the United States, no State can by
any subsequent law make a foreigner or any other description of persons
citizens of the United States, nor entitle them to the rights and privileges secured to citizens by that instrument. Ibid.
11. A State, by its laws passed since the adoption of the Constitution, may put
a foreigner or any other description of persons upon a footing with its own
citizens, as to all the rights and privileges enjoyed by them within its

646

INDEX.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW, (Contiuc.)
dominion and by its laws. .But that will not make him a citizen of the
United States, nor entitle him to sue in its courts, nor to any of the privileges and immunities of a citizen in another State. Ibld.
12. The change in public opinion and feeling in relation to the African race,
which has taken place since the adoption of the Constitution, cannot
change its construction and meaning, and it must be construed and administered now according to its true meaning and intention when it was
formed and adopted. .bid.
13. The plaintiff having admitted, by his demurrer to the plea in abatement,
that his ancestors were imported from Africa and sold as slaves, he is not
a citizen of the State of Missouri according to the Constitution of the
United States, and was not entitled to sue in that character in the Circuit
Court. Ibid.
14. This being the case, the judgment of the court below, in favor of the plaintiff on the plea in abatement, was erroneous. Ibid.
15. The clause in the Constitution authorizing Congress to make all needful
rules and regulations for the government of the territory and other property of the United States, applies only to territory within the chartered
limits of some one of the States when they were colonies of Great Britain,
and which was surrendered by the British Government to the old Confederation of the States, in the treaty of peace. It does not apply to ter16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.
22.

ritory acquired by the present Federal Government, by treaty or conquest,
from a foreign nation. Ibid.
The case of the American and Ocean Insuzance Companies v. Canter (1
Peters, 511) referred to and examined, showing that the decision in this
case is not in conflict with that opinion, and that the court did not in
the case referred to, decide upon the construction of the clause of the
Constitution above mentioned, because the case before them did not
make it necessary to decide the question. Ibid.
The United States, under the present Constitution, cannot acquire territory
to be held as a colony, to be governed at its will and pleasure. But it
may acquire territory which, at the time, has not a population that fits it
to become a State, and may govern it as a Territory until it has a population which, in the judgment of Congress, entities it to be admitted as a
State of the Union. Ibid.
During the time it remains a Territory, Congress may legislate over it within
the scope of its constitutional powers in relation to citizens of the United
States-and may establish a Territorial Government-and the form of
this local Government must be regulated by the discretion of Congressbut with powers not exceeding those which Congress itself, by the Constitution, is authorized to exercise over citizens of the United States, in
respect to their rights of persons or rights of property. Ibid.
The territory thus acquired, is acquired by the people of the United States
for their common and equal benefit, through their agent and trustee, the
Federal Government. Congress can exercise no power over the rights
of persons or property of a citizen in the Territory which is prohibited
by the Constitution.
The Government and the citizen, whenever the
Territory is open to settlement, both enter it with their respective rights
defined and limited by the Constitution. Ibid.
Congress have no right to prohibit the citizens of any particular State or
States from taking up their home there, while it permits citizens of other
States to do so. Nor has it a right to give privileges to one class of citizens which it refuses to another. The territory is acquired for their equal
and common benefit-and if open to any, it must be open to all upon
equal and the same terms. Ibid.
Every citizen has a right to take with him into the Territory any article of
property which the Constitution of the United States recognises as property. Ibid.
The Constitution of the United States recognises slaves as property, and
pledges the Federal Government to protect it. And Congress cannot exercise any more authority over property of that description than it may
constitutionally exercise over property of any other kind. Ibid.

INDEX.

647

CONSTITUTIONAL LAW, (Continued.)
23. The act of Congress, therefore, prohibiting a citizin of the United States
from taking with him his slaves when he removes to the Territory in
question to reside, is an exercise of authority over private property which
is not warranted by the Constitution-and the removal of the plaintiF,
by his owner, to that Territory, gave hiin no title to freedom. Ibid.
24. The plaintiff himself acquired no title to freedom by being taken, by his
owner, to Rock Island, in Illinois, and brought back to Missouri. This
court has heretofore decided that the status or condition of a person of
African descent depended on the laws of the State in which he resided.
Ibid.
25. It has been settled by the decisions of the highest court in Missouri, that,
by the laws of that State, a slave does not become entitled to his freedom, where the owner takes him to reside in a State where slavery is
not permitted, and afterwards brings him back to Missouri. Ibid.
26. Conclusion. It follows that it is apparent upon the record that the court
below erred in its judgment on the plea in abatement, and also erred in
giving judgment for the defendant, when the exception shows that the
plaintiff was not a citizen of the United States. And as the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction, either in the case stated in the plea in abatement, or
in the one stated in the exception, its judgment in favor of the defendant
is erroneous, and must be reversed. Ibid.
CONTRACTS.
1. Where a railroad company became embarrassed, and were unable to pay'the
contractor, and a person interested in the company agreed to give the
contractor his 'individual promissory notes if he would finish the work
by a certain day, the contractor cannot recover upon the notes, unless he
finishes the work within the stipulated time.
later v. Eemrson, 224. '
2. Where application for reinsurance was made on Saturday, upon certain
terms, which were declined, and other terms demanded, and on Monday
these last-mentioned terms were accepted by the applicant, and assented
to by the president, but the policy not made out, because Monday was a
holyday, the agreement to issue the policy must be considered as legally
binding. Commercial Mutual Marine Insurance Co. v. Union Mutual Insurance Co., 318.
3. The law of Massachusetts is, that although insurance companies can make
valid policies only when attested by the signatures of the president and
secretary, yet they can make agreements to issue policies in a less formal
mode. Itbid.
4. By the common law, a promise for a valuable consideration to make a policy
is not required to be in writing, and there is no statute in Massachusetts
which is inconsistent with this doctrine. Ibid..
5. Where the power of the president to make contracts for insurance is not denied in the answer, or made a point in issue in the court below, it is
sufficient to bind the company, if the other party shows that such had
been the practice, and thereby an idea held out to the public that the
president had such power. Ibid.
6. It is not essential to the existence of a binding contract to make insurance,
that a premium note should have been actually signed and delivered.
Ibid.
OSTS.
1. The competent parties to agree that a case shall be settled, and the writ of
error dismissed, are usually the parties upon the record. If either of
them has assigned his interest, and it be made known to the court, the
interest of such assignee would be protected. Platt v. eromei 384.
2. But where there was a judgment for costs in the court below, and the attorney claimed to have a lien upon such judgment for his fees, it is not a
sufficient reason for this court to prevent the parties from agreeing to dismiss the case. Ibid.
DEEDS.
1. In Missouri, where a deed was offered in evidence, purporting to convey the
titles of married women to land, and -their names were in'the handwriting of other persons, and there was no proof that the women had either

648

INDEX.

DEEDS, (Continue.)
signed or acknowledged the deed, it was properly refused by the court to
be allowed to go to the jury.
feegan v. Boyle, 130.
2. The property was paraphernal, and could not be conveyed away by their
husbands. Ibid.
3. The facts in the case were not sufficient to warrant the jury to presume the
consent of the married women. ibid.
.4. The original deed not being evidence, a certified copy was not admissible.
Ibid.
5. An old will, which had never been proved according to law, was properly
excluded as evidence. Moreover, no claim was set up under it, but, on
the contrary, the estate was treated as if the maker of it had died intestate. ibid.
6. Neither the deed nor the will come within the rule by which ancient instruments are admitted. It only includes such documents as are valid upon
their face. Ibid.
7. The statute of limitations did not begin to run until after the disability of
coverture was removed. Ibid.
8. Parol evidence is admissible to show that a conveyance of property, absolute
upon the face of it, was really a mortgage or deed of trust. Babcock v.
Wyman, 289.
9. A deed speaks from the time of its delivery, not from its date. United tatet
v..L .Baron, 73.
DUTIES-AT. THE CUSTOM-HOUSE.
1. In estimating the duty payable at the custom-house upon imported iron, it
was proper to levy it on the prices at which the iron was charged in the
irvoices; and the entry in the invoices, that the importer would be entitled to a deduction for prourpt payment, could not affect the amount of
duty chargeable. Ballard e al. T. Thomas, 382.
EVIDENCE.
1. In Missour where a deed was offered in evidence, purporting to convey the
titles of married women to land, and their names were in the handwriting of other persons, and there was no proof that the women had either
signed or acknowledged the deed, it was properly refused by the court to
be allowed to go to the jury. Meegan v. Boyle, 130.
2. The property was paraphernal, and could not be conveyed away by their
husbands. Ibid.
3. The facts in the case were not sufficient to warrant the jury to presume the
consent of the married women. ibid.
4. The original deed not being evidence, a certified copy not admissible. Ibid.
5. An old will, which had xever been proved according to law, was properly
excluded as evidence. Moreover, no claim was set up under it, but, on
the contrary, the estate was treated as if the maker of it had died intestate.

Ibid.

6. Neither the deed nor the will come within the'rule by which ancient instruments are admitted. It only includes such documents as are valid upon
their fice. Ibid.
7. The statute of limitations did not begin to run until after the disability of
goverture was removed. Ibid.
8. Evidence tending to show that the agreement between the patentee and thattorney had been produced by the fraudulent representations of the latter, in respect to transactions out of which the agreement arose, ought
not to have been received, it being ,a sealed instrument. Hartshorn v.
Day, 211.
9. In a court of law, between parties or privies, evidence of fraud is admissible
only where it goes to the question whether or not the instrument ever
had any legal existence. But it was especially proper to exclude it in
this case, where the agreement had been partly executed, and rights of
long standing had grown up under it. Ibid. •
10. In Massachusetts, a former verdict and judgment in an action on the case
for a nuisance is not conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's right to recover
in a subsequent action for the continuance of the same nuisance. Richardson v. The City of Boston, 263.

INDEX.

649

EVIDENCE, (Continued.)
11. The plea of the general issue in actions of trespass or case does not necessarily put the title in issue. Ibid.
12. Bpt the fobimer verdict, though not conclusive, is permitted to go to the jury
as prima facie or persuasive evidence. Ibid.
13. Where there is some evidence tending to establish a fact in lisue, the jury
must judge of its sufficiency. Rbi.
14. It is the duty of the court to cobstrue written documents, but the application of their provisions to external objects is the peculiar province of the
jury. Ibid.
15. Parol evidence is admissible to show that a conveyance of property, absolute
upon the face of it, was really a mortgage or deed of trust. Babcock v.
Wyman, 289.
16. In the present case, parol evidence, takenin conjunction with corroborating circumstances, shows that the deed was not intended to be absolute. bJd.
17. The statute of limitations is not applicable, because the possession was not
adverse. So, also, the trustee is not protected by the statute, although
he sold the land and received the proceeds six years before the bill was
filed, because it was his duty to apply those proceeds to the reduction of
the interest and principal of the debt due to him when the deed was
made. Ibid.
18. The evidence of a witness was not admissible, who offered to testify that he
had not known a case where the omission of the word "fire," in the exceptions mentioned in the bill of lading, was considered.to give a claim
against the boat on account of a loss by fire. Garrison-v.Hfe/mphin
Insurance Co., 312.
19. There is no ambiguity which requires to be explained, and the evidence fails
to establish the usage. Ibid.
20. The American State Papers, published by Order of Congress, may be read in
.Bran v. Fonryth, 334.
evidence, in the investigation of claims to land.
1. Where there was a judgment for costs against the plaintiff, in a suit where
the defendant pleaded a discharge in bankruptcy, and the attorney for
the defendant taxed those costs, directed the property upon which an
exectition should be levied for their collection, prepared the advertisements for the sale of it, caused a sale to be made of fourteen thousand
acres of land, to produce a few dollars as costs, and then became himself
the purchaser, the sale will be declared fraudulent and void, and ordered
to be set aside. Byerz v. Surqet, 303.
2. When a grant orpatent for land, or legislative confirmation of titles to land,
has been given by the sovereignty or legislativeauthority only having the'
right to make it, without any provision having been made, in the patent
or by the law, to inquire into its fairness between the grantor and grantee,
or between third parties and the grantee, a third party cannot raise, in
ejectment, the question of fraud as between the grantor and grantee.
Rdd v. Seabury et aL, 323.
3. A bill in equity lies to set aside letters patent obtained by fraud, but only
between the sovereignty making the grant and the grantee. Ibid.
4. Such a patent or grant cannot be collaterally avoided atlaw for fraud. 16i.
GARNISHMENT.
1. The laws of Alabama provide, that where there is a judgment against a
debtor who is unable to pay, a process of garnishment (which is called
in some of the States an attachment upon final process) may be issued
and laid in the hands of a garnishee, who may owe money to the judgment debtor, or have any effects within the control of the garnishee.
Williars v. Hill et al., 246.
2. The garnishee, having real property under his control by virtue of a deed of
trust, cannot retain it for the purpose of reimbursing himself .for advances
made to the judgment debtor after the execution of the deed in execution
of a parol contract between them. Ibid.
3. Where tfie garnishee sets up a claim td the funds in his hands he must

NDEX.
GARNISHMENT, (Continued.)
prove the bona fides of his claim, if it is derived from the judgment
debtor after the origin of the creditor's demand. Ibid.
4. Therefore, where the garnishee produced notes signed by the judgment
debtor, bearing date prior to the judgment, but did not prove their existence before the judgment in consideration, it was properly left to the jury
to say whether there was fraud or collusion between the garnishee and
the judgment debtor. Iid.
INDIANS.
1. The United States made two treaties, one in 1838, and one in 1842, with the
Seneca Indians, residing in the State of New York, by which the Indians
agreed to remove to the West within five years, and relinquish their possessions to certain assignees of the State of Massachusetts, and the United
States agreed that they -would appropriate a large sum of money to aid
in the removal, and to support the Indians for the first year after their
removal to their new residence. Fellows v. Blacksmith et al.,
366.
2. But neither treaty made rny provision as to the mode or manner in which
the removal of the Indians or surrender of the reservations was to take
place. Ibid.
3. The grantees of the land, under the Massachusetts assignment, cannot enter
upon it and take forcible possession of a farm occupied by an Indian, but
are liable to an action of trespass, quare clausumfregit, if they do so. Ibid.
4. The removal of tribes of Indians is to be made by the authority and under
the care of the Government; and a forcible removal, if made at all, must
be made under the direction of the United States. Ibid.
5. The courts cannot go behind a treaty, when ratified, to inquire whether or
not the tribe was properly represented by its head men. Ibid.
INSURANCE.
See Co
cLRcsL
LAw.
JETTISON.
See COMMERCU. LAw.
JURISDICTION.
1. In 1841, Congress granted to the State of Louisiana 500,000 acres of land,
for the purposes of internal improvement, and in 1849 granted also the
whole of the swamp and overflowed lands which may be found unfit for
cultivating. Shaffer v. Scudday, 16.
2. In both cases, patents were to be issued to individuals under State authority.
Ibid.
3. In a case of conflict between two claimants, under patents granted by.the
State of Louisiana, this court has no jurisdiction, under the 25th section
of the judiciary act, to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, given in favor of one of the claimants. Ibid.
4. Where the-decree was for a less sum than two thousand dollars, the appeal
must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Rogers et al. v. Steamer St.
Caarles, 108.
5. Where a sale of mortgaged property in Louisiana was made under proceedings in insolvency, and the heirs of the insolvent filed a hill to set aside
the sale on the ground of irregularity, it was necessary to make the mortgagees parties. They had been paid their share of the purchase money,
and had an interest in upholding the sale. Coiron et al. v. .3illaudon e
al., 113.
6. The fact that such persons are beyond the jurisdiction of the court is not a
sufficient reason for omitting to make them parties. Ibid.
"7. Neither the act of Congress nor the 47th rule of this court enables the Circuit Court to make a decree in a suit in the absence of a party whose
rights must necessarily be affected by such decree, and the objection may
be taken at any time upon the hearing or in the appellate court. Ibid.
8. Where the decree of the District Court, in a case of admiralty jurisdiction,
was not a final decree, the Circuit Court, to which it was carried by
appeal, had no power to act upon the case, nor could it consent to an
amendment of the record by an insertion of a final decree by an agreement of the counsel in the case; n: cqn this court consent to such an
amendment. Mordccaiet al.v. Lindsay et al., 199.

INDEX.

651

JURISDICTION, (Continued.)
9. The District Court having ordered a report to be made, the case must be
sent back from here to the Circuit Court, and from there to the District
Court, in order that a report may be made according to the reference.
Ibid.
10. In Louisiana, all the evidence taken in the court below goes up to the Supreme Court, which decides questions of fact as well as of law. In the
absence of bills of exceptions,.setting forth the points of law decided in
the case, this court must look'to the opinion of the State court, (made a
part of the record by law,) in order to see whether or not any question
has been decided there which would give this court appellate jurisdiction, •
under the twenty-fifth section of the. judiciary act. Couain v. Blanc'
Ezecutor et al., 202.
11. The appellate jurisdiction of this court only includes cases where the judgment or decree of the Circuit Court is final. Beebe et al. v. Russell, 283.
12. In chancery, a decree is interlocutory whenever an inquiry as to- matter of
law or fact is directed, preparatory to a final decision. Ibid.
13. But when a decree finally decides and disposes of the whole merits of the
cause, and reserves no further questions or directions for the future judgment of the court, so that it will not be necessary to bring the cause
again before the court for its final decision, it is a final decree. Tid.
14. Therefore, where a case was referred to a master, to take an account of rents
and profits, &c., upon evidence, and from an examination of the parties,
and to make or not to make allowances affecting the rights of the parties,
and to report his results to the court, this was not a final decree. Ibid.
15. The preceding cases upon this subject, examined. Ibid.
16. The rule with respect to final and interlocutory decrees, whicl is applied to
the preceding case of Beebe et al. v. Russell, again affirmed and applied.
.Farrellyet al. v. Woodfolk, 288.
17. Where a case is brought up to this court by a writ of error issued to .the
Supreme Court of a State, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary
act, if it appears that the judgment of the State court only involved the
construction of State statutes which both parties in the cause admitted to
be valid, the writ of error will be dismissed on motion. .Michigan Cetral
Railroad Co. v. M'cA igan Southern Railroad Co. et al., 378.
18. Where a party brought an ejectment in a State court, founding his title
upon documents showing a settlement claim under the-laws of the United
States, and the Supreme Court of the State decided in favor of that title,
the opposite party cannot bring the case to this court under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act. Burke v. Gaines et al., 388.
19. This court has no jurisdiction over such a case. Ibid.
20. Upon a writ of error to a Circuit Court of the United States, the transcript
of the record of all the proceedings in the case is brought before this
court, and is open to its inspection and revision. Bred Scott v. Sandford
393.
21. When a plea to the jurisdiction, in abatement, is overruled by the court
up.on demurrer, and the defendant pleads in bar, and upon these plas the
final judgment of the court is in his favor-if the plaintiff brings a writ
of error, the judgment of the court upon the plea in abatement is before
this court, although it was in favor of the plaintiff-and if the court erred
in overruling it, the judgment must be reversed, and a mandate issued to
the Circuit Court to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction. Ibid.
22. In the Circuit Courts of the United States, the record must show that the
case is one in which, by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
the court had jurisdiction-and if this does not appear, and the court
gives judgment either for plaintiff or defendant, it is error, and the judgment must be reversed by this court-and the parties cannot by consent
waive the objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Ibid.
23. But if the plea.in abatement is not brought up by this writ of error, the ob-"
jection to the citizenship of the plaintiff is still apparent on the record, as
he himself; in making out his case, states that be is of African descent,
was born a slave, and claims that he and his family Irecame entitled to
freedom by being taken, by their owner, to reside in a Territory where

652

INDEX.

JUISDICTION, (Condud.)
slavery is prohibited by act of Congress--and that, in addition to this
claim, he himself became entitled to freedom by being taken to Rock
Island, in the State of Illinois-and being free when he was brought
back to Missouri, he was by the laws of that State a citizen. Ibid.
24. it; therefore, the facts he states do not give him or his family a right to
freedom, the plaintiff is still a slave, and not entitled to sue as at
and the judgment of the Circuit Conrt was erroneous on that ground
also, without any reference to the plea in abatement. - Ibid.
25. The Circuit Court can give no judgment for plaintiff or defendant in a case
where it has not jurisdiction, no matter whether there be a plea in abatement or nrot. And unless it appears upon the face of the record, when
brought here by- writ of error, that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, the
judgment must be reversed. Ibid.
26. The case of Capron v. Van Noorden (2 Cranch, 126) examined, and the prin• ciples thereby- decided, reaffirmed. Ibid.
27. When the record, as brought here by writ of error, does not show that the
Circuit Court had jurisdiction, this court has jurisdiction to revise and
correct the error, like any other error in the court below. It does not and
cannot dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction here; for that would leave
the erroneous judgment of the court below in full force, and the party
injured without remedy. But it must reverse the judgment, and, asin
any other case of reversal, send a mandate to the Circuit Court to conform its judgment to the opinion of this court. Ibid.
28. The difference of the jurisdiction in this court in the cases of writs of error
to State courts and to Circuit Courts of the United States, pointed out;
and the mistakes made as to the jurisdiction of this court in the latter
case, by confounding it with its limited jurisdiction in the former.
Ibid.
29. If the court reverses a judgment upon the ground that it appears by a particular part of the record that the Circuit Court had not jurisdiction, it
does not take- away the jurisdiction of this court to examine into and
correct, by a reversal of the judgment, any other errors, either as to the
jurisdiction or any other matter, where it appears from other parts of the
record that the Circuit Court had fallen into error. On the contrary, it is
the daily and familiar practice of this court to reverse on several grounds,
where more than one error appears to have been committed. And the
error of a Circuit Court in its jurisdiction stands on the same ground, and
is to be treated in the same manner as any other error upon which its
judgment is founded. Ibid..
30. The decision, therefore, that the judgment of the Circuit Court upon the
plea in 4batement is erroneous, is no reason why the alleged error appa-"
rent in the exception should not also be examined, and the judgment
reversed on that ground also, if it discloses a want of jurisdiction in the
Circuit Court. Ibid.
31. It is often the duty of this court, after having decided that a particular decision of the Circuit Court was erroneous, to examine into other alleged
errors, and to correct them if they are found to exist. An4 this has been
uniformly done by this court, when the questions are in any degree connected with the controversy, and the silence of the court might create
doubts which would lead to further and useless litigation. Ibid.
32. Where a question was certified from the Circuit Court to this court, viz:
whether a certain letter, written by the cashier of a bank -without the
knowledge of the directory, though copied at the time of its date in the
letter-book of the bank, was a legal and valid act of authority; and the
r ecord afforded no evidence relevant to the acts and authority of the
cashier, or to. the practice of the bank in ratifying or rejecting similar
acts, this court cannot aniwer the question, and the case must be remanded to the Circuit Court, to be tried in the usual manner. United State v.
City' Bank of Columbu, 385.
LANDS-PUBLIC.
1. Where there are two confirmations by Congress of the same land in Missouri, the elder confirmation gives the better title; and the jury are not

INDEX.
LANDS-PUBLIC, (Continued.)
at liberty, in an action of ejectment, to find that the survey and patent
did not correspond with the confirmation. Willot et al. v. Sandford, 79.
2. Titles to lands thus situated could be confirmed; nor were the lands affected
by the act of March 3, 1811, providing for the sale of public lands and
the final adjustment of land claims. Ibid. .
3. A claim to land in Louisiana was presented to the commissioner appointed
under the act of 1812, (2 Stat. at L., 713,) reported favorably upon by
him to Congress, and confirmed by the act of 1819, (3 Stat. at L., 528.)
But it did not appear that this claim had been surveyed, or that it had
any definite boundaries. Cousin v. Blanes Executor et at., 202.
4. In 1820, the register and receiver gave to the claimant a certificate that he
was entitled to a patent, but without saying how it was to be located.
Ibid.
5. In 1822, Congress passed an act (3 Stat. at L., 707) giving to the registers
and receivers power to direct the location and manner of surveying the
claims to land confirmed by the act of 1819. Ibid.
6. In 1826, the register and receiver ordered the claim to be surveyed, speaking
of it, however, as being derived from an original claimant, different from
the person who was mentioned as the original claimant'in the certificate
of 1820. Ibid.
7. The act of 1822 was remedial, and this difference was immaterial. Ibid.
8. When the survey was executed according to that order, it gave a prima facie
title, and the United States were bound by it until it was set aside at
the General Land Office. The Supreme Court of Louisiana were in error
when they decided that it gave no title, and this court has. jurisdiction,
under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, to review that judgment. Ibid.
9. But until the survey was made and approved, the United States could sell
the land, and a purchase of a part of it must stand good. Ibid.
10. The act of Congress of 1820 and regulations of the General Land Office of
1831 direct the manner in which purchases of public land shall be authenticated by the registers and receivers of the land offices. Bell v.
Hearne et al., 252.
1L Where the receiver gave a receipt in the name of John Bell, and the register
made two certificates of purchase, one in the name of John Bell and the
other in the name of James Bell, the circumstances of the case show that
the latter was an error which was properly corrected by the Commissioner of the General Land Office in the exercise of his supervisory
authority; and he had a right to do this, although a patent had been
issued to James Bell, which had been reclaimed from the register's office,
and returned to the General Land Office to be cancblled. Ibid.
12. The Supreme Court of Louisiana having decided against the validity of the
patent issued to John Bell, this court has jurisdiction under the twentyfifth section of the judiciar4 act to review that judgment; and the ground
of the decision of the State court sufficiently appears upon the record. Ibid.
13. By the acts of Congress passed on the 15th of May, 1820, and March 3d, 1823,
provision was made, that each of the settlers in Peoria, Illinois, should
be entitled to a village lot, and the surveyor of public lands was directed
to designate upon a plat.the lot confirmed to each claimant. Bryan et al.
v. Forsyth, 334.
14. The act of 1823 conferred on the grantee an incipient title; and when the
survey was made and approved, by which the limits of the lot were designated, the title then became capable of sustaining an action of ejectment,
even before a patent was issued. Ibid.
15. In the interval between 1823 and the survey, a patent was taken out, which
was issued subject to all the rights of persons claiming under the act of
1823. This patent was controlled by the subsequent survey. Ibid.
16. But although it was controlled by the subsequent survey, yet the patent wasa fee-simple title upon its face, and sufficient to sustain a plea of the statute
of limitations in Illinois, which requires that possession should be by actual
residence on the land, under a connected title in law or equity, deducible
of record from the United States, &o. Ibid.

654

.INDEX.

LANDS-PUBLIC, (Continued.)
17. The American State Papers, published by order of Congress, may be read
in evidence, in the investigation of claims to land. Ibid.
18. Under the circumstances described in the preceding case, if there was no
sufficient evidence of a survey under the act of 1823, the title claimed
under that act could not be held superior to that claimed under a patent
issued in the interval between the act of 1823 and the alleged survey.
Ballance v. Papfn et al., 342.
19. Where a claimant of land in California produced documentary evidence
in his favor, copied from the archives in the office of the surveyor general and other original grants by Spanish officers, the presumption is in
favor of the power of those officers to make the grants. United State. v.
PAra a a al., 343.
20. If the power be denied, the burden of proof is upon the party who denies it.
21. The history of California, with respect to the power of its Governors to
grant land, examined. Ibid.
22. The boundaries of the tract of land, as decreed by the District Court, affirmed.
Ibid.
LIMITATIONS-STATUTE OF.
1. In the present case, where a bill was filed to set aside titles for frauds
alleged to have been committed in 1767, the bill does not make out a
sufficient case; and the evidence does not even sustain the facts alleged.
And the disability to sue, arising from coverture, is not satisfactorily
proved. Hoore v.*Greene et al., 69.
2. In case of alleged fraud, it is true that the statute of limitations does not
begin to run until the fraud is discovered. But then the bill must be
specific in stating the facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud;
and in the present case, this is not done. Ibid..
3. Parol evidence is admissible to show that a conveyance of property, absolute
upon the face of it, was really a mortgage or deed of trust. Babcock v.
Wyman, 289.
4. In the present case, parol evidence, taken in conjunction with corroborating circumstances, shows that the deed was not intended to be absolute. Ibd.
5. The statute of limitations is not applicable, because the possession was not
adverse. So; also, the trustee is not protected by the statute, although
he sold the land and received the proceeds six years before the bill was
filed, because It was his duty to apply those proceeds to the reduction of
the interest and principal of the debt due to him when the deed was
made. 1bid.
6. By the *acts of Congress passed on the 15th of May, 1820, and March 3d, 1823,
provision was made, that each of the settlers in Peoria, Illinois, should
be entitled to a village lot, and the surveyor of public lands was directed
to designate upon a plat the lot confirmed to each claimant. Bryan e al.
"v. Forsyth, 334.
7. The act of 1823 conferred on the grantee an incipient title; and when the
survey was made and approved, by which the limits of the lot were designated, the title then became capable of sustaining an action of ejectment,
even before a patent was issued. Ibid.
8. In the interval between 1823 and the survey, a patent was taken out, which
was issued subject to all the rights of persons claiming under the act of
1823. This patent was controlled by the subsequent survey. Ibid.
9. But although it was controlled by the subsequent survey, yet the patent was
a fee:-simple title upon its face, and sufficient to sustain a plea of the statute
of limitations infllinois, which requires that possession should be by actual
residence on the land, under a connected title in law or equity, dedueible
of record from the United States, &c. Ibid.
LOUISIANA.
1. The laws of Louisiana impose a tax often per cent. on the value of all property inherited in that State by any person not domiciliated there, and not
being a citizen of any State or Territory of the United States. Prevot v.
Greneau , 1.

INDEX.
LOUISIANA, (C6ntnued.)
2. In 1853, a treaty was made between the United States and France, by which
Frenchmen were placed, as regards property, upon the same footing as
citizens of the United States, in all the States of the Union whose laws
permit it. Ibid.
"3.This treaty has no effect upon the succession of a person who died in 1848.
4. The law of Louisiana imposes on the seller the obli~gtion of warranting the
thing sold against its hidden defects, which are (those which could not
be discovered by simple inspectioii; and the purchaser may retain the
thing sold, and have an action for reduction of the price by reason of the
difference in value between the thing as warranted and as it was in fact;
Bulkley v. fonold, 390.
5. Where a vessel was purchased, which was then: partly laded as a general
ihip for an outward foreign voyage, and after she went to sea she was
found to be unseaworthy, and.had to return, the defects were hidden defects, under the above law. J..
6. A vessel is included within the terms of the law. 1Wh.T7. The purchaser wds not bound to renounce the vessel. This privilege is
*
provided for in 'another and distinct article of the cole. Ibid.
.8. The contract must be governed by the laws of Louisiana, where it was made
and performed. ibid.
9. Such a sale is not governed by the general commercial law, but by the civil
code of Louisiana. Ibid.
MA NDAMUS.
1. By the rules and practice of commohi-law courts, it rests exclusively with
the court to determine who is qualified. to become or contiffue one of its
officers, as an attorney and counsellor of the court4 the power being regulated, however, by a sound and just judicial discretion--guarding the
rights and independence of the bar as well as the dignity and authority
of the court. Ex .ParteSecombe, 9.
2. The local law of the Territory of Minnesota has regulated the relation between courts and attorneys ahd counsellorg, but has not essentially
changed the common-law principle. -Ibid.
3. The Minnesota statute authorizes the court to dismiss ailattorney or counsellor fhe does not maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officersi.or, for not conducting himself with fidelity.to the court. Ibid.
4. The Supreme Court of 'the Territory dismissed the relator from the'office of
counsellot and-attorney of the court, stating in the sentenc6 of dismissal
that he was guilty of the offences above mentioned, but not specifying
the act or acts which, in the opinion of the cotrt, constituted the offence.
ibid.
5. The order of dismissal is ajudicial act done in the exercise of a judicial
discretion vested in the court by law; and a'mandamds cannot be issued
by a superior or appellate court, commanding itto reverse its decision
and restore the relator to the office he has lost. Ici
VARITIRE LIENS.
See ADTsiLTY.

MARRIED WOMEN.

1. In Missouri, where a deed was offered in evldbnde,-purporting to convey the
of married women to land, and their names were in the hhndwrititles
-ting of otIher persons, and'there was no Iproof that the wonaen had either
or acknowleed
achnhwleed the deed, it was properly refused byythe court to
sig-nd or
on
i3.
be "allowed to go to he jury.;fwaeffan v. Boyle
""-,
'"husbands:.ll/d--

S
2.'The property -was p]araphernal,.and cduld" not be conveyed away by their
ws"rant the jury to .presume th
3. Thle facts in the ease were not" suffibient tfi
"consent of the marriedwomen; .-ibid.
4. The'originial deed not being &vidence, a certified copy was not admissible.
-

5;.An-old "wilt,"*'lich had never lieeri -piro~ed aceording'to lait, was properly
asset .up under it, but, on
li
h-rb'r n
:. exclu'ded as evidence.

INDEX.

•656

MARRIED WOMEN, (Continued.)
the contrary, the estate was treated as if the maker of it had died intestate. Ibid.
6. Neither the deed nor the will come within the rule by which ancient instruments are admitted. It only includes such documents as are valid upon
their face. Ibid.
7'. The statute of limitations did not begin to run until after the dsability of
, coverture was removed. ibdi
MINNESOTA.
1. By the rules and practice of common-law courts, it rests exclusively with
*
the court to, zetermine who is qualified to become or continue one of its
officers, as an attorney and counsellor of the court; the power being regulated, however, by a sound and just judicial discretion--guarding the
rights and independence of the bar as well as the dignity and authority.
of the court.
z Parte Secombe, 9.
2. The local law of the Territory of Minnesota has regulated the relation between courts and attorneys and counsellors, but has not essentially
changed the common-law principle. Ibid.
3. The Minnesota statute authorizes. the court to dismiss an attorney or counsellor if he does not maintain the respect due to courts of justice and
judicial officers, or for not conducting himself with fidelity to the court.
Ibid.

4. The Supreme Court of the Territory dismissed the relator from the office of
counsellor and attorney of the court, stating in the sentence of dismissal
that he was guilty of the offences above mentioned, but not specifying
the act or acts which, in the opinion of the court, constituted the offence.
Ibid.

5. The order of dismissal. is a judicial act done in the exercise of a judicial
discretion vested in the court by law; and a mandamus cannot be-issued
by a superior or appellate court, commanding it to reverse its decision,
and restore the relator to the office he has lost. Ibid.
NEGROES AND SLAVES.
1 A free negro of the African race, whose ancestors were brought to this
country and sold as slaves, is not a "citizen" within the meaning of the
Constitution of the United States. *Dred Scott v. Sandford, 393.
2. When the Constitution was adopted, they were not regarded in any of the
States as members of the community which constituted the State; and
were not numbered among its "people or citizens." Consequently, the
special rights and immunities guarantied to citizens do not apply to them.
And not being "citizens" within the meaning of the Constitution, they
are not entitled to sue in that character in a court of the United States,
and the Circuit Court has not jurisdiction in such a suit. Ibid.
3. The only two clauses in the Constitution which point to this race, treat them
as persons whom it was morally lawful to deal in as articles of property and to hold as slaves. Ibid.
4. Since the adoption of the Constitution of the Unitbd'States, no State can by
any subsequent law make a foreigner or any other description of persons
citizens of the United States, nor entitle them to the rights and privile'ges secured to citizens by that instrument. Ibid. "
5. A State, by its laws passed sincl the adoption of the Constitution, may put
a foreigner or any other descrip'tionaf persons upon a footing with its own
citizens, as to all the rights and privileges enjoyed by them within its
dominion and by its laws. -But that will not make him a citizen of the
United States, nor entitle him to sue in its courtr nor to any of the privi'leges and immhnities of a citizen in another State. Ibid.
6. The change, in, public opinion and feeling in relation to the African race,
which has taken plaqe .since the adoption of the Constitution, cannot
change its construction and meaning, and it must be construed and administered now according to its true meaning and intention when it was
formed and adopted., Ibid.
T. The plaintiff having admitted, by his demurrer to the plea in abatement,
that his ancestors were imported from Africa and sold as slaves, he is not
a citizen of the State of Missouri according tQ the Constitution of the

INDEX.

657

NEGROES AND SLAVES, (Coi'.tnued.)
United States, and was not entitled to sue in that character in the Circuit
Court. Ibid.
8. This being the case, the judgment of the court below, in-favor of the plaintiff on the plea in abatement, was erroneous. Ibid.
9. Congress have no right to prohibit the citizens- of any paiticular State or
States from taking up their home there, while it permits citizens of other
States to do so. Nor has it a right to give privileges to one class of citi.
zens which it refuses to another. The territory is acquired for their equal
and common benefit-and if open to any, It must be open to all upon
equal and the same terms. Ibid.
10. Every citizen has a right to take with him into the Territory any article of
property which the Constitution of the United States recognises as property- Ibid.
11. The Constitution of the United States recognises slaves as property, and
pledges the Federal Government to protect it. And Congress cannot exercise any more authority over property of that description than it may
constitutionally exercise over property of any other -kind. Ibid.
12. The act of Congress, therefore, prohibiting a citizen of the United States
from taking with him his slaves whbn he removes to the Territory in
question to reside, is an exercise of authority over private property which
is not warranted by the C6nstituton- and the removal of the plaintiff,
by his owner,, to that Territory, gave him no title to freedom. Ibid.
13. The plaintiff himself acquired no title to freedom by being taken, by his
owner, to Rock Island, in Illinois, and brought back to Missouri. This
court has heretofore decided that the statts or condition of a person of
.African descent depended on the laws of the State in which he fesided.
Ibid.
14. It has been settled by the. dqcisions of the. highest court in Missouri, that,
by'the laws of that Statea slave does tLot become entitled to hisfreedom, where the owner takes him to reside in a State where slavery is
not permitted, and afterwards brings him back to Missouri.. Ibid.
15. Conclusion. It follows that it is apparent upo i the record that the court
below erred in its judgment on the plea in abatement, and, also erred in
giving judgment for the defendant, when the -exception shows that the
plaintiff was not a citizen of the United. States. And as the Circuit Court
had no jurisdiction, either in the case stated in the plea in abatement, or
in the one stated in the exception, its judgment in favor of the defendant
is erroneousi and must be reversed. IMid.
PARTIES TO A BILL.
See PRACTicr.
PATENT RIGHTS.
1. The act of Congress passed on the '3d of March, 1837, (5Stat. at L., 194,)
* provides that a patentee may enter a disclaimer, if he has included in his
patent what he *as not the -inventor 5f; but if he recovers judgment
against an infringer of his patent, he shall not be entitled to costs, unless
be has entered a disclaimer for the part not invented. ffemwur, et al. v.
'ccnn.icy,
96.
2. It also provides that if a-patentee" uhxeasonabli neglects or delays to enter
a disclaimer, he shall not be entitled to thb benefit of the 'section at all.
3. In 1845, McCormick 6btained a patent for improvements in a reaping.machine, in which, after filing his specification, he claimed, amongst other
things, as follows, viz:
"2d. I claim the reversed angle, of ihe'teeh of the blade, in ;nanner, described..
%
113d. Iclaim the arrangement and cbnstriction of the fingers, (or teeth
for supporting the grain,) so as to form the angular space' in front of
the blade, us and.for'the purpose described."
4. These two clauseg are not to be read in connection with each other, but separately. The first claim, viz: for, 'the reversed angle of the teeth'of the
blade," not being'new, and not being disclaimed, he was not entitled to
costs, although he recovered a judgment for a violation of other parts of
his patent. Ibid.

VOL.

x=x.

42

PATENT RIGHTS, (Continued.)
5. Under the circumstances of the case, the patentee 'was not guilty of unreasonable neglect or delay in making the disclaimer, which is a question
of law for the court to decide. Ibid.
6. The facts that a similar machinewas in successful operation in the years
1829 and 1853, do not furnish a sufficient ground for the jury to presume
that it had been in continuous operation during the intermediate time.
Ibid.
7. The fifteenth section of the patent act of 1836, which allows the defendant to
give in evidence that the improvement had been described in some public
work anterior to the supposed .discovery of the patentee, does not make
the work evidence of any other fact, except that of the description of the
said improvement. Iid.
8. The rights of property and exclusive use granted to a patentee do not extend to a foreign vessel lawfully entering one of our ports; and the use
of such improvement in the construction, fitting out, or equipment, of
such vessel, while she is coming into or going out of a port of the United
- States, is not an infringement of the rights of an American patentee, provided it was placed upon her in a foreign port, and authorized by the
laws of the country to which she belongs. Brown v. Ducheane, 183.
9. Where a patentee is about to apply for a renewal of his patent, and agrees
with another person that, in case of success, he will assign to him the
renewed patent, and the patent is renewed, such an agreement is valid, and
conveys to the assignee an equitable title, which can be converted into a
legal title by paying, or offering to pay, the stipulated consideration.
Hartshornet al. v. Day, 211.
10. An agreemdnt between Chaffee,. the patentee, fnd Judson, after the renewal,
reciting that the latter had stipulated to pay the expenses of the renewal,
and make an allowance to the patentee of $1,200 a year, during the
renewed term, and then declaring: "Now, I (Chaffee) do hereby, in consideration of the premises, and to place my patent so that in case of my
death, or other accident or event, it may enure to the benefit of Charles
Goodyear, and those who hold a right to the use of said patent, under and
in connection with his licensees, &c., nominate, constitute, an& appoint,
said William Judson my trustee and attorney irrevocable, to hold said
patent and have the control'thereof, so as none shall have a license to use
said patent or invention, &c., other than those who hada right when said
patent -was extended, without the written consent of said Judson, &c.,"
passed the entire ownership in the patent, legal and equitable, to Judson,
for the benefit of Goodyear and those holding rights under him. Ibid.
11. If this annuity was not regularly paid, the original patentee had no right
to revoke the power of attorney, and assign the patent to another party.
His right tothe annuity rested in covenant, for a breach of which he had
an adequate remedy at law. Ibid.
12. Evidence tending to show that the agreement between tlie patentee and the
attorney had been produced by the fraudulent representations of the latter, in respect to transactions out of which the agreement arose, ought not
to have been received, it being a sealed instrument. Ibid.
13. In a court of law, between parties or privies, pvidenoe-of fraud is admissible
only where it goes to the question whether or not the instrument ever
had any legal existence. But it was especially proper to exclude it in
this case, where the agreement had been partly executed, and rights of
long stianding had gilwn up under it. Ibid.
PENSIONS.
1. Under the act of Congress passed on the 2d of June, 1832, providing for the
relief of certain surviving officers of the Revolution, aiid its several supplements, the word children in the acts embraces the grandchildren of a
deceased pensioner, whether their parents died before or after his decease. And they are entitled, per stirpes, to a distributive share of the
deceased parent's pension. Walton et al. v. Cotton et al., 355.
PLEAS AND PLEADINS.1. The Harmony Society was established upon the basis of a community of
property, and one of. the articles of association provided, that if any

INDEX.

659

PLEAS AND PLEADINGS, (Continue.)
member w.ithdrew from it, he should not claim a share in the prdperty,
but should only receive, as a donation, such sum as the society chose to
give. Baker et al. v. Naclt7*b, 126.
2. One of the members *ithdrew, and received the sum of two hundred dollars,
as a donation, for which he gave a receipt, and acknowledged that he had
withdrawn from the society, and ceased to be a member thereof. .bd.
3. A bill was then filed by him, claiming a share of the property, upon the
ground that he had been unjustly excluded from the sodiety by combination and covin, and evidencp offered to show that he had been compelled to leave the society by violence and harsh treatment. Ibid.
4. The evidence upon this subject ;elated to a. time antecedent to the date of
the receipt. There was no charge in the bill impeaching the receipt, or
the settlement made at its date. Ibid.
5. Held, that under the contract,. the settlement was conclusive, unless impeached bythe bill.- Ibid.
6. There are no technical rules of variance or departure in pleading in the
admiralty. Dupont de Nemours v. Vance, 162.
7. The plea of the general issue in actions of trespass or case, does not necessarily put the title in issue. Richardson v. City of Boston, 263.
8. Upon a writ of error to a Circuit Court of the United States, the transcript
of the record of all the proceedings in the case is brought before this
court, and is open to its inspection and revision. DredScott v. Sandford,
393.
9. When a plea to the jurisdiction, in abatement, is overruled by the court
upon demurrer, and the defendant pleads in bar, and *uponthese pleas the
final judgment of the court is in his favor-if the plaintiff brings a writ
of error, the judgment of the court upon the plea in abatement is before
this- court, although it was in favor of the plaintiff--and if the court erred
in overruling it, the judgment must be reversed, and a mandate issued to
the Circuit Court to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction. Iid.
.10. In the Circuit Courts of the United States, the record must show that the
case is one in which, by the Constitution and laws of the United States,
the court had jurisdiction-and if this does; not appear, and. the court
.gives judgment either for plaintiff or defendant, it is error, and the judgment must be reversed by this court-and the- parties cannot by consent
waive the objection to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. Ibid.
POSTYASTERS.
1. A deed speaks from the time of its delivery, not from its date. UnitedStates.
v. Le Baron, 73.
2. The bond of a deputy postmaster takes effect and speaks from the time that
it reaches the Postmaster General and is accepted by him, and not from
the day of its date, or from the time -when it is deposited in the pdst
office to be sent forward. Ibid.
3.'The difference explained between a bond of this description and a bond
given by a collector of the customs. 1W.
4. The nomination to an office by the President, confirmation by the Senate,
signature of the commission, and. affling to it the seal of'the United.
States, are all the acts necessary to render the appointment complete. Ibid.
5. Hence, the appointment is not rendered invalid by the subsequent death of
the President before the transmission of the commission to the appointee,
even where it is necessary that the person appointed should perform certain acts before he can legally enter upon the duties of the office. Ibid.
PRACTICE.
1. Where there appears to be an omission ii the record of an important paper,
,which may be necessary for a correct decision of the case of the defendant
in error, who has no counsel in court, the court will, of its own motion,
order the case to be continued and a certiorail to be issued to bring up
the missing paper. Morgan v. Curtenius et al., 8.
2. Where no error appears upon the record in the proceedings of the Circuit
Court, the case having been left to the jury, and no instructions asked
from the court, the judgment below must be affirmed. Stevens v. Gladding
4 Proud,64.

660

INDEX.

PRACTICE, (Continued.)
3. Where exceptions are not taken in the progress of the trial in the Circuit
Court, and do not-appear on the record, there is.no ground for the action
of this court. Lathrop v. Judson, 66.
4. According to the practice prescribed for the Circuit Courts, by this court, in
equity causes, a bill cannot be dismissed, on motion of the respondents,
for want of equity after answer and before the hearing. Betts v. Lewis
and Wife, 72. " "
5. Where a libel ftor information, praying the condemnation .of a vessel for
violating the passenger law of the United States, states the offence in the
'words of the statute, it is sufficient. United States v. Brig Neurea, 92.
6. Where a sale of mortgaged property in Louisiana was made under proceedings in insolvency, and the heirs of the insolvent filed a bill to set aside
the sale on the ground of irregularity, it was necessary to make the mortgagees parties. They had been paid their share of the purchase money,
'and had an interest in upholding the sale. Coiron et al. v. Millaudon et
,
al., 113.
7. The fact that such persons are beyond the jurisdiction of the court is not a
sufficient reason for omitting to make them parties. lid.
8. Neither. the act of Congress nor the 47th rule of this court enables the Circult Court to make a decree in a suit in the absence of a party whose
*
rights must necessarily be affected by such decree; and the objection may
be taken at any time upon the hearing or in the appellate court. !Rid.
9. Where an appeal is taken to this court, the transcript of the record must
be. filed and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the appeal.
Eteamer Virginia v. Wet et al., 182.
10. Although the case must be dismissed if the transcript is not filed in time, yet
the appellant can prosecute another appeal at any time within five years
from the date of the decree, provided the transcript is filed here and the
case .docketed at the term next succeeding the date of such second appeal.
Rid.
11. Where the decred of the District Court, in a case of admiralty jurisdiction,
was ifot a final decree, the, Circuit Court, to which it was carried by
appeal, had no power.to act upon the case, npr' could it consent to an
amendment of the record by an insertion of . final decree by an agreement of the counsel in the case; nor can this court consent to such an
amendment. Mordecai et al. v. Lindsay et al., 199.
12. The District Court having ordered a report to be made, the case must be
sent back from here to the Circuit Court, and from there to the District
Court, iii order that a report may be made according to. the reference.
Ibid.
13. Where the judgment of the Circuit Court, in an action of ejectment, was
against the defendant, in which nominal damages only were awarded,
who sued out a writ of error in order-to bring the case before this court,
this court cannot grant a motion to enlarge tha security in the appeal
bond, for the pjurpose 'of covering apprehended damages, which the plaintiff below thinks he may sustain by being kept out of his land. Roberts
v. Cooper, 373.
14. Where money was borrowed from a bank upon a promissory note, signed by
the'principal and two sureties, and the principal debtor, by way of counter
security, conveyed certain property to a trustee, for the purpose of indemnifying his sureties, it was necessary to' make the trustee and the cestui
que trust parties to a bill filed by the bank, asserting a special lien upon
the property thus conveyed. McRea et al. v. Branch Bank of Alabama,
376.
15. But where the principal debtor had made a fraudulent. conveyance of the
property, which'had continued in his possession, after the execution ofthe first deed, and then died, a bill was good, which was filed by the bank
against the administrators, f6r the purpose of setting aside the fraudulent
conveyance, and bringing the property into the assets of 'the deceased,
for the benefit of all creditors who might apply." 'Rid.
16. The competent parties to agree that a case ihall be settled, and the writ of
error dismissed, are usually the parties upon the recbrd. If eiihir of

INDEM
PRACTICE, (Continued.)
them has assigned his interest, and it be made known to the court, the
interest of such assignee would be protected. Plait v. Jerome, 384.
17. But where there was a judgment for costs in the court below, and the attorney claimed to have a lien upon such judgment for his fees, it is not a
spfficient reason for this court to prevent the parties from agreeing to dismiss the case. Ibid.
18. Where a question was certified from the Circuit Court to this court, viz:
whether a certain letter, written by the cashier of a bank without the
knowledge of the directory, though copied at the time of its date in the
letter-book of the bank, was a legal and valid act of authority; and the
record afforded no evidence -relevant to the acts and authority of the
cashier, or. to the practice of the bank in ratifying or rejecting similar
acts, this court cannot answer the question, and the case must be remanded to the Circuit Court, to be tried in the usual manner. UnitedStale v.
City .Bank-of Columbus, 385.
PRESUMPTION.
1. Where property was sold under an administrator's sale, the presumption is
in favor of its correctness; and aftef a long possession under it, the burden of proof is upon the party who impeaches the sale. Moore v. Green, 69.
PURCHASERS- IN GOOD FAITH.
1. Where an administrator sells property which had been donveyed to him for
the purpose of sequring a debt due to his.intestate's estate, his failure to
account for the proceeds amounts to a devastavit, and renders himself and
his sureties upon his administration bond liable; but it does not entitle
the heirs to claim the property from a purchaser in good fath for a valuable consideration. Long e al. v. O'Faon,116.
SALVAGE.
See CoM=Rcu LAw.
SEAWORTHINESS,
See Cowzaciu. LAw.
TERRITORY OF THE UNITED- STATES.
See CONSTITuTIoNAL LAw.

TREATIES..
1. The United States made two treaties, one'in 1838, and one in 1842, with the
Seneca Indians, re' ding in the State of New York, by which the Indians
"agreed to remove to the West within five years, and relinquish their possessions to certain assignees of the State of Massachusetts, and .the United
States agreed that they would appropriate a large sum of money to ajd
in the removal, and to support the Indians for the' first year after their
removal to -their new residence. Yellows v..Blackmit etaL, 366.
2. But neither treaty made any provision as to the mode or manner in which
- the removal of the Indians or surrender of the reservations was to take
place. Ibi.
3. The grantees of the land, under the Massachusetts assignment, cannot enter
-qpon it and take forcible possession of a farm occupied by an Indian, but
are liable to an action of trespass, guare dausumfregit, if they.do so. Ibid.
4. The removal of triber of Indians is to be made by the. "authorityand under
the care of the Government; and a forcible removal, if made at all, must
be made under the direction of the United States. Ibid.
5. The courts cannot- go behind a treaty, when ratified, to inquire whether or
not the tribe was properly represented by its head men. Ibd.'
VESSELS.
1. The law of Louisiana imposes on the seller the obligatioiyof warranting the
thing sold against its hidden defects, which are those which could not
be discovered by simple inspection; and -the purchaser may'retain the
thing sold, and have an action for reduction of the price by reason of the
difference in'value between the thing as warranted and as'it was in fact.
Bui/ke v. Honold, 390.
2. Where a vessel was purchased, which was then partly laden as a general
ship for an outward foreign voyage, and after she went to sea she was
found to be unseaworthy, and had to return, the defects were'hidden defects, under the above law. RIJ.

662

ob~Ex.

V*SS'ELS, (Continued.)
3, Avessel is included within the terms of the law. Ibid.
4..The purchaaer was.not bound to renounce the vessel. This privilege is providq. x.in another and distinct article of the code. Ibid.
,61 The bontract must be governed by the laws of Louisiana, where it was made
and performed. Ibid.
6. Such a sale is not goveried by the general commercial law, but by the civil
code of Louisiani. Ibid.
YARANTY.
1. The law of Louisiana imposes on the seller the obligation of warranting the
thing sold against it hidden defects, which are those which could not
be discovered by simple inspection; and the purchaser may retain the
thing sold, and have an action for reduction of the price.by reason of the
difference in value between the thing as warranted and as it was in fact.
.Bukley v. Honold, 390.
21 Where a vessel was purchased, which was then partly laden as a general
ship for an outward foreign voyage, and after she went to sea she was
fpund to-be unseaworthy, and had to return, the defects were hidden debid.
eets,-ander the above law.
bid.
3. A vessel is included within the terms of the law.
4. The purchaser was not bound to renounce the vessel. This privilege is
code. Dbid.
of
the
article
distinct
and
in
another
provided for
5. The contract must be governed by the laws of Louisiana, where it was made
and performed. Ibid.
'6. Such a sale is not governed by the general commercial law, but by the civil
code of Louisiana. Ibid.

