162

SUPREME COURT.
.Dupont de Nemours t Co. v. Vance et al.

On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to have the amount due to each party adjusted,
according to the principles stated in the opinion of this court,
and that all the costs of said cause in this court, and in the
Circuit and District Courts, be paid out of the fund in the said
Circuit Court.

E. J.

DUPONT DE NEMOURS & Co., LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS,
JOHN VANCE ET AL., CLAIMANTS OF THE ]BRIG ANN ELIZABETH.

V.

To be seaworthy as respects cargo, the hull of a vessel must be so tight, stanch,
and strofig, as to resist the ordinary action of the sea during the voyage, without damage or loss of cargo.
.A jettison, rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, is a loss by such peril within
the meaning of the exception contained in bills of lading-aliter, if unseaworthiness of the vessel caused or contributed to the necessity for the jettison.
The owner of cargo jettisoned has a maritime lien on the vessel for the contributory share due from the vessel on an adjustment of the general average, which
lien may be enforced by a proceeding in rem in the admiralty.
Where the libel alleged a shipment of cargo under a bill of lading, and its non-delivery, and prayed process against the vessel, and the answer set up a jettison
" rendered necessary by a peril of the sea, and this defensive allegation was sustained by the court, it was held that the libellant was entitled to a decree for
the contributory share of general average due from the vessel.
'There are no technical rules of variance or departure in pleading in the admiralty.

THIs was an appeal from the Cirouit Court of the -United
.States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiiralty. As many'points were decided by this court which were not
aised in the court below, it is proper toe plain to the reader
how this happened.; and this will best be done by tracing the
nistory of the case from its commencement.
InDcember, 1852, Dupont de lNeriours & Co: shippdd at
their wharf, on the river Delaware, an invoice of gunipbwder
lit begs, &c., the -ialue at the place of shipment being, by the
invoice, $6,325. The articles were shipped on board the Ann
Elizabeth, bound to lNew Orleans, and owned by the claimant6
in this cause. Two bills bf lading were signed by the ,mate,
and delivered to the shippers. The brig sailed on December
:21 Aftr
1852.thq arrival of' the vessel at l~ew Orleans, the shippers

163

DECEMBER TERM, 1956.
DuPont & Nemour

4- Co.v.

Vance d aL

filed a libel in the District Court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana, alleging that the following packages were missing, viz:
$4,374.00
972 kegs powder, at $4.50 - ----1,387.13
do.
2.371 --563 hulf
132.41
99 quarter kegs, - 1.331 - ----93.00
-------.
12 cases canister, 7.75
$5,936.54

1,646 packages.

The libellants therefore held the vessel to her general responsibility for the non-delivery "of the articles, and filed the
bills of lading as exhibits.
After the usual proceedings in admiralty, John Vance, master and part owner of 'the brig, interven'ing for his own interest, and for the interest of the other owners of the brig, filed
his answer in June, 1853. 'In this answer, he gave a narrative
of the voyage, and alleged that the articles in question were
thrown overboard for the safety of the vessel, and "that unless
the same had been thrown over, your respondents believe, and
so allege, that the vessel would have filled and gone down."
* This answer was sworn to by the proctor and agent of respondent, as being true to the best of his belief or knowledge.
Evidence was *taken on both sides. For the libellants, it
consisted of the testimony of two persons in Delaware to prove
the shipment, and the testimony of-two persons ih -New Orleans to prove the unseaworthiness. of the vessel, from examin.
ations made after her arrival.'
For the claimants, the evidence consisted-of the notarial protest of the captain, mate, and three of the crew; and also the testimony of a stevedore, who unloaded the vessel, to show her
sound condition.

-

"

Upon this evidence, the cause came on for trial, when the
district judge decreed against the stipulators for $5,936.54,
less $270.95 freight, equal to $5,665.59, with interest from
15th January, 1853, and costs.
Upon motion of the proctor for the claimants, a rehearing
was granted, and fresh .evidence, was takeii. On the part of
the hibellants, it consisted of the depositions of two persons
living in New Orleans, to prove the value of the powder; and
on the part of the claimants, the' depositions .of three persons
living in New Orleans, who were not on board of the.sip duig the voyage. Two testified to the ciidition of the vessel,
and the third to some proceedings respecting aunaverage bond.
V 1th this additional evidence, the case came up again, when

164

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont de .Nemours 1 Co. v. Vance dt al.

the district judge decided that the notarial protest must be rejected as evidence, and that, upon its being thrown out, there
was nothing at all to prove the fact of the jettison. He therefore adhered to his former decree. The claimants appealed to
the Circuit Court.
In the Circuit Court, additional evidence was taken on the
part of the claimants, viz: the depositions of five persons, two
of whom were not on board, but testified as experts; and of
the three who .were on board, two were passengers, and the
third, was one of the crew. Thdse three testified to the fact of
the jettison, and the circumstances under which it was made,
and gave a narrative of the voyage.
en the case came up for trial before the circuit judge, he
decreed that the claimants had sustained their answer, and dismissed the libel, each party paying his own costs.
The libellants appealed to the court.
It was argued by Mlr. Gerhardfor the appellants, and Mfr.
Bayardfor the claimants.
Mr. Gerhardcontended1. That the vessel was not seaworthy at the commencement
of the voyage, and that therefore the owners were responsible for the total loss of the articles thrown overboard.
2. That there was such a neglect of proper precaution during
the voyage as to make the vessel responsible.
8. That if the vessel should be held to have been seaworthy,
and the jettison should be deemed to have been justified by
the violence of the seas, still it was the duty of the master, on
his arrival at the port of destination, to have the general average adjusted for a general contribution. (3 Kent's Com., 244;
11 Johnson, 323; Abbott on Shipping, part IV, chap. X, see.
14, 5th American Ed., p. 611, note 1;. 3 Sumner, 308.)
The argument on this point was concluded thus:
Now, it is admitted by the respondents that the libqllants
should be paid for their goods which were jettisoned. They
are entitled to be recompensed, either in whole by the captain
and owners of the brig,. or in part by the contribution of the
ship, freight, and cargo, in general average. But how can the
libellants proceed to collect their pro rata contribution in general average, when, by the acts of the captain, his gross fault
and inexcusable negligence, they are entirely precluded from
pursuing this course? Where is the bond to secure them?
How many of the consignecs are mere agents for-merchants
living along the whole Mississippi valley? How many are
insolvent? What are their names? Why did not the claim-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

165

Dupont ds Nemours it Co. v. Vaznc a aZ.

ants deposit in court the amount they acknowledge they owe
by the statement of theit own adjuster? ,
This neglect of the captain has made the owners liable. (See
La Code 2, 972; 4 Boulay Paty, 592-'3.)
Mr. BJeyardspoints were the following:
First. The brig was seaworthy at the time she commenced
her voyage, being sufficient in all respects for the voyage, well
manned, and furnished with sails and all necessary furnitur.e,
and, being so, reasonably sufficient for the voyage, the necessity for the jettison of part of the cargo,. to save the vessel and
the residue of the cargo, cannot be met by the allegation, that,
with a stouter vessel, or one better manned, the necessity "for
.the jettison might not have occurred. (Conkling's Adm., pp.
164, 165; 1 Curtis,' pp. 155, 156.)
Second. The testimdny shows that the nedessity for the jettison did not arise from the worm-holes which were discovered
after the arrival of the vessel in port, as the pumps were abundantly able to overcome any danger which could possibly arise
froIm such a source.
Third. The failure of the master to use proper exertions to
have the average account adjusted, does not render the brig or
owners liable for the loss by jettison, nor is any claim made in
the libel for an alleged negligence of the master in this respect.
Fourth. The claim of the libellants for contribution against
the other shippers and the owners, is not affected by the lache"
of the master, but the contributio-d may be recovered either by
a suit in equity against all, or by several suits, at law against
each party who ought to contribute nor is the right of the
sufferer affedted by the delivery of the cargo to the respective
consignees without taking an average bond. (Abb, on Ship.,
pp. 207, 208.)"

Fifth. The measure of damages, where the contract of aft
freightment is not performed, is properly the value of the
goods at the port of shipment, with interest for the .time when
they ought to have been delivered. (Conk. Adm., p. 185, et
seq.)
Mr. Justice C.URTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The libel alleges that the appellants shipped on board the
brig Ann Elizabeth, at Wilmington, in the State of Delaware,
a Large quantity of-gumpowder, to be carried to New Orleans,
in the Stat of Louisiana;. and that, on the shipment thereof;

166

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont de Nemour8 1k Co. v. Vance

a

al.

bills of ladin, in the usual form, were signed by the master
of the brig; 4 iat, according to the invoices of the merchandise
specified in the bills of lading, its value was $7,233.75; that,
on the arrival of the brig at New Orleans, the libellants required
the delivery of the merchandise thus shipped, but they received
only a part thereof; and that the part not delivered consisted
of 1,646 packages, which, according to the same invoice valuation, amounteto the sum of $5,936.54.
The libel further-alleges that no part of that sum has been
paid to the lib ellants; and it pfays process against the brig,
and a decree for the damages thus demandeZ., and for such
other relief as shall to law and justice appertain.
7The master of the brig, intervening for his own interest and
that of his part-owners, admits that the shipment of goods was
made, as alleged in the libel; but propounds that, in the course
of the voyage, it became necessary, for the safety of all concerned, through the perils and dangers of the seas, to make a
jettison of that part of the libellant's goods which were shipped
and not delivered.
The first question is, whether the claimant has shown, in
support of his defensive allegation, that the jettison was occasioned by a peril of the sea. If it was, then the carrier is
exonerated from the delivery of the merchandise, and has only
to respond for that part of its value which is his just contributory share towards indemnity for the common loss by the.
jettison. A jettison, the necessity for which was occasioned
solely by a peril of the sea, is a loss by Aperil of the sea, and
within the exception contained in the bill of lading.
But, if the unseaworthiness of the vessel, at the time of
sailing on the voyage, caused, or contributed to produce, the
necessity for the jettison, the loss is not within the exception
of perils of the seas.
That there was such a necessity for this jettison as justified
the master in making it, we thin, is proved. In the case of
Lawrence v. Mintirn, (17 HoW., 109,) this court had occasion
to consider the extent of the authority of the master to make
a jettison. We then held, that "if he was a competent master;
if an emergency actually existed, calling for a decision wh~ther
to make a jettison of a part of the cargo; if he appears to have
arrived at his decision, with due deliberation, by a fair exercise
of his skill and discretion, with no unreaE-onable timidity, and
with an honest intent to do his duty,. the jettison is lawful.
It will be deemed to have been necessary for the common
safety, because the person to whom the law has intrusted
authority to decide upon and make it, has duly exercised that
authority."

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Dup"nt de Nemoura

167

Co. v. Vane a ca.
C

We find the case at bar is within this rule. We do not
detail the evidence, because the authority of the master to
make the jettison has not been seriously controverted. •
This part of the case turns upon the other inquiry, whether
the vessel was unseaworthy fok the voyage when it was begun.
It is the hull of the vessel which'is alleged to have been
unseaworthy.- To constitute seaworthiness of the hull of a
vessel in respect to cargo, the hull must be -so tight, stanch,
and strong, as to be competent to resist all ordinary action of
the sea; and to prosecute and complete the voyage without
damage to the cargo under deck.
If a vessel, during the voyage, has leaked so much as to
injure the cargo, or render a jettison of it necessary, one mode
of testing seaworthiness is, to ascertain what defects, occasioning leakage, were found in the vessel at the end of the voyage;
and-then to inquire which of those defects are attributable to
perils of the seas, encountered during the voyage, and which,
if any, existed when it was begun; and, if any of the latter be
found, the remaining inquiry is, whether they were such as to
render the vessel incompetent to resist the ordinary attacks of
the sea, in the course of the particular voyage, without damage
or loss of cargo..
This vessel, on her arrival at :New Orleans, was taken into
'dock, and examined. She was found to be a new vessel, and
that she had been-strained. A but, about midships, at or near
the third or fourth streak, was started. The hopd-eAds forward
were also strained, and, on trial, it was found they would take
about a thread of oakum.
Two worm-holes were also found in her bow, about threeeighths of an inch in diameter-one about three streaks from
the keel, the other a little higher up. As the vessel was new,
there seems to be no doubt these holes were in the plank when
put on the vessel, but from some cause remained undiscovered.
• The vssel sailed from Wilmington on the afternoon of the
21st of December, 1852. The wind being northeast and strong,
the vessel -came to anchor at Reedy Island, and on the 22d
proceeded to sea. The master,"being a part-owner and claimant, has not been examined. The first officer appears to have
died before the proofs were taken in the Circuit Court. io
account is giv - of the second officer or the crew, except one
seaman, who, together with two passengers, have been examined on the part of the claimants, to prove the occurrences of
the voyage. It would have been more satisfactory to have had
the evidence of one or more officers of the vessel, and especially
of the mate, with his log-book Still, these'three witnesses do
satisfactorily show, that on the night of the 23d of December,

-

168

SUPREME COURT.
D,,pont de Nemourn . Co. v. Vance efal.

the brig encountered a strong gale and heavy seas, causing her
to labor and strain badly. This weather continued, anT the
sea became more heavy, up to the night of the 27th Until
about 8 o'clock that night, it was not known the vessel was
leaking; but, on sounding the pumps at that time, it was found
that the vessel had two feet of water in the hold. The pumps
were manned and kept going but the leak increased tvo feet
in about two hours. I'hc jettison was then made, and the
vessel so far relieved that the pumps could coutr6l the leak,
and the vessel, with the residue of the cargo, arrived at New
Orleans.
It is mninifest that the vessel encountered extraordinary
action of the sea; and, as the vessel appears to have been new,
and generally stanch and well fastened, the defects found at
New Orleans, except the worm-holes, are fairly attributable
to this cause. The starting of a but, and the opening of the
ho6d-ends of a new vessel of ordinary strength, indicate a very
uncommon degree of strain; and such defects would alone
account for the amount of leakage of a vessel heavily laden,
and exposed to such a sea as is described.
We do not think the existence of the worm-holes amount to
unseaworthiness. Any-leak which might have been occasioned
by them in any ordinary sea, does not appear to have been
such as the pumps could not control, without damage to the
cargo. All vessels have leaks; and, independent of the strains
received from the violent action of the sea, we are not satisfied
this vessel would have leaked so much that the pumps could
not have controlled the water in her hold, and prevented its
doin damage to the cargo.
We find, therefore, that the vessel is exonerated from the
claim foEr the full value of the merchandise; and the remaining
question is, whether the vessel is chargeable with any part o?
the value of the merchandise in this cause.
When a lawful jettison of cargo is made, and the vessel and
its remaining cargo are thereby relieved from the impending
peril, and ultimately arrive in the port of destination, though
the shipper has not a lien on the vessel'for the value of his
merchandise jettisoned, he has a lien for that part of its value
which the vessel and its freight are bound to contribute towards
his indemnity for the sacrifice which has been made for the
common benefit. And this lien on the vessel is a maritime
lien, operating by the maritime law as a hyp6thecation of the
vessel, and capable of being enforced by proceedings in rem.
The right of the shipper to resort to the vessel for claims
growing directly out of his contract of affreightment, has very
Long existed in the general maritime law. It is found asserted

DECEM BER TERM, 1856.
Dupont de ifemourz 4 Co. v. Vance d al.

in a variety of forms in the Consulado, Ithe most ancient and
important of all the old codes of sea laws, (see chaps. 63, 106,
227, 254, 259;) and the maxim that the ship is b6und to the
merchandise, and the merchandise to the ship, for the performance of the obligations created by the contract of aifreglitment,
is a settled rule of our maritime law. (The Schooner Wreeman,
18 How., 182; The Ship Packet, 3 Mason, 261, The Volunteer,
1 Sum., 550; The Reeside, 2 Sum., 467; The Rebecca, Ware's
R., 188; The Phcebe, Ib., 263; The Waldo, Davies's R., 161;
The Gold Hunter, 1 Blatch. and How., 305.)
l'othier declares (Treatise of Charter-parties, preliminary
chapter on Average) that the right to contribution in general
average is dependent on the contract of affreightment, which
embraces in effect an undertaking, that if the goods of the
shipper are damaged for the common benefit, he shall receive
a due indemnity by contribution from the owners of the ship,
and of other merchandise benefited by the sacrifice.
The power and duty of the master to retain and cause a
judicial sale of the merchandise saved, has also been long
established. (Consulado del Mare, ch. 51, 52, 53, and note 1
in vol. 3, p. 103 of Pardessus's Collection; Laws of Oleron,
art. 9; Ord. de la Marine, Liv. 3, tit. 8, sec. 21, 25; Nesbit on
Ins., 135; Strong v. New York Firemen's Insurance Company,
11 John. R., 323; Simonds v. White, 2 B. and C., 805; Loring
v. The Neptune Insurance Company; 20 Pick., 411; 3 Kent.
Com., 243, 244.) And this right to enforce a judicial sale,
through what we term a lien in rem, is not confined to the
.merchandise, but extends to the vessel.
Emerigon, (eh. 12, see. 43,) speaking generally of an action
of contribution, says it is in its nature a real action. Cassaregis,
(dis. 45, N. 34,) ,est in rem scripta."
It would be extraordinary if the right to a lien were not
reciprocal; if It existed in favor of the vessel, when sacrifice
was made of part or the whole of its value, for preservation
of the cargo, and not against the vessel, when sacrifice was
made of the cargo for preservition of the vessel.
By the ancient admiralty law, the master could bind both
the ship and cargo by an express hypothecation, to obtain a
ransom on capture. So he could, and still may, when the
whole enterprise has fallen into distress, which could not
otherwise be 'relieved, hypothecate* both the vessel aid cargo
to obtAin means of relief. These are cases of express hypothecation made by the master, under the authority conferred on
him by the maritime law; but he can also sell a part of the
cargo to enable him to prosecute his voyage, or deliver a part
of it in payment of ransom of his vessel, and the residue of the

170

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont de -femours t Co. v. Vance d al.

cargo, on capture; and when he does so) the law of the sea
creates a lien on the vessel, al security for the reimbursdment
of the loss of the shipper whose goods have been sacrificed.
(The Packet, 3 Mason, 255; Pope v. Nickerson, 3 Story's .,
492; The Gold Hunter, 1 Blatch. and How., 300; The woston,
Tb., 309; Consol. del Mare, ch. 105; La's of Oleron, art. 25;
Ord. of Antwerp, art. 19; Emerigon Con. a la Grosse, ch. 4,
sees. 9, 11.)
The authority to make a jettison of cargo is derived from
the same source; an ifstant necessity, incapable of being provided for save by a sacrifice of part of what is committed to
the master's care, and the presumed consent of the owners
of all the subjects at risk, that the loss shall become a charge
upon what is benefited by the sacrifice. (The Gratitudine, 3
Rob., 210.) If the sacrifice be made to enable the vessel to
perform the voyage, by paying what the owners are bound to
pay to complete it, the charge is on the vessel and its owners.
If it be made to kelieve the adventure from a peril which has
fallen on all the subjects engaged in it, the risk of which peril
was not assumed by the carrier, the charge is to be borne proportionably by all the interests, and there is a lien on each to
the extent of its just contributory obligation. This authority
of the. master to make the sacrifice, and this consent of the
owners of the subjects at risk to have it made, and their imElied undertaking to contribute towards the loss, are viewed
y the admiralty law as sufficient to create an hypothecation
of the subjects benefited, for the security of the payment of the
several sums for which those subjects are respectively liable.
In other words, as the master is authorized to relieve the adventurer from distress, by means of an express hypothecation,
in case of capture or distress in port, or by means of a sale of
part of the cargo, thereby creating a maritime lien on the property ultimately benefited, in favor of the owner of what is sold
or hypothecated; so he may also, in a case of necessity at sea,
make ajettison of cargo, and thereby create a lien on the property thus saved from peril. Pothier (Con. Mar., n., 34, 72)
and Emerigon (Con. a la Grosse, ch. 4, sec. 9) say that the
sale of part of the cargo in port, to supply the necessities of the
ship, is a kind of forced loan. Though the sacrifice of part of
the cargo at sea cannot be considered a loan, it is a forced
appropriation of it to the general benefit of those engaged in a
common adventure, under a contract of affreightment; and
such use of the property of one, for the benefit of others,
creates a charge Qn whatwas thus saved, for what may fairly
be termed the price of that safety. (Abbott on Shipping, part
4, ch. 10, s.6.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Dupont'de Nemours d- Co. v. Vance a a.

In United States v. Wi]der, (3 Sumner, 311,) which was a case
of general average, Mr. Justice Story likens it to a case .of salvage, where safety is obtained by sacrifices of labor and danger, maade for the common benefit; and he says the general
imaritime law gives a lien in nem
for the contribution, not as
he only remedy, but as in many cases the best remedy, and
in some cases the only remedy.. In the District and Circuit
Courts of the United States, this jurisdiction has been exercised,
and some cases of this kind are found in the books, though
most of their decisions are not in print. (The Mary, 5 Law
Reporter, 75; 6 Th., 73 ; The Cargo of the George, 8 Law Re.:
porter, 361; Sparks v. Klttredge, 9 Law Reporter, 849; Dunlap's Ad Pr., 67; 2 Browne's Civ. and Ad Law, 122; The
Packet; The Gold Runter; The Boston, above cited.) The
restrict~d
admiralty jurisdiction in E]ngland seems insufficient
to enforce this' lien. (The Constantia, 2 W. Rob., 487.)
Nor is there anything in the case of Rae v. Cutler, decided
by this court in 1849, and reported in 7 How., 729, which*conflicts with the view we have now taken.
That was a libel by the owner of a vessel against the consignee of cargo, to recover the contributory share of the average due. from the goods which the master had voluntarily
delivered to the respondent before the libel was filed. The
court decided, that though the master, as the agent of the owner of the vessel in that case, had .by the maritime law a lien
upon the goods, as security for the payment of their just contribution, this lien was lost by their voluntary delivery to the
consignee; and that the implied promise to contribute could
not be enforced by an action in personamagainst the consignee,
fa the admiralty. This admits the existence of a lien, arising
out of *theadmiralty law, but puts it on the same footing as a
maritime lien on cargo for the price of its transportation;
which; as is well ktown, is waived by an authorized delivery
Without iusisting on payment.,
-On full consideration, we are of opinion that when cargo is
lawfully jettisoned, its owner has, by the maritime law, a lien
.on the vessel for its contributary share of the general average
compensation; and that the owner of the cargo .may enforce
payment thereof by a proper proceeding in .rein, against the
vessel, and against the residue of the cargo,, if it has not been
delivered.
The remaining question is, whether the pleadings in this case
are in such form as to present this claim for the consideration
of this court, and entitle the libellant to assert a lien on the
vessel for its contribution.
The rules of pleading in the admiralty are exceedingly sim-

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont d Nemoura itJo. v. Vance t al.

ple and free from technical requirements. It is incumbent on
the libellant to propound with distinctness the substantive
facts on which he relies; to pray, either specially or generally,
for the relief appropriate to them; and to ask for such process
of the court as is suited to the action, whether in rem or in per.sonam.
It is incumbent on the respondent to answer distinctly each
substantive fact alleged in the libel, either admitting or denying, or declaring his ignorance thereof, and to allege such
other facts as he relies upon as a defence, either in part or in
whole, to the case made by the libel.
The pfoofs of each party must correspond substantially with
his allegations, so as to prevent surprise. But there are no
technical rules of variance, or departure in pleading, like those
in the common law, nor is the court precluded from granting
the relief appropriate to the case appearing on the record, and
prayed for by the libel, because that entire case is not distinctly stated in the libel. Thus, in cases of collision, it frequently occurs that the libel alleges fault of the claimant's
vessel; the answer denies it, and alleges fault of the libellant's
vessel. The court finds, on the proofs, that both -were in fauilt,
and apportions the damages.
Looking to this libel, we find it states that a contract of
afireightment was made to transport these goods fromWilmington to N~ew Orleans, on bbard this brig; that the goods were
laden on board, and. the brig had arrived, 'but only a part of.
the goods have been delivered. It states the value of the part
not delivered, avers that the libellants have not been paid any
part of that sum, prays for process against the brig, and
decree for the value of the merchandise not delivered, and
also for such other relief as to law and justice may appertain.
The answer admits all the facts stated in the libel,. but sets
up, by way of defensive allegation, a necessary jettison of that
part of the cargo not delivered. It is manifest, that though
this answers, in part, the claim for damages made by the libel,
it does not wholly answer it. It shows sufficient cause why
the libellant should not assert a lieu on the brig for the whole
value of his merchandise, but at the same time shows that the
libellant has a valid lien on the brig for that part of the value
of the merchandise which the vessel is bound to contribute.
While it asserts that the performance of the contract of affreightment by transportation of the merchandise to New:
Orleans was excused by a peril of the sea, it admits that an
obligation arose out of the relations of the parties created by
that contract of affieightment, and out of the facts relied on
as an excuse for not transporting the merchandise; that tis

-DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.

173

Dupont de Nemourm S Co. r. Vance et al.

obligation was to pay to the shipper a part of the value of his
goo; that it was the duty of the master, at the port of New
Orleans, to ascertain what part of that value the vessel was
bound to contribute, and that there is a lien on the vessel to
secure its payment.
If the technical rules of common-law pleading existed in the
admiralty, there might be difficulty in admitting a claim for
general average, in an action founded on a contract of affre".ghtment; because, though the claim for such average grows out
of the contract of affreightment, the implied promise to pay it
is technically different from the promise on the face of a bill
of lading. In the case of Pope v. Nickerson, (3 Story, 465,)
Mr. Justice Stoiy went into a very extensive examination of
such claims, under an agreed statement of facts, in an action
of assumpsit on bills of lading; and it does not seem to have
occurred, either to him or the counsel, that it was inconsistent
with any substantial rule of the common law so to do.
But in the admiralty, as we have said, there are no technical
rules of variance or departure. The court decrees- upon the
whole matter before it, taking care to prevent surprise, by not
allowing either party to offer proof touching any substantive
fact not alleged or denied by him.
.But where, as in this case, the defensive allegation of the
respondent makes a complete case for the libellant, so that no
evidence in support of it is required, and where that case is
within the form of action and the prayer of relief, and the process used by the libellant, we think it not a sufficient reagon
for refusing relief, that the precise case on which the court
think fit to grant it is not set out in the libel.
We understand, that in the court below the libellants relied
on the duty of the master to adjust and collect, and pay to
them, the- general average contributions, as precluding, the
defence of a necessary jettison. We think this defence was
properly overruled. The libelants did not there insist on
their lien on the vessel for its contribution. We do not consider their failure to do so precludes them from calling on this
court to make that decree, to which the record shows they are
entitled. In Finlay v. L~ynn, (6 Cranch, 238,) this court was
of opinion that the appellant, whose bill was dismissed by the
Circuit Court, was entitled to an account, on a ground not assumed in the Circlit Court. This court said: "The plaintiff
probably did not apply for this account in the court below,
and it does not appear to have been a principal object of his
bill. This court therefore doubted whether it would be most
proper to affirm the decree dismissing the bill, with the addition that it should be without prejudice to any future claim

174

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont de Naeours 4 Co. v. VYancv a at.

for profits, and for the debt due from one store to the other,
or to open the decree and direct the account. The latter is
deemed the more equitable course. The decree, therefore, is
to be reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to
take an accoiint of the profits of the jewelry store, if the same
shall be demanded by the plaintiff." But, as the libellants
failed to call the attention of the Circuit Court to this view of
their rights, and.placed their claim there solely on the grounds
that the
jettisonthewas
unlawful,
or, if lawful, could not ea defence,
because
master
had failed
to do the dut incumbent
on him in a case of general average,
we think the decree should
be reversed, .withoutcosts. The cause must be reminded to
the Circuit Court, with directions to ascertain the amount of
the lien of the libellants on the Ann Elizabeth, for the share
to be contributed by the vessel towards the loss sustained by
the libellants, and to enter a decree accordingly.
Mr. Justice CATRON and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissenting.
I dissent from that part of the opinion of this court which
allows to the libellants a decree against the libellee for the
amount of his contributory share in the account of average.
The libel is for the non-delivery of cargo according to the
conditions of a bill of lading. The exemption claimed in the
answer is, that the failure was occasioned by a peril of the seas,
which made a jettison of the goods necessary; and this issue
was tried in the District and Circuit Courts.
The objection raised here is, that the exemption is not complete, unless the contributory share of the libellee, to be ascertamed, in the first place, by the adjustment of an average account, is also admitted and tendered.
In Bird v., Astcott, (Bulst., 280,) which was an action on the
case against a carrier for the non-delivery of goods lost by a
jettison, Coke, Lord Ch. J., cited a case which had been decided, and said, in respect to it, "We all did resolve, that this
being the act of God, this sudden storm, which occasioned the
throwing over of the goods, and which could not be avoided;
and for this reason the plaintiff recovered nothing." (Mouse's
case, 12 Co., 63.)
I have not been able to find a precedent, either in the United
States 6r Great Britain, where a contributory share, in the nature of average, has been recovered, in a contentious litigation,
in an action on a bill of lading for the non-delivery of cargo.
But the books of precedents show that average contributions

DECEIVBER TERM, 1856.

175

.Dupont de Nenoura it Co. v. Vance e al.

are recovered in actions, either of-special or general assumpsit,
the form of the action depending on the fact of the adjustment
of the account. (2 Chitt. Plead., 50, 152, 161; Saund. Plead.
j
and.Ev., 278.)
"I entertain a decided opinion," said Chancelior, then Oh.
JT. Kent, "that the estabjished principles of pleading, which
compose what is called its science, are rational, concise, luminous, and ought, consequentlyi-to .be vdry carefully touched by
tie hand of innovation." (1 Joh., 471, Bayard v. Malcolm.)
And the advantage of an orderly, not- to say scientific system
of administration, is as apparent in the courtT of admiralty,
and the mischiefs of uncertainty or inexactness are as positive
there, as in any other tribunals. Such seems to have been the
opiniQn of Justice Story. (The Boston, 1 Sum., 328.) This
diference in opinion with the court would n'ot. have been the
ground of a public dissent on my part, if I had not deemed the
decree erroneous, and if I did not believe-that the parent error
is to be found in this departure from accurate pleading. The
decree treats the liability of the master orowner for an average
contribution as an integral part of their special written contract of atfreightment; and their failure to pay their share of
average is disposed of as a breach of the express obligation.
My opinion is, that the obligations are distinct, though intimately associated, and are referable to different principles of
law, and in the judicial administration of the United States
m be subject to distinctjurisdictibns.
The principle of the rule of general contribution, as applied
to the case of a jettison, exists in all commercial nations.; and
the rule itself became a part of the statute law of England, in
the reign of the Conqueror, and that of his youngest son. In
a later period, the same principle was applied to a great number of analogous cases.
The inquiry is, upon what courts was the duty devolved of
enforcing and administering this principle of general jurisprudence, and particularly in the cases of average ? In Berkley v.
Peregrave, (1 East., 220,) which was a sfeiaL action of assumpsit for average on an unadjusted average account, Lord Kenyon says: " This action, .the grounds and nature of which are
set out in the special count, is founded in the common
'fully
,principles
of justice.. A loss is incurred, which the law directs
shall be'borne by certain persons in their several proportions.
When a loss is to be repaired in damages, where else can they
be-recovered but in the courts of common law? And wherever
the law givds a right, generally, to demand payment of another,
it raises, an implied'.promise in thlt person to pay." In Dbbson v.' Vilson, (8 Canap., 480,) Lord Ellknborough said:- "A

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont de Nemour 4- Co. v. Vance et aL.

court of equity may perhaps be a more convenient forum for
adjusting the claims of the different parties concerned; but if
a shipper of goods, which are sacrificed for the salvation of the
rest of the cargo, is entitled to receive a contribution from
another shipper whose goods are saved, I know not how I can
say this may not be recovered by an action at law. Tjiis is a
legal right, and must be accompanied with a legal remedy.
The diiculty, of showing, by strict evidence, the exact amount
of the contribution, is great; brat, as there are data upon which
it may be calculated with great certainty, I think, is no obto the action." (Price v. Noble, 4 Taun., 123.)
jection
. Holroyd,
in the argument of the case in East., said: "At
the common law, where a contribution was required, a writ of
contribution issued, prectdents of which are to be found. (Fitz.
Nat. Brev.) This has fallen into disuse; because, in most instances, as'many persons were concerned, a more easy remedy
was administered in equity."
And so, from the earliest of the chanceiy reports, we learn
that chancery will ehforce an average or contribution to be
made, when necessary, and that it will enforce an agreement
among merchants to 'pay average. (Comyns's Dig., Chan. 2
J., 2 S.; Hickv. Pallington, Moor., 442; Ca. Parl., 19.) Spence,
in his history of equitable jurisdiction, says, "That the court
of chancery, from a period which cannot be traced, but which,
as it was also apparently adopted" from the Roman law, was
.probably coeval with the establishment of the court, exercised
jurisdiction to compel contribution amongst general shippers
of goods, when those belonging to one were thrown overboard
for the safety of the ship, or in cases, as they are technically
called,, of geneial average." (1 Spenc. Eq. Ju., 663.) The
popular treatises on the chancery system show that the title
CA
Contribution ' is one of great reach, -comprehending a variety of cases which rest upon a familiar maxim of equity, and
that average is only an instance of its-application. How stands
the historical evidence in regard to the jurisdiction of the admiralty courts, with reference to this subject? What say the
"Black Book" and "God6lphin," or the controversionalists,
Prynne, or Jenkins, in support of the ancient claims of-these
tribunals? What is to be foind in the treaty of limits between the-co~irts of common law and admiralty? In the case
of the Constancia, (2 W. Rob., 488,) a question arose upon
the distribution of the proceeds of a ship and cargo which were,
on deposit in the registry of the court, in a cause in which its
jurisdiction was in disputable.
The claimant asserted a preference in the distribution, because a portion' of the cargo belonging to him had been sold

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

177

Duont & Nemoure i Co. v Vance el aL

for the repairs of the ship. The learned judge of that court
said: "As far as my owl. exerience extends, no claim of a
similar description-is to be found in'the annals of the court; a
circumstance which naturally induces me to consider with
some carefulness whether the novelty of the claim be specious
or real. In other words, whether, novel in appearance, it does
not rest upon some recognised principles by which other claims
have been decided. What, then, is the true. character of the
claim in question? It is.a claim on behalf of the owners df
certain property shipped on board of the vessel, and applled to
relieve the ship's necessities, and to enable her to c=mplete her
voyage.
"In the case of the Gratitudinine, Lord Stowell has held that
property so sacrificed is to be considered as the proper subject
of general average; and Lod Tenterden, in his book on shipping, lays down the game doctrine. If this be so, and if, upon
the authority of my Lord Stowell, thus confirmed by my Lord
Tenterden, I am to consider this claim as a subject,of general
average, two considerations immediately suggest themselves.
First, whether I-have any jurisdiction at all over questions of
general average; and, secondly, whether I could satisfactorily
exercise such a jurisdiction under the circumstances of this
case? The absence of atly precedent, where the court has exercised the jurisdiction, is of itelf a strong primafac proof that
I have no authority to -entertiin the question at all; and I am
the more strongly inclined to this opxnion by the further consideration that, in all cases of average, it is essential that the
tribunal which is to adjust it should-have the power to compel
all parties interested to come in, and to pay their quota. I
possess no such power; and if I could not bring all parties
interested before the court, I could not adjust a general average,
which is a proportionate contribution by ally' These citations
from the opimons of the various .tribunals which administer
different departments of the judicial power of Great Brithin,.
show that the doctrine upon which average contributibns is
made is not peculiar to the maritime cede; and, also, that the
maritime courts of the first commercial power that has existed
have never -administered it, and their judges suppose their
modes of proceeding unsuitable to it. In the case of the Coustancia, the -res was in the custody Qf the court of admiralty,
yet tbat court denied the existence of a maritime lien, or that
any liability of the freighters against the ship could be enforced
there. And this. is equally apparent from the doctrines'of the
courts of chancery an law. In Hallett v. Bonsfield, (18 Vesey,
jr., 18') which Was the case of a shipper whose property
been overthrown to lightn a ship in a storm, and Wo moved
12
Vo. xx

Ma

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont.& Niemours It Co. v. Vance et al.

to restrain the master and ship-owner from: delivering any part

any
of the cargo and receiving the freight, or parting wi
share of the ship, Lord Eldon said, "that in such a case there
is a lien upon the goods of each freighter, for contribution and
average, in some sense; that is, the master is not bound to
part with any part of the cargo until he has security from each
person for his proportion of the loss; but there is no authority,
that on the ground that he has a lien to the extent of entitling
him to call on every person to give security for the amount o
their average when it shall be adjusted, every owner of anpart
of the cargo can compel the captain to do so; and it strikes
me, upon the short time I have had to consider it, that is a
length the plaintiff cannot reach. The defendant it is true is
a trustee for others, but the nature of the trust is regulated by
the practice; and there is no instance of an action, or a suit in
equity, to effectuate the lien, otherwise than through the right
of the master to take security; that practice ascertaining the
true nature and extent of the trust." This lucid statement of
the English law explains the meaning of the older class of writers on commercial law, when they speak of the master's lien,
and his duty to settle an average account.
Valin observes, that the article of the ordinance of 1681,
which confers a right of detention upon the master, does not
impose an imperative obligation upon him, and that he may
deliver to each freighter his goods, without fear of conse'quences, unless specially required to withhold them. And
other writers'concur in the opinion, that the -freighters, under
that ordinance, had no action against one another. (Boucher
Droit Mar., 450, 451.)
Lord Tenterden cites this case from Vesey, jr., without dissent, in his work on shipping, (Abb. on Ship., 508;) and in
Simonds v. White, (2 B. and G., 805,) he describes the power
or the master over the goods "as a power of detention," given
in order that the expense, inconvenience, and delay of actions
and suits, may be avoided. This court, 'in Cutler v. Rae, (T
Howard, 729,) declared that the party entitled to contribution
"has no absolute and unconditional lien upon the goods liable
to contribute. The captain has a right to retain them until the
general average with which they are charged has been paid or
secured; and, that this right of retainer is a "qualified lien,"
"dependent on the possession of the goods by the master or
ship-owners," and "ceases when they are delivered to the owner..
or consignee;" "and does not follow them into their hands, nor
adhere to the proceeds;" and a corresponding opinion of Lord
Tenterden is to be found in Scaife v. Tobin, (3 Barn. and Ad.,
523,) in which he says, "a consignee Who is the absolute own-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
-

.Dupow& .emour

i'o.
"

.179

v. Vance e al;

er of the good is liable to pay general average, because the
law throws upon him that liability; but a mere consignee, who
is not the owner,, is not liable." And this demonstrates that
the lien for average is not a maritime lien. A m ritime lien
does not include or require possession. The claim or privilege
travels with the thing, into whosesoever possession it may come.
it is inchoate from the moment the claim or privilege attaches,
and when carried into effect by.legal process, by a proceeding
in rem, relates back to the period when it first attached. (liarmer v. Bell, 2 L' id Eq., 63.) These cases show, that-neither
in the adjudications of the courts -ofGreat Britain or the United States, nor in t.ie usages of their merchants, is there any
sanction for the doctrinds of this decree. No adjudication daring sixty years of our history is to be found, where the power
to adjust or t6 eollect an average account is affirmed, or has
been exerted by the district courts sitting- in admiralty, upon
direct application to 1hem for the purpose.
The importance of the subject will justify me in an examination of'the continental authorities, which are supposed to
establish the existence of a maitime lien for contribution.
The ancient codes do nothing more than recognise the existence of a rule of contribution -inregard to losses arising from
a jettison, or cases of a similar. character, and the master's
power of detention of the cargo saved, for the security or payment of the contributory shares, but they do not ascribe any
greater operation to the rule, either inaffecting property or in
designating the jurisdictions to which the enforcement of the
rule should be committed.
The leading authority cited for the doctrine, that average
affords'a maitime lien on.the property saved, is found in a
line 6f Emerion; who says, "the action ii contribution is real
•i, its nature.'
But that author discriminates the feature in a real action to
which the action in contribution has any resemblance. The
feature is, "that the action vanishes if the effects saved by
means of the jettison perish before arkiving at their destination.".
The real action is for a.thing, or to assert some right in it,
and is rminAted by Its surrender, or destruction without the
fault of the possessor. ,So long as the ship and cargo are exposed to peril in the same voyage in which the Jett son is
ade, the action in contribution is inchoate, and dependent on
the ultimate safety of the thing; and thas far it resembles a
real action. But when the safety of the ship and cargo is confrmd, the liability of the contributories becomes personal,
and the sums due are recoverable without further reference to

180

SUPREME COURT.
Dupont de ifemoura i Co. v. Vance et al.

them; in France, by action in contribution; and in England,
by a bill in equity for contribution, or action of assumpsit. It
is a great mistake to suppose that the action in contribution
was a hypothecary action, as I shall hereafter show.
In the time of Emerigon it was thrown upon the master,
as the legal attorney of all persons interested in the ship and
cargo. It was his duty to collect the contributory shares,
and to pay them among' the parties concerned; but he was
not liable for the shares of insolvents, nor obliged, to detain
the goods, and that was an unusual, if not an unprecedented
remedy.
• The orslinance of 1681 simply permitted this remedy to be
used. This ordinance was defective, in not defining the rights
of the master in the goods liable to contribution. The ordinance id not take the precaution to establish the existence
and legitimacy of privileged claims, is the testimony of those
who framed the Code of Commerce of Napoleon. (3 Locre
Qom., 22.) The Code of Commerce was framed to repair
what was considered a defect. In reference to average, it provides, "that in all the cases before mentioned, the master and
mariners have a privilege on the goods of their proceeds for
the amount of the contribution." This clause was not in the
"Proijt" of the commissio, nor in their revision; but after
successive c1ianges, the article appears in this form for the first
time in the final draught of the code. Thejus in re is conferred by this clause on the master, and he may proceed to enforce
his rights by judicial seizure and sale, or opposition, or he may
sue each contributory for his share in contribution, and is responsible in an action to each of them. But the evils of dormant liens are removed by limitations upon the extent and
duration of the claim. The code bars actions against the
freighter who receives his goods and pays his freight without
a legal notice of the claim for average; and each claim must
be notified in twenty-four hours to the opposite party, and be
pursued by judicial demand in one month. (Thier Droit Coo.,
41, 124, 277; 4 Locre Com.; 8 Pard. Droit Zo., sec. 750; 18
Dali., 544.)
Other articles define the liability of the owner, and the contribatory share of the ship and cargo, the responsibility of the
master, and create a privilege upon the ship and freight to
answer the agreements of the charter-party, and whatever defaults of the master and mariners. (Thiernt Con. Droit, 28,
sec. 2; 29, see. 11; Code do, Com., 190, secs. 11, 216, 222,280.)
The commentaries of Pardessus, Locr6, Boulay, Paty, ad
other authors, are made upon these enactments of rench
statute law. They affirm that these articles establish, as thU

DECEMBER TERM 1856.
DUpot 4 NeMOuR t Co. V. Fan

181

et aL

law of France, that the frieghter of a ship is obliged, by a
contract"or quasi contract to the master, to contribute his
share of an average contribution; and that the master engages
to indemnify the freighter whose property has suffered or
been sacrificed for the common benefit; aAd that reciprocal
rights of action are given to either party. I have no occasion
to question the accuracy of their conclusions, nor to deny that
the code itself embodies the 'usages, experience, and regulations, of the French nation in the management of their commerce, and is adalted to the wants and habits of their merchants. And no one can doubt that the authority of Louis
X=V and lNapoleon *as adequate to the introduction of the
ordinance and the code. But the question arises here-and it
is one of grave import to those who desire to preserve the
Constitution of the Union inviolate, and the limits it prescribes
to the judicial pover of the Federal Government, and the lines
of division among the Federal courts undisturbed-the question arises, by what authority is it that the commercial system
of France, the product of the legislative authority of her. monarchs, has become the basis for judicial decision in the courts
of the United States, and her legal administration of purely
municipal regulations is taken as a guide to determine the
jurisdictional limits of those courts ofjustice? That Congress
may prescribe rules in reference to the settlement of average
contributions, arising in fhe foreign or federal commerce of
the country, may be -admitted, and also may assimilate. the
American and French systems of commercial regulation. But
I am not prepared to admit that this can be done by judicial
authority.
The commercial systems of Great Britain and the United
States .recognise no such contract between' the masters and
freighters as the French code establishes; they invest the master with no such privilege ripon the property of the shippers;
they confer no such powers to maintain suits, and subject him
to no such liabilities. The policy and spirit of the British and
American commercial systems tend to "restrain the agency and
control of subordinates to precise'limits in settlements or contests with respect to property and obligations; wherever it can
be done, they bring the owners of the property, and the principals in the obligations, to -confront one 'another. In my
opinion, this decree introduces a new principle into the American commercial system, and that this interpolation adds to
the jurisdiction of the judiciary department of this Government. This is done.by judicial authority., In my opinion,
the Constitution does not give such a power to this court. I
therefore dissent from the decree.
-

182

SUPREME COURT.
Steamer Virginia v. West et al.

Having carefully examined the foregoing opinion of Mr.
Justice CAMPBELL, after it was in print, I am satisfied with
J. CATRON.
its correctness, and concur therein.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit-Court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it isnow here ordered, iidjudged, and
decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, witihout costs,
and that this cause be and the same is heieby remanded t6 the
said Circuit Court, with directions to ascertain the amount of
the lien of the libellants on the Ann Elizabeth, for the share
to be contributed by the vessel towards the loss sustained by
the libellants, and to enter a decree accordingly.

THE CLAIMANTS AND OWNERS 'OFTHE

STEAMER VIRGINIA,

AP-

PELLANTS, V. MICHAEL W. 'WEST, -WILLIAM T. BELL, ALBERT
R. HEATH, AND JAMES J. EDWARDS, PARTNERS, UNDER THE
FIRM OF HEATH & EDWARDS; THOMAS C. BUNTING AND -

LECATO, PARTNERS, UNDER THE FIRM OF

AND JOHN

BUNTING &

LEcATO,

M. HENDERSON.

Where an appeal is taken to this court, the transcript of the record must be filed
and the case docketed at the, term next succeeding the appeal.
Although the case must be dimissed if the transcript is not filed in time, yet the
appellant can prosecute another appeal at atny time within five years from the
date of the decree, provided the transcript is filed here and the case docketed at
the term next succeeding the date -of such second appeal.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.

fr. Johnson moved to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground
that the record was not filed in time.
Mr. Chief Justice TANREY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the district of
Maryland.
The decree from which, the appeal has been taken was passed

by the Circuit Court on the 17th day of November, 1855, and
the 6ppeal was prayed on the same day in open court. But it
was not prosecuted to the next succeeding term of this court,

