SUPREME
NcRea et aZ. v. Branc

O0URT.
Bank of Alabama.

MARGARET MCREA AND BRACy'MCREA, ADMINISTRATORS OF
JoHx I). BRACY, APPELLXNTS, v. THE BRANCH OF THE BAK
OF THE STATE or ALABAMA AT MOBILE.
Where money was borrowed from a bank upon a promissory note, signed by the
principal and two tureties, and the principal debtor, by way of counter security,
conveyed certain property to a trustee, for the purpose of indemnifying his sureties, it was necessary to make the trustee and the cestui que trust parties to a bill
filed by the bank, asserting a special lien upon the property thus conveyed.
But where the principal debtor hdd made a fraudulent conveyance of the property,
which had continued in his possession, after the execution of the first deed, and
then died, a bill was good, which was filed by the bank against the administrators, for the purpose of setting aside the fraudulent conveyance, and bringing
the property into the assets of the deceased, for the benefit of all creditors who
'might apply.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Arkansas, sitting in equity.

.The bill was filed by the Branch Bank of Alabama, under
the circumstances which are stated in the opinion of the court.
It had a double aspect; first, setting up a lien upon the slaves,
by virtue of the deed of trust to Gale; and secondly, as a creditor in common with others, to set aside the bill of sale to
Margaret McRea, as fraudulent and void, as against creditors.
The Circuit Court decreed that the bill of sale from John
D. Bracy to Margaret McRea'was fraudulent and void, made
for the purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding the
credito s of Bracy, and especially the complainants.
They
therefore decreed that it should be set aside, and in case the
administrators did not pay the account of the Bank, which had
been presented to them, that the marshal should sell the slaves
for the benefit of all the creditors of Bracy who should signify
their- willingness to come in and bear their share in the costs
and expenses incurred, in the mode which is customary in a
creditor's bill.
From this'decree the administrators appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. Lawrence for the appellee, no
counsel appearing for the appellants.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the eastern district of Arkansas.
It appears from the allegations of the bill, which are supported by the proofs, that in December, 1843, John D. Bracy,
then a resident of Alabama, borrowed of- the Branch of the

Bank of the State of Alabama at Mobile (the appellees in this

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
.cRea

877

e al. v. -Branch Bank of Alabama.

case) the sum of $9,065, and that Maria Matheson, who was
his mother, and another person, joined in the promissory note
which was given to the bank for the loan. To indemnify Mrs.
Matheson, Bracy conveyed certain negro slaves to one Gale, in
trust, to save her harmless. The debt not being paid at maturity, the bank recovered a judgment on it in November, 1845.
The trustee afterwards sold some of the slaves, and their price
was applied to reduce the debt; but some time in the year
1846, 3racy privately left the State of Alabama, and carried
away with him the residue of the slaves, and some other property, not leaving, so far as appears, any other p~operty in that
State, out of which the judgment in favor of the bank could
be satisfied. He appears to have been for a time in the State
of Mississippi. Sometime in 1847 he went to Louisiana; and
in the year 1848 he removed with these slaves to White county, in the State Qf Arkansas, where he employed them.in making some improvements on a tract of Government land,
where he and'they resided. In September, 1849, Bracy went
to Louisiana, where Margaret MeRea, his sister, one of the
appellants, then resided, and there made a bill of sale of all the
slaves to her. She sent one of her sons to take possession of
them; and Bracy also returned to their place of residence, in
White county, where he continued to reside until the spring
of 1850, when Mrs. McRea moved thither; and from that time
they resided together, she having entered the land -n which
the plantation was, and taken a title in her own name. Bracy
continued to reside there, having the principal ostensible man-,
agement of the 'bu.iness of the plantation, until about a year
before his decease, in April, 1852, when he removed to the
county town, about six miles distant, to practise his profession
as an attorney. He died deeply insolvent, the debts proved
against his estate being upwards of fourteen thousand dollars;
the sales of all his inventoried effects amounting only to the
sum of $345.90. The bill asserts a lien on these slaves by
virtue of the tr ust-deed, of -which it avers Mrs. McRea had
notice when she purchased. But our opinion is, that Gale,
the trustee, and Mrs. Matheson, the cestui que trust, are indispensable palties to a bill for the subjection of this property to
the claim of the bank, by virtue of the trust-deed. 'Upon that
'footing the bill cannot be maintained.
But we are all of opinion, that the sale to Mrs. McRae was
in fraud of creditors;.and especiilly .of the bank. Without
detailing -the evidence, we think it. enough to say, that the
removal of the property frbm Alabama by Bracy, leaving the
judgment of the bank unsatisfied, his insolVedby, the relati n
between the parties, their subsequent residence together, the

SUPREME COURT.
Irsegan Central Railroad Co. v. Mchi'gan Southern lairoad Co. et at.

manner in which the property was held and managed, are
causes of very grave suspicion. The bill charges, that if this
property was conveyed to her, "it was. so conveyed with intent
and for the purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding the
creditors of the said John D. Bracy." The answer of Mrs.
McRae does not deny this allegation.
In the course of responding to the claim of the bill founded
on the trust-deed, her answer says: "She therefore charges,
that there was no encumbrance whatever on the said slaves, or
any of them, at the time she purchased them; and avers that
she purchased them in good faith, and without any notice or
knowledge whatever of a subsisting, lien upon them by virtue
of said deed-of trust."" We understand this averment of good
faith on her part to relate simply to her ignorance of a lien by
the trust-deed, and that it does not meet the explicit allegation
in the bill, that the purpose of the sale was to conceal the property from creditors;. and though the failure of the answer to
meet this charge in the bill does not operate as a technical
confession of its truth, it does lay a foundation for the belief
that if the defendant could have truly denied it, she would not
have foregone the decided advantage of such a denial in an
answer which puts the complainant on proof of the contested
fict by more than one witness.
The answer alleges, that the agreed price of the sale was
$3,500, payable. in iustalments of 8875 each, in five, six, seven,
and eight years; and that four promissory notes were executed
accordingly. It does not say what was done with the notes,
after they were executed. 1o such notes'were found among
the effects of Bracy, to be inventoried. Neither of these notes,
if in existence, had become payable when this bill was filed,
and we think the attempt to show that something had been
paid on account of them by the delivery qf some cotton is not
successful.
In our opinion, the charge in the bill, that the sale was fraudulent as to creditors, is made out inproof, and this is sufficient
to sustain the decree of the Circuit Court.
Tten decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed with costs.

THE

MICHIGAN- CENTRAL RAILROxD 'CoMPANY, PLAINTIFFS n?

ERROR, V. -THE MICHIGAN SOUTHE .N

RAILROAD

COMANY

ET AML.
Where a case is brought up to this court by a writ of'error Issued to the Supreme

Court of a State, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, if it appears

