DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

873

RB0erts T. CooPer.

We think the judgment of the court below right, and should
be affirmed.

ENoCH C. ROBRTS,

PLAINTIFF IN ERRROR,

v.

J

s M. CooPER.

Where the judgment of the Circuit Court, in an action of ejeetment, was against
the defendant, in which nomihal damages only were awarded, who sued out a
writ of error in order to bring the case belore this court, this court cannot grant
a motion to enlarge the security in the appeal bond, for the purpose of covering

apprehended damages, which the plaintiff below thinks fe may sustain by being
kept out of his land.

TnIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
It will be seen, by xeference to 18 Howard, that this court,
at the last term, in a case between these same parties, decided
in favor of Cooper's title to a tract of land in Michigan. In
order to recover a part of the tract which was not included in
the former suit, Cooper brought an ejectment against Roberts,
and obtained a judgment against him. Roberts then brought
the case up to this court by writ of error.
But in consequence of its being so low upon the docket as
not to be reached at the present term, Mr. Vmton, counsel for
Cooper, moved for an order requiring the plaintiff in error to
give additional security in the sum of $25,000, or for such
other sum as, in the judgment of the court, would be sufficient
to answer all damages and costs which Cooper might suffer if
the writ of error should not be prosecuted with effect; and
filed an affidavit by Cooper in support thereof.
The motion was argued by .r.
Hr. 1?omeyn against it.

Vin

in support, and by

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, Roberts, who is the plaintiff in error, on the
allowance of the writ of error, gave security in the sum of one
thousand dollars, conditioned that he would prosecute his writ
to effect, and answer all damages and costs if he failed to make
his plea good. Cooper now declares that the bond for one
thousand dollars is not sufficient to answer all the damages
and costs, if Roberts should fail to prosecute his writ to effect,
and refers to an affidavit filed by him as the basis of this
motion to show that fact.
Mr. Vinton, counsel of Cooper, now moves the court for an
order requiring Roberts to give additional security in the sum

a74

SUPREME COURT.
Bobirt

y.

Coo.Per.

of twenty-five thousand dollars, or such other sum as the court
may deem to be sufficient to cover all damages which Cooper
may suffer, if the writ of error should not be prosecuted with
effect.
The case between the parties is for the recovery of land in
ejectment. Cooper represents that he holds the legal title to
the land in controversy in trust for the National Mining
Company, incorporated by the Legislature of the State of
Michigan, to carry on the business of -mining for- copper, and
that he is the secretary and treasurer of the company; that
he instituted this suit to recover the possession of this land for
them, that they might have the use and occupation of it for
their chartered purposes. It is also stated by the affiant that
a decision had been given by the Supreme Court of the United
States at its last term, on a writ of error to the Circuit Court
for the district of Michigan, between the same parties in controversy, for the same land, establishing, on the merits of the
case, the title of the affiant to the land, and that the mining
company, in consequence of it, had prepared to prosecute its
mining business to the extent of their ability upon the land,
which is known to contain a very valuable deposit of copper
ore, which could be worked with great profit; and that the
company was prevented from working he deposit, in consequence of the pending writ of error, which Roberts sued out
upo2 a judgment which had been rendered in this case aginst
m, and in favor of the legal title of the affiant, in the *rcui
Court of the United States for the district of .Michtan,at its last
term. And the affiant also states that the damages which the
company will sustain by the delay caused by the writ of error
will amount to at least the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars,
and to a larger amount, if Roberts shall not prosecute his writ
of error to effect.
We have not been able to find a precedent for this motion.
The counsel making it did not cite one, but relied upon that
part of the twenty-sqcond, -twenty-third, and twenty-fourth
sections of the judiciary act of 1789, the first of which declares
that every justice or j dge signing a citation on any writ of
error shall take good and sufficient security that,the plaintiff
in err6r shall prosecute his. writ to effect, and answer all
damages and costs if he fall to make his plea good, which,
considered in connection with the twenty-third and twentyfourth sections, he thought, empowered this court to grant the
motion. In our interpretation, and the proper application of
those sections, regard must be had to the nature of the action
upon which a writ of error--has been brought, and to the
damages to which a plaintiff who has had a verdict and judg-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

875

Bobra v. Cooper.

ment may be entitled. If it be for a money demand, on which
a sum certain has been given by a judgment, it is the duty of
the judge, who signs the citation on a writ of error, to take
care that good and sufficient security is given. Should it-be
neglected, and it shall be brought to the notice of this court,
when such a case is before it upon a writ of error, upon a
motion to enlarge the security, this court would take care that
the party claiming its intervention should have the full benefit
of the security intended by the law, on' a case when the writ
of error was a supersedeas.
But when a verdict and judgment upon it has been had in
ejectment, on -which nominal damages. are only awarded,
(except in cases between landlord and tenant, and that in
England, in virtue of the statute of 1 George IV, chap. 87,
sec. 2,) and a writ of error has been'sued out by the defendant,
and security given, -as has been done in this case, this court
cannot interfere to enlarge the security, to cover damages
which' a plaintiff may recover in an action for mesne profts,
or for any other losses which he may allege he will sustain by
being kept out of the possession of his land by any delay there
may be in prosecuting the writ of error. Besides, this court
cannot award damages in any case brought to it by writ of
error, or require an enlargement of a bond given upon a writ
of error, except as it is. authorized to do in the twenty-third
and twenty-fourth sections of the judiciary act of 1789, neither
of which comprehend cases of apprehended losses, except
when they are a part of the original suit, and then only "when.
its reversal is in favor of the plaintiff. or petitioner in the
original suit, and the damages to be assessed or the matter to
be decreed are uncertain; in which case, the cause is remanded
for a final decision."
We must deny this motion. It is not provided for by any
legislation of Congress. And the utmost extent for which the
enlargement of security upon nominal damages in ejectment
has been found necessary in England, is given by the statute
16 Charles II, sec. 8; and that is, where a defendant there
brings error, he may be bound to the plaintiff in such reasonable sum as the"court shall think proper, which sum has been
settled at double the amount of one year's rent. (4 Burrows,
2,502.) The courts in England will also oblige a defendant
in ejeetment, who brings error, to enter into a rule or undertaking not to commit waste or destruction pending the writ.
(8 Burrows, 1,823; Palmer's Practice in theRouse of Lords,
159.)
The motion to enlarge the security in this case ia overruled.

