DECEMYfBER TERM. 1856.
-7hited

tats v. Le .Baron.

It is not material in the present report to state the nature
of the case.
It was argued by -r.Butler for the appellant, and by .Mr.
Johnson for the appellees.
'pinion
of the court.
Mr.*Justice CURTIS delivered the
This. is'an appeal from the decree of the District Court of
the United.States for the northern district bf Alabama, having
.the powers of a circuit. court. The appellant filed his bill in
that court to charge a legacy on proIerty alleged to have come
to the hands of the respondents, an to be chargeable with its
Ikayment. After answers had been filed,-and while exceptions
to one of the answers were pending, the respondents moved
to dismiss the bill. for want of equity, and the court ordered it
to be dismissed. This was irregular, and the decree must be
reversed. It is understood to be in conformity with the practice of the State courts of Alabama to entertain such a motion
at any stage of the proceedings. But the equity practice or
the courts of the United States is governed by the rules prescribed by this court, under the authority conferred-upon it
by thQ act of Congress, (McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet., 620;)
and is the same in all the States; And this practice does not
sanction the dismissal of the bill on a motion made while
the parties are perfecting.the pleadings.. The question whether
the bill contains any equity, may be raised by a demurrer. If
the defendant answer, this question cannot be rised until the
hearing. Non constat that a defect may not be removed before the hearing.
The case must be remanded to the Circuit Court, and if any
defects.exist ihthe bill capable of being cured by amendments,
s no replication has been filed, it is within the rules of ordinary.practice to allow them to be made.

THEs UNITED STATES, PLAINTIF

nr ERROR, V. CARLES LE

BALtoN.
A deed speaks from the time' of its delivery, not from its date.
The bond of a deputy postmaster takes effect and speaks from the time that it
reaches the Postmaster General and is iccepted by fiim, and not from the day

of its date, or from the time when it is deposited in the post office to be sent
forward.
The difference explained between a bon.d of this description and a bond given by
a collector of the customs.

74

SUPREME COURT.
Unid States v. Le Baron.

The -nomination to an office by the President, confirmation by the Senate, signature of the commission, and affixing to it the seal of the United States, are all
the acts necessary to render the appointment complete.
Hence, the appointment is not rendered invalid by the subsequent death of the
President before the transmission of the commission to the appointee, even
where it is necessary that the person appointed should perform certain acts before he can legally enter upon the duties of the office.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of
Alabama.
It was an action of debt upon the bond of a deputy postmaster at Mobile, signed Oliver S. Beers, the officer, and
Charles Le Baron and George N. Stewart, his sureties.
The statement of the case contained in the opinion of the
court renders it unnecessary to recite the demurrers to the
declaration and pleas, or the replications and rejoinders which
were in the record. The point in dontroversy was found in
the following charge given to the jury:
Upon this evidence the court charged the jury, that the recital in the condition of the bond sued on, "whereas Oliver
S. Beers is deputy postmaster at Mobile," relates to-the office
he held when the bond. was signed, and could not refer to a
term of office not yet commenced.
The court further charged and said, that, according to the
strict propriety of langrage,-the said recital kelates io the precise period of timewhen the recital was written, (speaking as
it does of the present time,) and not to the time when it was
executed by its delivery, which the admitted proof shows took
place on a subsequent day.
That at the time said bond was signed, the said Beers was
not in office under his appointment, by and with the advice
and conseht of t-he Senate, and therefore they, the jury, ought
to find for the defendant.
To which charge of the court the plaintiffs, by their attorneys, then and there excepted, and asked the court to charge
the jury that the bond related to, and was intended to provide,
a security for the faithful discharge by Beers of the duties of
the office of deputy postmaster at Mobile, under the appointment by and with the consent of the Senate; which charges
the court refused to give; and plaintiffi then and there excepted, and asked the court to charqe the jury that it wa--for
them to determine to which term of said office the said bond
related, and that the recital in it, that "Beers is deputy postmaster at Mobile, must be considered as made at the time
when the bond was delivered and executed; which charge the
court also refused to give; and the plaintiffs then and there

DECMBER TERM, 1856.

75

United Swtaes v. Le Baron.

excepted to such refusal, and prayed the court to sign and
seal this their bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly,
in term time.
JoH GALE, Judge. [sEAL.]
The case was argued by Mr. Ciasin (Attorney General) for
the United States, and by Mr.Stewart for the appellee.
Mr. Justice CURTIS 'delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Alabama, in an action of
debt, founded on an official bond of Oliver S. Beers, as deputy
postmaster at Mobile, the defendant being one of his sureties.
It appeared, on the trial in the Circuit Court, that Beers was
appointed to that office by the President of the United States,
during the recess of the Senate, and received a commission,
bearing date in April, 1849, to continue in force until the end
of the next session of the Senate, which terminated on the
thirtieth day of September, 1850.
It also appeared, that in April, 1850, Beers was nominated
by the President
to the Senate, as deputy postmaster at M[obile;
and the nomination having been duly confmed, a commission
wasmade out and siged by President Taylor, bearing date
on the twVenty-second day of'April, 1850; but it had not been
transmitted to Beers on the fert day of July, 1850, when the
bond declared on bears date. Beers took charge of the post
office at Mobile before his seond appointment, and continued
o act, without intermission, until he was removed from oce
'in February, 1853. The default, assigned as a breach of the
bond, was admitted to have occurred under his second appointment; and the principal question
upon this writ of error is,
whether the bond declared on secures the faithfal performance
first or under the second
the
under
office
of the duties of the
dthe condition of the bond recites: "Wnereas the said Oliver S. Beers isdeputy postmaster at Mobile aforesaid," &c.
The first inquiry is, to what dat is this recital to be referred?
it reThe district judge, held
who by
presided
at the trial,
ruledwas
thatsigned.
the bond
Beers when
the
to office
ferred
The delivery of a deed is presumed to have been made on the
day of its date. But this presumption may be removed by
'evidence that it was delivered on some subsequent day; and
when a delivery on some subsequent day is shown, the deed
speaks on that subsequent day, and not on the day of its date.
In Clayton's case, (5 Go., 1,) a lease, bearing date on the
26th of May, to. hold for three years "oh henefor " was

76

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Le Baron.

delivered on the .20th of June. It was resolved, that cfrom
henceforth" should be accounted from the day of delivery of
the indentures, and not from the day of their date; for the
words of an indenture are not of any effect until deliverytradidio loqui facit chartam.

So in Ozkey v. Hicks, Cro. Jac., 263, by a charter-party,
under seal, bearing date on the. 8th -of September, it was
agreed that the defendant should pay for a moiety of the corn
which then was, or afterwards should be, laden on board a
certain vessel. The defendant pleaded'that the deed was not
delivered until the 28th of October, and that on and after that
day there was no corn on -board; and on demurrer, it was held
a good plea, because the word then was to be referred to the
time of the delivery of the deed, and not to its date.
And the modern case of Steele v. March, 4 B. and C., 272,
is to the same point. A lease purported on its face to have
been made on the -25th of March, 1783, habendum from the
25th of March now last past. It was proved that the delivery
was made after the day of the date, and the Court of King's
Bench held that the word now referred to the time of delivery,
and not to the date of the indenture.
At the trial in the Circuit Court, it appeared that on the
day after the date of the bond, Beers, in obedience to instructions from the Postmaster General, deposited it, together with
a certificate of his oath of office under his last appointment,
in the mail, addressed to the Postmaster General at WashnrBroome v. The United States, 15 How., 143, it was held
that a collector's bond might be deemed to be delivered when
it was put in a course of t ansmisson to the Comptroller of the
Treasury,- whose duty it is to examine and approve or reject
such bonds. But this decision proceeded upon the ground
that the act of Congress requiring these bonds, and their approval, had allowed the collectqr to exercise his office for three
months without a bond; and that consequently the approval
and delivery were not necessarily simultaneous acts, nor need
the approval precede the delivery; and the distinction between
bonds of collectors and tiose of postmasters is there adverted
to. The former may take- and hold office for three months
without a bond. The latter must give bond, with approved
security, on their appointment; and there is no time allowed
them, after entering on their offices, to comply with this requi±ement. The bond. must therefore. be accepted by the
Postmaster General, as sufficient in point of amount 'and
security, before it can have any effect as a contract. -Otherwise, the postmaster inight enter on the office merely on giving

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

77

United Sltate v. Le Baron.

a bond, which, on its presentation, the Postmaster General
might reject as insufficient.
In other words, the person appointed might act without any
operative bond, which, we think, was not intended by Congess. It is like the case of Bruce et al. v. The State of Marynd, 11 Gill and John., 382, where it was held that the bond of
a sheriff took effect only when approved by the county court;
because it was only bn such approval that the sheriff was authorized to. act.
The purpose of the obligee was to become security for one
legally authorized to exercise the office; not for one who enters
on it unlawfully, because he failed to comply with the requirement to furnish an approved bond; and this purpose can be
accomplished only by holding that the appointee cannot act,
and the bond cannot take effect, until it is approved. Our
opinion is, therefore, that this bond speaks only from the time
when it reached the Postmaster General, and was accepted by
him; that until that time it was only an offer, or proposal of
an obligation, which became complete and effectual by acceptance; and that, unlike the case of a collector's bond, which is
not a conditiQn precedent to his taking office; and which may
be intended to have. a retrospective operation, the bond of a
postmaster, given on his a ppointment, cannot be intended to
relate back to any earlier date than the time of its acceptance,
because it is only after its acceptance that there can be any
such holding of the office as the bond was meant to appl to.
Now, at the time when this bond was accepted by the lostmaster.General, Beers had been nominated and confirmed as
deputy postmaster; he had given bond in such a petalty, and
with such security, as was satisfactory tfo the Postmaster General; he had taken the oath of office, and there was evidence
that a certificate thereof had been filed in the General Post
Office.
Upon this state of fact , we are of opinion that at that time
his holding under the first appointment had been superseded
by his holding under the second appointment; and when the
bond says, "is now postmaster," it refers to such holding under the second appointment, and is a security for the faithful
discharge of his duties under the second appointment.
It was suggested at the argument, that this bond was not, in
point of fact, taken in reference to the new appointment, but
was a new bond, called for by the Postmaster General under
the authority conferred on him by the act of July 2, 1"836. 5
Stat. at Large, 88, sec. 37.
Td this there are several answers. No such ground appears
to have been taken at the trial, and the rulings of the court,

78

SUPREME COURT.
Uniud Stata v. Le Baron.

which were excepted to by the plaintfif in error, precluded any
such inquiry. These rulings were, that-the holding to which
the bond referred was a holding on the first day of July, and
that Beers was in office on that day under the first appointment, and not under the second. This put an end to the
claim, and rendered a verdict for the defendant inevitable.
But if this were otherwise, parol or extraneous evidence that
the bond was not intended to apply to the holding under the
second appointment, because it was a new bond taken to supersede an old one, would be open to the objections which the
defendants in error have so strenuously urged.
There is no ambiguity in the bond. It refers to a holding at
some particular date. The law determines that date to be the
time When the bond took effect. Nothing remains but to determine upon the facts, under which appointment Beers then
held; this also the law settles, and when it has thus been ascertained that he then held under the second appointment, evi-.
dence to show that the bond was not intended to apply to that
appointment would directly contradict the bond, for it would
show it was not intended to apply to the appointment which
Beers then held, while the bond declares it was so intended.
The defendant in error further insists, that Beers was not in
office, under the second .appointment, at the time this bond
took effect, because the commission sent to him was signed
by President Taylor, and was not transmitted until after his
death.
When a person has been nominated to an office by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and his commission has been
sined by the President, and the seal of the United States
amxed thereto, his appointment to that office is complete. Congress may provide, as it has done in this case, that certain acts
shall be done by the appointee before he shall enter on the possession of the office under his appointment. These acts then
become conditions precedent to the complete investiture of the
office; hut they are to be performed by the. appointee, not by
the Executive; all that the Executive can do to invest the person with his office has been completed when the commission
has been sined and sealed; and when the person has perforni,
ed the required conditions, his title to'enter on the possessi6n
of the office is also complete.
The transmission of the commission to the officer is not
essential to his investiture of the office. If, by any inadvertence or accident, it should fail to reach him, his possession of
the office is as lawful as if it were in his custody. It is but
evidence of those acts of appointment and qualification which
constitute his title, and which may be proved by other evi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

79

Willot a al. v. ,Sandford.

dence, where the rule of law requiring the best evidence does
not prevent.
It follows from these premises, that when the commission of
a postmaster has been signed and sealed, and placed in the
]lands of the Postmaster General to be transmitted to the officer, so far as the execution is concerned, it is a completed act.
The officer has then been commissioned by the President pursuant to the .Constitution; and the subsequent' death of the
President, by whom nothing remained to- be done; can have
no effect ou that completed act. It is of no importance that
the person commissioned must give a bond and take an oath,
before he possesses the office under the commission; nor that
it is the -duty of the Postmaster, General to transmit the commission to the officer when he shall have done so, These are
acts of third persons. The President has-previously acted to
the full extent which he is required or enabled by the Constitution and laws to act in appointing and commissioning the
officer; and to the benefit of that complete action the officer is
entitled, vhen he fulfils the conditions on his part, imposed
by law.
We are of opinion, therefore, that Beers was-duly commssioned-uhdir his second appointment.
For these reasons, we hold the judgment of the Circuit Court
'to ave been erroneous, and it must be reversed, and the-cause
remanded with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.
Tz UNITED. STATE& PLATrS 1ROiN
En
I T UtITfed
StT
"

GsoRao N. STEWART.

In error to the Circui" 6You of -te lnifLr the
o edfe rn drit
of

J

Alabama.

Mr. Justice CURTIS.
The opinion of the court, in' the preceding case, deter'mines
ibis, and the judgment -of the Circuit Court must be reversed,
'I conformit with hat opinion.
SEBASTIAN WILLOT,

Jom McDoiTAL,. AND JosEpa HUNN,
PLAINT]biS IN ERIOR, v. JoN F. A. SA1DFORD.

Where thei are two confirmations by CQngress of the same land'in Missouri, the
elder confirmation gives 'the better title; and the jury are not at liberty, in an
action ot jectment, to- find that the ivey and patent did not correspond with
the confirmation.
Titles to lands thus situated could be confirmed; norrwere the lands affected by
the act of March 3, 1811, providing for the sale of public lands and the final
a4djustnient of land claims.

Tms case was brought uip, y writ of error, from the Circiit'Court of the United States for thedistrict of Missouri.

