DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
UMte

843

States v. .Peralta d al.

It was similar in most of its features to the preceding case,

and was argued by Mr. fallance for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Williams and Mt.
Gamble for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of Charles Ballance against Papin and Atchison,
the same title was relied on by the defendant below (Ballance)
that was set up in.defence in the preceding case of Forsyth v.
Brien and Rouse. The plaintiff sued to recover a village lot
in Peoria, No. 42, confirmed to Fontaine, in right of his wife,
Josette Cassarau, dit Fontaine. A plat of lot No. 42 was given
in evidence, gnd is found in the record, but no certificate of
the surveyor accompanies this plat, and without such certificate there is no evidence that lot-No. 42 was lawfully surveyed.
The act of 1823 (see. 2) required that a survey should be made
of each lot confirmed to the claimant, and. a plat thereof forwarded to the Secretary. The evidence of a legal United States
survey is not a mere plat, without any written description of
the land by metes and bounds; neither the plat, nor less proof
than a writte4 description, will make a record on which a
patent can issue. That most accurate evidence -of separate
surveys of the village lots of Peoria exists, we know; but as
none is found in this record of lot No. 42, it follows, from the
reasons given in the previous case, that no title was adduced
in the Circuit Court that authorized it to reject the instructions
demanded by the defendant; that, comparing the titles of the
parties by their face, the defendant's was the better one. But
as the same. question of the application of the act of limitations
arises in this case as it did in the former one, it must of course
have been reversed, had the certificate of survey been found
in the record. .We therefore order that the judgment be
reversed, and the cause remanded for another trial to be had
therein.
Mr. Justie6 McLEANK dissented.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. DOMINGO AND VICENTE
PERALTA.
Where a claimant of land in California produced documentary evidence in his
favor, copied from the archives in the office of the surveyor general and other
original grants by Spanish officers, the presumption is in favor of the power of
those officers to make the grants.

SUPREME COURT.
United State v.

eralla e at.

If the power be denied, the burden of proof is upon the party who denies .it.
The history bf California, with respect to the power of itsGovernors to grant
land, examined.
The boundaries of the tract of land, as decreed by the District Court, affirmed.

TBIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the southern district of California.
The nature of the claim, and a list of the documents in support of it, are given in the opinion of the court.
The decree of the District Court was as follows, viz:
That the claim presented in the petition filed in this case,
for the place called San Antonio, is valid to the whole extent
of its bounds, to wit: having for its northern boundary a line
commencing on the bay of San Francisco, at a point where
there are close to the said ba the two cerritos, as described in
the first possession given by Martinez to Louis Peralta, on the
16th of August, 1820, running from the said bay eastwardly
along by the southern base of the cerritos of San Antonio up
a ravine, at the head of which there is a large rock or monument looking to the north, described in evidence as the Sugarloaf Rock; thence by the southern base of said rock to the
comb or crest of the coast range of mountains, or the Sierra;
thence for the western boundary a line running along the comb
of the said Sierra, until it reaches the eastern extremity of a
line, beginning. on the said bay of San Francisco at the mouth
of the deep creek of San Leandro, and running eastwardly up
the said creek to its head or source in the Sierra, and to the
comb or crest thereof, which last line is the southern boundary
of the land of San .Antonio; and by the said bay of San Francisco, from the mouth of the said deep creek of San Leandro
up to the beginning of the said line, which has been described
as the -northern boundary of said tract, which line along the
bay constitutes its western boundary.
And it is hereby further adjudged, ordered, and decreed,
that there be confirmed to' the said Domingo and Vicente
Peralta, the northern portion of said land of San Antonio,
bounded as follows: On the north by the northern boundary
of said tract of San Antonio as. above described, on the east
the comb of the said Sierra, on the west by the bay of San
eisco,.-and on the south by a ravine a short distance south
of the buildings in the town of Oakland, on the north of which
ravine there is a small house in sight of the public road, being
the line of division between this land and the land of Antonio
Peralta, which -line extends from the said bay to the most
eastern boundary of the rancho of San Antonio.
The United States appealed- from this decree.

DECEMBER TERM 1856:-

845

UrnWe States V. .Peralta f 4a.

It as argued by -Mr. Gillet for the United States, and by
.Mr. Rose and .1r. Bibb for the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case originated before the commissionters for ascertainingand settling private land claims in California.
iDomingo and Vicente Peralta claimed as grantees and devisees of their father, Luis Peralta.
The documentary evidence filed in support of the claim consists of a true copy from the archives in the office of the surveyor general of California, containing, so far as they are
material in the present inquiry, the following averments:
1. The petition of Luis Peralta to the Governor for a grant
of land, extending from the creek of San Leandro to a small
mountain adjoining the sea beach, at the distance of four or
five leagues, for the purpose of establishing a rancho, dated
June 20, 1820.
2. The decree of Governor Sola, therein directing Captain
Luis Antonio Arguello to appoint an officer to place the petitioner in possession of the lands petitioned for, dated August
8, 1820.
3. Order of Captain Arguello, dated August 10, 1820, detailing Lieut. Don Ignacio Martinez for that purpose.
4. The relinquishment of Father Narciso Duran, on behalf
of the mission of San Jose, of any claim to the land, and reservingthe privilege of cutting wood on the same, which, he
says, should remain in common, dated August 16, 1820.
5. Under the same date, the return of Lieut. Martinez, upon
the order to give the possession, describing the boundaries, &c.
6. The decree of the Governor, directing a portion of the
lands assigned to Luis Peralta, by the foregoing act of possession, to be withdrawn, upon the reclamation of the mission of
San Francisco, who claimed that the said portion of the lands
was then in the occupancy of the mission as a sheep ranch.
7. The 6onsent of Father Juan Cabot and Paloz Ordez, ministers of the mission, that the boundaries of the land solicited
by Luis Peralta should be established at the rivulet, at the dis-,
tance of three and a half to four leagues from the rancho-house
of the mission.
8. The return of Maximo Martinez upon Governor Sola's
second decree for the delivery of possession, filing the boundaries in accordance with the claim of the mission, at a rivulet
which runs down from the mountains to the beach, where
there is a grove of willows, and about a league and a half from
the cerito (little mountain) of San Antonio, in the direction
of San Leandro.

846

SUPREME COURT.
Unde SWte v. Paa

eta

9. A document dated October, 1822, and signed Sola, setting
out, that on that day was issued in favor of Sergeant Luis Peralta, by the Governor of the province, the certifying document
for the land which has been granted him, as appears by the
writ of possession which was given him by the lieutenant of
his' company, Don Ignacio Martinez, in conformity with the
orders of the Government.
10. A letter from Luis Peralta, protesting against the claim
of the mission, dated October 14th, 1820.
11. A representation from Captain Don Luis Arguello to
the GoVernior, dated June 23, 1821, advocating the rights of
Sergeant Peralta, in opposition to those of the mission, to the
landin controversy; and, lastly, the description of the land returned by Luis Peralta, in obedience to the Government, of the
7th of October, 1827.
The claimants gave in evidence, also, the original grant from
Governor Sola to Luis Peralta, dated 18th of August, 1822;
the petition of Luis Peralta to Governor Arguello, praying the
restitution of the lands which had been taken from him on the
demand. of the mission; and the decree of Arguello, making
such restitution, and directing him to be again put in possession by.the same officer who had executed the former act of
possession. To this order, Maximo Martinez made a return,
uly executed, certifying that the grantee had been newly put
in possession of the, plee called "Cerito de St. Antonio, and
the rivulet which crosses the place, to the coast, where is a
rock looking to the north."
-It was further shown, from the public records, that on the
9th of April, 1822, the civil and military authorities of California formally recognised and gave in their adhesion 1o the new
Government of Mexico, according to the ilan of Iguala and
treaty of Cordova. Also, that in 1844, Ignacio Peralta, one of
the heirs of Luis Peralta, petitioned the Government for a new
title to the land claimed, in consequence of the original titlepapers having been lost or mislaid. The archives show, also,
that on the 13th of February, 1844, an order was made by
Micheltorena, that a title be issued. Of the same date, there is
the usual formal document "declaring Don.Luis Peralta owner
in fee of said land, which is bounded as follows:
"On the southeast by the creek of San Leandro; on the
northwest by the creek of -Los Ceritos de San Antonio, (the small
hills of San Antonio;) on the southwest by the sea; and on
the northeast by the tops of hills range, without prohibiting
the inhabitants -of Contra Costa from cutting wood for their
own use, they not to sell the same." This document contains
an order that "this espediente be transmitted to the depart.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

4T

Unid Statu v. P'eraia d al.

mental assembly for their approval," but nothing further appears to have been done, nor is the signature of Micheltorena
attached to the record.
The authenticity of these documents is admitted. The objections urged against their sufficiency to establish the claim
are: first, that the officers had no power to make grants of
land; and, second, that the northern boundary of the land described does. not extend beyond a certain creek or stream,
known by the name of San Antonio. This would exclude
about one half of the claim.
We are of opinion that neither of these objections is 6upported by the evidence in the case.
We have frequently decided that "the public acts of public
officers, purporting to be exercised in an official capacity, and
by public authority, shall not be presumed to be usurped, but
that a legitimate authority had been previously given or subseauently ratified." To adopt a contrary rule would lead to
nAnite confusion and uncertainty of titles. The presumption
arising from the grant itself makes it prima facie evidence of
the power of the officer making it, and throws the burden of
proof on the party denying it. The general powers of the Governors and other Spanish officers to grant lands within the colonies in full property, and without restriction as to quantity,
and in reward for important services, were fully considered by
this court in the case of United States v. Clarke, (8 Peters,
436.)

The appellants, on whom the burden of proof is cast, to
show want of authority, have produced no evidence, either
documentary or historical, that the Spanish officers who usually
aqted as Governors of the distant provinces of California were
restricted in their powers, and could not make grants of land.
The necessity for the exercise of such a power by the Governors, if the Crown desired these distant provinces to be settled,
is the greater, because of their distance from the source of
power. By the royal order of August 22, 1776, the northern
and northwestern provinces of Mexico were formed into a new
and distinct organization, called the Internal.Provinces of Nfew
Spain. This organization included California. It conferred
ample powers, civil, military, and political, on the Commandant
General. 'The archives of the former Government also show,
that as early as 1786, the Governors of California had authority
from the Commandant General to make grants, limiting the
number of sitios which should be granted. In 1792, California
was annexed to the viceroyalty of Mexico, and so continued
till the Spanish authority ceased. An attempt to trace the obscure history of the various decrees, orders, and regulations of

848

SUPREME COURT.
United Sta v. Perafta. d aL

the Spanish Government on this subject, would be tedious and
archives
of
thehas
unprofitable. It is sufficient for the case, that
been exthe Mexican Government show that such power
ercised by the Governors under Spain, and continued to be so
exercised under Mexico; and that such grants, made by the
Spanish officers, have been confirmed and held valid by the
Mexican authorities. Sola styles himself political and military
Governor of California. He continued to exercise the same
powers after his adhesion to the Mexican Government, under
the provisions of the plan of Iguala, and the twelfth section of
the treaty of Cordova. The, grant in fee, given by Sola, was
after the revolution.
I The Government of Mexico, since that time, has always respected and confirmed such concessions, when any equitable
or inchoate right, followed by possession and cultivation, had
been conferred. by the Governors under Spaln. The case of
Arguello (18 How., 540) was that of a permit by Governor
Sola, afterwards confirmed by the Mexican Government and
by this court. The plaintiff in error has not been able to produce anything from historical documents or the archives of
Californi, tending to show a want of power in the respective
officers in this case. On the contrary, the presumption of law
is confirmed by both. The order of Micheltorena, in 1844, for
the granting the new title to Peralta, is itself evidence of the
usage and custom, and that the acts of Sola and Arguello were
considered valid, and that the title, whether equitable or-legal,
conferred to them, should -be respected and confirmed by the
Government.
As the validity of the petitioner's title has been assailed on
the ground of want of authority alone, it is unnecessary to
notice more particularly the various documents exhibited in
support of it. The grant by Sola of a portion of the tract of
which Peralta had been originally put in possession, is a complete grant in fee for that portion. The restoration by Arguello of the original boundaries, by decree and act of the
public officer, inay not have the character of a complete grant;
but it is of little importance to the decision of the case, whether
-it conferred only an inchoate or equitable title, connected with
an undisputed possession of thirty years, and confirmed again
in 1844, by the order of the Governor of California; its claim
for protection under the treaty with Mexico cannot b'e doubted, notwithstanding its want of, confirmation by the departmental assembly.
The only remaining question is the position of the-northern
boundary line.
. Peralta's. original petition, in June, 1820, described the land

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
ZcCullOtig

d ca. V. Root dalc.

desired, as beginning at a creek called San Leandro, "and
from this to a white hill, adjoining the sea beach, in the same
direction, and along the coast four or five leagues."
The return of Ignacio Martinez, the officer who executed
the order for delivery of possession on the 16th of August,
1820, describes "the boundaries which separate the land of
Pefalta, to be marked out as follows: The deep creek called
San Leandro, and at a distance from this, (say five leagues,)
there -are two small mountains, (cerritos;) the' first is close to
the beach; next to it follows the San Antonio, serving as
boundaries, the rivulet which ispues from the mountain range,
and runs along the foot of said cerrito of San Antonio, and at
the entrance of a little gulch there is a rock elevating itself in
the form of a monument, and looking towards the north."
This is the description of the northern boundary. It refers to
stable monuments--two hills, a rivulet passing at their foot,
and a monumental rock. In other documents, Peralta speaks
of this line "as the dividing boundary with my neighbor,
Francisco Castro." Again, in the -return of Ignacio Martinez
to the order of the Governor, Arguello, in 1823, to redeliver
the possession to Peralta, up to his original boundary, he describes this within boundary by the same monument, "the
cerrito San Antonio, the arroyito or rivulet which crosses the
place to the coast, where is a rock looking to the north."
Lastly, the title of confirmation by Micheltorena in 1844, as
quoted above, though not in the very words of the above doeuments, clearly describes the same monuments. These hills,
rivulet, and rock, are well-known monuments, and their position is satisfactorily proved.
The testimony of the opinions of witnesses who have but
lately arrived in the country, who are ignorant of the language
and traditions of the neighborhood, and who are all intere'sted
in defeating the claim of the petitioners, can have little weight
against the knowledge of others who were present when the
lines were established, some thirty years ago, and have known
these boundaries till the present time.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

JOHN MCCULLOUGH A1D
ERROR,

CmRus D.

v.GURNSEY Y.

CULBERTSON, PLAINTIFFS IN
ROOTS AND ERASTUS P. COE.

Where a sale was made of merchandise, and two parties, viz: Roots & Coe as one

party, and Henry Lewis as the other party, both claimed to be the vendors, and

