72

SUPREME COURT.
Betts v. Lewis and W1life.

Whqn fraud is alleged as a ground to set aside a title, the
statute does not begin to run until the fraud is discovered;
and this is the ground on which the complainant asks relief.
But, in such a case, the bill must be specific in -stating the
facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud; and also
as to the time it was discovered. This is necessary to enable
the defendants to meet the fraud, and the alleged time of its
discovery. In these respects the bill is defective, and the evidence is still more so.
The complainant's counsel seem to suppose, that as the defendants in their answer admit the property, at least in part,
was originally acquired under a sale of Manton's administrator, they are bound to show the proceedings were not only
conformable to law, but that they must go further, and prove
the debts for which it was sold were due and owing by the
deceased. So far from this being the legal rule, under the
circumstances of this case, the presumptions are in favor of
the present occupants, and the complainants must show the
administrator's sale was illegal and void. After an adverse
possession of more than eighty years, when the facts have
passed from the memory, and, as in this case, the papers are
not to be found in the probate court, no court can require of
the defendants proof in regard to such sale. The burden of
proof falls upon him who attempts to disturb a possession of
ages, transmitted and enjoyed under the forms of law..
Whether we consider .the great lapse, of time, and the
change in the value of the property, or the statutes of limitation, the right of the complainant is barred. The decree of
the Circuit Court is affirmed.

BuER H. BETTS, API'ELLANT, 'V. JOHN H. LEwis,
M. F. LEiWsI,

lIs

AND MARY

WIFE.

According to the practice preseribed for the Circuit Courts, by this court, in
equity causes, a bill cannot be dismissed. on motion of the respondents, for want
of equity after answer and before the hearing.

TaIS was ai appeal from the District Court. of the 'United
States for the northern district of Alabama.
It was a bill filed by Betts against Lewis and wife, under
the iame eircumstances which gave rise to the case. of Lewis
v. Darling, reported in 16 Howard, 1. It will be seen by a
reference to that case, page 6, that Burr H. Betts waa one of
the legatees in the will of Samuel Betts.

DECEMYfBER TERM. 1856.
-7hited

tats v. Le .Baron.

It is not material in the present report to state the nature
of the case.
It was argued by -r.Butler for the appellant, and by .Mr.
Johnson for the appellees.
'pinion
of the court.
Mr.*Justice CURTIS delivered the
This. is'an appeal from the decree of the District Court of
the United.States for the northern district bf Alabama, having
.the powers of a circuit. court. The appellant filed his bill in
that court to charge a legacy on proIerty alleged to have come
to the hands of the respondents, an to be chargeable with its
Ikayment. After answers had been filed,-and while exceptions
to one of the answers were pending, the respondents moved
to dismiss the bill. for want of equity, and the court ordered it
to be dismissed. This was irregular, and the decree must be
reversed. It is understood to be in conformity with the practice of the State courts of Alabama to entertain such a motion
at any stage of the proceedings. But the equity practice or
the courts of the United States is governed by the rules prescribed by this court, under the authority conferred-upon it
by thQ act of Congress, (McDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet., 620;)
and is the same in all the States; And this practice does not
sanction the dismissal of the bill on a motion made while
the parties are perfecting.the pleadings.. The question whether
the bill contains any equity, may be raised by a demurrer. If
the defendant answer, this question cannot be rised until the
hearing. Non constat that a defect may not be removed before the hearing.
The case must be remanded to the Circuit Court, and if any
defects.exist ihthe bill capable of being cured by amendments,
s no replication has been filed, it is within the rules of ordinary.practice to allow them to be made.

THEs UNITED STATES, PLAINTIF

nr ERROR, V. CARLES LE

BALtoN.
A deed speaks from the time' of its delivery, not from its date.
The bond of a deputy postmaster takes effect and speaks from the time that it
reaches the Postmaster General and is iccepted by fiim, and not from the day

of its date, or from the time when it is deposited in the post office to be sent
forward.
The difference explained between a bon.d of this description and a bond given by
a collector of the customs.

