288

SUPREME COURT.
Farrdl1 ef al. v. Woodfol.

TERENCE FARRELLY, EDWARD 0. MORTON, ET AL.,

f[EIRS

-AIM

REPRESENTATIVES OF FREDERIC NOTRIBE, APPELLANTS, V. WIL-

.IAM
The rule

W. WOODFOLK.
with

respect to final and interlocutory decrees, which is applied to the

preceding case of Beebe et al. v. Russell, again affirmed and applied.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern distrint of Arkansas, sitting in chancery.
The bill was filed by Woodfolk, a citizen of Tennessee,
against the heirs and representatives of Frederic lNotribe and
others, for the purpose of obtaining a title to certain lands.
The court decreed that the defendants should procure the
legal extinguishment of the lien and encumbrance which
existed upon the lands, and convey them to the complainant
The decree also contained a reference to a master, with the
instructions which are stated in the opinion of the court. The
defendants appealed to this court.

The case was submitted by Mr. Pike for the appellants, and
Mr. leigs for the appellee.
Mr. Justice WAYNWE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case havino been submitted to the court upon printed
arguments, we fina from an examination of the record that the
appeal has been prematurely taken from an interlocutory and
not a final decree.
After reciting such facts in the case as the court deemed to
be necessary for understanding the subject-matter of controversy, and the court's directions in respect to the rights of
the complainant, the court then orders that the cause shall be
referred to the clerk of the court as a special master in chancery,
to take and state an account of the sum for which the lands
are bound under the mortgage exhibited in the pleadings in
the cause; and also to take and state an account, showing
what money and property Morton and his wife, and Mary T.
Notribe, widow of Frederic Notribe; have severally received,
and are entitled to receive, which were of the estate of Frederic
Notribe at the time of his death; and a further account, showing what portion of said estate, if any, remains to be administpred, setting forth all particulars thereof as far as practicable,
and if necessary to the due execution of this order. And the
master is directed to call for and examine on oath any of the
parties to this suit, and also to take testimony of witnesses
touching any of the matters aforesaid, and to make report to

289

DECEMBER TER ., 1856.
?abcoc v. Wyman.

this court. This is so obviously an interlocutory decree, that
we do not think it necessary to examine it in detail, to show
that a further and final decree is necessary, to give to the com'plainant any of the advantages to which the court in its
previous directions has declared him to be entitled.
For th ieasons given in the opinion in the case of Roswell
Beebe et al., appellants, v. William Russell, we therefore
direct this cause to be dismissed for want ofjurisdiction.

ARCHIBALD BABCOCK, APPELLAwT, v. EDWARD WYMi.
Paol evidence is admissible to show that a conveyance of property, absolute upon
the face of it, was really a mortgage or deed of trust.
In the present case, parol evidence, taken in conjunction with corroborating
circumstances, shows that the deed was not intended to be absolute.
The statute of limitations is not applicable, because the possession was not adverse.
So, also, the trustee is not protected by the statute, although he sold the land
and received the proceeds six years before the bill was filed, because it was his
duty to apply those proceeds to the reduction of the interest and principal of the
debt due to him when the deed was made.
[ML CHIEr JUSTICE TANEY

AND U.

JusTIn

DANW.

DID NOT

errII

TmS CAUSE.]

Tas was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the.United
States for the district of Massachusetts, sitting in equity.
The bill was filed by Edward Wyman, a citizen of Missouri,
and an assignee of Nehemiah Wyman, by a deed of conveyance made in 1853. The facts of the case are particularly
stated in the opinion of the court, and need not be repeated.
The decree of the Circuit Court was as follows, viz:
This case havinig been heard on the.bill of complaint filed
therein, and upon the answer'of the defendants thereto, and
upon the proof exhibited by the respective parties, and the
arties having been heard by their counsel, this court doth
eclare the conveyance of Nehemiah Wyman to said defendan4.
bearing date the twentieth day of November,. in the year one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight, to have been a
mortgage to secure the debts, the amount whereof is named
in said deed, as the consideration of the same; and that, at
the times of the sales of the lands in said conveyance set fortl
by the defendant, the assignor of the complainant had the
-right to redeem the same; and doth declare that the absolute
sales and conveyances by defendant of said land to bona fide
•purchasers for valuable consideration, without notice, was a
constructive fraud upon the rights 9f the assignor of complainant; and that therefore he became entitled, as against the
19
vOL. xx

