16

SUPREME COURT.
2ffe v. &uddq.

UpOn this view of the subject, it would be useless to grant
a rule to show cause; for if the Territorial court made a return stating what they had done, in the precise form in which
the sentence of dismissal now appears in thepapers exhibited
by the relator, a peiemptory mandamus could not issue to restore him to the office he has lost.
The motion must therefore be overruled.

WiLLiAm

A.

SHAFFER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,
SCUDDAY.

v, JAmE s

A.

Im 1841, Congress granted to the State of Louisiana 500,000 acres of land, for the
purposes of'internal improvement, and in 1849 granted also the whole of the
swamp and overflowed lands-which may be found unfit for cultivating.
In both cases, Vatents were to be issued to individuals under State authority.
In a case of conflict between two claimants, under patents granted by the State of
Louisiana, this court has no jurisdigtion, under the 25th section of the judiciary
act, to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, given in favor
of one of the claimants.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Louisiana by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of ihe court.
It was argued by. Mr. Benjamin-for the plaintiff in error,
and Mr. Taylor for the defendant.
Upon the question of jurisdiction, Mr. Benjamin's point wag
as follows:
The Supreme Court of Louisiana decided, by a decree reversing the judgment'of the District Court, that the Secretary
of thenterior Twd no authority to make the decision revoking Scudday's locttion, and held his title superior to Shaffer's, who claimed
under an entry made on the authority of the Secretary's decision.
The case is therefore before the court under that clause of
the 25t1h section of the j udiciary act which empowers it to take
appellate jurisdiction from the highest State cours, where "is
drawn in question the validity of an authority exercised under
the United States, and .the decision is against the validity," and
is fully within thb principles decided in Chouteau v. 'Eckhart,
2 Howard, 344.
The sole question -in the cause, then, is, whether the Secretary had authority tq decide, and did rightly decide, that'
Scudday's location was null, and must be revoked.
This is hardly an open question-in this court.
The 8th section of the act 9 f 1841, under'which Scudday
a
th
drecs
tobe'mde
n "any
an pubic
clais, directs clazs,
the loctios
locations
to be' made on
public lan'

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

17

.except such as is"or may. be reserved from sale by any law of
COngress."
"
abvecied
Tis court has decided.in'the cases above cited, and particularly in that in 15 Howard, 'that the -act of 1841 -vested no
piesnt title in the State of Louisiana, but was a'mere authority toenter lands in the same manner as individuals could en:
ter them; and that 'the entry -under a lbeation'made by virtue
of a State warrant, and backe.d by a-State patent, did not confer
the fee in the land, whi6h -is only divested by a patent issued
by the United States.
'&Now, although the Secretary -of the Interior approved the
locationhe did so under ,the mistaken supposition that the
land was '. public land,' whereas, in point of fact, Congess
2
had already
1849. conveyed title to it by the grant in the sivamp land
of
-law
.Before any pateht was. issued by the United StatIes, thetefore,
.Scudday's entry was revokeid under the authority which'has
been universally conceded to exist in'the offices of the Land
'Office, since- the decision of this court, made thirty years ago,
and never subsequently-called in question. Chotard v. Pope,'
12 Wheaton, 587.
'The case may be summhed up in few words, as followgt
p.
-1st. Shaffer claims.title under a grant made by statute of the
United States,.vesting the fee in-him as fully as a. patent would,
ikissued' drectly- to im, Strother.v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 454:
'Chouteau-v. Eckhart, 2 Howard, 844.
.2d."ScUMidy olaim under at in-choate title from the United
States, fiot only.still incomplete, tut wilch it is impossible ever
to reuider complite, afid his'title has been erroneously preferied
by the Supreme Court of 116uisiana,only becanse he holds a
patent. fromthe6 State.
.'But no State authority can coifer' a right in lad .sufficient
to eject a patentee under the United States.. Bagnelv..Broderich, 13 Peters, 436.
"
M}r. T dor objected to the jurisdicti n of this court, uponi
the 'following ground:
.'I. By reference to the. deision. of:the Supreme Court of
Louisiana .it will be seen that the question raised as to the consti ution of the det of 1849 wa not -decid edby the court. The
iurt 'expressly. said .that the did "not con'iderit necessary
to decide that question." ' The construction of thd act of
1849, by the -Secrqtary of the Interior,. may.be strictly correct,
and yet it does n.ot follow that the location of a warrant, under
the internal-improvemneht la'w of 1841, which -hadbeen approvei'"by thepioper department ok the Government, and for Whichivo

xIX.

2'

SUPREME COURT.
S fer v. Sctucday.

a patent had been subseqiiently issued by the State, could be
revoked, so as to destroy the title conferred by the patent. The
question would have been different, if, after the passage by
Congress of the'act of 1849, thQ United States had granted the
land away from the State of Louisiana. Such was not the
case; and as both the acts of 1834 and of 1849 were grants of
land to the State, we cannot o behind the patent which the
State has granted." From this it is clear that there was no decision against the validity of a treaty or statute of,' or an authority exercised under, the United States, &c., &c., in the
highest court of Louisiana; and that inasmuch as no error can
be assigned or regarded as a ground of r6versal, other "than
such as appears on the fape of the record, and immediately respects the questions of validity or construction," &c., therefore,
there was no right to a, writ of error in this case, and that the
case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. 1 Statutes at
Large, p. 85, see. 25; Ahnonester v. -Kenton, 9 Howard, 1.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
-court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana:

It appears that a petitory action was brought by Seudday,
the defendant in error, against Shaffer, the plaintiff in error,.
to recover aquarter section of land described in the pleadings.
The: defendant in error derives his title-in the following manner- By the eighth section of an act of Congress of the 4th
September, 1841, the Government of the United States granted
to each of the several States specified in the act, and among
them to Louisiana, 500,000 acres of land, for the purposes o.
internal improvemenit. The act provided, that the selections
of the land were to be made in suth manner as the Legislatureof the ,State should direct, the locations to be made on any
public lands, except such as were or might.be reserved from
sale by any law of Congress, or proclamation of the President
of the United States. The nihath section of the act provided
that the net proceeds of the sales of the lands so granted should
be applied to objects of intemal improvement within the state,
such as roads, railways, bridges, canals, and improvement of
wat3r-courscs and draining of swamps. An act of the Legislature of Louisiana of 1844 provided that warrants for the location of the lands should be sold in.the same manner as the lands.
were lo&ated; and it was made the duty of the Governor to issue
patents for the lands located by warrants, whenever he should
be satisfiedthat they had been properly located. The defendant in error, .being the holder of such a warrant, located it on

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
kBmaf&e
V.
dd.

the land claimed in, the suit. The, location having been approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and a certificate to that
effect granted by the register, the Governor of Louisiana issued
a patent to the plaintiff, bearing date 12th November, 1852.
The opposing title of plaintiff in errof is derived under an
act of Congress of March 2d, 1849, and certain acts of the Legislature of the State, passed to carr into effect the act of Congress. The-flrst section of the act of Congress of 1849 declares,
"that to aid the State of Louisiana in constructing the necessary levees and drains to reclaim-the swamp and overflowed
lands therein, the whole of the swamp and overflowed lands
which are or may be found unfit for cultivating, shall be, and
the same are hereby, granted to the State."
The second section provides, that as soon as the Secretary of
the Treasury shall be advised by the Governor of Louisiana that
the State has made tho necessary preparations to defray the ex.penses thereof, he- shall cause a personal examination to be
made, under the direction of the surveyor general. thereof, by
experienced and faithful deputies, of all the swamp lands therein
which-are- subject to 6verflow and. unfit for cultivation:, and a
list of the same to be made out and certif.ed by the deputies
and the surveyor general to the Secretary of theTreasury who
shall approve the same, so far as .they are not claimed and held
"by-individuals; and on that approval the fee. siiple tosaid
lands shnall vest in the State of Louisiana, subject to the dispos~l of the Legislture thereof,, provided, however, that the
proceeds of. saidlands shall be -applied exclusively, as far as
necessary, to the construction of the levees and drains aforesaid.
On tbe 21st of March,. 1850, the Legislatire of Louisiana
passed an act to.enable the Governor'to have the swamp and
overflowed lands selected; and, in 1852, they .passed an act,
giving a preference in entering such lands to those in possession
of or.cultivating them, and the time of entering them was further
,extndedbyan act of 1853. The plaintiff in -error enteredtbis
land on the 18th day-of July, 1858, by..virtue bf a preferenccri t claimed under that-act of the Legislature. lie was permitted to make this entry at the State land office, in consequence
of the Secretary of th6 Interior having, on the 14th of April,
revoked his approval-o-the State under the act of 1841, of this
and other lands which had been located under warrants sold
b the State, in conformity to the act of the Legislature of 1844.
The reason assigned by the Secretary of the Interior was,
-that these locations had beefi made subsequent to the passage
of the act of Congress of 1849, ranting to the State allthe
swamp ana overflowed lands;- lie states, in his opinion, tha't
he considered the ivords used in the fqst section of that act as

20

SUPREME COURT.
Bife v. Scudday.

importing
a-grant
in present, andwere
as conirming
to the
land, th~OUgh
ot!her proceedings
necessary atoright
p effect
the
title;
that
the title His
was approval
perfected,to
to
theand
date
ofwhen
the grant..
it had
the relation
Stte, ofback
the
location of the land in
controversy, under the
internal-improvement law of 1841, was revoked, but the land was at the
same time approved to the State, as having a vested .title to it,
under-the .act of 1849, and taking effect from the date of the
passage of the act.
•The conitroversy between the parties arises upon these two
patents, both granted by the State of Louisiana-the one to
Scudday,
under thne
grant made
by the act of
1841,
for the purposes
of interna
improvement;
theCongress
other to of
Shaffer,
under the grant made by the act of 1849, for the purpose of
draining the-swamp lands.
..
The'
e~e-came
regularly
Court of the
State
; and
that court,
aier before
stating the
thaSupreme
t was unnecessary
to
decide whether the construction, placed upon the act of 1849,
by the ,Secretary of the Interior, undar which he revoked his
a proval of Scuddas location,'waserroneous or iot,. proceeded to express
opinion
ntheir
as follows:
•"'It is certain (say- the court) that the Legislature could not
ha.ve disposed of the land as belonging to the Stat~e, under the
provisions of that act, [the act of 1849,] until she had com~plied
.withthe conditions imposed on her by the act of Congress, and'
until the apj'roval pfthe Secretary of the Treasury ; but if she
had
not chosen
avail,asherself
of the right
given to-'her
to
appropriate
thes etolands
swamplands
by defraying
the expenses of locating tlem, shehad still the right of locating them
under the internal-improvement law of 1841, which was unconditional. 'The construction of the act of 1849, by the
Secretary of the. Interior, may be stictly correct; and yet
i t does not 'fo]low that the _location of. a warrant, under the
internal-imprvement, law of 1841, which had been approved
by the 'proper department of the Government, and for which
a patent had been subsequently .issud by the State, could
be revoked, so asto destroy the title conferred by the patent.
The question would have been-different, if, aoter the passage
by Congress of the act of 1849, the United States hadgranted the land away from the State of Lousiana. Such was'not
the case; and as botl the acts of 1841 and of 184 were grants
of land to the State, ve cannot go behind the patent which
the State has granted. The patent, can only be attacked on
the garound of error or fraud. It is true that a patent issued
against law is voici; but in the present case the patent ad all
the proceedings on whish it was based were in conformity to

DECEM ER TERM, 1856.

21

-haOer v. &UdY.

the laws. As between the Government of the United States
and the State of Louisiana, a questioniwill arise, whether the
State is not entitled to an additional quantity of land; to be located un:der the act of Congress of 1841, in consequence of the
.swamp lands having been appropriated for locationg of warrants
issued under the internal-improvement act; but we are of
opinion that the'title which the State has granted to the plaint4' and for which she' lias been -paid, is unaffected by the acts
of the officers of the United States Government-and of the State
Government, done since the patent was issued."
.Upon these grounds, the Supreme Court of the State gave
judgment in favor of Scudday, and this writ of error is brought
to revise that decision.
It does not appear from the -opinion of the court, as above
stated, that any question was decidedthat would give this court
jurisdiction over its judgment. The land in dispute undoubt.edly belonged to the State, under the grants made by Congress,
andboth parties claim title under grants from the Ktate. The
construction placed by the Secretary upon the act of 1849, and
the revocation of his order approving the location of Scudday;
did not and was not intended to re-vest the land in th' Unit
States. On the contrary, it affirmcd the title of the State; and
its only object was to secure to Louisiana the full benefit of
both of the grants made by Congress, and leaving it to the
State togdispose of the lands to .such persons and-in such manner as it should by law direct. It-certainly gave no right to
the plaintiff in error. He admits the title of the State,. and
claims under a patent granted by the State. Now, whether
-this patent conveyed'tp him it title or not, depended altogether
upon the laws ofLoisiana, and not uponithe acts of Congress
or the.acts of any of the Qfficers or authorities of the-General
Governiment. It was a question, therefore, for the State courts.
And the Supreme Court of the State have decided that ibis
patent could convey nb right to the.land in question, because
the State had. parted from its title by a patent previously
granted to Scudday, the defendant in error.', The right 'claimed-by the plaintiff in error, which was denied to him by the
Statecourt, did not therefore depend upon any act of Congress,
or the validity of any authority exercised under the United
9tates, but exelusively upon the laws of Louisiana. And the
Supreme Court of the State have decided that, according to
these lafs, -he had no title, and that the land in question belonged to the grantee of the elder patent.
We have no authority to revise that judgment by writ of
error; and, this writ must therefore be dismissed for want of
jurjsdiction.
--

