SUPREME COURT.

224

Mater v.

mr son.

Some slight evidence was given in the court below, upon the
question whether the agreement of the 6th of September was
sealed at the time of the execution. But the instrument
produced was sealed, and is recited in the subsequent agreement of the 12th November, as an agreement signed and sealed
by the parties.
A question was also made, as to the authority of the Shoe
Associates to grant a license to the defendants. But they held
under Goodyear the right to the exclusive use of the improvement for the manufacture of boots and shoes. They were
competent, therefore, to confer the right upon the defendants.
Besides, the point is not material in the view the court have
taken of the case, as upon that view no interest in the patent
vested in the plaintiff under the assignment from Chaffee.
It will be seen, by a reference to the bill of exceptions, that
upon our conclusions in respect to several points raised in the
case, the rulings in the court below were erroneous, and consequently the judgment must be reversed, and a venire de
novo awarded.

HORATIO

N.

SLATER,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHARLES

Where a railroad company became embarrassed, and were unable to pay the contractor, and a person interested in the company agreed to give the contractor
his individual promissory notes if he would finish the work by a certain day,
the contractor cannot recover upon the notes, unless he finishes the work within
the stipulated time.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by M1r. Bates and Mr. Bartlett for the plaintiff
in error, and by .r. Hutchins upon a brief filed by himself and
Mr. Ch6&te for the defendant.
•
The following points on behalf qf the plaintiff in error are
taken from the brief of Mr. Bartlett,as being more condensed
than those stated in the brief of Mr. Bates:
I. The single question is, whether by the true and rational
construction of the contract it was agreed and understood be
tween the parties that the doing the work within the time pre.

DECEM1BER TER"M, 1856.

225

Bkw v. Emaso.

scribed was a condition on which the obligation of plaintiff to
give his notes was to depend.
a. It is not sufficient to say that the parties; if such was their
intent, might have expressed it so in terms, or might have secured damages for non-performance by an independent covenant. The books abound in cases where parties having inartificially expressed their purpose, the court have construed their
agreement to be dependent This want of express terms, therefore, though it may possibly lead in doubtful cases to a presnmption, ,is of value solely in that contingency, . .
b. We areto find, then, either from the reason of the thing,
looking at the position of the parties andthe surrounding circumstances, or by the application of the- settled rules of construction, or by both, what was the intent of the parties; and,
1. The position of the parties is new and unusual. It is
believed that a similar case is not to be found in the books.
Usually the controversy is between a party contracting to perform and a party who is to enjoy the benefit of the thing to be
performed. Here the questidn is upon the donstruction of a
contract collateral to. another, between other parties, which
may be called the principal contract; and the entire direct
fruits of performance are to be enjoyed by, one of those other
parties.
2. The extrinsic evidence shows that at the time of making
the contract in question another negotiation was, with the
knowledge of all parties, pending between one of the parties
to the principal contract and a third party, of great pecuniary
importance, the consummation of which was entirely dependent on the ability of one of the parties to open itA roaa at'a
fixed time. That fixed time was theprecise period prescribed for
the completion of tIk work by the contract in.question. (Ammidown's
Testimony.)
8. Such are-the surrounding circumstances, and before examining the terms of the contract and the settled rules of construction, it may be fairly asked whether defendent in error,
who was already performing and bound to perfori the work
under another contract for the same remuneration, would be
likely to agree that the covenant of plaintiff in err6r should be
dependent, and this, too, when the notes to be given him were
not to pay for the labor to be performed under the contract,
but to an existing indebtedness of railroad to defeiidant in
error. (Willis's Testimony.) And also whether plaintiff-in
error would be likely to make any other than a dependent
agreement .to pay on condition an old debt of a third party.
IL With these preliminary views; we proceed to examine the
terms of the contrac , and the usual rules of construction.
voL. XIX.

15

226

SUPREME COURT.
Blafff v. Emenon.

a. The terms of agreement by defendant in error are, "that
he will complete all the bridge work t6 be done by him for the
Boston and New York Centralrailroad,ready for laying down the
iron rails for one track, on the first day of December next.
b. The agreement on the part of the plaintiff in error is,
"that, in consideration of the premises, he will pay, within two
days from the date hereof, the sum of $4,400 in cash; and that
hewill give said Emerson, on the completion of the bridges, and
when the rails for one trajk are laid to the foot of Summer
street, his five notes for $2,000 each, payable in six months;
said notes, when paid, to be applied toward the indebtedness of said
Bailroad Company to said Emerson."
1. The agreement on the pdrt of plaintiff is "in consideration
of the premises," and technically these are apt words to create a
condition. (Thorpe v. Thorpe, 1 Ld. Raymond, 665; Ackerly
v. Vernon, Willes, 157.)
2. That the agreement to give the notes was at least dependent upon prior performance, would seem free from all doubt.
This is tested by considering whether an action on the contract
could have been maintained before the work was done.
It falls clearly in this respect within the technical rule.
"When a day is appointed for the payment of money, &c., and
the day is to happen after the thing which is the consideration
of the money, &c., is to be performed," no action can lie.,
(1ean v. Atwater, 4 Connecticut, 9; Pordage v. Cole, 1 Saunders, 320; Day v. Dox, 9 Wendell, 129.)
The fact that the notes were not to be given upon performance, but at a period after performance, does not affect it. This
,only shows that it does not belong to another class of dependent agreements, viz: Where two acts are to be done at the
same time, or cases of concurrent covenants, as they arc called.
(Glazebrook v. Woodrow, 8 T. R., 374; Williams v. Healy, 8
Denio, 863; Gainzly v. Price, 16 Johnson; 267.)
& Nor does the fact that payment of part of the consideration (viz: the $4,400) was to be made before performance, affect
the question whether the agreement for a final payment was
dependent or independent. The old case of Terry v. Duntzie,
(2
Hem
Blackstone,
389,) from
which the opposite doctrine
was
derived,
was unfounded
in reason,
and has been declared
not to be law here and in England.
(Cunningham
v. Morrell,
10 Johnson, 203; Hopkins v. Elliot, 5 Wendell, 496; Grant v.
Johnson, 1 Selden, 247; Johnson v. Reed, 9 Mass., 78; Lord
v. Belkuap, 1 Cushing, 279; Watchman v. Crooke, 5 Gill and
Johnson, 254; Bean v. Atwater, 4 Connecticut, 4; Kettle v.
Harvey, 21 Vermont, 301; McClure v. Rush, 9 Dana, 64.)
4. But it may be said, that although performance as a con-

DECEIBER TERM, 1856.
BWa& V.

uon.

dition precedent to delivery by plaintiff of his notes, yet performance within the time was not so.
a. It is important on this point to distinguish between the
question whether non-performance within the time will, because of. the agreement being dependent, defeat a recovery on
the contract ilsedf, and the question whether, notwithstanding
such no-performance, assumpsit will not lie to recover for the

labor and materials.
b. It would seem to be the settled rule, both here and in
England, that if plaintiff has not performed the work in exact
accordance with the contract, and there has been no waiver, he
cannot recover on the contract, but must recover, if at all, on
the common counts for his labor and materials. (2 Greenleaf's Evidence, secs. 104, 136; Chapel v. Hicks, 2 Crompt and
Mee, 214; Read v. Banner, 10 B. and C., 440; Alexander v.
Gardner, 10 Binham Ni. C., 671; Chater v. Leese, 4 M. and
W., 295, 811; 5'ewell v. Schroepel, 4 Cowen, 564; Ladua v.
Seymour, 24 Wendell, 62; Britton v. Turner, 6 1f. H., 481.)"
c. Unless, therefore, time of performance might, in a declaration on the contract, be wholly omitted, this case falls within
the rule, and plaintiff would be remitted to his common counts;
that it could not be so omitted, plaintiff in error refers to Phillips v. Rose, 8 Johnson, 393; Jewell v. Schroepel, 4 Cowen,
565; Smith v. Guyarty, 4 Barbour, 615; Ladua v. Seymour,
24 Wendell, 61; Gregory v. Hincks, 3 Hill, 380; Watchnan
v. Crooke, 5 Gill and Johnson, 254; Farntam v. Ross, 2 HAl,
167.
. d. As to to the right of defendant in error to recover on
common counts, no discussion is necessary. The ruling excepted to declares the agreements to be independent and that
xecovery may be, and it was in fact, had upon the counts on
the special contract.
. IIL But, besides aid beyond the artificial rules above adverted to, and under Which it is submitted plaintiff in error is
safe, there are others, founded on the plainest principles of
equity and justice, which have guided, if not controlled, the
courts, in their construction of tis class of contracts; and it is
upon these and their application that the case must tur.
Of these, the principal ones re* 1. Where non-performance by plaintiff deprives the defendant, not of part, but of the entire consideration of the contract, the agreement of defendant shall be deemed dependent.
(Pordage v. Cole, 1 Wis. Saunders, 820; Duke St. Albans v.
Shore, 1 H. Black, 270; Dakin v. Williams, 11 Wendell, 67;
Atkinson v. Smith, 14 M. and W., 695.)
2. Where defendant, in case of plaintiff's. ncn-perfornmnce,

.228

SUPREME COURT.
Maur v. Emeraso .

has no other remedy for the injury he sustains except by declarina his agreement dependent. (Pordage v. Cole, 1 Wins.
Saunders, 319.)
3. Where the amount of the consideration which defendant
will be absolved from paying plaintiff, if his agreement be
deemed dependent, is not, or may not be, commensurate with
the injury sustained by plaintiff, or, in the language of this
court, there "is no natural connection" between the two; in
such case, defendant's contract shall be construed to be independent.
In discussing the application of these principles, plaintiff in
error submits at the outset, that almost all the rules of construction in this class of cases arefounded upon a struggle of the
courts to avoid the old and long-standing doctrines of forfeiture.
Thus the rule, that in ease of failure to perform, when such
failure deprives defendant only of part of the consideration to
be received by him, the agreement shall be deemed independent, is founded solely on the ground of forfeiture, and the
want of equity in allowing defendant to keep and enjoy the
labor and materials of the plaintiff without compensation. So,
also, the doctrine, that there is no natural connection between
the sum due plaintiff at the time of breach, and the injury sustained by defendant by such breach, proceeds wholly on the
thought that the sum so due is forfeited by the breach.
But in the class of cases to which the present one belongs,
the doctrine of forfeiture is exploded, and it is well settled that
the value of the labor and materials to defendant may be recovered on quantum meruit notwithstanding the breach.
. The reason of the rule having therefore ceased, the doctrine
will bear revision.
a. As to the first of the above rules, plaintiff in error submits that the failure to perform by defendant, although it left
the fruits of his labor in the hands of the railroad, with whom
he contracted to do it, and who are fully bound to pay him for
it, yet deprived plaintiff in error of the whole consideration for
which he made the contract, viz: the time within which performance was to take place.
b. It is important to note that the doctrine regards merely
the question of considerationmoving from plaintiff to defendant, not
the consideration arising from plaintiff's altered condition in
consequence of the contract. It seeks to avoid circuity of action which would arise if plaintiff recovered the agreed sum,
and defendant, by cross action, recovered it back. (Duke of
St. Albans v. Shore, 1 H. Black., 270; Pordage v Cole, 1
Wms. Saunders, 319; Dakin v. Williams, 11 Wendell, 67;
Atkinson v. Smith, 14 M. and W., 65.)

DECEMBER TEtR

1856.

Bktwe v. Emeeeouz

1. The necessity for making time a condition of the contract,
and the probability that bothparties would assent to make it
so, have been adverted to, and plaintiff in error now submits,
that unless time was the whole consideration, moving from
defendant in error to plaintiff in error, there was no consideration at all.
a. For there was already a contract between the defendant
in error and the railroad (subsisting and referred to as obligatory in this very contract) to do this same work, the terms of
which were not varied one word, except in relation to this
very matter of time. The matter of time, then, was the only
change effected, and the only benefit derived to plaintiff in
error.
b. If both contracts had been made by plaintiff with the-railroad, would there have been any other consideration to support
the additional contract except time? I
c. It cannot be said that the work was done for the plaintiff,
or at his request, or for his benefit, so as to form a consideration moving from the defendant in error to him-for it was to
be performed, so far only as time wis concernied, at his. request,
and its direct benefit was solely to the railroad.
His relation to the railroad was merely that of an officer, a
creditor, and a stockholder; and it is believed that upon no
known principles of law could damages be ascertained and
assessed in his favor, for a deprivation of such a remote benefit,
if defendant in error had failed to perform
2. This last suggestion, if well founded, emphaticaly supports the second of the above grounds, viz: that the only remedy plaintiff in error can have for the breach of his.agreement
by defendant, is to construe his covenant to give his notes to
be dependent on complete performance by defendant.
3. The last ground which is often relied on to show the
covenants to be independent is, that there is no natural connection between the sum. which is. claimed to be paid defendant in error and which plaintiff seeks to withhold, and the
amount of damages which plaintiff may sustain by defendant's
non-performance.
a. If plaintiff in error had in fact received and was now
enjoying the results of defendant's labor and materials, and if
non-performance would leave defendant in error without remedy, this would be a forcible ieason for holding the covenant
ofplainiffin error to be independent.
b. But even in such case, as it is settled that no forfeiture
is incurred, but defendant might, as against party enjoying the
benefit of his labor and materials, maintain an action for his
yntun memdt in which the injury by non-performance might

280

SUPREM
Sawr

y.

COURT.
E.;Meo.

be set off and adjusted, it is submitted that the harmony of the
law and the symmetry of pleading, which requires in actions
on special contracts an a egation of complete performance,
would be best preserved by obliging the party to resort to the
common counts.
c. But, however this may be in other cases, in this case
plaintiff in error does not hold and enjoy the benefit of defendant's labor and materials, but a third party, who has contracted
with defendant to pay for them. The defendant is not without
remedy against that party, and there may be said to be a natural connection between the amount which defendant in error
loses, which is nothing, and the damage which plaintiff in
error could recover for breach, which bylaw cannot, by reason
of remoteness, be shown to be anything. In other words, the
rule and its reason has no application to a collateral contract,
in its nature a guaranty, when, for want of strict performance
of the terms of the guaranty, one party has lost his remedy,
and the other received no appreciable benefit.
IV. The remaining exception is to the ruling of the court,
compelling plaintiff in error to prove and adjust his damages
for breach of the contract by way of offset, recoupment, or reduction of damages of defendant in error in this action, and
thus depriving him of his election to ring a cross action.
Plaintiff in error has been able to find no case in which the
doctrine is established, that it is compulsory on a defendant to
come prepared with his proofs of such damage, or have the
damages assessed at a nominal sum, and be barred of his cross
action. The question may be important in this case, the principle is fit to be settled, and plaintiff in error submits that the
ruling was wrong.
V. The statement of counsel to Emerson should have been
admitted to show that, in opinion of Emerson, the work could
have been done by December 1st.
Points of defendant in error:
I. The first exception is as follows: "The defendant offers
to prove, that just prior to the signature of the contract, both
parties being present, the counsel of the plaintiff told him that,
unless he was sure that he could complete the bridges by December first, he ought not to sign the contract, and could not
recover if he did not complete them by December first; but
the court refused to admit the same." To which refusal the defendant excepted.
Such testimony was clearly inadmissible. The contract must
speak for itself. The conversations of the parties, their understandings and expectations, and the suggestions of counsel,

-DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

231

Sato- v. Emersom.

cannot affect or control the construction of this contract. This
would be to vary or modify its terms by parol. (1 Greenleaf
on Evidence, sec. 275, p. 327; Weatherhead's Lessee v. Baskervie, 11 Howard; Van Buren v. Digges, 11 Howard, 461;
Grant v. Naylor, 4 Cranch, 224.)
H. The second exception is as follows: "The defendant
offers to prove that, at the time the contract- was drawn up,
the element of time was talked over by the plaintiff and the
defendant, and that plaintiff assented that time was the essence
of the contract; but the court refused to admit the same." To
which refusal the defendant excepted.
,The same answer.may be made to this ag to the first exeeption. When the contract is reduced to writing, all the conversations of the parties, leading up to it, are merged in it.
(1 Greenleaf on Evidence, see. 275, p. 327.)
I IIL The third exception is as follows:. "The defendant
moved the court to rule and instruct the jury, that by,the true
construction of said contract declared upon, the plaintiff would
not be entitled to recover, without showing that the work was
completed, ready for laying down' the rairs for one track, by
the first day of December, 1854; but the court refused so to
instruct the jury, but did instruct them, that the a reement on
the part of the defendant, to give the notes in said agreement
mentioned, was not dependent upon the completion of said
work, ready for laying down said rails for one track, at the
time limited by said contract." To which ruling the defendant excepted.
It is sometimes .ifficult to determine whether covenants
and promises are dependent or independent. Some rules of
construction are laid down in the books, but, after all, each case
is to be governed by its own circumstances, (Philadelphia W.
and B. R. R. Co. v. Howard, 13 Howard, 307.)
1. The courts incline to consider- covenants and promises independent, rather than dependent, to save forfeitures. The burden is on him who alleoes dependency. (Platt on Covenants,
p. 35, [78, 79,] Law Litrary, vol. 3.)
If there are no terms which import a condition, or which expressly make one promise dependent on the other, they are
construed to be independent; and in this contract there are no
such. Platt on Covenants, Law Lib., vol. 3,p. 32, [72, 73.]
More than this the terms import the contrary. In that part
containing the promise, the conditio, of time is wholly omittedthus indicating an intention not to make it dependent on time,
but on work don.

2. The failure to peiform on the day does not go to the
whole consideration, and there is no natural connection be-

SUPREME CO1JRr.
Slatff v. Emerson

tween the amount to be paid for the work done after the day,
and the injury or loss inflicted by a failure to perform on the
day. (Platt on Covenants, Law Lib., vol. 8, p. 40, [90, 94;J
Philadelphia W. and B. R. R. Co. v. Howard, 18 Howard.)
83. The forfeiture of the amount to be paid for the whole
work, in consequence of its not being completed by the day,
would be unreasonable in this case. fy construing the promises as independent, the plaintiff can recover his exact damages
(if any) or have them recouped. Thus the rights of both parties are secured. Platt on Covenants, vol. 3, Law Lib., p. 40,
[90.]
4. The defendant in error completed the bridges. The
plaintiff in error has had the benefit of his labor. The objection is, that it was not done at the day, (for which, however, the
plaintiff in error claimed no damages.) It would be manifestly inequitable for the plaintiff in error to receive the benefit
of this labor without paying for it. The objection taken is
technival, and ought not to be sustained, unless the language is
clear, and the rule of law imperative. (Philadelphia v. W. and
B. R. R. Co., 13 Howard, 307; Van Buren v. Digges, 11 Howard, 461.)
5. The promise of the plaintiff in error was not dependent
upon the completion of the bridge work by December 1st,
because the notes were not to be given upon the completion
of the bridges. Something more was to be done, to wit, the
laying of the rails by another party. How can the promise of
the plaintiff in error be said to be dependent upon the comple.
tion of his work by December 1st, when the completion of
the work at that time would not then entitle the defendant in
error to his notes?
6. When the acts stipulated to be done, are to be done at
different times, the stipulations are to be construed as independent of each other. (Goldsborough v. Orr, 8 Wheaton, 217.).
Taking this decision as a guide, these promises must be construed as independent; for the promise of the defendant in
error was to complete the bridges by December 1st, whereas
the promise of the plaintiff in error was not to give the notes
at that time, but when the rags were laid.
7. The plaintiff in error promised to pay the defendant in
error $4,400 in cash, within two days from the date of the
contract, and to give his notes upon the completion of the
bridges and laying the rails. So far as this cash payment is
concerned, the promise is clearly independent, as it necessarily
preceded the completion of the work. If the construction
contended for by the plaintiff in error be adopted, the same
promise will be construed both as dependent and independent--

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Slater

v.

233

Emerson.

dependent as to the giving the notes, independent as to the
payment
p. 43, 1*96.]of cash. Platt on Covenents, Law Library, vol. 3,
IV. The fourth exception is as follows: "The defendant further requested the court to rule and to instruct the jury, that
if the plaintiff failed to complete saidwork, ready for laying
down te iron rails for one track, by the said first day of December, there was thereby a failure of the consideration of said
contract, and the plaintiff would not be entitled to recover the
amount claimed by him, or any part thereof; but the court refused so to instruct the jury." To which refusal the defendant
excepted.
Very clearly, these instructions ought not to have been given.
The consideration of the plaintiff in error's promise to pay the
money and to give the notes, was the promise of the defendant
in error to do the work, and not merely his promise to do it by
December 1st. He having completed the work to their acceptance, there was clearly not a total failure of consideration.
V. The last exception is as follows: "His honor the judge
having first called upon the defendant to. ofier evidence, if he
saw fit, of any actual damage by him sustained by the nonperformance of said work within the time limited by said
contract, and the defendant declining to offer any such evidence, and admitting that no such actual damage was claimed
by him in this suit, the court thereupon instructed the jury to
deduct from any sum they might find for the plaintiff the sum
of one dollar, as nominal damages for the said non-performance
of plaintiff." To which direction the defendant excepted.
It is difficult to discover what there is objectionable in this
direction. Undoubtedly, the plaintiff in error was entitled to
have deducted in this suit any damage which he could show
that he had sustained from the non-performance of the work
within the time litnited by the contract; and if the court had
refused to admit testimony of such damage, he might well
have excepted; but he expressly waived all claim to damage
in this suit. In the absence of any proof or claim by him, the
court directed a deduction of nominal damages. W at more
or different could the plaintiff in error require? (Winder v.
Caldwell, 14 Howard, 434.)
Mr. Tustice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on a writ of error to the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts.
The action was brought by Emerson against Slater, on an
agreement made the 14th day of November, 1854, in which
Emerson, "in consideration of the agreement of said Slater,

234

SUPREME COURT.
Blte . Emerzon.

hereinafter contained, and of one dollar to him paid, covenants
and agrees, with said Slater, that he will complete all the
bridge work to be done by him for the Boston and New York
Central Railroad Company, ready for laying down the iron
rails for one track, by the 1st day of December next."
"And the said Slater, in consideration of the premises,
hereby agrees, with said Emerson, that he will pay him, within
two days from the date hereof, the sum of forty-four hundred
dollars, in cash. And the said Slaterfurther agrees, that he
will give to the said Emerson, on the completion of the bridges,
and when the rails for one -trackare laid to the foot of Summer
street, in Boston, from Dedham, his (said Slater's) five notes,.
for two thousand dollars each, dated when said notes were
given, as above provided, and payable in six months from their
date,'to the said Emerson or his order. Said notes, when paid,
are to be applied towards the indebtedness of said Boston and
New York Central Railroad Company to said Emerson; it being understood that this' agreement is in no way to affect any
contract of said Emerson with said company, or any action
now pending."
The execution of this agreement was admitted, and that the
work upon the bridges, in said agreement set forth, was completed, ready for laying down the iron rails for one track, about
the middle of December, 1854, and that the rails were laid to
the foot of Summer street, in Boston, from Dedham, about thelast of the same month.
It was proved that the defendant was President of the Boston and New York Central Railroad Company, and a stockholder and bondholder in the same. The corporation failed
on or about the 2d of July, 1854. The company was then indebted to the plaintiff; and did not pay him. In the seebnd
week of July, there was a crisis in the affairs of the company,
and Emerson suspended his work, so far as regarded new outlays. In August a new arrangement was made, and he went on
till the first or second week in November, and then he kept a
force on the great bridges sufficient to retain possession of the
work, and would not surrender it; the witness (Willis) then
made an effort to get the bridges completed. The question
was, how much Emerson would take. The company owed
him some ten to fifteen thousand dollars, and was then insolvent as respected meeting its engagements.
The, defendant then introduced an agreement between the
Boston and New York Central Railroad Company, a corporation, and Charles Emerson, of Boston, in which Emerson
agreed to build and complete, sufficient for the passage of an
engine over the same, on or before the frst day of May next,

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
,sk~tr V. .B'2?eaon.

all the bridging as now laid out and determined upon by the
engineer of said railroad, from the wharf near the foot of
Summer street, in Boston, and from South Boston across the
South Bay, so balled, to the Dorchester shore, in Dorchester,
in the manner and with the materials hereinafter described,
and to finally complete the same to the satisfaction of the State
commissioner and the engineers of said railroad, as soon after
the first day of May next as may be. Several other bridges
were required to be built on: the road, Emerson furnishing all
the materials, excepting the iron rails, chains, and spikes,
which were to be furnished by the Railroad Company. This
contract was dated the 23d of December, 1858, and signed by
the parties.
A receipt, dated November 15th, 1854, signed by Emerson,
acknowledged the payment of forty-four hundred dollars, by
Slater, oh the contract first. above stated.
E. B. Amnidown, a witness, stated he was a director on the
railroad, and that in November, 1854, there were negotiations
pending for a contract for a through route from -Boston to
INew York, between the Boston andlNew York Central Railroad Company and the Norwich and Worcester Railroad
Company, and the Steamboat Company plying between Norwich and New York. The contract then existing between
said Steamboat Company and Norwich and Worcester Railroad Company with the Boston and Worcester Railroad Company would expire about December 1st, 1854. It was necessary that said Steamboat and Norwich and Worcester Railroad
Companies should make a new contract. They preferred to
contract with us instead of the Boston and Worcester Railroad
Company, provided our road could be ready to run by December 1st, 1854. The only part of our road, as to which there
was "any doubt of its completion, was the bridges, which the
plaintiff was making. The whole matter was talked over, in
the presence of the plaintiff We regarded it as of very great
importance. I considered the loss of that contract equal to a
quarter of a million of dollars, and the plaintiff said half a
million. Committees from Norwich and Worcester Railroad
and Steamboat Companies came on, to make the arrangement,
and went over part of the road. Whether this was before or
after the contract the witness cannot say, but he has little
doubt that it was before.
J. C. Hurd, a witness, and who was also a director, and as
a committee, about the 14th of August, 1854, 'made a parol
contract with Emerson to pay him $17,000, and secure to him
$6,000 of Farnum, with endorsements. A larger sum than
61T,000, he thinks, was paid at the time of the contract.

286

SUPREME COURT.
laer v. Bmero,.

Emerson agreed to go on and finish the work, but he declined
to sign a written agreement.
On the above evidence, the defendant, Inoved the court to
rule and instruct the jury, that by the true construction of said
contract declared on, the plaintiff would not be entitled to
recover without -showing that the work was completed, ready
for laying down the iron rails for one track, by the first day of
December, 1854; but the court refused so to instruct the jury,
and did instruct them that the agreement on the part of the
defendant to give the notes in said agreement mentioned was
not dependent on the completion of said work,ready for laying
down said rails for one track, at the time limited by said
contract. To which ruling and refusal the defendant excepted.
And the defendant further requested the court to rule and
instruct the jury, that if the plaintiff failed to complete said
work, ready for laying down said iron rails for one track, by
the said first day of December, there was thereby a failure of the consideration of said contract, and the plaintiff would not
be entitled to recover the amount claimed by him, or any part
thereof; but the court refused so to instruct the jury. To
which refusal the defendant excepted.
The judge having first called upon the defendant to offer
evidence, if he saw fit, of any actual damage by him sustained
by the non-performance of said work within the time limited
by said contract; and the defendant declining to offer any such
evidence, and admitting that no such damages were claimed.
by him in the suit, the court thereupon instructed the jury to
deduct, from any sum they might find for the plaintiff, the sum
of one dollar-as nominal damage, for the said non-performance of plaintiff. To which the defendant excepted.
The jury found for the plaintiff ten thousand one hundred
and ninety-nine dollars.
The declaration contains four counts. The first one alleges
th work was completed by the 1st of December, 1854; the
second, on the 20th of December; third, the same time; the
fourth, the same as the second, with an allegation that the
defendant waived the time fixed for the work to be completed
to the 20th of December.
I This contract cannot be satisfactorily understood or construed
without reference to the circumstances under which it was
made. From the evidence it appears that the work to be
completed by the 1st of December was provided for by a
previous contract, dated 1Tth December, 1851, in which the
details and prices of the work were specially stated to be so.
constructed as to admit of-an engine to run over it on or b@fore'

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

237

B ater v. Evineron.

the 1st of May ensuing, and the whole to be completed as soon
after that period as practcable.
The company, it seems, had become embarrassed, and were
unable to make payment for the work as it progressed; still
up the contract,
givedifferent
the contractor, Emerson, was unwilling to on
parts of
and retained a few hands in his employ
the work, so as to retain the possession of it.
Another fact to be noticed as important was, that if the road
could be completed by the 1st of December, the company had
that a contract could be made with the Steanboat
an
assurance
Company
plying between Norwich and New York, making a
continuous line between Boston and New York. This was
considered an object of great importance-equal, as was supposed by a witness, to a quarter of a million of dollars, and
as the plaintiff supposed, to half a million.
The defendant was President of the Boston and New York
Central Railroad-a stockholder and a bondholder in the same;
but it does not appear that he had any authority to bind the
company, as he entered into the contract in his individual
capacity.
under these circumstances, the contract on which the action
is prosecuted was made. It will be at once perceived there
was a strong motive to have the work completed by the 1st of
December ensuing, by all who had an interest in the Central
railroad. The sum to be paid by Slater was not in addition
to the price stipulated in the former contract, but in discharge
of so much of that contract.
All these facts being admitted or undisputed, we will consider the language of the contract. It states "that the said
Emerson, in consideration of the agreement of said Slater,
hereinafter contained, and of one dollar to him paid, the receipt
whereof is acknowledged, covenants and agrees with said Slater, that he, the said Emerson, will complete all the bridge
work to be done by him for the Boston and Central Railroad
Company, ready for laying down the iron rails for one track,
by the 1st day of December next."
There is no ambiguity in this language. 'No one can misconstrue it. The work specified was to be completed by the
1st day of December. And the said Slater, "in consideration
of the premises," that is, the completion of the work, "hereby
agrees with said Emerson, that he will pay him, within two
days from the date heredf, the sum of forty-four hundred dollars in cash; and the said Slater further agrees that he will
give to the said Emerson, on the completion of the bridges,
and when the rails for one track are laid to the foot of Summer street, in Boston, from Dedham, his (said Slater's) five

-238

SUPREME COURT.
State v. Emersm

notes for two thousand dollars each, dated when said notes are
given, as above provided, and payable in six months."
The. notes were to be given on the completion of the bridges,
and when the rails for one track are laid to the foot of Summer street, in Boston; and from this it is argued that the covenants in the agreement are independent. Much is found in
the opinions of courts and elementary writers in regard to dependent and independent covenants. And it is said, "where
the acts stipulated to be done are to be done at different times,
the stipulations are to be construed as independent of each
other." This, as a general rule, is correct, but it is subject to
the intention of the parties, as signified in the language of the
contract. The great rule is to ascertain the intent of the parties from the language used.
The work was to be done by the 1st day of December; and
Slater agreed to give his notes, payable in six months after the
work was completed; the time of giving the notes, therefore,
is referable to the time fixed for the completion of the work.
In no just or legal sense can this language be held to enlarge
the time limited in the contract.
It is said by some writers, that it is impossible to make time
of the essence of the contract where damages may compensate
for the delay. But this-is not correct as a general proposition.
And a more fit illilstration of this can scarcely be found than
the contract under consideration. The amount of compensation for the work is not increased or diminished.by the new
contract. The first contract stands in all its force, unaffected
by the second, except that the payments made under the second shall be applied as a credit on the first. The obligation
assumed by Emerson in the new contract was, to finish the
work, as stated, by the 1st of December, in consideration that
forty-four hundred dollars should be paid to him in two days,
and notes given for ten thousand dollars on the completion of
the work. Slater, having no other interest in the work than
any other stockholder and bondholder of similar amounts, paid
the forty-four hundred dollars, and agreed to give his individual
notes for the ten thousand dollars. In this contract he stands
in the relation of a surety, and can only be held responsible
under his agreement.
That time was an' essential part of this contract is clear from
the circumstances under which it was made, and the intent of
the parties, as expressed. The continuous line to New York
was the strong motive to Slater, and that could be secured
only by the completion of the work on or before the Iat qf
December.
. The defendant prayed the court to instructthe jury that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Schucard

289

ta. v. B74]? Ang~e~igu&

plaintiff could not recover without showing the work was
completed,
ready
laying down
ironthe
rails
for refused
one track,
by the 1st day
of for
December,
1854, the
which
court
to
do. In this, we think, there was error. On a contract where
time
notagreement;
constitute where
its essence, there can be no recovery
at
lawdoes
on the
the performance was not within
the
time limited. A subsequent
acceptance
by the defendant will
authorize a performance
recovery on aand
quantum
meruit.
It

is dificut to perceive any satisfactory mode by which the
defendant
in the Circuit Court could recoup his damages for
the failure of the plaintiff to perform in that action, or by
bringing another suit..*As a stock and bond holder, his damages would be remote and contingent. To ascertain the general damage of the company by the failure, and distribute that

amount among the members of the company in proportion to
their interests, would seem to be the proper mode; and this
would be complicated, and not suited to te action of-a jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs.

FRefaRICe SCHUHAD
laif
to REDERIC C. GBBARD,
rIBEbriniS AanD A.pp
t Asv.WnTHRop S. BABBIDGE AND OTHER
s
SCLIMANTS OP HALP OP THE PROCEEDS OP THE SnIP -A-NGELIQUE.

.' re a mortgage existed upon the moiety e vessel
Ta which was afterwards libel'led, condeoed, and sold by process in admiralty, andthe proceeds brought into
the registry of
the emmortgagee could not ie a libel against a moiety of
proceeds.
thsthose
proper
course would have ben, either to have appeared as a claimant when the
first libel was diced, or to have applied to the court, by petition, for a distributive
-share of the proc:eeds.."

a morfatsgae exstaed n'the moinio of he
whcoua trt. dlbl
was an appe l from the Circuit Court of the United

'ThIS

States for the southern district of

York,
.ewsitting in adii-

It was asgued by r. oceting upon a bref filedby tiself
and rMi. ramton for the :appellants, and le. agansta for te
tsappellees.
)Mse arguments ofcounse, with respect to the relative right

of the clamats and libellants to the fund in'court are omitted
With rspeet 'to the jursdiction of the court, ALr. (tn
:point was this, v
Az:
"
"
T o
the Unit t tes hayerh

