DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Mfoore v. Greeu e aL.

fact that an execution was issued and returned appears in tlie
record -of the State court, bilt it was not made a part of the
record of the Circuit Court, by bill -of exceptions, and it calnot now be noticed. There is no ground of eror on the face
of the record, for the action-of this court. The judgment of
the Circuit Court is affirmed with ten per cent. damages.

ELIABET

COMPLANAT

mND

GREEN .AN BmiJAmn

W.

MOORE,

APPELLAT,

v.

RAT

EAWxINs.

-In the present case, where a bill was filed to set aside titles for frauds alleged to
have been committed in 1767, the 'bill does not make out a sufficient case; and
the evidence does not even sustain the facts alleged. And the disability to sue,
arising from coverture, is iot satisfactorily proved.
In case of alleged fraud, it is true that the statute of limitations does not begin
to run until the fraud is discovered. But then the bill must be specific in
stating the facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud; and in the
present case, this is not done.
Where property was sold under an administrator's sale, the presumption is in favor
of iJs correctness; and after a long.possession under it, the burden of proof is
upon the party who impeaches the sale.

TMIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Rhode Island, sitting as a court of
equity.
The bill was filed by Elizabeth Moore, a citizen of the State
of New York, the great-grandchild of John Manton, of Rhode
Island;
in 1767. -It alleged a series of frauds, beninwho
.1757,
i died when
one of his sons-in-law prevailed upon
C=faud
to make a deed; then that his three sohs-in-law
conspired together to have him declared non comrpos mei;
then that they fraudulently set aside his will; then that one
ot his sons-in-la-w cheated his own children out of their share
of the estate, and the administrator became a party to .the
fiud; then that the Town Council, conniving with the sonsin-law, adjudged the paper not to be a lawful will, and that all
the parties fr udulently prevented an appeal. These charges
of fraud were made.to include many other transactions which
it is not necessary to specify. 'The claim of the complainant
was, that she was entitled to a share of the lands held by the
defendants; and the prayer was, that a partition -might be decreed.
Hawldns. fied his answer, saying that he had purchased
property from. Samuel W. King,. who derived it from his
father, Josiah King, who inherited it from his father, William
B. Ring; and that he and the Kings had been in. the uninter-

70

SUPREME COURT.
.More v. Greene d al.

rupted and quiet possession of the property for more than
twenty years before the filing of the bill, and therefore he
pleaded the statutehof limitations. :He also denied all knowledge of the important facts stated in the bill.
father,
from
Greene answered and explained the manner
in his
,which
he
had come into possession of the property, viz:
Samuel Greene, who was a devisee of his father, Joshua
Greene, who purchased it from Josiah :King, administrator of
John Manton, in 1770; since which time, it had been in the
possession of the family. He also denied all knowledge of the
alleged frauds, and pleaded the statute of limitations.
After taking much testimony, the cause came up for hearing
in November, 1854, when the Circuit Court dismissed the bill
with costs. The complainant appealed to this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by M2r. Randall for
the appellant, and -Mr. Bradley for the appellee.
The argument of Mr. Randallcovered a great deal of ground,
as may be supposed, from the long period of time which his
investigation included. But it is not deemed material to state
all these points, or the reply of the opposing counsel. The
manner in which Mr. Randll proposed to escape from the
plea of the statute of limitations was by alleging a series of
disabilities, in this nanner:
John Manton died in 1767. Anna Waterman, his daughter,
died before her father, leaving a daughter named Betty.
Betty was born in 1756. Betty was thus in her 17th year
when her grandfather died, and came of age in 1777.
.Betty married Carpenter before 1775, whilst she was yet a
minor.
Betty died in 1784-'5, leaving Elizabeth, the present plaintiff
Elizabeth married Heman Moorp in 1804, in the 19th or
20th year of her age.
Moore died in 1840..
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery from the Circuit Court for the
district of Rhode Island.
The bill was filed to set aside certain titles for frauds alleged
to have been committed in the year 1767, by a father against
his own children, for the benefit of strangers. The frauds are
stated to have been investigated and sanctioned, directly or
indirectly, by the court of probate, by referees chosen by the
parties
determine
highest to
courts
of the their
State.matters of controversy, and by the

DECEMBER -TERM, 1856.
Ilbore v. Greene d a?.

The legal history of the case commences in July, 1767, by
the execution of a deed by the administrator of John Manton
to Waterman and Pearce. From this period, a series of events
ard detailed, genealogical and historical, sweeping. over near a
century. Acts are stated in the bill, as it wouIl seem, from
mere vague reports, and sometimes resting on conjectures.
And many of the facts set forth, if proved, and were of modern
occurrence, would not be sufficient to avoid the titles enumerated; but the facts' are denied generally by the answers, and
not sufficiently, proved by the evidence.
The lands when sold were comparatively of little value, but,
by the progress of time and the advance of improvements,
they are now covered with large manufacturing establishments
and flourishing villages. Generation after generation has risen
up and passed away, of individuals connected with these titles,
the property by their large expendwho increased the al
itures; and the property, by deed or will, or by the law of
descents, has been transmitted through the generations that
have passed, without doubt as to the legal ownership.
. The bill was filed in 1851; its averment, of facts, by which
the-lapse of time and the statute of limitations are sought to
be avoided, are lpose and unsatisfactory. The adverse entry
is alleged to have been made, under the deed of the administrator of Manton, in 1767; and it appears that Betty Waterman, the complainant's grandmother, through whom the title
is claimed to have descended, was born in 1756. She was of
age in 177.7, and' in ten years afterward her right was barred
by the staute. It is true, the date of her coverture does not
appear, but as she was only eleven years of age in 1767, she
could not then have been married; and if her marriage occurred subsequently, it was a cumulative disability, which is
not allowed by the statute of Rhode Island. The complainant became of age, as it appears, in 1815, and her ten years
expired in 1825. Her disability of coverture, and it -was
cumulative, expired in 1849, more than ten- years before the
bill was filed.
The complinant avers that from the death of John Manton,
in 1767, to 1822-'3, and '4, his estates were the .subjects of
legal controversy and litigation in courts of law; and that
ever since, renewed and continued claims and 4temands, by the
heirs of Lydia Thornton and Betty Carpenter, for their proportion of said estates, as his rightful heirs at law, upon the
assignees of the Manton estate, and upon all persons ieriving
title under them, have been continuously prosecuted. But
prosecutio.ns to stop the operations of the statute must be successful, and lead to a change in the possession.

72

SUPREME COURT.
Betts v. Lewis and W1life.

Whqn fraud is alleged as a ground to set aside a title, the
statute does not begin to run until the fraud is discovered;
and this is the ground on which the complainant asks relief.
But, in such a case, the bill must be specific in -stating the
facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud; and also
as to the time it was discovered. This is necessary to enable
the defendants to meet the fraud, and the alleged time of its
discovery. In these respects the bill is defective, and the evidence is still more so.
The complainant's counsel seem to suppose, that as the defendants in their answer admit the property, at least in part,
was originally acquired under a sale of Manton's administrator, they are bound to show the proceedings were not only
conformable to law, but that they must go further, and prove
the debts for which it was sold were due and owing by the
deceased. So far from this being the legal rule, under the
circumstances of this case, the presumptions are in favor of
the present occupants, and the complainants must show the
administrator's sale was illegal and void. After an adverse
possession of more than eighty years, when the facts have
passed from the memory, and, as in this case, the papers are
not to be found in the probate court, no court can require of
the defendants proof in regard to such sale. The burden of
proof falls upon him who attempts to disturb a possession of
ages, transmitted and enjoyed under the forms of law..
Whether we consider .the great lapse, of time, and the
change in the value of the property, or the statutes of limitation, the right of the complainant is barred. The decree of
the Circuit Court is affirmed.

BuER H. BETTS, API'ELLANT, 'V. JOHN H. LEwis,
M. F. LEiWsI,

lIs

AND MARY

WIFE.

According to the practice preseribed for the Circuit Courts, by this court, in
equity causes, a bill cannot be dismissed. on motion of the respondents, for want
of equity after answer and before the hearing.

TaIS was ai appeal from the District Court. of the 'United
States for the northern district of Alabama.
It was a bill filed by Betts against Lewis and wife, under
the iame eircumstances which gave rise to the case. of Lewis
v. Darling, reported in 16 Howard, 1. It will be seen by a
reference to that case, page 6, that Burr H. Betts waa one of
the legatees in the will of Samuel Betts.

