183

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Brown v. Deheme.

and no transcript of the record was filed here during that term.
But a transcript has been filed at the present term of this
court, and the case docketed. And a motion is made to dismiss it, upon the ground that the appeal is not legally before
this court, according to the act of Congress regulating appeals.
The construction of this act of Congress, and the practice
of this court unde-i it, has been settled by the cases of -Villalobo v. The United States, (6 Howard, 81,) and The United
States v. Curry, (6 Howard, 106.) The transcript must be
filed in this court-and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the appeal, in order to give this court jurisdiction.
I
This case must therefore be dismissed.
But the dismissal does not bar. the appellant from taking
and prosecuting another appeal at any time within five years
from the date of the decree, prbvided the transcript is filed
here and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the
date of such second appeal.

JoH BROWN, PLAINTIFF I ERRoR, v. -

DUCHESNE.

The rights of property and exclusive use granted to a patentee do not extend to a

foreign vessel lawfully entering one of our ports; and the use of such improvement in the construction, fitting out, or equipment, of such vessel, while she is
coming into or going out of a port of the United States, is not an infringement

of the rights of an American patentee, provided it was placed upon her in A
foreign port, and authorized by the laws of the country to which she belongs..

THis case came 74p, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts in the case and state of the pleadings in the Circuit
Courit are set forth so particularly, in the opmion of the court,
that they need not.be repeated.
It was submitted on a printed argument by -Mr.Dana for
the. plaintiff in error, and argued by, Mr. Austin for the
,defendant.
As the points -raised in the" case are entirely new, it is
'thought expedient to present them to the reader as they were
b ought before the court by the respective counsel.
.Mr. Dana, for the plaintiff in eiror, after stating the circumstances of the case, sad that the question for the court to
decide was:
Whether, under these circumstances, there is an exemption

184

SUPREME COURT.
Bron v. Duckem.

from the operation of our patent laws, by reason of the nationality of the vessel.
Since this cause was argued in the Circuit Court, my attention has been called to the case of Caldwell v. Van Vlissengen,
9 Hare, 415, (9 Eng. L. and Eq. Rep., p. 51.)
In that case, the machine patented was a screw propeller.
This was a substantial part of the'vessel, and almost necessary
to her use. The vessel was built and solely owned in Holland,
where the invention was in free and common use. The affidavits set forth facts sufficient to establish an exemption, if
nationaI character can give one. The court fully considers
the question,- and decides against the exemption. (On pp. 58,
59, the court puts the right to an injunction upon the ground
that actions at law are maintainable in these cases.) The court
considers that the question of the exemption of foreign vessels,
either entirely, or in cases of reciprocity., is one of national
policy, and to be dealt with by the Legislature, rather than by
the courts.
After reading this decision, I wrote to Sir William Page
Wood, the counsel for the respdndents, then Solicitor General,
und now Vice Chancellor, and received from him the following
reply:
31 GnEAT

GEORGE ST., WESTMINSTER,

.November 6, 1855.
My DEAR Sn.: Yqur letter reached me yesterday. The case
you refer me (Caldwell v. Van VhIssengen) was not appealed.
I thought the decision was right, though it was against me.
At the same time' I saw that there were inconveniences in the
application of the law; and in the session of 1852, when a bill
was passing through the House of Commcinns, with reference
to the amendment of the Patent Laws, I proposed the insertion
of the following clause.. [Here follows section 26, of the act
of 15 and 16 Victoria, ch. 83.]
The opinion of Sir William Page Wood is entitled to great
weight before every ju'dicial tribunal, as is well known to
your honors.
After this decision, the act 15 and 16 Victoria, ch. 83, was
passed.; section 26 of which is as follows: (.4 Chitty's Statutes,
217.) "No letters patent for any invention (granted after the
passing of: this act) shall extend to prevent the use of. such
invention in any foreign ship or vessel, or for the navigation
of any foreign ship. or vessel, which may be in any port of
her Majesty's dominions, or in any of the waters within
ihe jurisdiction. of any of her Majesty's courts, where such
invention is not used for the manufacture of any goods or commodities to be vended within or exported from her Majesty's

DECEMBER TKRM, 1856.

185

.Brotn v. Duchme.

domitijons. Provided, always, That this enactment shall not
extend to the- ships or vessels of any foreign State, of which
the laws authorize subjects of such fQreign State, having patents
or like -privileges for the exclusive use or exercise of inventions
within its tperritories, to prevent or interfere withthe use of
such inventions in British ships or vessels, while in the ports
of such foreign State, or'in the waters within the jurisciction
of its courts, where such inventions are not so used for the
manufacture of goods or commodities, to be vended within or
exported from the territories of such foreign State."
Such is the state of the law in Great Britain, the greatest
commercial nation 'of Europe. There is no reason to believe
that the law of any other nation of Europe varies from that of
England. Indeed, it is probable that other nations will do
likewise, and keep in their own hands the power of granting
or withholding such an exemption, on considerations of policy,
by legislation or treaty.
It is therefore respectfully suggested that the court should
leave this question to the law-making 'and treaty-making
departments of our Government, in the mean time placing the
law in this country upon the same basis upon which it -restsin
England.
Ts there any'controll'mg reason why the court should not do

this?
It is conceded that the statute, in'its terms, suggests no
exemption. 1o kerprelation of the statute would suggest an
exemption. If one is.established, it must be by some imposed
construetim, paramount over 'the plain language of the acts.
This is 'found solely in certain supposed principles of intern.ational law. No decision in point; in this country, has been
cited, andothe English cases referred to are inapplicable, as
shown in Caldwell v. Van Vlissengen, cited..
The defendant's vessel, being private property, and here
voluntarily, f6r puioses of trade, ' has no exemption from
general national. jurisdiction. (Phillimore's Int. -Law, 367,
878; The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 144; Stof's Conflict of Laws,
sec. 883.)
S
: Internatiial law respects'absolute rights, the violation of
'which is cause of war, and comity, or rights of'imperfect obli'gation, the contravention of which is not presumed, but which
each-nation is competent to contravene if it chooses. (This
istinction is' well stated in Mr. Webster's ,letter to. Lord.
Ashburton, 'in the appendix to Wheaton's LAw of N~ations.)
.Itwill not be claimed that the prohibition of the usb of such
an article as this, in a private vessel, under these circumstances,

186

SUPREME COURT.
Bro= v. Dueme.

is a violation of any absolute right secured by the law of
nations. The Government has the right to prohibit commerce
altogether, or with particular nations, as by embargo or nonintercourse laws. (1 Kent's Com., see. 83 n; Vattel, Book
2, Ch. 7, sec. 94; Ch. 8, sec. 100; Ch.2, secs. 25, 3-Book 1,
Ch. 8, sec. 90.)
As a nation may prohibit trade, so it may lay conditions and
restrictions. Authorities cited supra. (Vattel, Book 2, Ch. 8,
sec. 100.).
The question is really-under the comitas gentium. Between
countries trading freely, is there a presumption from the law
of comity that no nation will prohibit or restrict the use -of
such an invention, under such circumstances, so well settled
as to authorize a court to establish the exception against the
language-of the statute?
This can harly be contended, since the'pase of Caldwell v.
Van Vlissengen, and the act 15 and 16 Victoria.
This is not a question of property, or of the domicil or situs
of property. The defendant may have his vessel full of these
articles, if he chooses. We admit the property in the article
to be in him, and that it is part of thie national wealth of
France, and has its situs in France, for purposes of taxation,
and for all national purposes. (Hays v. Pacific Co., 17. How.,
596.) .The question is upon a restriction of its use within our
dominions.
As the use of the machine is not alleged to be necessary, and
the presence of the vessel here is voluntary, if the comity of
nations does not allow the prohibition in this case, it would
forbid it in all cases of patents; and vessels nominally owned
in the British Provinces, and in the West India Islands, may
use all our nautical patents.
To what burdens is the foreigner and his personal property
subject?
Not to taxes for the support of the Government. (In re Bruce,
2 Cr. and J., 437; Vattel, Book 2, Oh. 8, sec. 106.)'
Nor to duties that relate to the quality of a citizen, as militiaor jury duties. But they are subject to all burdens, taxes, and
duties, relating to the police and economical regulations of a
State. (Wattel, B. 2, Ch. 8, sec. 106.)
They are subject to imposts and duties levied for the purpose of encouraging the manufactures or other industry of a
country, and are liable to prohibitions and restrictions made
for the same purpose. Such are most navigation laws, and a
large part of the-revenue laws of a country. (Vattel, B. 2, Ch.
8, sec. 106; 1 Kent's Com., 35.)
Their exemption seems to be based upon the principle that

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

187

Brown v.Duceme.

they shall not be required to do anything inconsistent with
their home allegiance, or anything which supposes an allegiance or fealty to the State in which they merely sojourn. .
The patent and copyright laws of a country stand upon the
same ground with navigation laws,'and laws prohibiting altogether or restricting certain kinds of trade, for economical purposes, or to add to the military resources and strength, or to
increase the effective power and industry of a country, or to
develop its genius. As to these, each nation is the proper
judge of its own policy. (Vattel, B. 2, Ch.2, sees. 25, 33.)
Indeed, Vattel (B. 1, Ch.20, sec. 255) seems to define the
police regulations of a country so as to include patent laws.
The object of the patent laws is to develop the genius and
industry of the country, as well for war as for peace. And
whether the law in this case be looked upon as a prohibition
of the use., or as a duty, burden, or tax, on the use, it is equally
within the recognised jurisdiction of the sovereign, under the
comity of nations.
Under the British copyright laws, a foreigner cannot introduce into England, even for his private use, a book printed in
his own country, if it is subject to copyright in England; and
the introduction entails a forfeiture, instead of a ta- tobe paid
to the author. (Act 5 and 6 Victoria, Ch.45.)
In this state of the international law, in the absence of all
direct decisions in support of the defendant's position, and
since 'the passage of 15 and 16 Victoria, and the decision in
Caldwell v. Van Vissengen, it is respectfully suggested that
the question of exemption of foreigners (in cases not of necessity or charity) should be treated as a political rather th4n a
legal question, and the British precedent be followed by the
court, until Congress or the treaty-making power shall act
upon it.
.Mr. Ausmtt, for defendant in error, made the following
points:
L Foreign vessels entering a port of the United States, by
the express or implied permission of the Government, do so
under an implied immunity and resertation of the right belonging to them by'the laws of the country to which they belong, with an implied understanding that the persons on board
shall not violate the peace or domestic laws of the country.
(Vattel's Law of Nations, B. 2, Ch. 8, see. 101.)
The Alfyon, coming from the island of Miquelon, may be
deemed to have entered a port of the United States by express
permission. (5 United States Statutes at Large, 748, Oh. 66,
which specially mentions this island.)

188

SUPREME COURT.
Brown T. Duchem&e

The plaintiff says that the terms of the patent law are broad
enough to render the use of the aforesaid contrivance or gaffsaddle on board of the Alcyon, while ii the harbor of -Boston,
a violation of his right.
The question is, whether the patent law can be pioperly so
construed as to include a use of said gaff-saddle, notwithstanding the circumstances under which the said gaff-saddle was incorpolated into the structure of the Alcyon, and iotwithstanding the express or implied permission of the United States, by
force of which she entered a port of the United States.
Ml. What shall or does constitute a vessel must be deternminea exclusively by the law of the country, to which the vessel
belongs, i. 4., by the law of the owner's domicil.
This follows necessarily from general maxims of international jurisprudence. (Story on Con. of Laws, sees. 18, 20.)
In order to ascertain what is or is not real property, we
must resort to the lex loci rei, (Id., sec. 382, 447;) so as to what
is or what is not a corporation. (Banic of Augusta v. Earle,
13 Pet., 519.)
The Alcyon, although in a port of the United States, was
still within the jurisdiction of France.
Children born on boardof her while in Boston harbor would
have been French subjects. (Vattel L. of N., B. 1, Ch.19, sec.
216.).
-The, extent to which this principle is applied is shown in
the case of In re Bruce, (2 Cr. and J., 437,) and Thompson v.
The Advocate General, (12 Clark and F., 1.) See also United States v. Wiltberger, (5 Wh., 76.)
The gaff-sadde was as much an integral part of the Alcyon
as her rudder, or her keel, or her gaff. Whether a more or
less necessary part, does not alter the fact that it was rightfully
a part of the vessel by French law. Therefore, if the United
States patent law operated to preyent the defendant from using
the gaH-saddle while in the harbor of Boston, notwithstanding
it was a part of his vessel, without plaintiff's permission, it operated just so far to impose a restriction on the implied permission accorded by the United States to all French vessels to
enter the ports of the'United States, and upon the express permission accorded to all French vessels from Miquelon.
The statutes of the United States relating to patents were
uot intended to.affect, and do not affect, foreign vessels coming
into the ports of the United States
1st. The statutes of a coultry relating to patentA are not
such laws as a fbreigner, visiting this country temporarily, and
not to become' resident, is bound to obey, so far as lhbse
laws relate merely to the use of articles pur~hased abroad, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

189

Brown v. Ducaene.

brought into the country solely for the personal use of the
paxty in possession while a transient visiter. (Vattel L. of N.,
B. 2, Oh. 8, secs. 101, 106, 109; Boullenois Trait6 des Statuts,
pp. 2, 8, 4; Universities of Oxford and Cambridge v. Richardson, 6 Vesey, Jr., 689, which entirely supports this position.)
2d. The United States, in granting letters patent, or any
other exclusive privilege to a citizen, necessarily always reserve by implication their own rights of sovereignty, which
are not to, be affected by any individa or private privilege.
Examples of the application of this principle are as follows:
1. In regard to the right of eminent domain.
This exists inherently in every Government. (Vattel's L. of
N., B. 1, Oh. 20, see. 244; Bonaparte v. The Camden and Amboy Railroad, 1 Bald., 220.)
It is recognised in the -Constitution of the United States.
(Amdt. V.)
Therefore, if the Government by a land patent convey today a portion of its public lands to an individual, it coild tomorrow, by virtue of the implied reservation of its right of
eminent donmain, resume the land from its own grantee, and
against his -consent, by paying to him an indemnity.
Independently of the principle that the rigit of eminent domain, being an attribute of sovereignty, co?d not be conveyed
away, the conclusion above stated follows from the rule that in
public grants nothing passes by implication. (United States
v. Arredondo, 6 Pet., 788; Jackson v. Lamphire, 8 Pet., 289.)
2. The constitutional power of Congress over cQmmerce.
This power extends to navigation, (2 Story's Com. on Con.,
sec. 1,060,) and to every species of commercial intercourse.
(Id., 1,061.)
In the exercise of this power, Congress in 1845, after the
date of the plaintiffs patent, passed the law relating to French
vessels coming from Miquelon, (ubi supra,) which law makes
no exception as to the kind of vessel, or the mode of its rig, or
the peculiarities of its structure.
Either, therefore, the power of Congress to pass an act thus
broad in its terms was limited by the grant to the plaintiff of
an exclusive right to use the contrivance in question, or the
exclusive right was limited in its extent by the implied reservation of power to pass such an act. As the grant to the plaintift.'and the act of 1845, are in direct opposition, the grant
must be construed against grantee. (Mills v. St. Clair County,
8 How.; 569.)-

The defendant does not contend that he would have a right
to,bring into-a port of the United States a cargo or any number of these contrivancea for sale; nor even that he had a right

SUPREME COURT.

190

Brown v. Ducheue.

to detach and sell that on board of the Aleyon. In this argument the gaff-saddle is deemed a part of the schooner, in the
same way as fixtures are parts of the reality.
8. The power of Congress to alienate a portion of its territory.

This power exists in ever Government, (Vattel's L. of
N., B. I., Oh. 21, sec. 263.) It was exercised in the Treaty of
Washington, 1842, (8 U. S. Stat. at Large, 572.)
Every patent right then existing extended over the whole
country as then bounded. The alienation of a portion of the
territory diminished the value, by diminishing the extent of
every existing patent right; but they were all granted, subject
to the implied reservation of power on the part of the Government thus to diminish their value.
The right, therefore, of the plaintiff; to an exclusive use of
his patented contrivance within the jurisdiction of the United
States, was limited by the paramount right of the sovereignty
of the United States to admit all vessels into the ports of the
United States, which right they have exercised in regard to
French xessels, .byimplication, by treaty, and by statute. The
same-reasoning which would separate the gaff-saddle from the
schooner might be allowed to separate her into as many parts
as there should. happen to be articles on board of her incorporated into her structure, the like of which were patented in
this country.

.

-

3. The private right of every patentee is subject to the public right of the Govern ient, to admit into the ports of the
United States any foreign vessel, free from any private or
public chargesi tolls, or burdens, other than those imposed by
treaty or by the laws of nations. (The Attorney General v.
Burridge, 10 Price, 350; Same v. Parmeter, Id., 378; The
same v. The Attorney General, Id., 412.)
The cases cited are exactly analogous in principle to the
case at bar.
In the citations, the jus p7vatum was a grant by Charles I
of his property in land between high and low water mark;
and the jus publicum with which it interfered was the right of
the public freely to pass and repass upon. the salt water between high and. low water mark.
In th present case, the ju privatum is the exclusive right
granted to the plaintiff to use within the jurisdiction of the
United States a certain machine, and the jus [publicum with
which it interferes is the right the public has to thte free admission into the ports of the United States of all foreign .vessels, being such according to the law of 'the country where
they belong.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

191

Brown v. Duciwan.

The grant by Charles I of land between high and low water
mark was held void, so far as it prevented this free passage.
By parity of reasoning, the letters patent of the plaintiff must
be held void, or rather as never..having extended to foreign
vessels visiting the ports of the United States, as the .Alcyon
viFlted Boston.
The principle here contended for, as it applies to ports and
harbors, is clearly stated by Lord Hale, in his treatise De Jure
.Aaris, cap. 6, p. 35, and in the treatise De _Portibus Maris, chapter on the jus rublicum, pp. 84, 89: ".When a port is ixed -And
settled," "though the soil and franchise and domfifion thereof
p7rimazfacie be in the King, or by derivation from him in a subje'ct, yet that jus privatum is clothed and superinduced with
a juspiblicum." So in the case at bar, the jusprivatum of the
patentee is subject to the jus publicum by which foreign vessels,
however constructed, may enter our ports. This Government,
never having undertaken to decide, nor ever having granted
to an individual the right to decide for the Government, that
certain vessels, or vessels constructed partly or wholly in a
certain way, shall not enter our ports without paying a toll, or
charge, or duty, not imposed by treaty or special laws relating
thereto.
4. The statutes relating to patents cannot properly be so
construed as to include machines or coiitrivanees forming a
part .of the original structure of foreign vessels enterhig the
ports of the Tfnited States, as the Alcyon entered Boston
harbor."

(1.) Because such construction, for the reasons above stated,
would introduce public mischiefs and manifest incongruities.
(Sawin v. Guild, 1 Gall., 485; Talbot v. Seaman, 1 Cr., 1;
Murray v. The Charming Betsey, 2 Id., 64.)
(2.) These statutes were passed alo intuitu. (See the reasoniug of Judge Curtis, in the opinion delivered by.him in this
case, printed from the original MS. in 4 Am. Law Register,
152. Also, Lessee of Brewer V'.Blougher, 14 Pet., 178: "The
laws will restrain the operation of a statute within narrower
limits than its words import, if the literal meaning of its language would extend to cases which the Legislature never designed to embrace in it "-198.) It cannot be supposed that
Congress intended the statutes on patents to confer a right on
a patentee to interfere in any way with the exercise of a license
conferred by Government on a foreign vessel. (Same doctrine
in Mercer v. Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria, 1 Pet., 64.)
IV. Letters patent of the United States confer upon the
grantee the exclusive right to the subject-matter of the patent,
to be exercised within their jurisdiction. A foreign ship coming

192

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Duchaize.

within one of the ports of the United States, with their express
or implied permission, is without the jurisdiction within which
this exclusive right is to be exercised.
1. Foreigners within the territorial jurisdiction of a country
may. yet be within its municipal jurisdiction for no purpose
whatever. Such is the status of public ininisters--(Wheaton's
Element- of the L. of N., Part III, c. 1, s. 14; Id., Part 17, c.
2, s. 9)-and of foreign sovereigns entering the territory of
another-(id. id. id.)-and of foreign armies marching, &c.,
through the territory-(id. id. id.)-and of a foreign ship of
war-(id. id. id.)-and Schooner Exchange v. McFadden, 7
Cr. 135, 147.) .
2. Foreigners within the territorial may be within the municipal jurisdiction of a country for all purposes. This is the
status of foreigners who come into the country animo ,manend4
becoming inhabitants. (Vattel's L. of N., B. I, c. 19, s. 213.)
3. Fbr eigners within the territorial may be within the municipal jurisdiction for some purposes, and not for others. This
is the case with transient persons (Vattel's L. of N., B. RI, c.
8, ss. 105-'6-'8-'9) and consuls; (Wheaton's Elements, P. III,
c. 1, s. 23.) The same principle applies to a part of the country
in temporary possession of an enemy. "(U. S. v. Hayward, 2
Gall.,' 485.) To goods imported, and not entered, although
within the territorial jurisdiction of the State, they are not
subject to its municipal jurisdiction. (Harris v. Dennie, 3
Pet., 292.)
This principle applies to a foreign commercial vessel visiting
a port of the United States. It is within the jurisdiction of
tht United States, so flr that persons on board are bound to
do no act against the public peace, or contra bonos mores, or
against the revenue laws, &c., &c. But "for all the personal relations and responsibilities existing in a ship at the
time she entered a port, and established or permitted by the
laws of her own country, her authorities are answerable only
at home; and to interfere with them in discharge of the duties
imposed upon them, or the exercise of the powers vested in
them by those laws, on the ground of their being inconsistent
with the municipal legislation of the country where the ship
happens to be lying, is to assert for that legislation a superiority
not acknowledged by the law, and inconsistent with the independence of nations." (Mr. Legare's Opinion, 4 Op. of Att.
Gen., 98, 102; Same point, 6 Webster's Works, 803.)
V. The case of Caldwell v. Van Vlissengen, (9 Hare, 415,
reprinted in 9 Eng. Law and Equity R., 51,) will be cited by
plaintiff in error, as deciding the point before the court. On
this case, the defendants say:

DECEM1BER 'TERMf, 1856.
Brin Y. Dw

193

.esn&

1.It will be regarded by this court only so far as the reasoning. commends itself to the court as sound. *
2. The case was not placed upon the grounds assumed in.
the case -at bar. .The principles here contended 'for were
neither considered nor *evenpresented to the court.
3. Statute 15 and 16 Victoria, c. 83, s. 26, passed July 1,
1852, provides that letters patent thereafter granted shall not
prevent the use of inventions in foreign ships resorting to
British ports when not used for the manufacture of goods to be
vended in or exported from England, excepting from the act,
-ships of foreign States in the ports. of which British ships are
,prevented from using foreign inventions when not. efnployed
for the manufacture of goods to be vended in or .exported from
such foreign States.
This statute was passed in evident recognition of. the existence and propriety of the .principles of international law contended for'by the defendant in error.
fr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The plaintiff in error, who was also plaintiff in the court
.-below, brought this action against the defendant for the
infringement of a patent which the plaintiff had obtained for
a new and useful improvement in constructing the gaff of sailing vessels. The declaration is-in the usual form, and alleges
-that the defendant used this improvement at Boston without
his consent. The defendant pleaded that the improvement in
question was used by him only in the gaff of a French
schooner, called the Alcyon, of which schooner he was master;
that he (the defendant) was a subject of the Empire of France;
that the vessel was built in France, and owned and manned
by French subjects; and, at the time of the alleged infrihgement, was Uljon a lawful voyage, under the flag of France,
from St. ?eters, in the island of Miquelon, one of the colonies
of France, to Boston, and thence back to St. Peters, which
voyage was not ended at the date of the alleged infringement;
.and that the gaffs he used were placed on the schooner, at or
near the time she was launched by the builder in order .to fit
her for sea.
There is also a second plea containing the same allegations,
-with the additional averment that the improvement in question
•adlbeen in common use in Frenchjmerchat vessels for more
than twenty years before the Alcyon was built, and was the
VOL. xIX.

13

194

SUPREME COURT.
. Brmn v. Duchane.

common and well-known property of every French subject
long before the plaintiff obtained his patent.
.The plaintiff demurred generally to each of these pleas, and
the defendant joined in demurrer; and the judgment of the
Circuit Court being in favor of the -defendant, the plaintiff
thereupon brought this writ of error.
The plaintiff, by his demurrer, admits that the Alcyon was
a foreign vessel, lawfully in a port of the United States for the
purposes of commerce, and that the improvement in question
was placed on her in a foreign port to fit her for sea, and was
authorized by the laws of the country to which she belonged.
The question, therefore, presented by the first plea is simply
this: whether any improvement in .the construction or equipment of a foreign vessel, for which a patent has been obtained
in the United States, can be used by such vessel within the
jurisdiction of the United States, while she is temporarily there
for the purposes of commerce, without the consent of the
patentee?
This question depends on the construction of the patent laws.
For undoubtedly every person who is found. within the limits
of a Government, whether for temporary purposes or as a
resident, is bound by its laws. The doctrine upon this subject
is correctly stated by Mr. Justice Story, in his "Commentaries
-on the Conflict of Laws," (chap. 14, sec. 541,) and the writers
,on publi • law to whom he refers. A difficulty may sometimes
-arise, in determining whether a particular law applies to the
.itizen of a foreign country, and intended to subject him to its
provisions. But if the law applies to him, and embraces his
ease, it is unquestionably binding upon him when he is within
the jurisdiction of the United .States.
The general words used in the clause of the patent laws
granting the exclusive right to the patentee to use the improve.ment, taken by themselves, and literally construed, without
regard to the object in view, would seem to sanction the claim
o-f the plaintiff. But this mode of expounding a statute has
mever been adopted by any enlightened tribuna -because it is
evident that in many cases it would defeat the object which
the Legislature intended to accomplish. And it is well settled
that, in interpreting a statute, the court will not look merely
to a particular clause, in which general words may be useZ
but will take in connection with it the whole statute (or statutes
on the same subject.) and the objects and policy of. the law, as
indicated by its various provisions, and give to it such a construction as will carry into execution the will of the Legislature, as thus ascertained, according to its true intent and
meamng.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

•195

Brown v. Ducee.

Neither will the -court, in expounding a statute, give to it a
construction which would in any degree disarm the Government of a power which has been confided to it to be used for
the general good-or which would enable individuals to embarrass it, in the discharge of the high duties it owes to the community-unless plain and express words indicated that such
was the intention ofthe Legislature.
The patent laws are authorized by that article in the Constitution which provides thatCongress shall have power to promote the progress of science and ueful airts, by securing for
limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right, to
their respective writings and discbveries. The power thus
granted is domestic in its character, and necessarily coniied
within the limits of the United States. It confers no power
on Congress to regulate commerce, or the vehicles of commerce,
which belong to a f6reign nation, and occasionally visit our
ports in their commercial pursuits. That power and the treatymaking power of the General Government are separate and
distinct powers-from the one of which we are now speaking,
and-are granted by separate, and different clauses, and are in
no degree connected with it. And when Congress are legislating to protect authors and inventors, their attention is necessarily attracted to the authority under which they are acting,
and it ought not lightly to be presumed that they intended to
,go beyond it, and exercise another and distinct power, conferred on them for aLdiffereAt purpose.
Nor is there anything in the patent lawa that should lead to
a different conclusion. They are all manifestly intended to
oalTy into execution this"particular power. They secure to the
inventor a just remuneration from. those who derive ,a profit
or advantage, within the United States, from his genius and
mental labors.
.But the right of property which a patentee has in his invention, and his right to its exclusive use, is derived altogether
from these statutory provisions; and this court have always
held that aA inventor has no right of prop erfy in his iuvention,
upon which he can maintain a suit, unless ho obtains a patent
for it, according to the acts of Congress; and that his rights
are to be regulated and measured by these laws, and cannot
go.beyond them.
But these acts of, Congress do not, and'were not intended
-to, operate beyond the limits of the United States; and as the
patentee's right of property and exclusive use is derived from
them, they cannot extend beyond the limits to which the law
itself is confined. And the use of it outside of the jurisdiction
of the United States is not an infringement of his rights, and
-

196

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. .Duhme.

he has no claim to any compensation for the profit or advan-tage the party may-derive from it.
The chief and almost only advantage which the defendant
derived from the use of this improvement was on the high
seas, and in other places out of the jurisdiction of the United
States. ^The plea avers that it was placed on her to fit her for
sea. If it had been manufactured on her deck while she was
lying in the port of Boston, or if the captain had sold it there,
he would undoubtedly have trespassed upon the rights of the
plaintif and would have been justly answerable for the profit
and advantage he thereby obtained. For, by coming in competition with the plaintiff, where the plaintiff was entitled to
the exclusive use, he thereby diminished the value of his property. Justice, therefore, as well as the act of Congress, would
require that he should compensate the patentee for the injury
he sustained, and the benefit and advantage which he (the
defendant) derived from the invention.
But,' so far as the mere use is concerned, the vessel could
hardly be said to use it while she was at anchor in the port, or
lay at the wharf. It was certainly of no vilue to her while she
was in the harbor; and the only use made of it, which can be
supposed to interfere with the rights of the plaintiff, was in
navigating the vessel into and out of the harbor, when she arrived or was about to depart, and while she was within the jurisdiction of the United States. Now; it is obvious that the
plaintiff sustained no damage, and the defendant derived no
niterial advantage, from the use of an improvement of this
1ind by a foreign vessel in a single voyage to the United States,
or from occasional voyages in the ordinary pursuits of commerce; or if any damage is sustained on the one side, or any
profit or advantage gained on the other, it is so minute that it
is incapable of any appreciable value.
But it seems to be supposed, that .this user of the improvement was,. by legal intendment, a trespass upon the rights of
the plaintiff; and that although no real damage was sustained
by the plaintiff and no profit or advantage gained by the defendant, the law presumes a damage, and that the action may
be maintained on that ground. In other words, that there is
a-technical damage, in the eye of the law, although none has
really been sustained.
This view of the subject, however, presupposes that the
patent laws embrace improvements on foreign ships, lawfully
made in their own country, which have been patented here.
But that is the question in controversy. And the court is of
opinion that cases of that kind were not in the contemplation
of Congress in enacting the patent laws, and cannot, upon any

DECEM3ER TERP

1856.

197

Brown v. Duch=&ne

sound construction, be regarded as embaced in them. For
such a construction would be inconsistent with the principles
that lie at the foundation of these laws; and instead of conferring legal rights on the inventor, in order to do equal justice.
betiween him and those who profit by his invention, they would
confer a power to exact damages where no real damage had
been sustained, and would moreover seriously embarrass the
commerce of the c6untry with f6reign nations. We thIx
these laws ought to be construed in the spirit in which they
were made-that isi as founded in justice-and should not be
strained by technical constructions to reach cases which Cohgress evidently could not have contemplated, without"depart-.
ing from the principle upon which they were legislating, and
going far beyond the object they intended to accomplish.
The construction claimed by the plaintiff would confer on
patentees not only rights of property, but also political power,.
and enable them to embarrass the-treaty-making piower in its
negotiations with foreign nations, and also to interfere with
the legislation of Congress when exercising its constitutional
power to regulate commerce. And if a treaty should be negotiated with a foreign nation, by which the vessels of each party.
were to be freely admitted into the ports of the other, upon
equal terms with its own, upon the payment of the ordinary.
port charges, and the foreign Government faithfuly carried it
into execution, yet the Government of the United States would
find itself unable to fulfil its obligations if the foreign ship had
about her, in her construction or equipment, anything for which
a patent had been granted; And after paying the port and
other charges to which she was subject by the treaty, the master would be met with a further demand, the amount of which
was not even regulated by law, but depended upon the will of
a private individual.
.And it will be remembered that the demand, if well founded
in the patent laws, could not be controlled or put aside by the
treaty. For, by the laws of the United States, the rights of
a party under a patent are his priva.e property;. and by the
Constitution of the United States, private property cannot be
taken for public-use without just compensation. And in the
case I have stated, the Government would be unable to-.carry
into effect its treaty stipulations without the consent of the
patentee, unless it resorted to its -right of eminent domain,
and went through the tedious and expensive process of condemning so much of the right of property of the patentee as
related to foreign vessels, and paying him such a compensation
therefor as should be awarded to him by the proper tribunal
The same difficulty would exist in executing a law of Congress

198

SUPREME COURT.
Brown v. Duamane.

in relation to foreign ships and vessels trading to this country.
And it is impossible to suppose that Congress in passing these
laws could have intended to confer on the patentee a right of
private property, which would in effect enable.him to exercise
political power, and which the Government would be obiiged
to regain by purchase, or by the power of its eminent domain,
before it could fully and freely exercise the great power of
regulating commerce, in which the whole nation has an interest. The patent laws were passed to accomplish a different
purpose, and with an eye to a different object; and the right
to interfere in foreign intercourse, or with foreign ships visiting our ports, was evidently not in the mind of the Legislature,
nor intended to be granted to the patentee.
Congress may unquestionably, under its power to regulate
commerce, prohibit any foreign ship from entering our ports,
which, in its construction or equipment, uses any improvement
patented in this country, or may prescribe the terms and reguet
lations upon which such vessel shall be allowed to enter.
it may perhaps be doubted whether Congress could by law
confer on an individual, or individuals, a right which would in
any degree impair the constitutional powers of the legislative
or executive departments of the Government, or which might
put it in their power to embarrass our commerce and intercourse with foreign nations, or endanger our amicable relations. But however that may be, we are satisfied that no
sound rule of interpretation would justify the court in giving
to the general words used in the patent laws the extended
construction claimed by the plaintif, in a case like this, where
p1ublic rights and the interests of the whole community are
concernea.
The case of Caldwell v. Vlissengen, (9 Hare, 416, 9 Eng. L.
and Eq. Rep., 51,) and the statute passed by the British Parliament in consequence of that decision, have been referred to
and relied on in the argument. The reasoning of the Vice
Chancellor is certainly entitled to much respect, and it is not
for this court to question the correctness of the decision, or the
construction given to the statute of Henry VIII.
But we must interpret our patent laws with reference to our
own Constitution and laws and judicial decisions. And the
court are of opinion that the rights of property and exclusive
use granted to a patentee does'not extend to a foreign vessel
lawfully entering one~of our ports; and that the use of such
improvement, in the construction, fitting out, or equipment of
such vessel, while she is coming into or going out of a port of
the United States, is not an infringement of the rights of an
American patentee, provided it was placed upon her in a for-

DECEM3ER TERM, 1856.

199

Mordecai d al. v. Lin~ay de aL

eign port, and authorized by the laws of the country to which
she belongs.
In this view of the subject, it is unnecessary to say anything
in relation to the second plea of the defendant, since the matters relied on in the'first are sufficient to bar the plaintiff of his
action, without the aid of the additional averments contained
in the second.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be affirmed.

MOSES C. MORDECAI, ISAAC E. HERTZ, JOSEPH A. ENSLOW, AND
ISA.AC R. MORDECAI, CARRYING ON BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME,
STYLE, AND FIRM, OF MORDECAI & Co., LIBELLANTS AND

AP-

PELLANTS, V.
vW. & N. LINDSAY, OWNERS OF THE SCHOONER
MARY EDDY, HER TACKLE, &C. '

Where the decree of the District Court, in a case of admiralty jurisdiction, was
not a final decree, the Circuit Court, to which it was carried by appeal, had no
power to act upon the case, nor could it consent to an amendment of the record.
byan insertion of a final decree by an agreement of the counsel in the case; nor
can this court consent to su6h an amendment.
The District Court having ordered a report to be made, the case must be sent
back from here to the Circuit Court, and from there to the District Court, in
order that a report may be made according to the reference.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States*for the district of South Carolina.
It was a libel filed on the 6th of April, 1854, in the District
Court of South Carolina, by Mordecai & Co., against the
schooner Mary Eddy, and all persons intervening.
A very brief narrative will be sufficient.to show the condition !inwhich the case was, when-it left the District Court, and
this is all that is required under the present opinion of this
court.
* In March, 1854, the Mary Eddy was in New Orleans, about
to sail for Charleston. One hundred and two hogsheads of
sugar were shipped on board of her, which were to be delivered to Mordecai & Co. The libel oas for the non-delivery
of these articles.
The-answer admitted the shipment and arrival of the vessel

in Charleston, and then averred the delivery of three-hogsheads
of the sugar (together with some barrels.of syrup,) the freight
of which Mordeeai & Co. refused to pay. The answer then
alleged that the libollants, having refused to pay freight until-

the sugars were received by them at their store, or until possession had passed to them, the master unloaded the residue

