THE DIECISIONS
01F TM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, i856.

J.- Louis PREVOST, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V. CHARLES E.

GRENzAUX, TREASURER OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANAi
The laws pf Louisiana impose a tax of ten per cent. on the value of all property
inherited in that State by ainy.person not domiCiliated there, and not being a
citizen of any State or Territory of the United States.
In 1853, a treaty was made between the United States and France, by which
Frenchmen were placed, as -regards property, upon the same footing as citizens
of the United States, in allthe States of the Union whose laws permit it.
This treaty has no effect'upon the succession of a person who died in 1848.

THIs case w s brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana by a wtit,of error' issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
'The facts in the case were very few, and are stated in the
opinion of the court. See also 8 Howard, 490, and 18 Howard, 182.

It was argued by Mr. ATni for the plaintiff in erro, and
by .fr. Benjamin for the defendant
Mr. Janin niade the folloing.point:

The plaintiff in error submits.-and that is the onlypoifit in.
the case-that his heirship was only recognised in 1854; and
that when the law imposing a tax or penalty is repealed before
that tax is collected, the right to recover it is lost.
This principle was recognised by the former Supreme Court
of Louisiana.
In the case of the city of New Orleans v. Mrs. Grailhe,
decided December 4, 1854, it was contended that the right to.
vOL. X.

1

"

2

SUPREME COURT.
Prevost V. Greneaux.

collect the tax levied by the ordinance of 1852 was lost by the
repeal of that ordinance under the 5th condition of the 2d
section of the acts of the Legislature of 'March 15, 1854, page
73, authorizinli the city o NTew Orleans to subscribe to the
Opelousas ang Jackson railroads.. This position was taken
under the authority of the principles recognised in three decisions: one in the case of Cooper v. llod.ge, 17 L., 476, and
two others referred to in that decision. Judge -Martin wai
the organ of the court in these thrce cases. In that of Cooper
v. Hod ge, the principle is expressed. in this form:
"We have held, that if a. judy-nent be -correctly given under a law which is repealed pen~iug the appeal, this court is
bound to reverse it."
The Supreme Court of the United States have acted on this
Srinciple in cases of much more difficulty than that now beore the court.
The Lecislature of Virginia, by an act passed in 1779, during
the war, lad authorized Virginia debtors of British subjectsto discharge the debt by payment into an office existing under
the State Government. The ilefendants in. error, under this
act, had paid into this office a portion of their indebtedness to
the plaintiffs, and pleaded their discharge pro tanto under the
act. - The plaintifib replied the 4th article 'of the definitive
treaty of peace between Great Britain and the United States,
of September 3, 17838 in which, it was stipulated that creditors
on either side should meet with no lawful impediment to the
recovery of the full valu-e in sterlin ' money of all bona fide
debts heretofore contracted.
The State was held to have had full power to make the law,
but it had been annulled by the treaty, and the defendants in
error were liable to the full amount, notwithstanding partial
payment to the State.
1 Cranch, 103. The United States v. The Schooner Peggy.
The schooner Peggy was captured by'a Uilited States armed
vessel, and libelled as prize, ordered to be restored by the District Court, condemned by the Circuit Court onappeal as lawful
prize, when the owners of the Peggy p
nosecuted
a writ of error
to the Supreme Court. She had been captured as sailing under
the authority of the French Republic. On the 30th of September, 1801, pending the writ- of error, a convention was
signed between' the inited States and the'French Republic,.
and was ratified on the 21st of. December, 1801, which provided -for 'the restoration of property captured, but not yet
definitively condemned. It was urged that the court could take no notice of the
stipulation for the restoration of. property not yet definitively
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856,

8

Preomt v. Grna=.

condemned; that the judge could only inquire if the sentence
was correct or erroneous when delivered; and that if it was
then corre6t, it could not -be rendered otherwise by anything
subsequent to its rendition. It was held by-the court, in the
opinion delivered by Chief Justice Maishall, that if, subsequent
to the judgment and before the decision of the appellate court, a
*law intervenes and positively changes the rule which governs,
thetrea.
law must
obeyed,
its obligation denied; that, where
-a
is thebelaw
of theorland,
and, as such, binds the rights
of parties litigating in court, to condemn a vessel, the restoration of which was directed by it, would be a direct infraction
of that law, and of consequence improper; that if thb law was
constitutional; and no doubt of it had been expressed in this
case, no court could. contest its obligation. .The effect, upon
civil rights acquired ui cter a statute, of the repeal of the statute,
was most fully considered in the case of Butler v. Palmer, (1
Hill's Rep:, 324,) in an elaborate opinion of Judge Cowen.
In speaking of the effect of a repeal upon inchoate rig hts, he
says: "I understand the rule of the Writers on the civil 1aw
erfectiy to a ree with. that acted on by our comrts in.all their
eisions, anliey t and modem. .Those writers speak of rights
which have arisen under the statute not being affected
by-the

repeal, but the context shows at once what knd of rights they
mean. The amount of the Wvhole comes to this: that a repealing-clause is such an express' enactment as necessarily divests

allinchoate rights which ha arisen under the statute it destroys.. These rights are but incident to the statute5 and fall
with it -unles saved by the express words of the repealing
'clause. He reviews the case of Miller, (1 W. Blackstone's
Rep., 451,) aud gives a much fuller, statement of it from some
other rep~orter. See, also, Smith's Cornmentaries on Statutor#

Construction, pp. 888, 889, for the same case, and the Englis
deisions in affiinance of it. The result of these decisio:ns is,
that not only in penal and jurisdictional matters, but in civil
mattes, where rights that re inchoate and set up under a
repealed statute, they are divested as-fhlly asif the statute had
never existed.
But can it with 'any propriety be said in any case that the

State acquires a vested civil right to a tax? To inpose, levy,
a4d collect a tax is an ex.ercise of the sovereit power, as much
as the levying and collectibg a fine for a misdemeanor.

The

peal, the withdrawal of the application of the power.

The

repeaLof the statute imposing one or the other at once stops
alliaction under it. A soveregn never pleads a vested civil
right to .a tax; h simply taes it by virtue of his inherent
polwer A statute is simply an exertion of that power; its re-

4

SUPREME COURT.
Prevost v. Greneaux.

machinery for its collection provided by the statute is paralyzed
by the repeal.
We are entitled to the benefit of a strict construction of the
statute, as being not only partial and odious, even as it regards
citizens of the State, but, as was held by the Supreme Court
of the State of Louisiana in the case of the widow and heirs
of Benjamin Poydras de la Lande against the Treasurer of the
State, even penal in its character.
So far as statutes for the regulation of trade impose fines or
create forfeitures, they are doubtless to be construed strictly
as penal, and not liberally as remedial laws. Mayor v. Davis,
6 Watts and Serg., 269.
Statutes levying duties or taxes upon subjects or citizens
are to be construed most strongly against the Government,
and in favor of the subjects and citizens, and their provisions
are not to be extended by implication beyond the clear import
of the language used. U. S. v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369.
No judgment can be rendered for a penalty given by a
statute after the statute is repealed, although the action was
commenced before the repeal. Pope v. Lewis; 4 Ala., 487.
From these principles and authorities it follows, that the
right of the State to claim or recover the foreign succession
tax of 1842 is lost from the moment of the promulgation of
the consular convention of 1853, although the tax might have
been claimed and recovered, if proceedings had been instituted, perfected, and executed, before that convention.
Mr.Benjamin stated the points as follows:
The case is clearly within the jurisdiction of this court; and
the only question is, whether the court of Louisiana has
rightfully construed the treaty. Its decisions under it have
beenFirst. That wherever the rights of the heir vested after the.
consular convention 'vent into effect, fhe tax could not be recovered. Succession Dufour, Annual, 392. "
Secondly. That wherever the right of the heir vested anterior to the date of the treaty, the right of the State vested at
the sam,time.
The latter proposition is the one now in dispute.
I. At what time, under the laws of Louisiana, did the
rights of the State to the tax of ten per cent. vest?
Fortunately, the -response to -this question is entirely free
from difficulty, as the point had been settled by a series of
adjudications long prior to the controversy in this cause.
The Supreme Court of that State has held, ever since the
year 1831, that, under the State statute, the rights of the heir

DECEB

3ER TER , 1856.

5

.Pr5evost V. GrMMeat.

and of the State both vested at the instant of the testator's
Armand's Heirs v. His Executors, 8 L. R., 837; Quessart's Heirs v. Canongo, 3 L. IL, 561; Succession of Oyon, 6
Rob. R., 504; Succession of Blanchard, 17 A nnual, 392; Succession of Dufour, 18 Annual, 392; Succession of Deyraud, 9
Rob. R., 358.
The question had arisen in Louisiana under every aspect.
In the first two cases cited, the law iniposing the tax had
been repealed before the collection of the tax, but subsequen to
the death of the party under whom the heirs elaime7. The
court held, that the title of the State had vested at the death,
and that the tax could be collected, notwithstanding the repeal
of the statute.
In the two case next cited, the law imposing the tax was
passed after the testator's death, but before the heirs had received the succession. The court held, that .the right of.the
heirs had vested in the whole of the estate at the death of the
testator, and that the tax could not be zollected.
In the fifth case cited, the convention with France wag
passed before the testator's death; and the court held, that the
tax could not be collected, because the heir's right vested at
the death.
In the sixth case, the death occurred before the passage of
the convention; and the court held, that the right of the State
Jiwlaccrued at the death, and the tax could be collected.
And the whole series of adjudications on the construction
of a State statute, during a period of twenty-five years, is unbroken by a single contradicting case, or even by the dissent
of a single judge.'
Under the rules, then, which this court has established for
itself; it will take it for granted, without further inquiry or
examination, that a right to one-tenth of Prevost's succession
hod vested in the State of Louhiana anterior to the date of the
treaty in question.
IL The only remaining question .is, whether.the treaty Was
intended to divest any title acquired prior tW its passage.
The terms of the treaty are entirely prospective, and its
language appears too plain to require any reference to canons
of construction. Frenchmen, after its date, are to be considered, for all the
purposes- of the treaty, as. citizens of Louisiana. But the
claim of the State would be good against its own citizens
after the repeal of the taxing law, because vested prior to the
repeal, as already shown.by the authorities cited. Ergo, that
claim is good against the Frenchman.

-death.

6

SUPREME COURT.
PrPevos

v. Greeaz.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana. It appears that a certain Frangois Marie Prevost,
an inhabitant of that State, died in the year 1848 intestate
and without issue, and possessed of property to a considerable
amount. He left a widow; and, as no person appeared claiming as heir of the deceased, the widow, according to the laws
of the State, was put in possession of the whole of the property by the proper authorities, in December, 1851. She died
in M arch, 1853.
In January, 1854, Jean Louis Prevost, a French subject residing in France, presented himself by his agent in Louisiana
as the brother and sole heir of Franois Marie Prevost, and
established his claim by a regular judicial proceeding in court.
The laws of Louisiana impose a tax of ten per cent. on the
value of all property inherited in that State by any person not
domiciliated there, and not being a citizen of any State orTerritory of the United States.
This tax is disputed by the plaintiff in error, upon the
ground that the law of Louisiana is inconsistent with the
treaty or consular convention with France. This treaty was
signed on the 23d of February, 1853, ratified by the United
States on the 1st of April, 1853, exchanged on the 11th of
August, 1853, and proclaimed by the President on the 12th of
Augrust, 1853.
he 7th article of this treaty, so far as concerns this case, is
in the following words:
"In all- the States of the Union whose laws permit it, so
long and to the same extent as the said laws shall remain in
force , Frenchmen shall enjoy the right of possessing pei.sonal
and real property by the same title and in the same manner
as the citizens of the United States. They shall be free to
dispose of it as they may please, either gratuitously or for
value received, by donation, testament, or otherwise, just as
those citizens themselves; and in no case shall they be subjected to taxes on transfers, inheritance, or any others, different
from those paid by the latter, or to taxes which shall not be
equally imposed."
Proceedings wert instituted in the State courts by the
plaintiff in error to try this question, which were ultimately
brought befbre the Supreme Court of the State. And that.
court decided that the right to the tax was complete, and
vested in the State .upon the death of Frangois Marie Prevost,
and was not affected by the treaty with France subsequently
made.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Prevoa V. .Grenu.

We can- see no .valid objection to this judgment. The
plaintiff in drror in his petition to be recognised as heir,
claimed title to allthe separate property of Frangois M. Prevost and his widow, then in the hands of the curator, and of
all his portion of the community property, and of all the fruits
and revenues of his succession from the. day of the death of.
his brother.., And, in adjudicating upon this. claim, the court
recognised the rights of the appellant, as set forth in his petition, and de~ided that he became entitled to the property, as
heir, immediately upon the death of Fr. M. Prevost.
- Now, if the propeity Vested in him at that time, it could
vest only in the manner, upon the conditions authorized by
the laws of the State. And, by the laws of the State, as they
then stood, it vested in him, subject to a tax of ten per cent.,
payable to the State. And certainly a treaty, subsequently
made by the-United States with Frce, could not divest
rights of property already vested in the State, even if the
words of the treaty had imported such an intention. But the
words of the article, which we have already set forth ,.early
ipply to cases happening afterwards-not to cases where the
party appeared, after the treaty, to assert his rights, but to
cases where the right afterwards, acrued. .And so it was decided-by the Supreme Court of-the Stat, .and, we think, right,
ly.. The constitutionality of the law is not disputed," hat
point having been settled in this court in the case of Mayer
v.- Grima, 8 How., 490.
In affirming this judgment, it is proper to say that the obligation of the treaty and its operation in the State, after it was
made, depend upon the laws of Louisiana. The treaty does
not claim fbr the United States the right of controlling the
iuccession of- real or. personal property in -a State. And its
operation is expressly limited '-to the States of the Union
Whose laws permit it, so long and.to the same extent as those
laws shall remain, in force.". And, as there is no act of the
Legislature of Louisiana repealing this law and accepting the
provisions-of the treaty, so as to secure to her citizens similar
rights in France, this court might feel some difficulty in say-.
ing that it was repealed by this treaty, if the State court had
not so expounded its own law, and held that Louisiana was
one of the States in which the proposed arrangemen s of the
treaty were to be carried'into effect.
Upon the whole, we think there is no error in the judgment of the State court, and it must therefore 15e affirmed.

