DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

271

d aL. v. Babin d al.
et

others are disposed of by the opinion of this court in Boston
v. Lecraw.
For these reasons, the judgment is reversed, and venire de novo
awarded.

FBicnfI FLETCHER Hipp,AND MARIA ANTONIO FLETCHER HIPP,
ALIENS, AND RESIDING, THE FORMER IN VERA CRUZ, MEXICO,
THE LATTER IN THE CITY OF MADRID, SPAIN, FOR THEMSELVES
AND ON BEHALF AND FOR THE USE OF AUGUSTIN CUESTA,
JAVIERA CUEST!, AND FELICITAS CUESTA, ALIENS, THE FORCED
HEIRS OF ADELAIDE FLETCHER HIPP, DECEASED, V. CELINE

BABIN, WIDOW OF URSIN JOLY, AND OTHERS.
A. court of equity will Aot entertain a bill, where the complainants seek to enforce
a merely legal title to land; and in the present case, in the absence of allegations that the plaintiffs are seeking a partition, or a discovery, or an account, or
to avoid a multiplicity of suits, the bill cannot be maintained.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in equity.
*The facts of the case are stated in the opinion.

It was argued by Afr. Smiey and Xr.Perfn in a printed argument for the appellants, and orally by Mr. Taylor for the appellees.
The manner in which the counsel for the appellants sought
to sustain the equity jurisdiction of the court in the case was

as follows:
In the opinion of the judge of the Circuit Court, the cause
was not one over which the equity side of the court had any
jurisdiction. The title being merely legal, and the documents

upon which the title rested being accessible to all parties, there
was "a case where plain; adequate, and complete remedy may
be had at law." Several cases were cited and relied upon to
sustain this opinion. But without referring to them, we may
observe that this case is distinguished from all those cited, in
this: that no objection is raised in this case by the defendants
to the jurisdiction, neither in the pleadings nor upon the argument. It was not raised in the Circuit Court, and we are assured by the opposite counsel that it will not be in this. The
objection was raised in some form, either by demurrer or in
argument upon final hearing in all the others.
In the case of United States v. Sturges et al., (1 Paine C. C.

*R., 525,) it was objected, at the hearing for the first time, (not

272

SUPREME COURT.
Eja al. v. Bclm et ca.

by the court, but by the party,) "that there was a want of
equity apparent on the face of the bill in two particulars," &c.
The court observes:
"There are several answers to be given to these objections.
If,admitting the charges or facts stated in the bill to be true,
there is no foundation in equity for the relief prayed, it was a
proper cause for a demurrer, and the objection comes now
with less weight than it would at an earlier stage of the proceedings." (See'p; 531.)
The case of Pierepont v. Towle (2 W. and M., 24) we conceive to be quite as far from establishing the doctrine upon
Which this bill was dismissed. After a thorough examination
of a-great many authorities on the point, the judge says, (p. 35:)
1'"But the correct rule probably is, that a respondent may
and usually should demur, if it appears, on the face of the bil,
that nothing is sought which might not be had at law."
W ithout pursuing the authorities further, and even admit
ting, for the sake of the argument, that the judge was correct
in his views of the authorities relied upon as a matter of law
and practice, still we contend, and will endeavor to show to
our honors, that he has fallen into an error.on the facts exibited in the record. He observes:
"The bill in the present case furnishes no reason for an application to the court of chancery, arising out of any particular condition of the parties; nor that a, court of chancery is
possessed of means to render a relief better suited to the claims
of the case."
:Now, with all deference, we conceive there are many distinct and separate grounds of chancery jurisdiction in ths record. Although no ground for the interference of a court of
chancery is shown by the bill, yet, if it appear in a supplemental bill, replication, answer, or any subsequent proceeding, the jurisdiction will be maintained. (Craft v. Bullard, 1
Smedes and M. Ch. R., 373; Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French et
al., 18 How., 404.)
In the former case, the chancellor stated that he would have
dismissed the bill, had not the answer disclosed the only ground
upon which equity could take jurisdiction.
Among the undoubted grounds of jurisdiction presented by
the record, vre:
.irst. To avoid a multiplicity of suits. It appears in the
original bill that five persons, and others, were sued in the..
State court in 1824. On filing the record from that court, it
is shown that five separate suits at law were brought for the
land included in the bill. The fact is admitted in the plea,
and also in the answers of the defendants, by setting out the"

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

273

ERp1' e aL v. BaUn ef aL

subdivisions of the lands, and the parcels held by them, respectively.
This is one of the exceptions, in the case of Welby v. Duke
of Rutland, to the general rule that chancery will not entertain
suits upon legal titles merely. In that ease, none but the appellant and respondent were concerned in the question, and
there was no pretence for avoiding vexation or a multiplicity
of suits at law. But why mention this circumstance at all, if
it was not intended to redognise the right of going into chancery where five suits at law, or even a less number, could be
united in one bill in equity?. It appears clear, that if your
honors acknowledge the principle above stated, that the jurisdiction may be shown by any part of the record, you will entertain this cause upon this F.ound, if upon no other. Whatever ma be said. of the facility afforded by the civil-law practice of the courts of Louisiana, to give relief in cases where, in
the common-law States, the equity jurisdiction is undoubted,
the expense and ' other vexations" of a multiplicity of suits
cannot be avoided there, any more than in Massachusetts or
Mississippi.
The remedy, then, as it appears by this view of the case, not
being as full and complete at law, the court would entertain
jurisdiction on the rule established in Boice's Ex. v. Grundy,
(8 Pet., 215; 9 Wheat., 842; 4 Wash., 202, 205.)
Second. Another class of caseslin which chancery will lend
its aid for relief, is in matters of trust..
Thus, "if a .man intrudes upon the estate of an infant, an(!
takes the profits thereof, he will be treated as a guardian, andheld responsible therefor to the infant in a suit in equity. (2
Story Eq., sec. 1,356; Ibid., sec. 511; 1 Mad. Oh., 91; Oarmichael v. Hunter, 4 How., Miss., 315; Nfelson v. Allan, 1 Yerger, 860; 8 Beaven, 159,)
- In the last case, the equity jurisdiction was maintained upon.
a suit, by a person of full age, for mesne Profits, accruing while
he was a minor; "such disseizor being.viewed in chancery as
guardian, bailiff, or trustee." In Carmichael v. Hunter, it was
admitted that this circumstance was the only ground of jurisdiction; as the title set up by complainant was legal, and an
action for rents and profits a legal remedy.
Third. For discovery.
The discovery by defendants of their titles, the particular
portions of the plantation claimed by them, and the time their
possession and liability for' rents and profits commenced, was
material to complainant, in making out their case.'
1Fourth. For partition.
"The' necessity for a discovery of the titles, the inafiquacy
VOL. xix.
'
18

SUPREME COURT.
Bg'jp d~ aiL v. Ba~in et dl.

of the remedy at law, the difficulty of making the appropriate
and indispensable compensatory adjustments, the peculiar
remedial process of courts of equity, and their ability to clear
away all intermediate obstructions against complete justice,"
are grounds upbn h1iMch "these courts have assumed a general
concurrent jurisdiction with courts of law, in all cases of partition. So that it is not now deemed necessary to state in the
bill
any ground of equitable interference." (1 Story Eq., sec.
658.
.5ifth. The remedy at law is not plain, adequate, and complete.
The record shows that there are five sets of defendants, each
claiming separate and distinct subdivisions of the plantations
in contrc versy. At laW, complainants would have to commence by five distinct petitory actions, against the five sets of
defendantS. And partition could only be made at law by
giving them three-fourths of each subdivision, which would
divide the two plantations, of only thirteen arpens front, into
ten tracts, five of which would belong to complainants, and
each of which would be separated from the other by the five
sniall tracts allotted to the defendants. This.would so cut up
the plantations as greatly to injure the interest of all parties.
In such cases, courts of equity may decree a sale, or pecuniary
compensation for owelty or equality of partition, which a court
of law is not at liberty to do. (1 Story Eq., sec. 654, 656, 657.)
The long and- difficult accounts to be taken on one side for
rents and profits, and for the value of improvements on the
other, make the case more suitable for a master in chancery
than for a jury.
Catharine Hipp was the owner of one undivided fourth of
the lands in controversy; that portion she could and did sell
to Daniel Clark.' Not having complied with the formalities
required by law, she could not and did not sell the other three(C. C., 2,427; 12 Rob.,
4ourths belonging to complainants.
552; Fletcher v. Cavallier, 4 La., 267.)
-Clark never was in actual p6ssession of any part of the land,
and could only be in the constructive possession of the onefourth conveyed by Mrs. Hipp. And he could only convey
the one-fourth that belonged to him. (C.C., art. 2,427.)
Tl~ere is, therefore, no question of legal title properly in controversy in this suit. The defendants having illegally taken
possession of the whole estate, while complainants were infants,.
and received the rents and profits for a series of years, the
whole scope of tle bill is substantially a bill for partition and
account between tenants in common.
"This court has been called upon to consider the sixteenth

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

275

section of the judiciary act of 1789, and as often, either expressly or by the course of its decisions, has held that it is
merely declaratory, making no alteration whatever in the rules
of equity on the subject of legal remedy. It is not enough
that there is a remedy at law; it must be plain and adequate,
or, in other words, as practical and efficient to the ends ofjustice and its prompt aministration as the remedy in equity."
(Boyce's Ex'r v. Grundy, 3 Pet., 215.)
In this case, although the bill may not, yet the whole record
does show particular circumstances for the necessity of the
court's interposition to prevenit multiplicity of suits, other vexation, and for prevdnting an injustice irremediable by a court
of law,
In Louisiana, the distinction between courts of law and
equity is unkiiown. All remedies are, in fact, both in form
and substance, equitable. We look to the English chancery
practice, at the ate of the adoption of the Constitution, for
the equity remedies of the United States courts. Otherwise,
the equity jurisdiction of the United States courts would be
abolished in half the States of the Union. (qgordon v. Hobart, 2 Sum., 401; Mayer v. Foulkrod, 4 Wash., 354; Fletcher v. Morey, 2 Story, 567; Hawshaw v. Parkils, 2 Swans.,
546Courts of equity refuse to decide upon legal titles, and all
cases whenrthere is an adequate remedy at law; because such
cases are properly triable b a jury. The reason of the rule
does not exist inLouisiana, for the trial by jury is not respected
there, and is not allowed, except on the application 6f one of
the parties. And it is the universal practice of the Supreme
Court of the State to render final judgments, on appeal upon
the law- and the facts, without a venire facias de novo.. (1 Wen.
Dip [La., p.95; No.5.)
istherefore ureasonable to refuse equity jurisdiction in
cases from Louisiana, on the ground that such cases are properly triable by jury, or because adequate remedy may be had
at law in the State courts, under the State practice. Courts of
equity will and ought to dismiss bills, when their decrees
would be absolutely void for want of jurisdiction; but we have
found no case, in the reports of England or America, where a
bill has been dismissed for want ofjuTrisdiction, on the motion
of the court, on the sole 'ground that there was an adequate
remedy at law. Many courts of the highest respectability
have held, that questions of jurisdiction, founded solely on the
fact that there was an adequate remedy at law, must be presented by the pleadings. (WIswall v,Hall, 8 Paige, 813; Bank
of Utica v. City of Utica, 4 Ib., 399; 2 John. Oh. R., 389; 4

276

SUPREME COURT.
.Hr1p et al. v. Babin et al.

Paige Ch.-.R., 77; 1 Baily Ch. R., 62, 113; 1 S. and Marsh.
COh. R., 5, 13.)
The jurisdiction of the court in this case has been admitted
during a litigation of more than ten years. No objection to it
is raised by the pleadings, or on argument in the Circuit Court
or in this court. There can be no doubt that a final decree
would be binding and conclusive on all the parties. If this
cqse is dismissed on the ground of want of equity jurisdiction,
prescription, as we have shown, will commence only from the
date of the decree of this court, and the costs and vexation
attending five suits at law will be muiltiplied in proportion.
It is therefore to the interest, and, we understand, the desire
of all parties, that this court should decide the case upon its
merits, and put an end to all further litigation, in a case which
seems, and in reality will be, if this bill is dismissed, interminable.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants filed their bill to recover land within the district, in the possession of the defendants, and for an account
of the rents, profits, and receipts, during the. period of their
occupancy. They allege that James Fletcher, their ancestor,
died in 1804, leaving a valid will, by which he devised to his
widow and three children the principal portion of his succession, and appointed the former the executrix. The property
described in the bill had been sold in 1801, but the purchaser
had not paid the price stipulated at this time. The testator
directed3 that if the purchaser should complete the purchase,
the sum received should be put to interest, on good security,
for the mother and children, until the children should attain
the age of sixteen years, when the succession should be divided.
In May, 1806, the executrix agreed with the purchaser to rescind the contract of sale, received a conveyance of his title to
the heirs of Fletcher, and refunded to him the money he had
paid, being near $4,000. *
In June, 1806, the executrix filed her petition in the Superior Court of the Orleans Territory, being the court of general
law, equity, and probate jurisdiction, for the Territory, in which
she declares the cancellation of the contract of sale aforesaid;
and to enable her to refund the money, she had borrowed that
sum from Daniel Clark; that the land was unproductive, and
that she was unable to pay her debt. She prayed an order for
the sale of the property, to provide for the education and maintenance of her minor children, and the discharge of her debt
and to carry the will of her husband into effect respecting the
disposition of the remainder of the purchase-money. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Irp d

277

.vBabldaet.

'court made the necessary order, 'to empower the executrix to
sell and convey the lands for such price as she could obtain,
and to receive the money therefor; also, to appropriate. the
suni necessary for the payment of her debt, and to put out the
remainder at interest, as required by the will.
Daniel Clark became the purchaser at private sale- from
the executrix, for the sum of $9,000, and received her conveyance.
The appellants impeach this sale as unauthorized and illegal, and insist upon their title under the conveyance to them.
The defendants claim by their answers as bona fide purchasers from persons deriving their title by valid conveyances in
good faith from Daniel Clark, and affirm that the family of
Fletcher left the United States in 1807, and enjoyed the bene.
fit of the money paid to the executix; that the lands have
become valuable by their improvements, and that they, and
the persons under whom they claim, have held the possession
since 1806. The bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court, on
the ground that the remedy at law is plain, adequate, and
complete, and from this decree this appeal is prosecuted.
.he Supreme Court of Louisiana, in a contest between the
appellants and other parties, for other lands, have decided that
the executrix was not authorized to convey the shares of her
minor children by private act. (Fletcher v. Cavelier, 4 La. R.,
268; 10 La. R., 116, S. C.)
But we are relieved from the duty of applying these decisions,
or inquiring into the validity of the pleas of the appellees, by
the opinion we have formed concerning the jurisdiction of the
court of chancery over the cause. The sixteenth section of
the judiciary act of 1789 declares, "that suits in equity shall
not be sustained in either of the courts of the United States,
in any case where plain, adequate, and complete remedy may
be had at law."
, The bill in this cause is, in substance and legal effect, an
ejectment bill. The title appears by the bill to be merely legal; the evidence to support it appears from documents accessible to either party; and no particular circumstances are stated, showing the necessity of the courts interfering, either for
preventing suits or other vexation, or for preventing an injustice, irremediable at law. In Welby v. Duke of Rutland, w(&
Bro. P. C., cas. 575,) it is stated, that the general practice of
courts of equity, in not entertaining suits for establishing legal
titles, is founded upon clear reasons and the departing from
that practice, where there is no necessity for so doing, would
be subversive of the legal and constitutional distinctions between the differentjurisdictions of law and equity; and though

278

SUPREMM COURT.
edal. v.Bam e aZ.

the admission of a party in a suit is conclusive as to matters
of fact, or may deprive him of the benefit of a privilege which,
if insisted on, would exempt him from the jurisdiction of the
court, yet no admission of parties can change the law, or give
jurisdiction to a court in a cause of which it hath no jurisdiction.
Agreeably hereto, the established and universal practice of
courts of equity is to dismiss the plaintiff's bill, if it appeafs to
not cognizable b
legal, and
merely
on a tile the
grounded
be
them,
notwithstanding
defendant
has answered the bill
and insisted on matter of title.

In F~oley v. Hill, (1 Phil., 399,)

upon anHeappeal
a bill
dismissed
said
Lyndhurst, Lord Chancellor,
grounds.
the same
from the Vice Chancellor upon
The
objection
not made
in thetopleadings
the court."
the practice
norofpresented
importance
of great
a point was
in
"it was
the decree of th
e Chancellor.
This decree was affirmed by the House of Lords. (2 H. L.,
cas. 28.) The practice of the courts of the United States corresponds
with
that
of the by
chancery
Britain, except
where it has
been
changed
rule, orofis Great
modified
by local circunstances
or local convenience. This court has denied relief
in cases in equity
where the remedy at law has been plain, ad-

equate, and complete, though the question was not raised by
the defendants in.their pleadings, nor suggested by the counsel in their arguments. (2 Cr., 419; 7 Cr., 70, 89; 5 Pet., 496;
2 How.,on383.)
In Parsons
v. Bedford,
Pet., 433,.) the court
insists
the necessity
imposed
on the (3Circuit

Court in Louisiana, to maintain the distinction between the jurisdiction in
which legal rights ar o e cascertained, and that where equitable rights alone are recognised and equitable remedies,
ministered.
.wAid the result of the argument is, that whenever a court of

law is competent to take cognizance of a right, and has power
to proceed to a judgment which affords a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy, without the aid of a court of equity, the
plaintiff must proceed at law, because the defendant has a constitutional
rightsto contend,
a trial bythat
jury.upon the pleadings
The appelan
and evidencethat
a proper
case for the jurisdiction of chancery appears,
and
the Circuit

Court mero motu was not warranted in
dismirsing the bill: 1st. Because it is shown that in 1806 the
children of Fletcher were minors, and they are authorized to.
call upon the defendants for an account as guardians. 2d.
That the defendants being entitled to the estate of the executrix
and widow, under her conveyance the plaintiffs can maintain
the bill for a partition.
.That the court of chancery is bet-

DE(EAMBER TER

1856.

279

.H~pdal. v. Ba~n d aL

ter fitted to take an account for rents, profits, and improvements, and may decide the questio4 of title as incident to the
account. 4th. That a multiplicity of suits will be avoided.
There are precedents in which the right of an infant to treat
a person who enters upon his estate with notice of his title, as
a guardian or bailiff, and to exact an account in equity for the
profits, for the whole period of his ocupancy, is recognised.
(Blomfield v. Eyre, 8 Beav., 250; Van Epps v. Van Deusen, 4
Paige, 64.) But in those cases the title must, if disputed, be
established at law, or other grounds of jurisdiction must be
shown. In the present case, the defendants have all entered
upon the lands since the plaintiffs arrived at their majority.
They are purchasers of adverse titles under which possession
has been maintained for a long period. The bill does not recognise their title to any part of the land, and there has been
no unity of possession; so that the bill cannot be maintained,
either as a bill for an account on behalf of minors or for a partition. (Adams's Eq., see. 229; 4 Rand. Va. R., 74, 493.)
Nor can the court retain the bill, under an impression that a
court of chancery is better adapted for the adjustment of the
account for rents, profits, and improvements. The rule of the
court is, that when a suit for the recovery of the possession
can be properly brought in a court of equity, and a decree is
given, that court will-direct an account as an incident in the
cause.
But when a party has a right to a possession, which he can
enforce at law, his right to tle rents and profits is also a legal
right, and must be enforced in the same jurisdiction. The instances where bills for an account of rents and profits have
been maintained- are those in which special grounds have been
stated, to show that courts of law could not give a plain, adequate, and complete remedy. No instances exist wherie a person who had been successful at law has been allowed to file a
bill for an account of rents and profits during the tortious possession held against him, or in which the complexity of the
account has afforded amotive for the interposition of a court
of chancery to decide the title and to adjust the account.
(Dornaerv. Fortesue, 3 AJtk., 124; Barnewell v. Barnewell, 3
id P. C., 24.) "Nor does the case show that a multiplicity of
suits would be avoided, or that justice could be administered
with less expense and vexation in this court than a court of
law.
..Decree affirmed.

