DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Und

385

tata v. City Bank of Columb-

a writ of error. The attorney clims that he had a lien on the
judgment for his costs.
It isquite clear that he can have no lien for any costs in ths
court, as none have been recovered against the plaintiff in error.
The suit is still pending; and as to the question of the dismissal of'the writ, the court looks no further than to see that
the application for the dismissal is made by the competent parties, which are usually the parties to the record. No doubt,
if either party had assigned his intetest to a third person, by
which such third person had become possessed of the beneficial
interest, and the party to the record merely nominal, the
coiut would protect such interest, and give him the control of
the suit. As in the present case, if the application had been
made by the insolvent assignee of Jerone, and he had shown
that he had succeeded to the interest of the insolvent, the court
might protect his rights.
The attorney, however, even if he has a lien on the judg
ment, according to the course of proceedings in the court whe.
it was recovered, stands in a different situation. He is not a
party to the suit, nor does he stand in the place of the p
in interest. He is in no way responsille for the costa of'-th.
proceedings, and to permit him to control them would;. in
effect, be compelling the client to carry on the litigation, at-his.
own expense, simply for the contingent benefit of the attorney.
We think, therefore, that this cause has been dismlssed: from
the docket by the competent parties, for aught that appears
before us, and that the motion to restore it should be -denied.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS,

V. THE (Tmy

BAI&E op Co-

LUMBUS.
Wlere a question was certified from the Circuit Court tathia court, viz: whether
a certain letter, written by the cashier of a bank without the knowledge of the
directory, though copied at the time of its date in the ltter-book of the bank,
was a legal and valid act of authority; and the reeordlafforded no evidence relevant to the acts and authority of the cashier, or to- t1 practice of the bank
in ratifying or rejecting similar acts, this court cannot answer the question, and
the case must be remanded to the Circuit Courtk to b4tried iinthe usual manner

THIs case came up on a certificate of diisi~n in opinionbetween the judges of the Circuit-Court of the Uhited States for
the southern district of Ohio.
The case is stated in the opinibn ofthe court..
It was argued by fr. C6ytsh (Attorney General) far the
United States, and by .Mr.
25 Sltnberr-for the defendant.
VOL. XIX.

886

SYPREME COURT.
United States v. City Bank of Columbins.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is brought before us upon a certificate of adivaion of opinion betveen the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the southern district of Ohio.
The United States instituted their action of assumpsit against
the defendants, for the recovery of a sum of money, laying their
damages at two hundred thousand dollars.
The declaration consisted of two counts. The first was upon
an alleged agreement between the United States and the City
Bank of Columbus, whereby the latter, on the 1st day of November, 1850, contracted and undertook to transfer for the
plaintiffs the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, the money
,of the plaintiffs, from the city of New York to the city of New
Orleans, and to deposit the same at the latter place, in the
treasury of the United States, by the 1st day of January, 1851,
free of charge.
In this count, the receipt of the money by the bank, viz: one
hundred thousand dollars, for the purposes stated, the failure to
make the transfer and deposit in conformity with the agreement, the conversion of the money so received by the bank to
its own use, are all expressly averred.
The second count was the common indebitatus assumpsit for
money had and received to the plaintiffs' use. Upon the trial
before the jury of the issues joined by the parties, at the October term of the Circuit Court, in the year 1855, the plaintiffs,
in order to establish the alleged agreement and undertaking
on the part of the bank, gave in evidence the following papers,
viz:
First, a letter from Thomas Moodie, cashier of the City
Bank of Columbus, in these words:
"1CITY B AxK oF COLUMBUS,-

"'Hon. Thomas Corwin,

(.olumbus, Ohio, October 26, 1850.

Secretary of the 7reasury, Washington city.
"Smi: The bearer, Col. William Miner, a director of this
bank, is authorized, on behalf of this institution, to make proposals for the purchase of United States stocks to the amount
of one hundred thousand dollars. Any arrangement he may
make will be recognised and fully carried out by this bank.
He is also authorized, if consistent with the rules of the Treasury Department, to contract on behalf of this ipstitution for
the transfer of money from the East to the South or W6st, for
the Government.
"I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
"Tom&s MOODIE,

Cashier."

887

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
MWe Stat

v. City Baa of Colum6w.

Second. The following contract:
"W. Crmy, November 1, 1850.
"This will certify that I have contracted with the United
States Treasury, as the agent of the City Bank of Columbus,
to transfer $100,000 from New York to New Orleans, to be
deposited in the treasury at the latter-named city by the first
day of January, 1851, free of charge. I have, in pursuance of
said contract, this day received a draft in my own name for
$100,000 on the United States Treasury at New York ,city,
which is to be accounted for on said contract.
"WMAN Mnm."

"Upon the production of these papers, and proof of their execution, and further proof that said letter was the act of said
cashier alone, without the knowledge or sanction of the directory Qf said bank, before, at the time of; or subsequent thereto, but was copied in the letter-book of the bank at the time
of its execution, a question arose as to the validity thereof,
upon which question the judges of this court were divided in
opinion. It is therefore, by the request ..
of both the parties,
hereby ordered, that the said question be certified to the Supreme Court of the United States--that is to say, 'Do said
papers, so made, constitute a valid contract between the parties to this suit?' It was agreed that the defendant is an independent bank under the act of the General Asembly of the
State of Ohio of 1844-'5, to incorporate the State Bank of Ohio
and other banking companies.
Wednesday, Noven"er 28, 1855.
(Signed)
"Jomq McLF.
Sd.'
,(H.M. LV

.e)

In considering this. certificate of division, and the inquiry it
propounds, an insuperable difficulty is perceived, arising from
the partial and imperfect form in which the facts assumed as
the foundation of the inquiry are presented, and from the obvious absence of facts and circumstances pertinent -to the case,
and by which, if disclosed, its complexion might -beentirely
controlled.
This court is asked to say, whether the above-cited letter of
the cashier of the City Bank of Columbus, written without the
knowledge of the directory, though copied at the time of its
date in the letter-book of the bank was a legal and valid act
and authority.
• Now, it musi be obvious that the legality or validity of the
letter of the cashier, and his authority to write that letter, do
not depend solely and necessarily upon the fact of knkowc4g en

888'

SUPREME COURT.
.Burkce v. Gainet e at.

the directory at the time of writing that letter, nor on that of
express direction or permission given at the time of its composition. The letter might have been legal and valid in the
absence of either such knowledge or direction, or of both.
The powers of the cashier of a bank are such as are incident.
to, and implied in, his official character, as generally understood, as cash keeper, cash receiver, or payer, as negotiator
and correspondent for the corporation, or as agent for various
acts that are necessary and appropriate to the functions-of such
an officer, and inseparable from the operations of the bank;
or those powers and duties may be created by a general or
special authority declared in the charter or in the by-laws of
the corporation. It would seem. inconsistent with these considerations to determine upon an isolated fact or act of the
cashier, not absolutely irreconcilable with the customary funclions of such an officer, as being decisive of his capacities and
duties; and this, irrespective of reference or inquiry as to the
powers with which he might have been clothed but, on the
contrary, by cutting off all proofs as to the existence of any
such powers, when by the introduction of those proofs the
competency of stich powers, or the recognition of them by the
bank, might perhaps have been shown.
The true character of this cause seems not to have been
developed before the Circuit Court, nor is it made apparent
upon the dertificate now before this court.
We think that all the evidence relevant to the acts and
authority of the cashier, either inherent and exercised- strictly
virhe offici4 or as an agent, general or special, of the bank,
under either the authority of its charter or its by-laws, and
proof, if any, of the ratification or rejection by the bank of this
or of similar acts of the cashier, should have -beenfully brought
out, to be passed upon by the jury under instructions from the
court, or in the mode of a certificate of division, in the event
of a disagreement between the judges. This court, therefore,
refusing to respond upon the question, as propounded to them
upon the certificate from the Circuit Court, remands this case
to that court for trial.
v. WLrLI4
3 H. GAINs
AND WM-, ET AL.

PATRIcK BURKE; PLAmn iFF iw ERIao,

Where a party brought an ejectment in a State court, founding his title upon
documents showing a-settlement claim under thedaws of the United States; and
the Supreme Court of the State decided in favor of that title, the opposite party
cannot bring the case to this cQurt under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
This court has no jurisdiction over such a case.

