SUPREME COURT.
Vandewater v.

ills, Claimant Steamship Yankee Blade.

1886, it had no standing in a court of justice. So this court
has uniformly held. Les Bois v. Brommell, 4 Howard.
In the next place, the United States reserved the power to
survey and grant claims to lands in the situation that these
contending claims 'Were when confirmed; nor have the courts
of justice any authority to disregard surveys and patents, when
dealing with them in actions of ejectment. This court so held
in the case of West v. Cochran, and will not repeat here what
is there said.
When the survey of 1817 for Dissonet's land was recognised
at the surveyor general's office as properly executed, which
Was certainly as -early as 1823, then Dissonet had a title that
he could enforce by the laws of Missouri, and which' was the
elder and better; it being settled that where there are two
confirmations for the same land, the elder must hold it. A
more prominent instance to this effect could hardly occur,
than that of rejecting the younger confirmation in the case of
Les Bois v. BrommeI1, above cited.
The act of. 1811; reserving lands from sale which had been
claimed before a board of commissioners, has no application
to -such a case as this one. It was so declared in the case of
Menard v. Massey, 8 Howard, 309, 310.
It is ordered, that the judgment .of the Circuit Court be re.
versed, and a venire de novo awarded.

ROBERT J. VANDEWATER, APPELLANT, V. EDWARD ARLLS,
ANT OF THE STEAMSHIP YANKEE BLADE, .HER TACKLE,

CLAm&C.

Maritime liens are ,trictijuris, and will not be extended by construction.
Contracts for the future employment of a vessel do not, by the maritime law,
hypothecate the vessel.
The obligation between ship and cargo is mutual and reciprocal, and does not tdke
place till the cargo is on board.
An agreement between owners of vessels to form a line for carrying passengers and
freight between New York and San Francisco, is but a contract for a limited
partnership, and the remedy for a breach of it is in the common-law courts.

THIS Was an appeal from -the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of California.
It was a libel, filed-originally in the District Court, by Vandewater, against the steamer Yankee Blade, for a violation of.
the following agreement:
"This agreement, made -this twenty-fourth day of September, 1853, at the city of New York, between Edward Mills, as
agent for owners of steamship Uncle Sam, and William H.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.
Vlandewate v. Naii, Ckiman ,teamehi)

Yank

83
.Blad

Brown,, as agent for the owners of steamship America, witnesseth,.that said Mills and Brown. hereby agree with each
other, as agents for the owners of said ships before named, to
run the two ships in connection for one voyage, on terms as
follows, viz:
"Of all moneys received from passengers, and for freight con-tracted through, between New York and San -Francisco, both
ways, the Uncle Sam shall receive seventy-five per cent., and
the America shall receive twenty-five per cent. The money to
be received here, by' said-E. Mills, and the share of the America to be paid over to William H. Brown, or to his order, (before the sailing of the ship,) and the share due the America, of
moneys received on the Pacific side, to be paid over to said
Brown, or to his order, immnediately on the arrival of the passengers in New York, by E. Mills, -who guaranties, as agent
aforesaid, the true and honest- return of ail funds received by
his agents on the Padific. It is.
understood that this trip is to
be made by the Uncle Sam, leaving San Francisco on or about
the 15th of October, and the America leaving New York on orabout the 20th of October next.
"Each ship is to pay all expenses of her running and outfits,
and to be responsible for her own acts in every respect. Each
ship is to retain-all the money received for local freight or passengers ;.that is, for such freight and passengers as only pay to
the ports the-individial ship runs to, witout any division
with the other ship.
"No conimissions, are to be charged anywhere on any receipts
for the America, by sgid Mills, in dsion, but the expense of
hdvertising and the amount paid out for runners, at all points,
ar6 to be borne .y each-ship in the sameproportion as receipts
are divided between them.
"In consideration of all the above-well and truly performed
in good faith, Edward Mills, as agent for the steamship Yankee Blade, hereby agrees, that when the America arrives at
Panama, on her voyage hence for the IPacific ocean, said ship
-Yankee Blade shall leave -New York at such time as to connect with the America, conveying passengers and freight on
the same terms as is hereinbefore agreed, (say,25per cent. to the
Yankee Blade, and 75 per cent. to the America.) Provided,
only, that said connectidn -shall. be made at a time -that will
not prevent the -YankeeBlade from making her connection
with the Uncle Sam, at her regular time."
After -the usual preliminary proceedings in cases of libel, the
proctors for the claimant filed the following exceptions:
The exceptions of Edward Mills, claimant and sole owner
of the steamship Yankee Blade, to the libel of Robert J.Van-

84

SUPREME COURT.
Fandewaer v. Mils, Claimant teamship Yankee Blade.

dewater, libellant, allege that the said libel is insufficient, as
follows:
First .Exception.-That,on the face of said libeli it appears
that the alleged cause or causes of action therein set forth, are
not within the admiralty -and maritime jurisdiction of this
honorable court.
Second Exception.-There is no cause of action set forth in
said libel, whereby the said steamship Yankee IBlade can be
proceeded against in rem in this honorable court.*
Third Bxcipioh.-On the face of said libel, it appears the
libellant is not entitled to the relief therein prayed for, .nor*to
any decree against the said steamship.
And, therefore, the said claimant prays that the said libel
may be dismissed with costs.
Z June, 1855, the-distriCt judge sustained- the exceptions,
and dismissed the libel, whereupon the libellant appealed to
the Circuit Court.
In September, the Circuit Court affirmed the decree, and
the libellant brought the case up to this court.
-itwas argued by X". Cutting for the appellant, and Xr.
Blair for the appellee.
Mr. Cutting made the following points:
I. Agreements for carrying passengers and freight on the
high seas are maritime contrats, pertaining exclusively to the
business of commerce and navigation, and may be enforced
specifically against the vessel by courts of admiralty proceed-mgMrem.
'o
express-pledge is necessary in order to create the lien.
The jurisdiction in rem for breach of contracts of aifreight-ments, by bills of lading or otherwise, is recognised- by numer-ous cases. The ground of such jurisdiction rests upon the
maritime nature and subject-matter of the contract. 6 How.
U. S. -A., 892,
Contracts to carry passengers are analogous in principle.
They are of a maritime nature in their essence and subjectmatter; and when entered into with a particular ship, they
bind her to the due -peformance of the service. The Pacific,
1 Blatch. R,, 576, andthe, cases and arguments therepresented.
II. This court has recognised and adopted thisprinciple.
1. Maritime torts to passengers may be redressed in the admiralty in rem, by reason of-the -vessel being bound by the contract. S. B.New -World v. King,'16 How.. U, S. R., 469.
2. The case of 'the N~ew Jersey Steam Navigation Company
v,The Merchants' 'Bank,- 6 How. U. S. R., 392, establishes

DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.
V"andewat"er V..Ul,

85.

Clamant Stameahp Yankm aBl°&

that contracts to -be executed on the seas are maritime in
their nature, and within the admiralty jurisdiction, as well in
yersonam as in rem. The principle of that case embraces the.
present.
.I . The contract, by Mills, as agent 8f the owners of the
Yankee Blade, to proceed from iNeiv York with passengers.
and freight, to carry them to Phnama, and to deliver them to
the America, to be.carried by her to San Francisco, is for a
maritime service, to be performed upon the sea, and within the
jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States.
1. The mode or rate of compensation to be paid therefor
'does not affect the-jurisdiction of the court. The action is for:
a xon-perforlmance of the contract-not for aii accounting. The
circumstance that the amount of damages might, in part, depend upon fhe number of passengers that would have been.
carried, is of no consequence.2. The agreement did not constitute a partnership between
the steamers. Neither party-had any joint interest in the vessel of the other, or in the voyage; there was no sharing of
l6sses; each ship was to pay her own expenses .of running and
of outfits, and was responsible for her own acts in every respect.
The agreement to divide gross receipts was merely a mode
of ascertaning the compensation to each vessel, for her sep,.
arate services.
3.. Even if.the agreement were to be treated as a mutual ar-.
rangement between two vessels, for a joint service, to be rendered by them, on the sea-the compensation therefor to be an
apportionment between them,-of the: whole freight and passage,
money to be earned by both-it would be a maritime contract,
over which the admiralty has jurisdiction. 3 How., 568.
4. The. contract is not one merely preliminary to a charterparty, but is a complete arrangement, to be treated as a charter]party, containing in itself'the substantial -provisions of such an
a definite voyage to be perf9rmed on one side,
ren -and a.definite compensation to be paid therefor by the other
side. 8 Sum. R., 144, 148,.149.
SEach. vessel hired the use 4nd employment of the other, for
the proposed idventaure; each was to receive, as compensatiou
for such hiring, a certain- sum,.proportioned to the receipts of
both vessels, or that trip. The distinctive characteristics. Qf a
_
Qharter-pa*tyare found. - The question of jurisdiction does not depend upon the pa*ticular ,name or- charster of: the instrument, but whether it
'imports a maritime contract brn.ot The. Tribunei 8Sum. ?.
144, 1487

SUPREME COURT.

86

$ran&ewater v. Hxilr, Claimant Steamhtf

Yankee Blade.

5. The objection of the Circuit Court, that the contract was
made by the owners, at the home port, does not appear to be
authorized by any fact established in the case. The allegation
of residence 'in the claim, (p. 8,) was merely formal, and not
issuable. It does hot appear where tie owner or owners of
-the Yankee Blade resided at the time of the contract, nor what
was her home port.
6.- But assuming that the Yankee Blade belonged to New
York, and that her owners resided there at the -time of the
contract, the Circuit Court erred in supposing that there could
be no lien for that reason. The existence of a lien.depends on
the nature of the contract; and if that be maritime, and creates
a lien, the circumstance that it -is executed by the owner in
person does' not affect it. 1 Valin Ord. de la Mar., 630, Liv.
M Tit..I, Art. 11; 2 Boul. Pat. Droit Com., 298;'3 Pardessus
Lois Mar.; 159; Tb., 281, 427; 2 Boucher Consul., 379, see.
675; p. 457, sec. 870; 4 Pardessus, p. 40.
Contracts of afleightment and to carry passengers are frequently (and in New York most generally) made by the owners,
or their immediate agents, jn the home port. When bills of
lading are signed in the home port by the owner, the lien of
the shippers exists equally, as if the master had signed them.
made
SThe following are cases of liens created by contracts
R,
port: The Pacific, 1 Blatch.Sto.,
in the home
owners
the
with
1
Copper,
Pigs
v.
; Bearse Draco,
207
Th.,
Aberfoyle,
The
576;
2 Sum.,179.
314; The Mary, 1 Paine R., 671; The
was
this and
that
circuit judge,
the learned
'. The conclusion
ships,
the two
the owners~of
between
agreement of
a *personal
tbat a personal credit existed, which excluded the idea of a
lien on the Vessels, is eot authorized by the facts.
to it, "as agent".
the parties
each ofacted
contract describes
of the
as representatives
The "agents"
the owners.
of The
vessels; the owners arenot named or referred to. The infer.
ence is; that a mere personal credit was not relied on, to the ex-

clusion of a lien.

ponts :
R
fr.Tlah r made the following
1. That the contract fon whih this proeedintg is founded, i
contract.
notIt aismaritime
between the owners of two steamships, tn
an agreement
combination, in the transportation of
in
run their vessels
Francisco,
San an
andalso
Yorkand
lNewthem;
between
and passengers,
freight
engagebetween
the proceeds
and to divide

ment, by ono of the parties who is to receive all the money, to
pay over to the other his proportion.
Io much of this contract as relates "tomaritime service is but

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

8

Vandewater v. Mill, Claimant Slemalsp Yankee Blade

proliminary. No maritime service is contracted for, one to the
other. Such services are thereafter to be contracted for, and
rendered to other persons by both the parties. In such case,
there is no jurisdiction. Sheppard v. Essex Ins. Co., 3 Mason, 6.
There is no difference in principle in this, from the contract
which this court considered in the case of Phcebus v. The Orleans, (11 Peters, 175.) The owners of the Orleans had an
agreement to combine their means, and, as part owners, to run
a single vessel for the public accommodation. Here is a combination, inwhich different vessels are run for the same purpose. The court would take no account between the owners
of the Orleans. Whether one of the parties to the enterprise
had failed to contribute -his share, was not a subject of admiralty jurisdiction. There is no difference, as affects that
question, whether it be alleged, as in the case of the Orleans,
that one party had contributed more than the other towards
the enterprise, or whether, as in this case, it be alleged-that
one party refused to contribute at all.
The similitude of the contracts wouldbe, obvious, if the claim
here were for the earnings of the trip contemplated in the contract. But it is in right of such earnings that this suit is brought,
and though no such earnings were received as -were contemplated, it is alleged that this is the fault of the other party,
and should not prevent an accounting as if they had been
aqtually received.
Comsortship, it is true, is treated as a lass of maritime contracts by Judge Conkling, pp, 15, 236, 849, of his Admiralty
Jurisdiction. But he says the case of Andrews v. Wall, 3
Howard, p. 568, is the only reported case relating to it. But
the question there was, not whether consortship was a maritime contract, but related to the distribution of salvage among
those entitled. The consort contract was incidental only, an
was considered merely so far as to see whether it was subsisting at .the time of the wreck. The nature of the consideration
.of the contrac was not material.
The case. of Cutter v. Roe, 7 Howard, 730, also shows that
the nature of the consideration will not give ch4racter to a
,contract, or give jurisdiction even in personam.
. 2. But if this be regarded a.maritime contract at all, it is
certainly only partly so; the object, as between the parties,
being'to stipulate for'the division of the proceeds to accrue to
them. from their services to others. It therefore falls within
the case of Plummer v. Webb, 4 Mason, 380, and L'Arena v.
Manwaring, Bee, 199, in which the court declined jurisdiction, because the whole contract was not of a maritime nature.

SUPR8ME COURT.
Vandetater v. Mills, Claimant StcamwMip Yankee Blade.

3. But the proceeding is in rem, 'and the advocates of the
lhzgest measure of adriiralty jurisdiction for the district courts
admit that they have not jurisdiction to enforce maritime contracts by such proceedings, unless the contract expressly or
by implication creates a lien on the ship. The Draco, 2 Sumner, 180.
It is contended that this contract is in the nature of a charter-party, and therefore a lien is implied. See definition of
charter-party, Abbott, p. 241."
It is certainly not a contract for the hiring of a ship, or any
part of one; nor is it a contract for the transportation of persons or property. The parties to such contracts are carriers
on one side,-and freighters, charterers, or passengers, on the
other. Here is mere ly an arrangement between carriers, in
contemplation of making such contracts, to enable them to
co-operate in fulfilling them, and for the division of the proceeds between themselves. No maritime' service is rendered
th each other. The relations to each other are those of employees of a common employer; and it is expressly stipulated.,
that each is to render to their common employers the service
contemplated, at their own cost an4. risk. The contracting
parties are neither of them freighters or passengers, and there
is not the remotest analogy upon which to found a claim for.
the remedies allowed such parties by the maritime law.
'But even an. express contract of affreightment creates no
lien on the vessel till the caigo is shipped. Schooner Freemian v. Buckingham, 18 Howard, p. 188.
4: The case, of Blaine v. Carter, 4 C., 331, shows that the
law does not favor implied hypothecations of the ship in obligations executed by the owner in the home port; and this is
admitted by Judge Story in-the case of the Draco above cited.
established usage creating
In the absence of any precedent orto which the parties could
reference
with
a lien in like cases,
be presumed to have contracted, there ought to be explicit
be
mischievous
language
in the to
contract
annex liens
itselfby
to implication
create such to
a lien.
It would
such contracts;
there would be nothing to give notice of their existence; they
are not accompanied by possession, and so are not lost by being out of possession; and they do not arise from any shipments supplies, or services, or other transactions which can be
seen or known-Bo. theie would be no safety to the purchaser'
of vessels, if liens can be so created.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The-libel in this case sets forth'a contract between the ownAera of certain steamboats, of which the Yankde Blade was one,,

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

89.

Vandewater v.Ifils, Claimant SteamsAi Yankee Blade.

to convey freight and passengersbetween New York and California. Among other things, it was agreed that the America
should proceed to Panama, and the Yankee Blade.should leave
New York at guch time as to connect with the America. The
owner of the Yanakee Blade'refused to employ his vessel according to this agreement, and sent her to the Pacific under a
contract with other persons. For this breach of contract the
libellant demands damages, assuming that the vessel is subject,
under the maritime law, to a lien which may be enforced in
rem in a court of admiralty.
The Circuit Court dismissed the libel, being of opinion
"that the .instrument is of a descriptidn unknown to the maritime .law; that it contains no express hypothecation of the
vessel, and the law does not imply one."
In support of his allegation of error in this decree, the
learned counsel for the appellant has endeavored to establish
the following proposition:
"Agreements for carrying passengers are maritime contracts, pertaining exclusively to the business-of commerce and
navigation, and consequently may be enforced specifically
against the vessel by courts of admiralty proceeding in rem."
Assuming, for the present, the premises of this proposition
to be true, let us inquire whether the conclusion is a legitimate
,consequence therefrom.
The maritime "privilege" or lien is adopted from the civil
law, and imports a tacit -hypothecation of the subject of it. It
is a "jus in re,"-without actual possession or any right of possessiol. It accompanies the property into the hands of a bona
fide purchaser. It can be executed and divested only by a
proceeding in rem: This sort of proceeding against personal
property is unknown to the common law, and is peculiar to
the process of courts of admiralty. The foreign and other attachments of property in the State courts, though by analogy
loosely termed proceedings in rem, are evidently not within
the category.- But this privilege or lien, though adhering to
the vessel, is a secret one ;- it may operate to the prejudice of
general creditors and purchasers-without notice; it is therefore
"stricti juris," and cannot be extended by construction, analo'gy,-or inference. "Analogy," says Pardessus, (Droit Civ., vol.
",597,) "Qannot afford a decisive argument, because privileges
are of strict rght. They are an exception to the rule by which
all creditors have eqdal rights in the property*of their debtor,
and 4n xception should be declared and described in express
words, we cannot arrive at it by reasoning from one case to
another."
These principles will be found stated, and fully vindicated

SUPREME COURT.
Yandowater v.

lills, Claimant Steamship Yankee Blade.

by authority, in the cases of The Young Mechanic, 2 Curtis,
404, and Kiersage, Ibid., 421; see also Harmer v. Bell, 22 E.
L. and E., 62.
Now, it 'is a doctrine not to be found in any treatise on
maritime law, that evety contract by the owner or master of a
vessel, for the future employment of it, hypothecates the vessel for its performance. This lien or privilege is founded on

the rule of maritime law as stated by Cleirac, (597:) "1Le batel
est oblig~e Ala marchandise etIa marchandise au batel." The
obligation is mutual and reciprocal. The merchandise is
bound or hypothecated to the vessel for freight and charges,
(unless released by the covenants of the charter-party,) and
the vessel to the cargo. The bill of lading usually sets forth
the terms of the contract, and shows the duty assumed by the
vessel. Where there is a charter-party, its covenants will define the duties imposed on the ship. Hence it is said, (1 Valin,
Ordon. de Mar., b. 3, tit. 1, art. 11,) that "the ship, with her
tackle, the freight, and the cargo, are respectively bound
(affect~e) by the covenants of the charter-party." But this
uty of the vessel, to the performance of which the law binds
her by hypothecation, is to deliver the cargo at the time and
place stipulated in the bill of lading or charter-party, without
injury or deterioration, If the cargo be not placed on board,
it is not bound to the vessel, and the vessel cannot be in default for the non-dejivery, in good order, of goods never received on board. Consequently, if the master or owner refuses to perform his contract, or for any other reason the ship
does nqt receive cargo and depart on her voyage according to
contract, the charterer has no privilege or maritime lien on the
ship for such breach of the eontract by the owners, but must
resort to his personal action for damages, as in other cases.
See 2 Boulay, Paty Droit Com.and Mar., 299, where it is
said,. "Hors ces deux cas, (viz: default in delivery- of the
goods, or dainages for deterioraTion,) il.n'y a jas de privilege
pretendre de la part du marchand chargeur; car si les dommages "et intarets n'ont lieu que pour refhs de depart du
navire, pour depart tardif ou precipit6, pour saisie du navire
on autrement il est evident que a cet egard la cr~ance est simple et, ordinaire, sans aucune sorte de pKivilege."
Thus, in the case of the -City of London, (1 W. Robinson,
89,) it was decided that a mariner who had been discharged
from a vessel after articles had been signed, might proceed in
the admiralty in a suit for wages, the voyage for which he was
engaged having been prosecuted; but if the intended voyage
be altogether a andoned by the owner, the seaman must seek
his remedy at common low by action on the case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Van&water v. if ils, "laMmmt SteamrA4A

91

Yankee .Blade.

And this court has decided, in the case of The Schooner
Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 Howard, 188, "that the law creates no lien on.a vessel as a security for the performance of a
contract to transport cargo, until some lawful contract of
affeightment is made, and a cargo shipped under it."
Now, the damages claimed by the libellant, in this case, are
not for the non-delivery of merchandise or cargo at the. time
and place according to the covenants of a charter-party, or for
their injury or deterioration on the voyage, but for a refusal
of the owners to employ the vessel in carrying passengers and
freight from lew York, so as to connect with the America
when she should arrive at Panama. The owners have not
made it a part of their agreement that their respective vessels
should be mutually hypothecated as security for the performance of their agreement; and, as we have shown, there is no
tacit hypothecation, privilege, or lien, given by the maritime
law.
. We have examined thi case from this point of view, beeause the libel seems to take it for granted that every breach
of contract, where the subject-matter is a ship employed in
navigating the ocean, gives a privilege or lien on the vessel
for the damages consequent thereon, and because it was assumed in the argument, that if -this contract was in the nature
of a charter-party, or had some features of a charter-party, the
court would extend the maritime lien by analogy or inference,
for the sake of giving the libellant this remedy, and sustaining
our jurisdiction. But we have shown this con6lusion is not a
cotrect inference from the premises, and that this lien, being,
stritijuris, will not be extended by construction. It is, moreover, abundantly evident that this contract has none of the
features of a charter-party. A charter-party is defined to be a
contract by which an entire ship, or some principal part
thereof, is let to a merchant for the conveyance of goods on a
determined
voyage to one or more places. (Abbott on Ship.,
241 ...
.Nw, by this agreement, the libellant has not hired the
YAnkee Blade, or any portion of the vessel; nor have the
master or owners of the ship covenanted to convey any merchandise for the libellant, nor has he agreed to furnish them
any. But the agent for the Yankee Blade "agrees that when
the America arrives at Panama, the Yankee Blade shall leave
New -York, conveying passengers and freight," which were
afterwards to be received by the America, and transported to
San Francisco; and the passage money and freight earned
was to be divided between them-25 per cent. to the Yankee
Blade, and_75 to the America.

SUPREME COURT.
United iStates v. Brig Neurea.

This is nothing more than an agreement for a special and
limited partnership iin the business of transporting freight and
passengers between New York and San Francisco, and the
mere fact that the transportation is by sea, and not by land,
will not be sufficient to give 'the court of admiralty jurisdiction of an action for a breach of the contract. It is not one of
those to which the peculiar principles or remedies given by
the maritime law have any special application, and is the fit
subject for the jurisdiction of the common-law courts.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. THE BRIG :NEUREA, HER
-TACKLE, &C., WILLIAM KOHLER, CLAIMANT.
Where a libel for information, praying the condemnation of a vessel for violating
the passenger law of the, United States, states the offence in the words of the
Etatute, it is sufficient,

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case presented a general demurrer to the following libel
for information:
13, THE DISTRICT COUaT OF THE UNITED STATES
CALIFORNIA.

OR TuE NoRTnERN DISTRICT OP

IN ADMIRALTY.

T.o the Hon. Ogden Hfoffman, Jr., udge of the District Court of
the United States for the N'orthern District of California:
-The libel of .Samuel W. Inge, attorney of the United States
for the northern district of California, who prosecutes on behalf of the said United States against the brig Neurea, and
againsf all persons intervening for their interest therein, in a
cause of forfeiture, alleges and informs as follows:
S1.- That Richard P. Hammond, Esq., collector' of the customs for the district of San Francisco, heretofore,' to wit, on
the thirty-first day of August, in the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and fifty-four, at the port of San Francisco, and
within the northern district of California, on waters that are
navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden,
seized as forfeited to- the use ef the said United States the
said brig Neurea, byeing the property of' some person or peDsons tol the said attorney unknown.
2. That one Kohter, master of the said brig Neurea which
is a vessel owned wholly or in part by a subject or subjectsof

