DECEM3ER TERM, 1856.

199

Mordecai d al. v. Lin~ay de aL

eign port, and authorized by the laws of the country to which
she belongs.
In this view of the subject, it is unnecessary to say anything
in relation to the second plea of the defendant, since the matters relied on in the'first are sufficient to bar the plaintiff of his
action, without the aid of the additional averments contained
in the second.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be affirmed.

MOSES C. MORDECAI, ISAAC E. HERTZ, JOSEPH A. ENSLOW, AND
ISA.AC R. MORDECAI, CARRYING ON BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME,
STYLE, AND FIRM, OF MORDECAI & Co., LIBELLANTS AND

AP-

PELLANTS, V.
vW. & N. LINDSAY, OWNERS OF THE SCHOONER
MARY EDDY, HER TACKLE, &C. '

Where the decree of the District Court, in a case of admiralty jurisdiction, was
not a final decree, the Circuit Court, to which it was carried by appeal, had no
power to act upon the case, nor could it consent to an amendment of the record.
byan insertion of a final decree by an agreement of the counsel in the case; nor
can this court consent to su6h an amendment.
The District Court having ordered a report to be made, the case must be sent
back from here to the Circuit Court, and from there to the District Court, in
order that a report may be made according to the reference.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States*for the district of South Carolina.
It was a libel filed on the 6th of April, 1854, in the District
Court of South Carolina, by Mordecai & Co., against the
schooner Mary Eddy, and all persons intervening.
A very brief narrative will be sufficient.to show the condition !inwhich the case was, when-it left the District Court, and
this is all that is required under the present opinion of this
court.
* In March, 1854, the Mary Eddy was in New Orleans, about
to sail for Charleston. One hundred and two hogsheads of
sugar were shipped on board of her, which were to be delivered to Mordecai & Co. The libel oas for the non-delivery
of these articles.
The-answer admitted the shipment and arrival of the vessel

in Charleston, and then averred the delivery of three-hogsheads
of the sugar (together with some barrels.of syrup,) the freight
of which Mordeeai & Co. refused to pay. The answer then
alleged that the libollants, having refused to pay freight until-

the sugars were received by them at their store, or until possession had passed to them, the master unloaded the residue

SUPREME COURT.
Hordecai et al. v. Lindtay et al.

of the sugars, and, when landed on the wharf, gave notice to
Mordecai & Co. that he would deliver the articles to them
upon payment of the freight; that Mordecai & Co. having refused to do this, the master retained the custody of the sugars
in order to preserve his lien for the freight. A correspondence
took place between the parties, which it is not necessary to
state for the purposes of this report.
The district judge decreed in favor of the libellants, with
costs, and then added:
"Mr. Gray, the commissioner and clerk of this court, will
ascertain the charges to be made against the respective parties
to this suit, and state the account between them. For this
purpose, he is authorized to use the testimony already reported,
and such further evidence as may be brought before him in
relation to this point."
Without any further proceedings being had in the case, the
claimants appealed to the Circuit Court, and the record was
accordingly transmitted.
'hen the cause came up for hearing before the circuit judge,
he reversed the decree of the District Court, and dismissed the
libel with costs, whereupon the libellants appealed to this
court.
The case was argued upon its merits by XAr. Phillips for the
appellants, and Xr. Johnson and Mr. 1?everdy Johnson,jr., for
the claimants, whose arguments it is not necessary to state in
this report, in consequence of the case being decided upon a
preliminary point.
Mr. Ju.stice WA =NE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of South Carolina.
Upon the hearing of this cause in this court, it was suggested
that the court had not jurisdiction of the case, on the ground
that the District Court, which had original jurisdiction of it,
had not given"a final decree in favor of the libellants, before
the cause was taken by appeal to the Circuit Court; from the
decision of which, reversing the decision of the district judge
and dismissing the libel, the appellants appealed to the Supreme Court. No such decree of the District Court is set out
in the record; but the court, supposing it might be a clerical
omission, gave to the counsel concerned in the cause time to
ascertain the fact, in order that it might be made, either by
consent of parties or by certiorari, a part of the record, that
there might be no delay in the final disposition of the case by
this court. The counsel having made the necessary inquiries

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

201

Hordcai d al. v. Lindsay d &L

from the clerk of the -District and Circuit Courts, and having
reported to. this court that no final decree had been extended
or passed in favor of the libellants by th6 district judge, and
that the case had been taken by appeal to the Circuit Court
upon such imperfect record, and decided in that court, without
any notice of the omission having been brought to its view
either from the record or in the argument of the 6ase, the
counsel have applied to this- court to -permit them to amend
the record by consent, by inserting in it what might be agreed
upon by them to be a final decree, urging, as the merits of the
case between the partiea had been fully discussed here, that the
court could proceed upon sucli amendment to decide the case.
We have examined the proposal of counsel in connection
with the laws of Congress regulating appeals from the District
Court to the Circuit Court, and from the latter to this court,
and also the decisions of this court upon those laws, and we
do not find, upon any interpretation which has been or could
in our view be given to them, that it is in our power to grant
the application of counsel for the amendment of the record as
they propose it should be done.
The right of appeal is "conferred, defined, and regulated,"
by the second section of the act of March 2, 1803, (ch. 20, 1
Stat. at Large, 244.) Its language is: "That from all final
judgments or decrees in any of the District Courts of the
United States, an appeal, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum or value of lifty dollars,
shall be allowed to the Circuit Court next to be holden in the
district where such judgment or judgments decree or decrees,
may be rendered; and the Circuit Zourt or Courts are hereby
authorized and required to receive, hear, and determine, suc
appeal. And that from all final judgments or decrees rendered
in any Circuit Court, or in any District Court acting as a Circuit Court in cases of equity, of admiralty, and maritime jurisdiction, and of prize or no prize, an'appeal, where the matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the sum or value of
two thousand dollars, shall be allowed! to the Supreme Court
of the United States; and that upon such appeal a transcript
of the libel, bill, answer, depositions, and all other proceedings
of what kind soever in the cause, shall be transmitted to the
said Supreme Court." It is, then, only upon final judgments
and decrees that appeals can be taken from either of the courts
to the other courts. Without such a decree, neither the Circuit
nor the Supreme Courts can have jurisdiction to determine a
cause upon its merits, as was done in this case by the Circuit
Court from which decision it has been brought by appeal to
this court. The Circuit Court had nothing before it to make

202

SUPREME COURT.
Cousi& v. Blanc'a Executor e al.

its decision available for the appellants, if its view of the merits
of the case had coincided with.the opinion of the district judge,
or upon which its pr6cess could have been issued to carry out
the judgment given by it in favor of the respondents. Nor
could it have permitted an amendment of the record of appeal
by the insertion of what the' arties might have agreed to be
a final judgment as to -amount, without its having first received the judicial sanction of the district judge. And this
court is as powerless in this respect as the Circuit Court was,
as its jurisdiction depends upon that court having a proper
legislative jurisdiction of the case. It cannot overlook the fact
upon which its jurisdiction depends, by any action in the cpse in
the Circuit Court upon 12n irregular appeal. The case in that
court was coram non judice, and is so here. • The appellants
have the right to the execution of the order given by the districtjudge to the commissioner and clerk of the court, to ascertain the charges to be made against' the respective parties to
the suit, and to state an account between them; for which
purpose he was authorized to use the testimony already reported, and such further testimony as might be brought before
him in relation to that point. That the Circuit Court cannot
direct to be done, nor can this court -d6 so. All that we can
do in the case, as it stands here, is-to reverse the decree of the
Circuit Court dismissing the appellants' libel, to send the case
back to the Circuit Court, that the appeal in it may be dismissed by it for want of its jurisdiction, leaving the case in its
condition before the appeal to that court, that the parties may
carry out the case in the District Court to a final decree, upon
such a report as the commissioner and clerk may make, according to the order which was given by the judge. The judgment
of the Circuit Court is reversed accordingly.

TERENCE COUSIN, PLAINTIFF IN -ERiOR,

v.

FANNY

WiDow AND TESTAmENTARY EXECUTRIX, JULES

LABATUT,

A. BLANc, Co-

ExEcuToR, AND OTHERS, LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES oF.EVARISTE

BLAc."

In Louisiana, all the evidence taken in the court below goes up to the Supreme
Court, which decides questions of fact as well as of law. In the absence of bills
of exceptions, setting forth the points of law decided in the case, this court must
look to the opinion of the State court, (made a part of the record by law,) in order to see whether or not any question has been decided there which would give
this court appellate jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary
act.
A claim to land in Louisiana was presented to the commissioner appointed under
the act of 1812, (2 Stat. at L., 713,) reported favorably upon by him to Congress,

