842

SUPREME COURT.
Balance v. Papin e at.

which deed were recited several conveyances of parcels of the
tract to several individuals, and particularly one of 11,000
acres, to one Berriman. Barney brought an ejeetment against
Hawkins, and proved that he had entered on the fifty thousand
acre tract. This court held his action could not be sustained,
unless he proved the defendant was not only in possession of
the large tract, but he must show that the possession was not
upon any one of the tracts sold and conveyed.
To apply the principle to the case before us. Had Bogardus
brought an action of ejectment to sustain it, he must have
proved the trespasser was within his patent, and outside of
Any one of the reserved lots. The words, 'subject to all the
rights of any persons under the act of 1823," showed that those
rights were not granted by the patent; and if-Bogardus himself could not have recovered, it is strange how the defendants
could recover, who claim to be in possession under his patent.
The agreed case admits that the "defendants respectively
had vested in them, before the commencement of this suit, all
the right of Bogardus." But whether this possession under
the right of Bogurdus was for a day or a year, is nowhere
shown by the evidence; and unless I am mistaken, the statute
requires a seven years' possession under title to protect the
trespasser, and in effect give him the land.
Bogardus was. in possession, claiming a pre-emption, but 1
do not understand, from the opinion of the court, that such
a possession will run, even against the French claimants.
Bogardus himself was a trespasser on the lands of the United
States, and uitil he received his patent in 1838, I suppose he
could
not and
set up a claim to the land under title.
. I hold,
can maintain, that the instruction of the district
judge was right, in saying that the patent of Bogardus did not
grant or convey the ground in controversy. And if it did,
there was no such possession under it, which, by the statute
of limitations, protected the right of the defendants.

CHARLES BALLANCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v. ADOLPH

PAPIN,

HENRY PAPIN, AND MARY ATCHISON.
Under the circumstances described in the preceding case, if there was no sufficient
evidence of a survey under the act of 1823, the title claimed under that act
could not be held superior to that claimed uder a patent issued in the interval
between, the act of 1823 and the alleged survey.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
UMte

843

States v. .Peralta d al.

It was similar in most of its features to the preceding case,

and was argued by Mr. fallance for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Williams and Mt.
Gamble for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of Charles Ballance against Papin and Atchison,
the same title was relied on by the defendant below (Ballance)
that was set up in.defence in the preceding case of Forsyth v.
Brien and Rouse. The plaintiff sued to recover a village lot
in Peoria, No. 42, confirmed to Fontaine, in right of his wife,
Josette Cassarau, dit Fontaine. A plat of lot No. 42 was given
in evidence, gnd is found in the record, but no certificate of
the surveyor accompanies this plat, and without such certificate there is no evidence that lot-No. 42 was lawfully surveyed.
The act of 1823 (see. 2) required that a survey should be made
of each lot confirmed to the claimant, and. a plat thereof forwarded to the Secretary. The evidence of a legal United States
survey is not a mere plat, without any written description of
the land by metes and bounds; neither the plat, nor less proof
than a writte4 description, will make a record on which a
patent can issue. That most accurate evidence -of separate
surveys of the village lots of Peoria exists, we know; but as
none is found in this record of lot No. 42, it follows, from the
reasons given in the previous case, that no title was adduced
in the Circuit Court that authorized it to reject the instructions
demanded by the defendant; that, comparing the titles of the
parties by their face, the defendant's was the better one. But
as the same. question of the application of the act of limitations
arises in this case as it did in the former one, it must of course
have been reversed, had the certificate of survey been found
in the record. .We therefore order that the judgment be
reversed, and the cause remanded for another trial to be had
therein.
Mr. Justie6 McLEANK dissented.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. DOMINGO AND VICENTE
PERALTA.
Where a claimant of land in California produced documentary evidence in his
favor, copied from the archives in the office of the surveyor general and other
original grants by Spanish officers, the presumption is in favor of the power of
those officers to make the grants.

