289

SUPREME COURT.
Wolfe d at. v. Lre.

JOHN D. WOLFE, ExECUT R, AND MAmZA D. I. RoNALDS, ExECUTRIX, OF THOMAS A. ,RONALDS, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V.
JOHN H. LEWIS.
Where a fund is brought into court upon proceedings under a bill to foreclose a
mortgage, it is altogetber irregular for the court to order an investigation into
the general accounts between the attorney and his client during past years, and
to order that the attorney shall be paid, out of the fund in court, the balance
which the master may repoft to be due. The persons interested in this decree
were not properly before the court as parties.

THIS was an appeal from" the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of Alabam% sitting in equity.
The present appeal was from a collateral decree of the District Court, under the following circumstances:
Lewis-had been for many years the attorney of Thomas A.
Ronalds, the deceased testator of the present appellants. In
the course of his practice, he had filed a bill in chancery to
foreclose a mortgage, and thus obtain payment of a debt which
was due to his client. The money was voluntarily paid, without a sale, and brought into court. Lewis then claimed a lien
upon that fund, not only for his professional services in that
particular case, but also for a general balance which he alleged
to be due-to him from his elient, upon a general settlement of
accounts between them. At November term, 1848, the court
passed the following order:
Order referrin matters of account 'between Lewis and his CLent4
to the Standing Master, to report, ic., at November, 1848--and
Order to continue. "Come the parties by their solicitors, and, by their consent,
it is ordered Vy the court that all matters of account between
John H. Lewis, Esq., and his late client, the said Thomas A.
Ronalds, deceased, and between the said John H. Lewis and
the said John D. Wolfe, executor, and Maria ,D. L. Ronalds,
executrix, of the last will and testament of the said Thomas A.
Ronalds, deceased, be referred to the standing master in chancery; and it is further ordered, that said master report a statement thereof, and of all his proceedings relative thereto, to the
next term of this court. And it is further ordered, that this
cause be continued."
Under this order, the master went into a detailed examination of all the transactions between Lewis and his client for
many preceding years, and made the report which is men-

DEOEMBER TERM, i856.

28i

Wofe efal. v. Lewis.

tioned in the opinion of the court. From this report, when
confirmed by the court, the present appellants appealed.
The case was arg.edby Xr. Thbmas for the appellants, and
by Mr. Beverdy Johnson,.jr., and Mr. Reverdy Johnson, for the
appellee.
The arguments being chiefly directed to the merits of the
case, -into which this court did not enter, it is not deemed advisable to insert them.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opihion of the court.
This is an appeal from the District Court for the northern
district of Alabama.
The bill was filed to foreclose a mortgage, given to secure
the payment of $12,000. Payments on this debt were made,
amounting to the sum of $8,527, the last payment being made
the 9th of October, 1839. An account was prayed, and that
the mortgaged premises might be sold.
A supplemental bill was filed the 30th of November, 1843,
stating that the last instalment of the mortgage debt had become due, and praying that the premises might be sold to
'
satisfy that payment also..
The answer admitted the allegations of the bill, but claimed
an additional credit of $600 on the mortgage. On the 23d of
May, 1844, a final decree was entered, directing a sale of the
mortgaged premises to pay the amount. due, stated to be
$10,017.68, with interest to the time of sale. Afterwards, at
November term, 1848, the commissioner, who had been appointed to make the sale, returned that Co, the defendant,
&A without sale of the property, paid him the balance dl1e
under the decree, after deducting certain payments made before his appointment, which amounted to the sum of $8,318.47,
which was brought into court.
At that term an entry in the cause was made, by consent of
the solicitors of the parties, that all matters of account between
John H. Lewis and his late client, Thomas A. Ronalds, deceased, and between the said Lewis and John ). Wolfe, executor, and Maria D. L.Ronalds, executrix, of the last will and
testam6nt of Thomas A. Ronalds, be referied to the standing
master in chancery, "who was directed to report a statement
thereof, and of all his proceedings relative thereto, to the next
term of the court."'
At November term, 1850, the master filed his report, which
was exceedingly voluminous-covering more than two hundred
and sixty pages of the record.

282

SUPREME COURT.
Wo;fe e al. v. L

.

The master states an account, in which he charges Lewis
with all sums, and interest, from the time he became chargeable up to the date of the report, 25th of November, 1850,
amounting to the sum of $63,461.71. Ie shows the amount
of credits claimed by Lewis, to same date, amounting to the
sum of $55,966.82. Exceptions were filed to this report by
both parties; and at May term, 1854, the court made a final
decree on the master's report; in which is set out the manner
in which the controversy arose, and referring to the order of
November term, 1848, founded upon the motion in the Cox
case, to remove Lewis from hid capacity as attorney, so as to
procure the payment to the complainants directly of the proceeds under the decree brought into court. And the court
states that it considers the proceedings, as .presented, not
within its cognizance, inasmuch as no writ had been issued
as between these paries; no bill filed, and no suit in any form
commenced;Athere was no allegation or charge on the one
side,, or response or denial on the other; nor was the matter
collateral to, or growing out of, any case pending.
On consideration, the court, though disposed to strike the
matter from the docket, yet decreed that, as a large sum .of
money had been paid in under its order, it must be, in the
language of the court, in some way phid out; and the exceptions to the master's reports were overruled, and the same was
confirmed; and the.marshal, as receiver, was ordered to pay
over to Lewis the sum of $4,336.42 of the proceeds in his
hands, and the residue, $3,982.05, he was directed to pay to
the complainants. From this deerde the ccmp]ainants appealed.
This was an' irregular proceeding, and without the authority
of law. The bill was filed originally against Bartley Cox, the
defendant, against whom the decree for the suni of $10,077.68
was entered. This being done, Lewis pr6cured an order for
his dismissal from the case, that he might bring up an account
against Thomas A. Ronalds in his lifetime, and his executors
since his .deaease,for professional services. And this was done
without the form of suit, or the matter having any relation to
the case before the court. And when.it. is considered that
Ronalds was a citizen of New York, and that his representaNew York, and do not seem to have had
tives are citizens *of*
anfy notice of this illegal procedure, it can receive no sanction
from this court.
It is contended that Lewis, as counsel,'had'a right t6 receive
and receipt for'moneys in the case; and whether he was entitledto reserve any portion thereof or not, can-be properly tested
only by a bill filed by the appellant. against him to account.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

283

Beebe et at. v. .uuel.

But the whole proceeding in behalf of Lewis, as against the
-complainants, was irregular and void, the court having no
jurisdiction of the matter. The order was of no importance
that the decree should be without prejudice to either party,
and not pleadable in bar to any subsequent litigation between
them upon the same subject-matter, as the proceedings were
invalid. But, as regards the complainants, it was error in the
court to order any part of its original decree in their favor to
be paid to one who was not properly before it as a party. For
this purpose, neither complainants, nor the defendant,, Lewis,
were before the court, or amenable to its jurisdiction. The
decree is therefore reversed, with costs. And the court direct
that an order be transmitted to the Circuit Court, to require
the defendant, Lewis, to pay over any money received by him
under the decree to the proper officer of the court, that it may
be paid to the complainants.

RoswELL BEEBE ET AL., APELLANTS, v. WhLLmr

RUSSELL.

The appellate jurisdiction of this court only includes cases where the judgment or
decree of the Circuit Court is final.
In chancery, a decree is interlocutory whenever an inquiry as to matter of law or
fact is directed, preparatory to a final decision.
But when a decree finally decides and disposes of the whole merits of the cause,
and reserves no further questions or directions for the future judgment of the
court, so that it will not be necessary to bring the cause again before the court
for its final decision, it is a final decree.
Therefore, where a case was referred to a master, to take an account of rents and
profits, &c., upon evidence, and from an examination of the parties, and to make
or not to make allowances affecting the rights of the parties, and to report his
results to the court, this was not a final decree.
The preceding cases upon this subject, examined.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the district of Arkansas, sitting in chancery.
The bill was filed by William Russell against Roswell Beebe,
Mary W. W. Ashley, Henry C. Ashley, William E. Ashley,
George C. Watkins, and Mary A. Freeman, praying that they
might be ordered to convey to the complainant certain pieces
of property, which, it was alleged, they fraudulently withheld
from him, and account for the rents and profits.
The Circuit Court decreed that the defendants should execute certain conveyances, surrender possession, and then proceedead to refer the matter to a master, with the instructions
which are stated in the opinion of the court. The defendants
appealed to this court.

