DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

363

WnBM
States v. Sutherland et a.

THE TINITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. THOMtAs W. SUTHERLAND,
GUARDIAN OF VICTORIA, ISABEL, MIGUEL, AND RLINA, MINOR
CHILDREN OF MIGUEL DE PEDRORENA, DECEASED.
That the Spanish grants of land in California were large, is no reason why this
court should refuse to confirm them.
A grant of a tract of land known by the name of El Cahon, lying near the mission
of San Diego, and being that which the map attached to the official papers expresses, which map is of such a character that a surveyor could lay off the land,
is good, and must be confirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the southern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gushig (Attcrney General) for the
United States, and by Mr. Bose for the appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error filed their petition before the board of
commissioners for ascertaining and settling private land claims
in California, claiming "a tract of land called El Cahon, containing eleven sitios de ganado mayor, situated in the county
of San Diego, by virtue of a grant in fee made to their mother,
Dofia Maria Antonio Estudillo de Pedrorena, by Pio Pico,
Governor of California, bearing date 23d of September, 1845,
and approved by the territorial deputation on the 3d of October, 1845."
The only question arising in this case, which has not been
disposed of in former decisions of this court, is the objection
"that the grant is void for uncertainty," because it defines
neither boundaries nor quantity. The authenticity of the
grant and confirmation are proved, and do not appear to have
been disputed before the commissioners. It is in evidence,
also, that Dofia Maria and her husband went into possession
of the place called "El Cahon" in the year 1845, and have
made it "the best-cultivated rancho in the country about San
Diego." It had formerly belonged to the mission of San
Diego. The mission was in debt to the husband of Dola
Maria, and agreed to transfer their right of occupancy on this
rancho to her, in satisfaction of her husband's debt.
Judicial possession was not delivered till September, 1846,
after the establishment of the American authority, which was in
July of that year. And whether void or valid, the espediente
of possession made by the officer, Santiago E. Arguello, (who

864

SUPREME COURT.
Unild Stale, v. Sutherland dt al.

could not get the assistance of a surveyor,) seems to throw littie light on the subject of precise boundary.
But, under the circumstances, the want of such juridical delivery of possession will not affect the title of the petitioners,
unless the grant be absolutely void for uncertainty. T.e description of.the land *grantedis to be found in the following
language in the patent or espediente: "A tract of land kno*n
by the name of El Cahon, near the mission of San Die o."
And-again: "The land of which grant is made is that wich
the map (disefio). attached to the respective espediente expresses," &c. "The judge who may give the possession shall
inform the Government of the number of sitios de ganado
may or it contains."
n construing grants of land in California, made under the
Spanish or Mexican authorities, we must take into view the
state of the country and the policy of the Government. The
population of California before its transfer to the United States
was very sparse, consisting chiefly of a few military posts and
some inconsiderable villages. The millions of acres of land
around them, with the exception of a mission or a rancho on
some favored spot, were uninhabited and uncultivated. It was
the interest and the policy of the King of Spain, and afterwards
of the Mexican Government, to make liberal grants of these
lands to those who would engage to colonize or settle upon
them. Where land is plenty and labor scarce, pasturage and
raising of cattle promised the greatest reward with the least
labor. Hence, persons who established ranchos required and
readily received grants of large tracts of country as a range
for pasturage
for their
numerousby.herds.
stances,
land was
not estinmed
acres orUnder
arpens.suchA circumsquare
league, or "sitio de ganado mayor," appears to have been the
only unit in estimating the superficies
of land..
Eleven
of these
or
If more
grant
rancho
forita was
extent
the usual
was
leagues
grant,
carefully stated. Surless
wasinstruments
intended
in the
veying
or surveyors were seldom to be
in distant locations. The applicant for land usuallyobtained
panied his petition with a disefo, or map, showing the accomnatural
boundaries or monuments of the tract desired. These were
usually rivers, creeks, rivulets, hills, and mountian ranges.
The
distances
between
these
at about
so many
leagues,
andmonuments
fractions were often estimated

of this unit little re-

garded.
those
who deal &c.,
out land
by the
such monuments as To
hills,
mountains,
though
fxed,atre,would
appear

rather as vague and uncertain boundary lines. But where
land had no value, and the unit of measurement was aleague,
such monuments were considered to- be suiciently cereinm

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

865

United States v. Sutherland d al.

Since this country has become a part of the United States,
these extensive rancho grants, which then had little value,
have now become very large and very valuable estates. They
have been denounced as "enormous monopolies, princedoms,"
&c., and this court have been urged to deny to the grantees what
it is assumed the former Governments have too liberally and lavishly granted. This rhetoric might have a just influence, when
urged to those who.have a right to give or refuse. But the
United States have bound themselves by a treaty to acknowledge and protect all bona fide titles granted by the previous
Government; and this court have no discretion to enlarge or
curtail such grants, to suit our own sense of property, or Sefeat
just claims, however extensive, by stringent technical rules of
construction, to which they were not originally subjected.
The patent to the claimant's mother confers a title in fee to
an estate "known by the name of El Cahon," or "The Chest."
It describes it as lying "near the mission of San Diego." It
therefore assumes, that there is an estate or rancho having
such a name, and having some known boundaries.
It is prima facie evidence of such a fact. Those who allege
that it is void for uncertainty, must prove either that there are
two estates called "El Cahon," near the mission of San Diego,
to which the description in the patent would equally apply; in
such case it would be void for ambiguity; or they must prove
that there is no estate or property known by that name about
San Diego. But there is not a particle of such evidence to be
found on the record, nor was such a defence set up before the
commissioners. For anything that appears, the "El Cahon"
was as well known as San Diego itself. But the description
of the patent does not end here; it is further described as "that
which the disefio attached to the espediente- expresses." This
map or survey is thus made a part of the patent for the purpose of description. It exhibits a circular valley surrounded
by hills or mountains, except at a narrow outlet on the eastern
boundary, where -a stream of water passes out. The course of
the stream through the valley is traced, as also are the roads.
The position of corrals, ranchos, cottages, &c., are carefully
noted; on the east, a hill or mountain bounds the valley called
"El Cahon;" on the west, "Cerro del Porsuele" and "Cerro
de la Mesa;" the northern boundary, as a continuous circular
hill or mountain without a name; the southern are broken
hills, called "Lomas Altas." The cardinal points of the compass are given, and a scale of measurement, a single glance at
which would show that the valley traced according to that
scale would contain about ten leagues, or possibly eleven, the
usual allowance for such estates. There is no evidence what-

866

SUPREME COURT.
Feowa v. Bkkmith ef a.

ever, tending to show that, with the assistance of this map, a
surveyor would find any difficulty in locating it according to
its calls.
In the cases of Fr6mont and of Larkin, the grants were
much more vague than the present, and the same remark
which was made in the latter case will equally apply to this.
"No question appears to have been made as to the practicability of locating the grant in the tribunals below, nor do we
see any ground upon which such a question could have been
properl, raised in the case."
The judgment is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

JOSEPH FELLOWS, SURVIVOR OF ROBERT ]KENDLE, PLAINTIF IN
ERROR, V. SUSAN BLACKSMITH AND ELY S. PARKER, ADMINISTRATORS Or JOHN BLACKSMITH, DECEASED.
The United States made two treaties, one in 1838, and one in 1842, with the Seneca Indians, residing in the State of New York, by which the Indians agreed to
remove to the West within five years, and relinquish their possessions to certain
assignees of the State of Massachusetts, and the United States agreed that they
would appropriate a large sum of money to aid in the removal, and to support
the Indians for the first year after their removal to their new residence.
But neither treaty made any provision as to the mode or manner in which the removal of the Indians or surrender of the reservations was to take place.
The grantees of the land, under the Massachusetts assignment, cannot enter upon
it and take forcible possession of a farm occupied by ail Indian, but are liable to
an action of trespass, guare casumfregit, if they do so.
The removal of tribes of Indians is to be made by the authority and under the
care of the Government; and a forcible removal, if made at all, must be made
under the direction of the United States.
The courts cannot go behind a treaty, when ratified, to inquire whether or not the
tribe wbs properly represented by its head men.

THIS- case was brolight up from the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet and Mr.Brown for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Martindalefor the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
New York. The case was decided by the Court of Appeals
of that State; but the record had been remitted, after the de-

