182

SUPREME COURT.
Steamer Virginia v. West et al.

Having carefully examined the foregoing opinion of Mr.
Justice CAMPBELL, after it was in print, I am satisfied with
J. CATRON.
its correctness, and concur therein.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit-Court of the United States for the
eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it isnow here ordered, iidjudged, and
decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be and the same is hereby reversed, witihout costs,
and that this cause be and the same is heieby remanded t6 the
said Circuit Court, with directions to ascertain the amount of
the lien of the libellants on the Ann Elizabeth, for the share
to be contributed by the vessel towards the loss sustained by
the libellants, and to enter a decree accordingly.

THE CLAIMANTS AND OWNERS 'OFTHE

STEAMER VIRGINIA,

AP-

PELLANTS, V. MICHAEL W. 'WEST, -WILLIAM T. BELL, ALBERT
R. HEATH, AND JAMES J. EDWARDS, PARTNERS, UNDER THE
FIRM OF HEATH & EDWARDS; THOMAS C. BUNTING AND -

LECATO, PARTNERS, UNDER THE FIRM OF

AND JOHN

BUNTING &

LEcATO,

M. HENDERSON.

Where an appeal is taken to this court, the transcript of the record must be filed
and the case docketed at the, term next succeeding the appeal.
Although the case must be dimissed if the transcript is not filed in time, yet the
appellant can prosecute another appeal at atny time within five years from the
date of the decree, provided the transcript is filed here and the case docketed at
the term next succeeding the date -of such second appeal.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.

fr. Johnson moved to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground
that the record was not filed in time.
Mr. Chief Justice TANREY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court for the district of
Maryland.
The decree from which, the appeal has been taken was passed

by the Circuit Court on the 17th day of November, 1855, and
the 6ppeal was prayed on the same day in open court. But it
was not prosecuted to the next succeeding term of this court,

183

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Brown v. Deheme.

and no transcript of the record was filed here during that term.
But a transcript has been filed at the present term of this
court, and the case docketed. And a motion is made to dismiss it, upon the ground that the appeal is not legally before
this court, according to the act of Congress regulating appeals.
The construction of this act of Congress, and the practice
of this court unde-i it, has been settled by the cases of -Villalobo v. The United States, (6 Howard, 81,) and The United
States v. Curry, (6 Howard, 106.) The transcript must be
filed in this court-and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the appeal, in order to give this court jurisdiction.
I
This case must therefore be dismissed.
But the dismissal does not bar. the appellant from taking
and prosecuting another appeal at any time within five years
from the date of the decree, prbvided the transcript is filed
here and the case docketed at the term next succeeding the
date of such second appeal.

JoH BROWN, PLAINTIFF I ERRoR, v. -

DUCHESNE.

The rights of property and exclusive use granted to a patentee do not extend to a

foreign vessel lawfully entering one of our ports; and the use of such improvement in the construction, fitting out, or equipment, of such vessel, while she is
coming into or going out of a port of the United States, is not an infringement

of the rights of an American patentee, provided it was placed upon her in A
foreign port, and authorized by the laws of the country to which she belongs..

THis case came 74p, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts in the case and state of the pleadings in the Circuit
Courit are set forth so particularly, in the opmion of the court,
that they need not.be repeated.
It was submitted on a printed argument by -Mr.Dana for
the. plaintiff in error, and argued by, Mr. Austin for the
,defendant.
As the points -raised in the" case are entirely new, it is
'thought expedient to present them to the reader as they were
b ought before the court by the respective counsel.
.Mr. Dana, for the plaintiff in eiror, after stating the circumstances of the case, sad that the question for the court to
decide was:
Whether, under these circumstances, there is an exemption

