DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Schucard

289

ta. v. B74]? Ang~e~igu&

plaintiff could not recover without showing the work was
completed,
ready
laying down
ironthe
rails
for refused
one track,
by the 1st day
of for
December,
1854, the
which
court
to
do. In this, we think, there was error. On a contract where
time
notagreement;
constitute where
its essence, there can be no recovery
at
lawdoes
on the
the performance was not within
the
time limited. A subsequent
acceptance
by the defendant will
authorize a performance
recovery on aand
quantum
meruit.
It

is dificut to perceive any satisfactory mode by which the
defendant
in the Circuit Court could recoup his damages for
the failure of the plaintiff to perform in that action, or by
bringing another suit..*As a stock and bond holder, his damages would be remote and contingent. To ascertain the general damage of the company by the failure, and distribute that

amount among the members of the company in proportion to
their interests, would seem to be the proper mode; and this
would be complicated, and not suited to te action of-a jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs.

FRefaRICe SCHUHAD
laif
to REDERIC C. GBBARD,
rIBEbriniS AanD A.pp
t Asv.WnTHRop S. BABBIDGE AND OTHER
s
SCLIMANTS OP HALP OP THE PROCEEDS OP THE SnIP -A-NGELIQUE.

.' re a mortgage existed upon the moiety e vessel
Ta which was afterwards libel'led, condeoed, and sold by process in admiralty, andthe proceeds brought into
the registry of
the emmortgagee could not ie a libel against a moiety of
proceeds.
thsthose
proper
course would have ben, either to have appeared as a claimant when the
first libel was diced, or to have applied to the court, by petition, for a distributive
-share of the proc:eeds.."

a morfatsgae exstaed n'the moinio of he
whcoua trt. dlbl
was an appe l from the Circuit Court of the United

'ThIS

States for the southern district of

York,
.ewsitting in adii-

It was asgued by r. oceting upon a bref filedby tiself
and rMi. ramton for the :appellants, and le. agansta for te
tsappellees.
)Mse arguments ofcounse, with respect to the relative right

of the clamats and libellants to the fund in'court are omitted
With rspeet 'to the jursdiction of the court, ALr. (tn
:point was this, v
Az:
"
"
T o
the Unit t tes hayerh

240

SUPREME C%,IRT.
&lhhardt

al. v. SRAp Angdiqe.

power to foreclose a mortgage of a vessel by a sale, or to transfer the possession to the mortgagee, (17 Howard, 899, Bogart
v. The Sieamboat John Jay,) they may entertain an application by the mortgagee, after a sale, to be paid out of the
proceeds of the sale in the registry of the court. (Propeller
Monticello, 17 Howard, 152; Admiralty rule, 43.)
Mr. Benedict's point was this:
This is really a suit to foreclose a mortgage, even if it were an
orignal suit against the shiT . As a suit against the proceeds,
it is in substance a suit in equity, for relief against a regular
degree in admiralty. In either case, the District Court had no
jurisdiction. (Case of the John Jay, 17 Howard, 399.)
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the southern district of New York, sitting in
admiralty.
Between sixty and seventy libels had been filed in the Distriet Court by material men-men who had furnished supplies;
also, by shippers of oods and passengers-against the ship
Angelique, of which 9. W. Jones was master. These several
proceedings were commenced in July and August; 1853, and
interlocutory decrees, condemning the vessel, were entered in
all of them, and final decrees in some six or seven. One of
the parties obtaining a final decree issued execution, and the
vessel was sold, and the proceeds brought into court. The
vessel sold for $6,900.
In this stage of these proceedings, the present appellants
filed their libel against the proceeds of the ship in court, setting forth, that, being the owners of the vessel, they sold and
delivered her to one A. Pellitier, for the sum of $15,000, on,
the 7th May, 1853; that of this sum a promissory note of the
vendee was given for $5,000, payable in six months, which
was secured by a mortgage upon a moiety of the vessel to the
vendors, which was duly recorded, in pursuance of the act of
Congress, on the 9th May, 1853, in the office of the collector
of customs of the port of New York, where the vessel was then
registered, and a copy of the mortgage was also filed in the
office of the register of deeds of the city and county of New
York.
The libel prayed process against a moiety of the proceeds of
the vessel in court, claiming the same under, and by virtue o4
the mortg age.
Several of the libellants, who had obtained either final or
interlocutory decrees, above referred to, appeared, and put in

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
-ew

York and

irginia Steamah

Company v. Caldenood et al.

answers to this libel of the mortgagees, setting up their proceedings, and the decrees condemning the vessel to pay their
respective claims to the proceeds, in defence.
The case went to a hearing, when the District Court decreed
to dismiss the libel On an appeal, the Circuit Court affirmed
the decree.
The libel filed in this case is a libel simply to foreclose a
mortgage, or to enforce the payment of a mortgage, and the
proceeding cannot therefore be upheld within the case of the
John Jay, heretofore decided by this court. (17 How., 399.)
The proper course for the mortgagees was to have appeared
as claimants to the libels filed against the vessel, in which the
questions presented in the case might have been raised and
considered; or, on the sale of the vessel, and the proceeds
brought into the registry, they might have applied by petition,
claiming an interest in the fund; and if no better right to it
were shown than that under the mortgage, it would have been
competent for the court to have appropriated it to the satisfaction of the claim. As the fund is in the custody of the admiralty, the application must necessarily be made to that court
by any person setting up an interest in"it. This application
by petition is frequently entertained for proceeds in the registry, in cases where a suit in the admiralty would be wholly inadmissible. The decree of the court below is therefore right,
and should be affirmed.

THE ITEw YORK AND VIRGINIA STEAMSHIP COMPANY, OWNERS O?
THE STEAMER ROANOKE, APPELLANTS, V. EZRA CALDERWOOD,
THOMAS
BARTLETT, DEXTER CARLETON, JOSHUA 'TORWOOD,
PHILANDER CARLETON, ENOS COOPER, AND SETH COOPER, LiBELLANTS.

c.

Neither rain, nor the darkness of the night, nor the absence of a light from a barge
or sailing vessel, nor the fact that the steamer was well manned and furnished,
and conducted with caution, will excuse a steamer for coming in collision with
a barge or sailing vessel, where the barge or sailing vessel is at anchor or sail;.
ing in a thoroughfare, but out of the usual track of the steam vessel.
Therefore, where a collision took place between a steamer and a sailing vessel, the
latter being out of the ship channel, and near an edge of shoals, the steamer

must be responsible.
The sailing vessel had no pilot, and did "not exhibit an efficient light. Although
these circumstances did not exonerate the steamer, yet they make it necessary
for this court to say that an obligation rests upon all vessels found in the avenues of commerce, to employ active diligence to avoid collisions, and that no in-

ference can be drawn from the fact, that a vessel is not condemned for an omission of certain precautionary measures in one case, that another vessel will be

excused, under other circumstances, for omissions of the same description.

VOL. XIX.

16

