866

SUPREME COURT.
Feowa v. Bkkmith ef a.

ever, tending to show that, with the assistance of this map, a
surveyor would find any difficulty in locating it according to
its calls.
In the cases of Fr6mont and of Larkin, the grants were
much more vague than the present, and the same remark
which was made in the latter case will equally apply to this.
"No question appears to have been made as to the practicability of locating the grant in the tribunals below, nor do we
see any ground upon which such a question could have been
properl, raised in the case."
The judgment is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

JOSEPH FELLOWS, SURVIVOR OF ROBERT ]KENDLE, PLAINTIF IN
ERROR, V. SUSAN BLACKSMITH AND ELY S. PARKER, ADMINISTRATORS Or JOHN BLACKSMITH, DECEASED.
The United States made two treaties, one in 1838, and one in 1842, with the Seneca Indians, residing in the State of New York, by which the Indians agreed to
remove to the West within five years, and relinquish their possessions to certain
assignees of the State of Massachusetts, and the United States agreed that they
would appropriate a large sum of money to aid in the removal, and to support
the Indians for the first year after their removal to their new residence.
But neither treaty made any provision as to the mode or manner in which the removal of the Indians or surrender of the reservations was to take place.
The grantees of the land, under the Massachusetts assignment, cannot enter upon
it and take forcible possession of a farm occupied by ail Indian, but are liable to
an action of trespass, guare casumfregit, if they do so.
The removal of tribes of Indians is to be made by the authority and under the
care of the Government; and a forcible removal, if made at all, must be made
under the direction of the United States.
The courts cannot go behind a treaty, when ratified, to inquire whether or not the
tribe wbs properly represented by its head men.

THIS- case was brolight up from the Supreme Court of the
State of New York, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet and Mr.Brown for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Martindalefor the defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
New York. The case was decided by the Court of Appeals
of that State; but the record had been remitted, after the de-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Fe.W1=

367

v. .Blackesmilh dt al.

cision, to the Supreme Court,from which the appeal had been
taken.
The suit in the Supreme Court was an action of trespass,
quare clausumfregit,brought by the intestate, John Blacksmith,
against the defendants, Joseph Fellows and Robert Kendle,
for entering, with force and arms, into the close of the pIaintif
commonly known as an Indian sawmill and yard, at the town
of Pembroke, county of Genesee, and then and there having
expelled and dispossessed the said plaintiff.
The defendants plead, 1st, not guilty; and 2d, that the said
close, &c., was the soil and freehold of the defendant, Fellows,
and that the defendant, Fellows, in his own right, and the
defendant, Kendle, as his servant, and by his command, broke
and entered the said close, &c., as they lawfully might, for the
cause aforesaid. To this plea there was a replication, averring
that the close, soil, and freehold, was not the close of the defendant, Fellows.
On the trial, it was proved by the plaintiff that the close
mentioned in the declaration is situate in the town of Pembroke,
county of Genesee, upon a tract of land of twelve thousand
eight hundred acres, commonly known as the Tonawanda reservation, and was, at the time of the entry complained of, an
Indian improvement upon the same; that said improvement
was made about twenty years before the treaty, by the plaintiff and seven, other Tonawanda Indians; that the plaintiff is a
native Indian, belonging to the Tonawanda band of the Seneca
Indians, who reside on that reservation, and are a part of the'
Seneca Nation, and has so been known for at least thirty-six
years; that he has resided on this reservation from his birth,
and was in the actual possession of the said improvement at the
time of the entry complained of; that on the 13th July, 1846,
the defendants entered into and took possession of the said
close, and turned the plaintiff out, and in doing so committed
the trespass. It was admitted, that a treaty had been made
between the United States and the Six Nations of Indians on
the 11th November, 1794, by which cdrtain lands in western
New York, including this Tonawanda reservation, are declared
"to be the property of. the Seneca Nation; and the-United
States will never claim the same, nor disturb the Seneca Nation, nor any of.the Six Nations, or their Indian friends resi-.
ding thereon, and united with thema in the free use and enjoyment thereof; but it -shall remain theirs until they choose to
sell the same to the people of the United States, who have the
right to purchase."
The plaintiff then rested.
The defendants gave in evidence certain documents and acts

868

SUPREME COURT.
Felow v. .Blacmilh d a?.

of the Legislatures of the States of New York and Massachusetts, showing that a dispute had arisen, at an early day, between the two States, in respect to the title to a large tract of
land within the limits of New York, of which the' locus in qub
is a part. That in 1786, the dispute was amicably settled by
a cession -from Massachusetts to New York of the sovereignty
and jurisdiction over the tract, and by a cession from N6w
York to Massachusetts of the right of pre-emption to the soil
from the Indians.
The lands were then in the independent occupancy of the
Seneca Nation, and owned by them, and that Massachusetts
acquired by the cession the exclusive right of purchasing their
title whenever they became disposed to sell; that this right
had become duly vested in Thomas L. Ogden and Joseph
Fellows, by proper conveyances from Massachusetts, which
1urvived to the latter on the death of Ogden.
A. treaty was then given in evidence, between the United
States and the New York Indians, bearing date 15th January,
1838, and another between the United States and the Seneca
Nation, bearing date the 20th May, 1842, under which the
defendant claims that he had acquired the Indian title to the
close in question, and by virtue of which it is admitted the
defence to the action in this case rests.
The trbaty of 1838 (7 U. S. Stat., 551) set apart a tract of
country, situated west of the State of Missouri, as a permanent
home for all the' New York Indians, containing one million
eight hundred and twenty-four acres of land, -being, as is
expressed in the treaty, "three hundred and twenty acres
for each soul of said Indians, as their numbers are at present
computed." The tract is particularly described and located.
It was intended for the future home of nine tribes of Indians,
containing, according to the official estimate, a population of
five thousand four hundred and eighty-five. The Seneca tribe,
including amonig them their friends, the Onondagas and Cayugas, numbers a population. of two thousand six hundred and
thirty-three.
,By the tenth section of this treaty, special provision was
made concerning this tribe and their friends already mentioned.
They were to have assigned to them the easterly part of the
tract set apart to the New York Indians, and to extend so far
as to include one half section of land for each soul. The tribe
agrees to remove, from New York to their new home within
five years, and continue to reside there. The section then
recites the purchase of the title of the Seneca Nation to certain
lands described in a deed of conveyance by Ogden and Fellows,
assignees of the State of Massachusetts, for the consideration

DECE314BER TER]M, 1856.
Fltzoa v. Bkia

369

d al.

of $202,000, and also that the Nation. has agreed that said
money shall be paid to the United States, and that out of this
sum $102,000 shall be paid to the owners of the improvements
on the land so conveyed, the residue to be invested in stocks
by the Government, the income of which is to be paid annually
to the Nation at their new homes. The improvements were to
be appraised, and a distribution of the $102,000 made among
the oivners, and "to be paid by the United Statesto the individuals who were entitled to the same, &c., on their relinquishingtheir respective possessions to Ogden and Fellows."
By the ifteenth section of the treaty, the United States agree
that they will appropriate the sum of $400,000, to be applied
from time to time, under the direction of the President of the
United States, in such proportions as may be most for the interest of the Indians who were parties to the treaty, "to aid
them in the removal to their homes, and in supporting, them
the first year after their removal; to encourage and assist them
in education, and in being taught to cultivate their lands; in
the erection of mills, houses," &c.
A large tract of land in Wisconsin that had been set apart
to certain Indians was relinquished to the Government.
The deed of conveyance from the Seneca Nation to Ogden
and Fellows, and referred to in the treaty, is annexed thereto.
It conveys four reservations in western New York: the Buffalo
Creek reservation, containing 49,920 acres; the CattAraugus,
21,680 acres; the Allegany, 30,469 acres; and the Tonawanda,
12,800 acres.
Some difficulty occurred in carrying this treaty into execution, which it is not important to refer to. These difficulties
raised by the Indians resulted in a modification of it by a second treaty entered into on 20th May, 1842, which, after refering to the first, and to the deed of conveyance to Ogden and
Fellows, and to the differences that had arisen between the
parties,.provides in the first article that Ogden and Fellows,.in
consideration of the release and agreements afterwards mentioned, stipulate that the Seneca Nation"might continue-fi the
occupation and enjoyment of two of the reservations, the-Cattaraugus and the .Allegany, the same as before the. deed of
conveyance. And in the second article, the Seneca Nation; in
consideration of the foregoing and other stipulations, agree to
release and confirm to Ogden and Fellows the two'remaining
reservations, the Buffalo Creek and the Tonawanda.
The third article provides for reducing the amount of the
purchase-money to be paid by Ogden and Fellows, so as to
correspond with the relative value of the two .reservations released to the value of the four, as fixed in the treaty of 1838.
VOL. XIX.

24

870

SUPREME COURT.
Fdlows v. Blacksmiat

d aL

The fourth article provides for the appraisal of the land and
improvements in these two reservations, by apprais-rs-one to
be appointed by the Secretary of War, and the other by Ogden
and Fellows-and to report their proceedings to the Secretary,
and also to Ogden hnd Fellows.
The fifth article provides that the possession of the two tracts
confirmed to Odn and Fellows should be surrendered up as
follows: the unimproved lands on the tracts within one month
after the reports of the appraisers, and the improvements within
two years, provided that the amount to be ascertained and
awarded as the proportionate value of said improvements shall,
on the surrender thereof, be paid to the President of the United
States, to be distributed among the owners according to the
determination of the appraisers; and provided, also, the consideration for the release and conveyance of the lands shall, at
the time of the surrender thereof, be paid or secured to the
satisfaction of the Secretary of War, the income of which to be
paid to the Seneca Indians annually.
The seventh article provides that the modification in this
treaty of 1842 shall be a substitute for that of 1838, wherein
it differs from it, and to this extent shall be deemed to repeal it.
It will be seen that the principal change under the second
treaty consists in the release, by Ogden and Fellows, to the
lndians, of two of the four reservations conveyed to them under
the treaty of 1838, and the corresponding reduction of the
price to be paid. Most. of the other provisions of the treaty
are untouched, and remained in force. The assignment by the
Government of the large tract of country for the New York
Indians west of the Missouri-the special tract therein assigned to this Seneca Nation-their agreement to remove to their
Rew homes, and the large appropiiation to aid in their removal
and in their support and encouragement after they had arrived-all these provisions remained unaffected by the second

treaty.
Neither treaty-made any provision as to the mode or manner
in whieh the removal of the Indians or surrender of the reservations was to take place. The grantees have assumed that
they were authorized to take forcible possession of the two
reservations, or of the four, as the case would have been under
the first treaty. The plaintiff in this case was expelled by
force; and unless this mode of removal can be sustained, the
recovery against the defendants for the trespass was right, and
must be affirmed.
The removal of tribes and nations of 'Indians from their
andient possessions to their new homes in the West, under

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
MFlows Y. Bkdacat

871

d aZk

treaties made with them by the United. States, have been, accordin to the usage and practice of the Government, by its
authority and under its care and superintendence. And, indeed, it is difficult to see how any other mode of a forcible removal can be consistent with the peace of the country, or with
the duty of the Government to these dependent people, who
have been influenced by its counsel and authority to change
their habitations.
The negotiations with them as a quasi nation, possessing
some of the attributes of an independent people, and to be
dealt with accordingly, vould seem to lead to the conclusion,
unless otherwise expressly stipulated, that the treaty was to be
carried into execution by the authority or power of the Government, which was a party to it; and more especially, when
made with a tribe of Indians who are in a state of pupilage,
and hold the relation to the Government as a ward to his
guardian. It is difficult to believe that it could have been intended by the Government that these people were to be left,
after they had parted with their title to their homes, to be expelled by the irregular force and violence of the individuals
who had acquired it, or through the intervention of the courts
of justice. As we have seen, the Seneca Nation upon the
four reservations consisted of a population of some two thousand six hundred and thirty-three souls; and if we include the
Tuscaroras, whose lands were also purchased under the same
treaty, nearly three thousand. It is obvious that any such
litigation would be appalling.
If we look into the provisions of the two treaties, we thin
the conclusion as clear, from a consideration of them, that no
such means or manner of removal were contemplated, as'that
derived from a consideration of their unfitness and impropriety
under the circumstances stated.
The treaty of 1838 contemplated a removal to the tract west
of the State of Missouri, and putting the Indians in possession
of it. A large fund was appropriated, and in the hands of the
Government, to be disbursed in aid of- such removal, and of
their support and encouragement after their arrival. It did
not, therefore, separate these Indians from the care and protection of the Government on its ratification, but contemplated
further duties towards them, and for which means were supplied. Besides, the purchase-money for the reservations was
to be paid to the Government; and, by the express terms of the
treaty of 1842, the appraised value of the improvements was,
on the suriender of the possessions, to be paid to the President of the
United States, to be distributed among the owners of the improvements
according to the award of the appraisers. This provision shows,

872

SUPREME COURT.
MFellow
v. Blachmih et al.

that the Government was to be present at the surrender and
payment for the improvements.
The clause in the treaty of 1838 is still more specific, which
was, that the improvements were "to be paid by the United
States to the individuals who were entitled to the same," &c.,
"on their relinquishing their respective possessions to the said
Ogden and Fellows." It is also worthy of remark, that the
St. Regis Indians, one of the nine tribes of the New York Indians, in giving their assent to the treaty of 1838, deemed it
necessary to guard aainst a forcible removal to the West, by
a clause providing that they "shall not be compelled to remove under the treaty;" a removal to the West being in contemplatioxn.

We think, therefore, that the grantees derived no power,
under the treaty, .to dispossess by force these Indians, or right
of entry, so as to ststain an ejectment in a court of law; that
no private remedy of this nature was contemplated by the
treaty, and that a forcible removal must be made, if made at
all, under the direction of the Uuited States; that this interpretation is in accordance with the usages and practice of the
Government in providing for the removal of Indian tribes from
their ancient possessions, with the fitness and *propriety of the
thing itself, and with the fair import of the language of the
several articles bearing upon the subject.
An objection was taken, on the argument, to the validity of
the treaty, on the ground that -the Tonawanda band of the
Seneca Indians were not represented by the chiefs and head
men of the band in the negotiations and execution of it. But
the answer to this is, that the treaty, after executed and ratified
by the proper authorities of the Government, becomes the supreme law of the land, and the courts can no more go behind
It for the purpose of annulling its effect and operation, than
they can behind an act of Congress. (1 Cranch, 103; 6 Pet.,
735; 10 How., 442; 2 Pet., 307, 309, 314; 3 Story Const. Law,
p. 095.)
The view we have taken of the case makes it unnecessary
to examine the ground upon which the learned court below
placed their decision; that court held the appraisal of the
improvements, and payment therefor, were conditions precedent to the surrender of them by the Indians; and that the
refusal of the Tonawanda band to pernkit the appraisal did not
excuse the performance of these conditions. The ground upon
which we have placed our judgment is not in conflict with
this view. We hold that the performance was not a duty that
belonged to the grantees, but for the Government under the
treaty.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

873

RB0erts T. CooPer.

We think the judgment of the court below right, and should
be affirmed.

ENoCH C. ROBRTS,

PLAINTIFF IN ERRROR,

v.

J

s M. CooPER.

Where the judgment of the Circuit Court, in an action of ejeetment, was against
the defendant, in which nomihal damages only were awarded, who sued out a
writ of error in order to bring the case belore this court, this court cannot grant
a motion to enlarge the security in the appeal bond, for the purpose of covering

apprehended damages, which the plaintiff below thinks fe may sustain by being
kept out of his land.

TnIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Michigan.
It will be seen, by xeference to 18 Howard, that this court,
at the last term, in a case between these same parties, decided
in favor of Cooper's title to a tract of land in Michigan. In
order to recover a part of the tract which was not included in
the former suit, Cooper brought an ejectment against Roberts,
and obtained a judgment against him. Roberts then brought
the case up to this court by writ of error.
But in consequence of its being so low upon the docket as
not to be reached at the present term, Mr. Vmton, counsel for
Cooper, moved for an order requiring the plaintiff in error to
give additional security in the sum of $25,000, or for such
other sum as, in the judgment of the court, would be sufficient
to answer all damages and costs which Cooper might suffer if
the writ of error should not be prosecuted with effect; and
filed an affidavit by Cooper in support thereof.
The motion was argued by .r.
Hr. 1?omeyn against it.

Vin

in support, and by

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, Roberts, who is the plaintiff in error, on the
allowance of the writ of error, gave security in the sum of one
thousand dollars, conditioned that he would prosecute his writ
to effect, and answer all damages and costs if he failed to make
his plea good. Cooper now declares that the bond for one
thousand dollars is not sufficient to answer all the damages
and costs, if Roberts should fail to prosecute his writ to effect,
and refers to an affidavit filed by him as the basis of this
motion to show that fact.
Mr. Vinton, counsel of Cooper, now moves the court for an
order requiring Roberts to give additional security in the sum

