DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
ZcCullOtig

d ca. V. Root dalc.

desired, as beginning at a creek called San Leandro, "and
from this to a white hill, adjoining the sea beach, in the same
direction, and along the coast four or five leagues."
The return of Ignacio Martinez, the officer who executed
the order for delivery of possession on the 16th of August,
1820, describes "the boundaries which separate the land of
Pefalta, to be marked out as follows: The deep creek called
San Leandro, and at a distance from this, (say five leagues,)
there -are two small mountains, (cerritos;) the' first is close to
the beach; next to it follows the San Antonio, serving as
boundaries, the rivulet which ispues from the mountain range,
and runs along the foot of said cerrito of San Antonio, and at
the entrance of a little gulch there is a rock elevating itself in
the form of a monument, and looking towards the north."
This is the description of the northern boundary. It refers to
stable monuments--two hills, a rivulet passing at their foot,
and a monumental rock. In other documents, Peralta speaks
of this line "as the dividing boundary with my neighbor,
Francisco Castro." Again, in the -return of Ignacio Martinez
to the order of the Governor, Arguello, in 1823, to redeliver
the possession to Peralta, up to his original boundary, he describes this within boundary by the same monument, "the
cerrito San Antonio, the arroyito or rivulet which crosses the
place to the coast, where is a rock looking to the north."
Lastly, the title of confirmation by Micheltorena in 1844, as
quoted above, though not in the very words of the above doeuments, clearly describes the same monuments. These hills,
rivulet, and rock, are well-known monuments, and their position is satisfactorily proved.
The testimony of the opinions of witnesses who have but
lately arrived in the country, who are ignorant of the language
and traditions of the neighborhood, and who are all intere'sted
in defeating the claim of the petitioners, can have little weight
against the knowledge of others who were present when the
lines were established, some thirty years ago, and have known
these boundaries till the present time.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.

JOHN MCCULLOUGH A1D
ERROR,

CmRus D.

v.GURNSEY Y.

CULBERTSON, PLAINTIFFS IN
ROOTS AND ERASTUS P. COE.

Where a sale was made of merchandise, and two parties, viz: Roots & Coe as one

party, and Henry Lewis as the other party, both claimed to be the vendors, and

850

SUPREME COURT.
XW

"h

de a. v. Root d a.

to be entitled to the purchase-money, it was proper, under the circumstances
which existdd in the previous relations of these parties towards each other, for
the court to instruct the jury as follows, viz:
"1. If they shall find that the merchandise had been made subject to the order of
Roots & Coe; that it was sold by them in their own name; that at the time of
sale it belonged to them, or that they had an interest in it for advances and
commissions, and an authority as agents to dispose of it; and that it was delivered to and received by the vendee in pursuance of such sale, then Roots &
Coe were. entitled to the purchase-money.
' 2. That although the jury may find from the evidence that the merchandise was
sold to the purchasers by Henry Lewis, yet if they also find that it belonged to
Roots & Coe, or to the persons for whom they acted as agents, and if the latter,
that Roots & Coe had an interest in and control over the merchandise to cover
advances and commissions; that the purchasers subsequently promised to pay
Roots & Coe the purchase-money, and that the suit was instituted before the
paid to Henry Lewis, then Roots & Coe were entitled to the purprice had been
chase-money.' r
The existence of warehouse receipts, given by anotler person, was not a sufficient
reason to justify the purchasers in refusing to pay for the property which they
had purchased, and in the possession of which they had not been disturbed.
Under the circumstances of the case, Roots & Coe had a right to consider Henry
Lewis as their agent, and to adopt his acts. The purchaser had no right to allege that Henry Lewis was a tort feasor.
Roots & Coe, having made the contracts, and having an interest to the extent of
their commissionsi had a right to maintain the suit.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States ior the district of Maryland.
The nature of the case is fully explained in the opinion of
the court.
It was argued by Mr. SchZey for the plaintiffs in error, and
by -Mr.-Dobbin and Mr. Johnson for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs below (Roots & Coe)- sued the defendants (McCullough et al.) in general indebitatus assumpsit, in the Circuit
Court, for the price of a quantity of hams in tierces which they
claim to have sold and delivered to them. The plaintiffs are
merchants in Cincinnati, Ohio, who, on their own account, and
as agents'for Adams &Buckingham, of New York, in lNovember, 1853, contracted with Henry Lewis, of the same city, to
make advances upon his consignments of bacon, pork, and
similar articles of provisions, which these consignees were to
dispose of, and, after reimbursing the advances and expenses,
were to appropriate the net profits in part to the payment of a
.pre-existing debt due to those firms. The course -of business
was, to suffer Henry Lewis to prepare the articles for the
market, and to superintend the sales, under a condition of accounting for their proceeds to the consignees. The advances
were usually made upon the warehouse receipts of a firm of
which Lewis was a partner, generally before the property spe-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
XeCullugh dt al.,v. Root. d dl.

cified in them was in the warehouse. The receipts expressed
articles which the warehouseman expected either to prepare or
to procure otherwise, and the money advanced was generally
intended to aid that object. To secure themselves from the
contingency of any failure in these anticipations, the plaintiffs
oots &"Co) sometimes exacted the guaranty of Samuel
ewis, a brother of Henry Lewis. This generaly took the
form of a warehouse receipt made by him, corresponding to
the
others. The articles designated in the receipts of Samuel
Lewis, it was understood, would be supplied by Henry-Samuel being unconnected with any business of this description on
his own account.
In April, 1854, Roots & Coe were the holders of a number
of receipts of Samuel Lewis for provisions, which HenryLewis
was unable to supply. The plaintiffs (Roots & Coe) agreed,
that if Samuel TIewis would secure the consignment of a quantity of hams, by executing a new receipt therefor, they would
extend their advances to Henry Lewis until he could make the
best disposition of them. This was assented to, and the con-'
tract hereafter mentioned was made.
Samuel Lewis had not interfered with the business of Henry; nor did he control the property which his receipts from
time to time specified. The property was left in the charge of
Henry Lewis, to be appropriated according to his contract with
the plaintiffs, (Roots & Coe,) of which the receipt was treated
as a guaranty. The receipts executed at this settlement bear
date the 4th of April, 1854, and are as follows:
"Received in store of Henry Lewis, and subject to the order
of Roots & Coe, but not accountable for damages by fire, four
hundred and fifteen hogsheads sugar-cured hams in pickle,
containing nine hundred pounds net weight; said hams to be
smoked and canvassed.within thirty days, and delivered to
said Roots & Coe, or their order, said Roots & Coe being responsible for the smoking and canvassing the same; and it is
further agreed between the parties, that when the above hams
are delivered to said Roots & Coe, then and in that case my
former warehouse receipts for two thousand five hundred barrels of mess pork, four hundred barrels of lard, and one hundred thousand pounds of shoulders from the block, shall be
given up and cancelled; but I am not responsible for smoking
or canvassing the same, that being a matter between sail
Henry Lewis and Roots & Coe.
(Signed)
SAMUEL LEwIs."
At the same time, Henry Lewis gave the following receipt:
"Whereas Roots & Coe hold Samuel Lewis's warehouse

352

SUPREME COURT.
McCUouA~

et al. v. Boots e al.

receipt of this date for four hundred and fifteen hogsheads
sugar-cured .hams in pickle, each hogshead containing nine
hundred pounds net weight, to be delivered within thirty days:
Now, I'do hereby agree to smoke, canvass, yellow-wash, and
pack the same, free of charge to Roots & Coe; and also agree
not to require Roots & Coe to refund to me the freight on the
same from Indianapolis to this place, being one hundred and
fifty cents per hogshead, which I have paid, in consideration
of having receivea an advance on the above-mentioned hams
from Adams & Buckingham, through said Roots & Coe. But
in case I should purchase and pay for the same within thirty
days from this date, then Roots & Coe agree to refund the
freight from Indianapolis to this point, being one dollar and
fifty cents per hogshead.
HENRY LEWIS."
At the time this contract was made, the property specified
in it was not in store at Cincinnati, but a portion was delivered
to the plaintiffs (Roots & Coe) the day after its date. The
remainder came consigned to their order during that and the
following month, and was deposited in the warehouse of Henry Lewis, under their directions; and Henry Lewis was employed to canvass, yellow-wash, brand, and pack in tierces the
hams, ready for the market; for this, Roots & Coe were to pay
Lewis his bill of charges as a further advance. While the
property was in this condition, a disagreement arose between
Senry Lewis and Roots & Coe, relative to a deficiency in the
weight of the hogsheads, and whether the warehouse receiit
of Samuel Lewis amounted to a \varranty of the weights.

In hundred
May andand
June,
1854,tierces
the defendants
belowatpurchased
two
twelve
of these hams,
a specific
price. Roots & Coe and Henry Lewis respectively claim to
made
nave this sale, and both were present when it was made.
The money arising from the sale was designed for the

former, and the sae was entered on their books, and there is
strong evidence to the fact that the defendants promised to
pay their bill for the hams in Juie, 1854.

But before the
payment, Henry Lewis insisted upon a surrender
of the warehouse receipts of Samuel Lewis; and that being refused, he
directed'the defendants to appropriate the price as a credit on
the joint debt of Samuel Lewis and himself to them; and this
was done by them accordingly.
Upon thee trial in the Circuit Court, the plaintifs in error
moved for fourteen distinct instructions to the jury, which the
court declined to give, but gave in their stead the following
charge:

"1. If the jury shall find, from the evidence in this case,

DECEMBER TERa, 1856.
.c0IoWgh

858

et al. T. Boots d a.

that the said two hundred and twelve tierces were part of the
hams contained in the four hundred and fifteen hogsheads
mentioned in the receipt of April 4, 1854; that they were sold
by the said plaintiffs, in their own name, to the said defend-,
ants; that at the time of the said sale the said hams belonged
to the said plaintiffs, or that they had an interest in the same
for advances or commissions, and authority as the agents of
Adams & 13uckingham to dispose of the same; and that said
hams were delivered to, and received by, said defendants, in
pursuance of said -sale, then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover
the full amount or price of the said hams.
"2. That -although the jury may find from the evidence that.
the said hams were sold to defendants by Henry Lewis, yet if
they also find that at the date of said sale the said hams belonged to plaintiff, or to Adams & Buckingham, for whom
the plaintiffi acted as agents; and if the latter, that the plaintifi had an interest in and control over the said hams, to
cover advances and commissions; that defendants subsequently
promised to pay plaintiffs the same, and that this suit was. ins=ituted before the price of said hams had been paid by defendants to Henry Lewis, then and in that event the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover."
To this charge -McCullough and Culbertson excepted,, as
well as to the refusal of the instructions moved for, and assign
these decisions as errors in this court. The written contract,
of November, 1853, which arranged the terms and course- of
business between the plaintiffs below (Roots- & Coe) and Adams & Buckingham, their principal, with Henry Lewis, for
the year 1854, confers on- the former a plenary power to dispose of the consignments to be made, for advances under that
contract. The contract of April did not alter or modify this
term in the engagemrent. Henry Lewis was then in arrears to
them. He ha involved his brother Samuel in- engagements,
as his surety, which he could not fulfil. This contract of
April was a relief and'an accommodation to the brothers. The
license tu Henry Lewis to prepare the provisions for market,
and to select the markets and purchasers, was an indulgenceto him, and did not diminish the rights of Roots & Coe'in the
property or their powers under the contract. Whatever sales
were made. by him, were made as the agent of Roots & Coe,.
and they were entitled to control the price. He was not in a
condition to dispute their title, and his authority to the plaintiffs in error to appropriate the price as a credit upon another
demand was a fraud. upon the rights of Roots & Ooe and Adams & Buckingham. (Zulueta v. Vincent, 12 L. and Eq., 145;
Bott v.'McCOby, 20 Ala., 578; Walcott v. Keith, 2 Fost. N.*H.
VOL. XIX.

23

854

SUPREME COURT.
McCullough et aL v. Root Ct aL

R., 196.) We think the cause was fairly submitted to the jury
in the charge of the court. The instructions prayed for by the
plaintiffi in error present several questions which will now be
considered.
They affirm, that if Samuel Lewis did not assent to the sale,
nor waive his right to detain the property until his warehouse
receipts were surrendered, and that Roots & Coe from time to
time refused to surrender those receipts, and still control them,
they canuot maintain an action for this money.
But the. existence of these facts does not authorize the defendants (McCullough et al.) to resist the payment of the price
of property they had purchased, and their possession of which
hay not been disturbed. Samuel Lewis had no title to the
property, nor any power to sell it, nor any claim on the price.
At most, he had only a lien, which he might never claim to
exert, and from which the purchasers have experienced no
injury. (Holly v. Huggerford, 8 Pick., 78; Vibbard v. Johnson, 19 John., 77; Wanzer v. Truly, 17 How., 584.)
Nor can the purchasers aver that Henry Lewis had no intention. to act as the agent of Roots & Coe in making the sale,
and in doing so he did not waive any right of Samuel Lewis,
nor enlarge or impair the claim of Roots & Coe upon the
property; but that he, and those claiming from him, are simply tort feasors, and that Roots & Coe cannot claim the entire
purchase-money, because their title does not embrace the entire property and right to possession. The relations of Roots
& Coe to Henry Lewis were such that he cannot be deemed a
tort feasor, except by their election. They are authorized to
adopt his acts, and to claim the benefit of his contracts. He
was their bailee, and is estopped to deny their title in any
form. It is further insisted that the suit should have been
instituted in the names of Adams & Buckingham, and not in
those of Roots & Coe. But the contracts for the consigment
of the hams, as well as for their preparation for the marIet and
their sale, were made in the names of those persons. They
are interested in their result to the extent of their commissions,
and their principals reside in another State from themselves.
The authorities cited sustain their title to maintain this suit.
Judgment affirmed.

