384

SUPREME COURT.
Plait

01ADIAH H. PLATT, PLAII

V. Jerom.
IN ERROR, V.

CH.AUNCEY

[E-

ROME.
The competent parties to agree that a case 9hall be settled, and the writ of error
dismissed, are usually the parties upon the record. If either of them has assigned his interest, and it be made known to the court, the interest of such
assignee would he protected.
But where there was a judgment for costs in the court below, and the attorney
claimed to have a lien upon such judgment for his fees, it is not a sufficient reason for this court to prevent the parties from agreeing to dismiss the case.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York.
M . Collamer, counsel for the plaintiff in error, moved that
th writ of erroi be dismissed, and in support thereof filed the
following paper, viz:
"This cause, which is now pending, on writ of error, from
the United States Circuit Court of INew York, is hereby settled and discontinued by mutual consent, each party to pay
acknowledged of all
herebyhereto.
their own cost, and satisfactiontheisparties
claims and demands between
"Dated Waterbury, December 20, 1856.
" CHAUNCEY JEROME.

"0. H. PLATT."

On the 24th of December, it was dismissed.
On the 9th of January, 1857, Mr. Foster, counsel for Jerome,
moved'to set aside the order of dismissal, and reinstate the case
upon the docket, upon the ground that the agreement to dismiss was made by the party himself, when he was represented
by counsel in court; and that Jerome had become insolvent,
whereby all his interest, which was only for costs, had passed
to his assignee. By dismissing the writ of error, the lien of
defendant's counsel for fees, in his court and in the court below, would be lost.
This motion was argued by Mr. Foster in support thereof,
-and by Mr. Collarner in opposition.thereto.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivhred the opinion of the court.
This is a motion, on behalf of the'atforney for the defendant
in error, to restore the cause on the docket which has been
dismissed upon a stipulation of a settlement between the partics. The judgment was for the defendant, Jerome, in the
court below, for costs -ofsuit, upon'which the plaintiff took out

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Und

385

tata v. City Bank of Columb-

a writ of error. The attorney clims that he had a lien on the
judgment for his costs.
It isquite clear that he can have no lien for any costs in ths
court, as none have been recovered against the plaintiff in error.
The suit is still pending; and as to the question of the dismissal of'the writ, the court looks no further than to see that
the application for the dismissal is made by the competent parties, which are usually the parties to the record. No doubt,
if either party had assigned his intetest to a third person, by
which such third person had become possessed of the beneficial
interest, and the party to the record merely nominal, the
coiut would protect such interest, and give him the control of
the suit. As in the present case, if the application had been
made by the insolvent assignee of Jerone, and he had shown
that he had succeeded to the interest of the insolvent, the court
might protect his rights.
The attorney, however, even if he has a lien on the judg
ment, according to the course of proceedings in the court whe.
it was recovered, stands in a different situation. He is not a
party to the suit, nor does he stand in the place of the p
in interest. He is in no way responsille for the costa of'-th.
proceedings, and to permit him to control them would;. in
effect, be compelling the client to carry on the litigation, at-his.
own expense, simply for the contingent benefit of the attorney.
We think, therefore, that this cause has been dismlssed: from
the docket by the competent parties, for aught that appears
before us, and that the motion to restore it should be -denied.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS,

V. THE (Tmy

BAI&E op Co-

LUMBUS.
Wlere a question was certified from the Circuit Court tathia court, viz: whether
a certain letter, written by the cashier of a bank without the knowledge of the
directory, though copied at the time of its date in the ltter-book of the bank,
was a legal and valid act of authority; and the reeordlafforded no evidence relevant to the acts and authority of the cashier, or to- t1 practice of the bank
in ratifying or rejecting similar acts, this court cannot answer the question, and
the case must be remanded to the Circuit Courtk to b4tried iinthe usual manner

THIs case came up on a certificate of diisi~n in opinionbetween the judges of the Circuit-Court of the Uhited States for
the southern district of Ohio.
The case is stated in the opinibn ofthe court..
It was argued by fr. C6ytsh (Attorney General) far the
United States, and by .Mr.
25 Sltnberr-for the defendant.
VOL. XIX.

