882

SUPRFM

COURT.

.BaJ~ardd aL v. Thomat.

ALBERT BALLARD, CHARLES CHADBOURINE, ELIPHALET GInMAW,
AND HENRY W. BEIRD, TRADING UNDER THE FR
OF BALLARD, CHADBOURNE, & Co., v. PHILIP F. THomAS, COLLECTOR.
In estimating the duty payable at the custom-house upon imported iron, it was
proper to levy it on the prices at which the iron was charged in the invoices;
and the entry in the invoices, that the importer would be entitled to a deduction
for prompt payment, could not affect the amount of duty chargeable.

CTis case -was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Schiey for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Hr. Cushing (Attorney General) for the defendant.
Mr. Justice NELSOIN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The suit was 'brought in the court below by the plaintiT
against the defendant, collector of the port of Baltimore, to
recover back an excess of duties paid under protest on an importation.of iron.
The iron was shipped from Liverpool, and, on an appraisal
at the custom-house in Baltimore, the invoice price was adopted
as the minimum market value upon which to assess the duties.
The plaintiffs claimed that the iron ought to be appraised at
the actual cash market value, or cash wholesale -price, instead
of the actual market value or wholesale price at a credit of four
months, the usual time in the pirchase of iron. But the collector insisted upon the invoice price as the minimum valuation. Two invoices are given in the record as specimens of
those produced at the trial. One of them contains the price
of the iron, with a deduction of two and a half per cent. for
prompt payment, which means cash; the other adds at the
foot, four months credit, which is the customary credit in the
trade.
The court charged the jury, that it being admitted that the
duties were levied on the prices at which the iron was charged
in the invoices, they were lawfully exacted, and the plaintiffs
not entitled to recover; and that the entry in the invoice, that
the plaintiffs would be entitled to a deduction for prompt payment, could not affect the amount of duty chargeable.
The eighthsection of the act of 1846 (9 U. S. St., p. 43) pro.
vides, "that under no circumstances shall the duty be assessed

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

883

BaZ/ d d al. v. Thomas.

upon an amount less .than the invoice value, any law of. Congress to the contrary notwithstanding."
It is claimed that this section has been repealed by the act
of Congress of March 3,1851, (9 St. U. S.,p. 629,) which
provides that the collector shall ;'cause the actual market
value, or wholesale price thereof at the period of the exportation to the United.States, in the principal markets of the country from which the same shall have been imported, &c., to be
appraised, &c., and to such value or price shall be added all
costs and charges, &c., as the true value at the port where the
same m.y be entered," &c.
- Previous to this act, the time when the value of the article in
the foreign market was to be ascertained, was the time of the
purchase, (Act 30th August, 1842, sec. 16, 5 St. U. S., p. 563 ;)
now, by the act of 1851, the time of exportation. There is no
change, however, in the rule which must govern in making
the valuation-it is the actual market value or wholesale price
in the principal markets of the country from which the article
shall have been imported. The only real change, therefore;
in respect to this matter, under the law of 1851, from that of
1842 and 1846, would seem to be a change of the time when
the valuation is to iake place, without intending to interfere
with any other of the regulations in the former laws. This
was the interpretation given by the Department of the Government having charge of this subject, soon after the passage of
the act in question, and, we think, may be sustained upon the
principles that this court has uniformly applied in interpreting
these revenue laws.
The construction is also borne out by the case of Stairs et
al. v. Peaslee, (18 How., 522.) That case recognises the eighth
section of the act of 1846 as in force since the act of 1851, and
the clause in question is a part of it.
In respect to .the deduction from the price on account of
prompt payment, we think the fact does not vary or affect
the p rice of the article, as stated in the invoice. It relates
simply to the mode of payment, which may, if observed,
operate as a satisfaction of the price to be paid by the acceptance of a less sum.
We think the ruling of the court below right, and that the
judgment should be affirmed.

