DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Biardon v. TA.

268

ft of Bosto.

ment of the facts by the district judge in the practice of that
court. It clearly appears that the ground upon which the
judgment in the Supreme Court was given was the invalidity
of the title of the plaintiff because an older patent had been
issued in favor of James Bell. We think this court has jurisdiction. (Armstrong v. Treasurer, &c., 16 Pet., 261; Grand
Gulf R. R. and B. Co. v. Marshall, 12 How., 165; Almonester
v. Kenton, 9 HL, 1.)
Judgment reversed. Cause remanded.

THOMAS RICHARDSON, PLAINIFF IN ERROR, V. THE CITY oF
BOSTON.
In Massachusetts, a former verdict and judgment in an action on the case for a
nuisance is not conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's right to recover in a subsequent action for the continuance of the same nuisance.
The plea of the general issue in actions of trespass or case does not necessarily put
the title in issue.
But the former verdict, though not conclusive, is permitted to go to the jury as
prima facie or persuasive evidence.
Where there is some evidence tending to establish a fact in Tssue, the jury must
judge of its sufficiency.
It is the duty of the court to construe written documents, but the application of
their provisions to external objects is the peculiar province of the jury.
[RL

JUSTICE CURTIS, HA ING BEEN OF COUN EL, DID NOT SIT IN THIS CAUS.]

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Island, to
which, it had been removed from the district of Mas achusetts.
It was aii action of trespass on the case brought by Richardson against the city of Boston, for the continuance of a nuisance which is described in the case of the city of Boston v.
Lecraw, (17 Howard, 426.) He was the owner of two wharves
between which the drain in question was erected, whereby the
access to his wharves by boats or vessels was very materially
interrupted. The case was tried at June term, 1855, and resulted in a judgment for the defendants. The bill of exceptions taken by the .counsel of Richardson will be mentioned
hereafter.
As one of the important qu stions in the case was, whether
*or not the record of a former case between the same parties
could be given in evidence, it is proper to see what that record
was.

At June term, 1853, a case was tried between the same
parties, having also been removed from the district of Massachusetts t Rhode Island. The opinion of the district judge

SUPREME COURT.

264

1Richarson, y. The City of Boutqi

(who tried the case) was, that the right of property could not
be taken from Richardson without compensation, and that,
under the circumstances of the case, he was entitled to recover
against the city of Boston whatever damages he might prove
under the sixth count of his declaration. That sixth count
stated the occupancy of Price's whdrf by Bullard as tenant,
the reversionary interest being in Richardson, and the occupancy of the Bull wharf by Lecraw & Perkins, the reversionary interest being in Richardson, and averred that the dock in
front of these wharves was, and had been for a long time, a
Eublic way, slip, or dock, so as to allow a free communication
etween.the wharves and the channel of the sea. Under this
instruction of the court, the jury found a verdict for the, plaintiff, and assessed his damages at $1,209.69. It was this record
of the case, tried in 1853, which the counsel of the plaintiff
offered in evidence in the present sit, but the judge ruled
that the judgment was not admissible in evidence for any purpose, and refused to admit the same to be put in evidence; to
which refusal and ruling the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff then offered in evidence an agreed statement
of facts contained in the record of the former suit, which the
.judge refused to admit, and to this ruling also the plaintiff
excepted.
The plaintiff then gave in evidence all the documents enumerated in said agreed statement of facts, together with much
parol
testimony relative to the premises, which it is impossible
to specify lparticularly."
T
aintiff then rested, whereupon the defendants offered
the following:
ORDER OF MAYOR AND ALDERMEN, JuNE

18, 1849.

CITY OF BOSTON.
An Ordinance constituting the Board of Health for the City.

Be it ordained by the Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council, of-the City of Boston, in City Council assembled, as follows:
The Mayor and Aldermen shall constitute the Board of
Health of the City, and shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties now vested in the City Council as a Board
of Health, with the right of carrying into execution such powers and duties through the agency of. any persons whom they
may select, or in any manner which they may prescribe.
In Common Council, June 14, 1849. Passed. Sent up for
concurrence.
BENJAMIN SEAVER, P-residet.
In Board of Mayor and Aldermen, June 18, 1849. Passed.
JOHN P. BIGELOW, M7'ayor..
A trui copy. Attest:
S. F. MOCLEARY, "'ty
Clerk.

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

265

Rfcardion *PrThe City of Boatitm

And without offering any further evidence on their part, did
request the c6urt to rule and instruct the jury that there was
not 4ufflcient evidence in the cause to authorize the jury to
find the rights claimed by the plaintiff, and the violation of
those rights by the defendants, such as to sustain the plaintiff's
action. The plaintiff on his part did request the court to rule
and instruct the jury as follows:
1. That there is evidence in the case competent to go to the
jury, and to be judged and weighed by them, that, at the time
of the grants by the town to Gridley & Baxter of their estates
or posse.ssions, there existed a town or public way between
those possessions, for access to and from the sea in boats and
vessels, upon Which those possessions were bounded, and that
the right to use and enjoy said way passed-to said grantees by
the grant of those possessions, andis an appurtenance thereto,
and to their heirs and assigns.
2. That if said way, so bounded on said possessions, existed
at the time of the grant of those possessions, and the title to
the land thereunder to high water was in the town, but not
the title to the flats between said way at high-water mark, and
the sea or low-water mark; and if said title rested in the town
subsequently by the ordinance of 1641, then, by and after the
said ordinance, said way became shaped and restricted over
the flats to the interval between the flats annexed by said ordinance to the possessions of said Gridley & Baxter, and was
and continued to be an appurtenance to the possessions so
granted to Gridley & Baxter, their heirs and assigns.
3. That there is evidence competent to go to the jury, and
be judged and weighed by them, that at the time ofthe grants
of liberty to wharf to Gridley, Gill, & Bull, there existed a
public or town way between the possessions of Gridley &
Baxter, and bounding thereon for access of boats and vessels
to the sea or low water, and that such liberties to wharf were
bounded by said way, and thereby the right to use said way
for access of boats and vessels to and from such wharves, one
or both of them, became, by virtue of said respective grants,
annexed or appurtenant to said grants, and to said possessions
of Gridley & Baxter, their heirs or assigns.'
4. That if the jury shall find that at the time of the staking out of said highway, October 31st, 1683, the same extended below high-water mark, and that the possessions of
said Baxter bounded on said way, then by virtue of the liberty
to wharf, granted at the same time to the proprietors of lands
on Sea street, the right to use said way for access by boats and
vessels to and from such wharf, .became by virtue thereof an-

266

SUPREME COURT..
iclhar&on v. The City of Boom.

nexed or appurtenant to the possession of said Baxter, his
heirs and assigns.

5. That there is evidence competent and proper to be submitted to the jury, to be judged and weighed by them, that a
town way or highway was laid out by the selectmen, October
81st, 1683, to the sea or low-water mark; that the estates or
wharves claimed by the plaintiff were bounded thereon; that
said way was a way for boats and vessels, and that, at the time
of the acts complained of, plaintiff was the'owner and possessed of said wharves, as stated in the declaration; and if the jury
shall so find, and that defendants while said way remaine,
and without a previous due and legal discontinuance thereof,
erected the structute alleged in the. declaration, and continued
the same for the time and in the mainer set forth therein, and
that by reason thereof the plaintiff has been deprived of the
use of said way for access to and from his wharves, with boats
and vessels, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover.
. That if the jury shall find that by reason of the acts of
defendants complained of in the declaration, that part of plaintiff's wharf below low-water 'mark, held by him under a grant
of the Legislature, has been injured in the manner set forth in
the declaration, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover.
Thereupon his honor the judge did decline and refuse to
make and give either of the said rulings and directions so prayed by the plaintiff, but did rule and instruct the jury as prayed
by the defendants as aforesaid.
Whereupon the plaintiff excepted, and the jury found a verdict for the defendants.
The case came up to this court upon these several exceptions, and was argued by .Mr.Bartlett for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Chandler and Mr. Loring for the defendants.
The reporter regrets that the limited space which must be
allotted to the report of this case will not allow him to state
the arguments of the respective counsel upon the various
points which arose in the case.
Mr. Justice GRI]ER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of trespass on the case brought by the
plaintiff in error against the city of Boston, for the erection
and maintenance of a drain at the foot of Summer street,
which, it is alleged, is a nuisance, and injurious to the property
of plaintiff. Bfe is owner of two wharves, called the Price and
the Bull wharf, which are extended from high to low-water
mark, from the lots which adjoin Summer street on each side.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
.Ricardson

v.

267

The Myt of Boeon.

The nuisance, which is the subject of complaint in this case,
is the same as7 that in the case of Boston v. Lecraw, decided
in this court, and reported in 17 Howard, 426.
The declaration contains seven counts, in four of which the
plaintif as owner of the several wharves, and having the seizin
and possession, claims a right of way, as appurtenant to the
same, over the "dock" or "way and dock," which constitutes
the interval between the wharves; also, that his wharves are
bounded on the "town dock," "town way or dock," which he
alleges to have been long used as a "public dock, slip, or
waRe fifth and sixth counts are for injuries to the reversion,
with like averments. A seventh count avers the wharves to
be bounded, respectively, "by a highway, town way, or public
way, to the sea, extending from the corner of Summer and Sea
streets to the channel, or low-water mark, which was duly laid
out and established pursuant to law."
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and on the trial
the plaintiff offered in evidence the record of a former verdict
and judgment rendered in his favor in an action against
defendant for the erection of the same nuisance, the continuance of which is the subject of the present suit. The rejection
of this evidence by the court is the subject of the first bill of
exceptions.
It is contended that this record was not only evidence, but
conclusive of the right of the plaintiff, and prima facie evidence
of the continuance of such right; and that plaintiff, having no
opportunity to plead it as an estoppel, may exhibit it as matter
of evidence.
It may be admitted that numerous decisions may be found
in many of the State courts affirmning this proposition; nevertheless, it has not been universally adopted. The leading case
of Outram v. Morewood (2 East., 174) establishes the following proposition, in which all concur: "That if a verdict be
found on any fact or title distinctly put in issue in any action
of trespass, such verdict may be pleaded, by way of estoppel,
in another action between the same parties or their privies, in
respect to the same fact or title." But estoppels, which
preclude the party from showing the truth, are not favored.
To give the verdict the effect of an estoppel, the facts must
be distinctly put in issue.
The plea of the general issue, in actions of trespass, or case,
does not necessarily put the title in issue; and, although the
judgment is conclusive as a bar to future litigation for the
thing thereby decided, it is not necessarily an estoppel in
another action for a different trespass. The judgment can

268

SUPREME COURT.
Richar&on v. The City of BoaO.

only give the plaintiff an ascertained right to his damages, and
the means of obtaining them. These principles seem to have
been adopted by the courts of Massachusetts, and applied to
cases like the present. In the decision of this point, we must
be guided by the decisions of the courts of that State.
In the case of Standish v. Parker, (2 Pick., 20,) which was
an action for a nuisance, the court say: "We think it very
clearly settled that nothing is conclusively determined by the
verdict but the damages for the interruption covered by the
declaration. In actions for torts, nothing is conclusively
settled but the poipt or points put directly in issue. By the
plea of the general issue, the title is not concluded, because it
cannot be made to appear upon. the general issue that the title
ever came in question." (See also 15 Pick., 564.)
lNevertheless, though a verdict in such case is not conclusive,
it is permitted to go to the jury as prima facie, or persuasive,
evidence. (3 Pick., 288.) If the evidence of the facts involved
in the first trial are still doubtful, if witnesses were then
examined whose testimony cannot now be obtained, for these
and many other reasons the former verdict may have the effect
of highly-pesuasive evidence -on another trial of the same
question. But if on 'the last trial new evidence has been
discovered, or if the question of title submitted on the first
trial was connected with instructions in law which have since
been found to be erroneous; or if a different verdict on the
same evidence would have resulted from the different instructions given on the last, it is plain that the first verdict could
have but little or no persuasive effect. Title is often a question
of mixed law and fact-and a party is not concluded by an
erroneous opinion of the court pronounced in a former case.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the court erred in not
permitting the record of the former suit to be given in evidence
to the jury.
*2. At the conclusion of the trial, the court, at the request
of defendant's counsel, instructed the jury "that there was not
sufficient evidence in the cause to authorize the jury to find
the rights claimed by the plaintiff."
As it is the duty of the jury to decide the facts, the sufficiency
of evidence to prove those facts must necessarily be within
their province. The jury cannot assume the truth of any
material averment without some evidenc6; and it is error in
the court to instruct the jury that they may find a material
fact of which there is no evidence. An instruction like this
is imperative on a jury; it has taken the place, in practice, .of
a demurrer to evidence; and must be governed by the same
rules. If there be "no ev"dnce whatever," as in the case of

DEOEMB R TERM, 1856.

269

Rickardon v. The My of .Boton.

Parks v. Ross, (11 How., 393,) to prove the averments of the
declaration, it is the duty of the court to give such peremptory
instruction. But if there be some evidence tending to support
the averment, its value must be submitted to the jury with
proper instructions from the court. If this were not so, the
court might usurp the decision of faetf altogether, and' make
the verdict but an echo of their opinions. The court below seem to have considered the derision of
this court, in the case of Boston v. Lecraw, as requiring them
to give the instruction demanded by the defendant. The
actioin in that case was for the same alleged nuisance by a
tenant of the present plaintiff. But the plaintiff in that case
claimed no other right of way over the lands of defendant, save
the public right of navigatioin; and this court decided that the
public right of navigation, between high and low-water mark,
was defeasible at any time by the owner of the subjacent land.
That, as the space between the plaintiff's wharves had been
converted into a dock by the accident of its position, so long as
it remained unreclaimed, every person had a right to pass and
repass over it. The exercise of this public right, for any length
of time whatever, would therefore form no grounds of presumption either of a public dedication or a private grant to
the owners of the a4joining wharves. While it remains unreclaimed, it is a public highway or dock, by a paramount but
defeasible title. The adjoining wharves may receive much
more advantage than others from the use of it, but they cannot convert it to a private use, under color of a public right,.
The public officers of a town have no right to lay out a
town way between high water and the channel of a navigable
river, or appropriate the shore or flats to the use of the inhabitants of a town in the form of a way or road. (1 Pick., 179;
5 Pick., 494.) But in the present case the city of Boston is
owner of the landi and has the same right to reclaim their
fiats which other owners have. Before they are so reclaimedi
the public and the adjoiners may exercise their paramount
right of navigation. Butif the city elects to reclaim its portion of the shore, and extend Summer street to low water, it
has a right so to do. And if the street should be less beneficial to the adjoiners in this form, than when they could use
it as a dock under the public right of navigation, they cannot
complain. The absence of these advantages may be a loss to
them,-but if incurred by the defendants' exercise of their own
rights, it is no wrong to them.
But if the city has determined to reclaim this land, and has
laid out a street thereon, or continued Summer street to lowwater mark, the right to use it as a street or highway on land

270

SUPREME COURT.
Bchar&on v. The My of Bostn.

becomes appurtenant to the property of the adjoiners. It may
be the duty of the city to make drains along or under the
streets, but they cannot construct them so as to hinder the
public use, of them as streets, or erect thereon a nuisance to
the adjoiners. If Summer street be extended to low water,
the plaintiff has a right to pass along and across the same, and
anything which obstructs such passage is a nuisance, and injurious to'his rights.
The seventh count of plaintiff's declaration claims a right
of way as appurtenant to his land or vharves, on the ground
that Summer street extends to low water. In support of this
allegation, the following entry in the town records was given
in evidence: "October 31, 1683. The selectmen all met this
day, staked out a highway for the town's use, on the southerly
side of the land belonging to the late John Gill, deceased, being thirty foot in breadth from the lower corner of said Gill's
wharf next the sea."
It is the duty of the court to construe written instruments;
but the application of their provisions to external objects described-thierein is the peculiar province of the jury. Whether
this document describes Summer street as it was afterwards
laid out from high-water mark; whether "the lower corner
of Gill's wharf next the sea" was at that time (in 1683) at lowwater mark; whether this street was staked out to low water,
were questions which should have been submitted to the jury.
The fact that the learned counsel differ so widely as to the
situation of the points called for as the boundary of the street
next the sea, shows conclusively that it is a question for the
jury, and not for the court.
Moreover, the court were requested by plaintiff's counsel to
instruct the jury, "that if the jury shall find that, by reason
of the acts of defendants complained of in the declaration, that
part of plaintiff's wharf below low-water mark, held by him
under a grant of the Legislature, has been injured in the manner set forth in the declaration, then the plaintiff is entitled to
recover."
There was some evidence that the drain constructed by defendant was not carried out sufficiently to discharge its contents so as to be swept off by the tides; but that it caused an
accumulation of matter at the outer end of.the plaintiff's
wharves, insomuch that vessels could not approach them with
the same depth of water as formerly. If this be so, it was an
injury to the plaintiff, for which he was entitled to recover
damages.
This question should have been submitted to the jury, and
this instruction given, as requested by plaintiff's counsel. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

271

d aL. v. Babin d al.
et

others are disposed of by the opinion of this court in Boston
v. Lecraw.
For these reasons, the judgment is reversed, and venire de novo
awarded.

FBicnfI FLETCHER Hipp,AND MARIA ANTONIO FLETCHER HIPP,
ALIENS, AND RESIDING, THE FORMER IN VERA CRUZ, MEXICO,
THE LATTER IN THE CITY OF MADRID, SPAIN, FOR THEMSELVES
AND ON BEHALF AND FOR THE USE OF AUGUSTIN CUESTA,
JAVIERA CUEST!, AND FELICITAS CUESTA, ALIENS, THE FORCED
HEIRS OF ADELAIDE FLETCHER HIPP, DECEASED, V. CELINE

BABIN, WIDOW OF URSIN JOLY, AND OTHERS.
A. court of equity will Aot entertain a bill, where the complainants seek to enforce
a merely legal title to land; and in the present case, in the absence of allegations that the plaintiffs are seeking a partition, or a discovery, or an account, or
to avoid a multiplicity of suits, the bill cannot be maintained.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in equity.
*The facts of the case are stated in the opinion.

It was argued by Afr. Smiey and Xr.Perfn in a printed argument for the appellants, and orally by Mr. Taylor for the appellees.
The manner in which the counsel for the appellants sought
to sustain the equity jurisdiction of the court in the case was

as follows:
In the opinion of the judge of the Circuit Court, the cause
was not one over which the equity side of the court had any
jurisdiction. The title being merely legal, and the documents

upon which the title rested being accessible to all parties, there
was "a case where plain; adequate, and complete remedy may
be had at law." Several cases were cited and relied upon to
sustain this opinion. But without referring to them, we may
observe that this case is distinguished from all those cited, in
this: that no objection is raised in this case by the defendants
to the jurisdiction, neither in the pleadings nor upon the argument. It was not raised in the Circuit Court, and we are assured by the opposite counsel that it will not be in this. The
objection was raised in some form, either by demurrer or in
argument upon final hearing in all the others.
In the case of United States v. Sturges et al., (1 Paine C. C.

*R., 525,) it was objected, at the hearing for the first time, (not

