DEOEMBER TERM, 1856.

113

Coir6n el aZ. v. Atllaudon et al.'

for the want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the
d
dismissed
amount in controversy in each of the said cases is less than
$2,000; and it is also theopinion of this court that the steamer
St. Charles was in fault, and that the decree of the said Circuit
Court in the cases of E. G. Rogers & Co., and Pooley, Nicoll,
& Co., should be reversed, and the cause remanded for an apportionment of the loss on thesetw6 appeals. Whereupon, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court, that
the appeals of Brooks & Randolph, and of Hurley & Co., be
and the same are hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction;
and that the decreee of the said Circuit Court in the cases of
E. G. Rogers & Co., and: Pooley, Nicoll, & Co., be and the
same are hereby reyersed with costs; and that this cause be
and the same is herhby remanded to the said Circuit Court for
further prodeedings to be had therein in conformity to the
.opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

PIERRE -FELIX CoiRoN AND MARIE J. T. COIRON, A MINOR,
BY HER NEXT FRIEND, PIERRE FELIX CoIRoN, APPELLANT0, V.
LAURENT MILLAUDON, EDWARD SHIFF, SYNDICS, &C., OF ALEX-

ANDER LEsSEPS, ET AL.'
Where a sale of mortgaged property in Louisiana was made under proceedings in
insolvency, and the heirs of the insolvent filed a bill to set aside the sale on the

ground of irregularity, it was necessary to make the mortgagees parties.

They

had been paid their share of the purchase money, and had an interest in upholding the sale.
The fact that such persons are beyond the jurisdiction of the court is not a sufficient reason for omitting to mlke them parties.
Neither the act of Congress nor the 47th rule of this court enables the Circuit
Court to make a decree in a suit in the absence of a party whose rights must

* necessarily be affected -by such decree, and the objection may.be taken at any
time upon the hearing or in the appellate court.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting as a cDurt
of equity.
The facit are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
It was'submitted on a printed argument by Mr. H~unt and,
Ogden for the appellants, and' argued by 2r. Benjamin for
the appellees.

-Mr.

The point uPo4 which the case was decided wasthus stated
by A&r. Benjamin:
LIThere is an absence of the parties mid 9pensable in -thm
-suit. --The complainants seek to .sef aside, a . de. made by-the
VOL. xix.

8

SUPREME COURT.
Coiron et al. v. Xillaudon et al.

creditors of Coiron, through the agency of their syndic, to Millaudon and Lesseps.
In order to do this, both vendor and vendees must be parties.
Shields v. Barrow, 17 Howard, 131.
It is obvious, that if the sale complained of be set aside, the
effect would be to entitle the defendants to recover back their
iaoney from the syndic or the creditors, and to entitle the
creditors to take back the property, and have it regularly sold
in satisfaction of their claims.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the district judge, sitting
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The bill was filed in the court below, by two of the heirs of
J. J. Coilon, against Alexander Iesseps, Laurent Millaudon,
and others, to set aside a sale of a plantation and slaves to the
two defendants named, in 1834, in pursuance of proceedings
-ina case of insolvency befdre a parish court in the city of NewOrleans.
The father of the complainants, having "become insolvent in
1833, applied to the court for liberty to surrender his property
for the benefit of his creditors, and that in the mean time a
proceedings ag'ainst his person or property might be stayed,
which appicaton was granted, and the surrender of his property accepted.
Theodore Kicolet was appointed syndic.of the creditors, and
sueh proceedings were had, that a sale of the plantation and
slaves was directed in March, 1884, when the two defendants
became the purchasers. The inventory of the debts of the insolvent, which accompanied his application to the parish court,
exceeded $177,000, and of his assets, $137,000. The assets
sold for some $77,000; and after satisfying the charges and expenses of the -proceedings, the balance was distributed among
the credifors under the direction of the court. This amount,
some $60,000, fell short of satisfying the claims of the tivo
principal creditors, Van Brugh Livingston, and Harriet, his
wife, of Nw York, and the firm of Nicolet & Co., of New
Orleans, wlich were secured upon the estate by mortgages.
The objeet of this suit is to set aside the sale on the ground
of irregularities in the insolvent proceedings, which are set
forth in detail in the bill.
The court below, after hearing the case upon the pleadings
and proofs, decreed against the complainants and dismissed
the bill.
The record is quite voluminous, but we have stated enough,

DWECEMBER TERM, 1856.

115

(oiron et a. v. .rllWdn e al.

of the facts to present the questions upon which we shall dispose of 'the case.
According to the law of Louisiana, on a surrender by the
insolvent of his property for the benefit of creditors, the estate
vests in the latter sub modo, and is disposed of by them through
the agency of the syndlc, under the supervision and control of
the court before whom the proceedings take place. 2.Rob. R,
193, 194.
They-ppoint the syndic and fix the terms and conditions of
the sale, and have the charge of the estate in the mean time
between the surrender and final disposition.
The creditors, therefore, are the parties chiefly concerned in
these proceedings; and as it respects those to whom the proceeds of the estate-have been distributed, they are directly interested in -upholdingthe sale; for, if it is set aside, dnd the
proceedings declared a nullity, they would be liable to refund
the share of the purchase money each oie had received in the
distribution.
A court of equity, in setting aside a deed of a purchaser
upon. grounds other than positive fraud on his part, sets it
aside upon terms, and requires a return of the purchase money,
or that the conveyance stand as a security for its payment. 1"
J. Ch. R.j 478; 4 J. R., 536, 598, 599.
This constitites the essential difference between relief in
equity and that afforded in a court of law. A court of law
can hold no middle course. The entire claim' of each party
must rest, and be determined at law on the single point of the
validity of the deed; but it is the ordinary case in the former
court, that a deed not absolutely void, yet, under the circumstances, inequitable as between the parties, may be set aside
upon terms. ,
lNicolet & Co., and Van Brugh Livingston and wife, the
mortgage creditors, or their legal representatives, were therefore necessary parties to the bill, as any decree made in the
case disturbing the sale niay seriously affeet their interests.
-This objection has been anticipated in the bill, and an averment iade that these .parties were out of the jurisdiction of
the court. -But it is well settled, that neither the act of Congress of 1839, (5 U. S. Stat. at Large, 321, see. 1,) nor'the 47th
rule of this court, enables the Circuit Court to make a decree
in a suit in'the absence of a party whose rights must necessarily be affected by such decree, and that the objection may
be taken at any time upon the hearing, or in -the appellate
court. 17 How.,'130; 1Peters, 299.
We think the decision of the court below was right in dismissing the bill, and therefore affirm the decree.

