8

SUPREME COURT.
NMoan

BENJAMIN

v. Curtejius, d al.

F. MORGAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ALFRED G. CURTENIUS AND JOHN L.

GRISWOLD.

Where there appears to be an omission in the record of an important paper, which
may be necessary for a correct decision of the case of the defendant in error,
who has no counsel in court, the court will, of its own motion, order the case
to be continued and a certiorari to be issued to bring up the missing paper.

THIS case stood upon the trial- docket, coming from the

State of Illinois. It was submitted on a printed argument by
Mr. Washburne for the plaintiff in error, no counsel appearing for the defendant.
Whereupon, upon an inspe6tion of the record, the court expressed the following opinion:

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered -the opinion of the
court.
Upon examining the transcript of the record filed in this
case, we find that it is imperfect, and that a paper has been
omitted which may be important to the decision of the matter
in controversy between the parties.
The bill of exceptions upon which the cause -is brought
before this court, after stating that the defendants read in
evidence the deed from Bogaridas, to Underhill, under which
they claim title, proceeds in the following words:
"1The defendants next offered in evidence to the jury a
certificate of the register of the land office at Quincy, dated
, which is in the words and -figures following, to
wit."
But the certificate thus referred to is not inserted in the
exception, nor its contents stated in any part of the transcript.
And as this paper was offered in evidence by the defendants,
it must have been deemed material to their' defence; and the
court think it would not be just to them to proceed to final
juc nent, without having this paper before us.
And as the defendants have no counsel appearing in their
behalf in this court, the cburt of its- own motion order the"
case to be continued, and a certiorari issued in the usual form
to the Circuit Court, directing it to supply the omission above
mentioned, and return a full and coirect transdript to this
court, on or before the first day of the next term.
Order.
Upon an inspection of the record of this cause, it appearing
to the court here that the bill of exceptions states that "the
defendants offered in evidence to the jury a certificate of the
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

9

&z 1arte Skombe.

register of-the' land office at Quincy, dated
which
is 'in the words and figures following, to. wit;" and that
the said certificate, thus referred to, is not inserted in the
exception, nor its contents stated in any part of the transcript,
on consideration whereo; it is now here ordered by this
court, that a writ -of certiorari be and the same is hereby
awarded, to be issued forthwith, and to be directed to the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States fcr the district of Illinois, commanding them to supply the omission
above mentioned, and return a full and correct transcript to
this court, with this writ, on or before the first day of the
next term of this court.

Ex PARTE, IN THE MATTER o DAViD A. SECOMBE.
By the rules and practice of common-law courts, it rests exclusively with the
court to determine who is qualified to become or continue one of its .officers, as
an attorney and counsellor of the court; the power being regulated, however,
by a sound and just judicial discretion--guarding the rights and independence
of .the bar as well as the-dignity and authority-of the court.
The local law of the Territory of Minnesota has regulated the relation between
courts and attorneys and counsellors, but has not essentially changed the cornmon-law principle.
The 3,innesota statute authorizes the court to dismiss an attorney or counsellor
if he does not maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officers,
or for not conducting himself with fidelity to the court.
The Supreme Court of the Territory dismissed the relator from the office of counsellor and attorney of the court, stating in the sentence of dismissal that he
was guilty of the.offences above mentioned, but not spe~ifyin'g the act or acts
which, in the opinion of the court, constituted the offence.
The order of dismissal is a judicial act done in the exercise of a judicial disiretion vested in the court by'law; and a mandamhus cannot be issued by a superior or appellate court, .commanding it to reverse its decision and restore the
relator to the office he has lost.

THis was a motion for a mandamus to be directed to the
judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesot,
commanding them to vacate and set aside an order of the
court, passed at January term, 1866, whereby the said Secombe
was removed from his office as an attorney and counsellor
of that court.
The subject was brought before this court by the following
petition and documents in support of it:
To the Hon. the.-dges of the supreme Court of the United 6Iates:.
The petition of David A. Secombe respectfully showeth:
That he resides in the city of St. Anthony, in the Territory
of Minnesota; that on the ninth day of July, 1852, he was
duly admitted and sworn to practice as an attorney and con-

