DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

283

Beebe et at. v. .uuel.

But the whole proceeding in behalf of Lewis, as against the
-complainants, was irregular and void, the court having no
jurisdiction of the matter. The order was of no importance
that the decree should be without prejudice to either party,
and not pleadable in bar to any subsequent litigation between
them upon the same subject-matter, as the proceedings were
invalid. But, as regards the complainants, it was error in the
court to order any part of its original decree in their favor to
be paid to one who was not properly before it as a party. For
this purpose, neither complainants, nor the defendant,, Lewis,
were before the court, or amenable to its jurisdiction. The
decree is therefore reversed, with costs. And the court direct
that an order be transmitted to the Circuit Court, to require
the defendant, Lewis, to pay over any money received by him
under the decree to the proper officer of the court, that it may
be paid to the complainants.

RoswELL BEEBE ET AL., APELLANTS, v. WhLLmr

RUSSELL.

The appellate jurisdiction of this court only includes cases where the judgment or
decree of the Circuit Court is final.
In chancery, a decree is interlocutory whenever an inquiry as to matter of law or
fact is directed, preparatory to a final decision.
But when a decree finally decides and disposes of the whole merits of the cause,
and reserves no further questions or directions for the future judgment of the
court, so that it will not be necessary to bring the cause again before the court
for its final decision, it is a final decree.
Therefore, where a case was referred to a master, to take an account of rents and
profits, &c., upon evidence, and from an examination of the parties, and to make
or not to make allowances affecting the rights of the parties, and to report his
results to the court, this was not a final decree.
The preceding cases upon this subject, examined.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States for the district of Arkansas, sitting in chancery.
The bill was filed by William Russell against Roswell Beebe,
Mary W. W. Ashley, Henry C. Ashley, William E. Ashley,
George C. Watkins, and Mary A. Freeman, praying that they
might be ordered to convey to the complainant certain pieces
of property, which, it was alleged, they fraudulently withheld
from him, and account for the rents and profits.
The Circuit Court decreed that the defendants should execute certain conveyances, surrender possession, and then proceedead to refer the matter to a master, with the instructions
which are stated in the opinion of the court. The defendants
appealed to this court.

284

SUPREME COURT.
Beebe dt al. v. .RunaU

It was submitted by Mr. auirence for the appellants, and

.Mr. Pike for the appellee.

Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the. district of Arkansas.
We find, from- our examination of the record, that the decree from which this appeal has beentaken is not final, within
the meaning of -the acts of Congress of 1789 and 1833. It
will-therefore be dismissed for a wEnt of jurisdiction. The
right of appeal is conferred, defined, and reg lated, by the second section of the act of March 2d, 1803, ,which, however,
adopts and applies the regulations prescribed by the 22d, 23d,
and 24th sections of the judiciary act of the 24th September,
1789, :ch. 20, respecting writs of error; The language of-both
is, that final judgmentA and decrees, rendered in any circuit,
&c., &c.i may be reviewed in the Supreme Court,'where the
matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the-sum or
value of two thousand dollars. It has been the object of this
court at alr times, though an accidental deviation may be
foufid, to restrict the cases which have been brought to this
court either by appeal or by writ of error, to those in which
the rights of the parties"have.-been fully and finally determined
by judgments or dec'ees 'in the court below, whether they
were cases in admiralty, in equity or common law. In the
case of the Palmyra, (10 Wheat., 502,) where, in a libel fot a tortious seizure, restitution with costs and damages had been decreed, but the damages had not been assessed, this court held
that the decree was not final, and dismissed the appeal. It
said, Z'the decree of the Circuit Court was not final in the sense
of-the act of Congress. The. damhges remain\ und4osed of, and
an appealmay still lie upon that part of the decre awarolingdamages.
The whole cause is not, therefore, finally determined in the
Circuit Court, and we.Are of the opinion that the cause cannot
be divided so as to bring up distinct parts of it."' This court
also ruled, in Brown v. Swann, (9 Peters, 1 ) that a decree enjoining a judgment at law taxing a sum which remained to be
ascertained with precision was not final, to permit an appeal
from it. We might multiply citations from the reports of this
court, to show its caution upon this subject. We feel very confident no case has been dccided by itwhen .thequestion of the
finality of a decree or judgment has been biought to its notice,
in which the distinction between final and interlocutory decrees has not been regarded ap it was meant to be by the legislation of Congress, and as it was understood by the courts in
England and in this country, before Congress acted upon the:

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Beebe ef al. v. RwjeU.

subject. A decree is understood to be interlocutory whenever
an inquiry as to matter of law or fact is directed, preparatory
to a fiual decision. (1 New., 322.) And we find it stated in
the second volume of Pe'rkins's Daniel's Chancery Practice,
1193, "that the most usual ground for'not making a perfect
decree in the first instance, is the necessity which frequently
exists for a reference to a master of the court, to make inquiries;
or take accounts, or sell estates, and adjust other matters which
are necessary to be disposed of, before a complete decision can
be come to upon the subject-matter of the suit." When a decree finally decides and disposes of the whole merits of the
cause, and reserves, no further questions or directions for the
future judgment of the court, so that it will not be necessary
to bring the cause again before the court for its final -decision,
it is a final decree. It is tiue, a decree may be final, although
it directs a reference to a master, if all the consequential directions depending' upon the result of the master's report are
contained in the Aecree, so that no further decree of the court
will be necessary, upon the confirmation of the report, to give
the partes the entire and full benefit of the previous decision of the
court. (Mills v. Hoag, 7 Paige, 18.)
Testing, then, this decree by the citations just given. from
Daniel's Chancery Practice, from the case of Mills v. Hoag,
our inquiry is, whether further action of the court in the nature of a decree would not be necessary to give to the defendant in error the benefit of the "rents and profits received by
the defendants in the court below, or which could or ought to
have been received by them, or any of them, for any part of
the premises," which it had directed the defendants to surrender to the complainant; and whether the court's direction to
-the master, how he should take the accounts of rents and profits, and that no allowances were to be .made by the master for
improvements which the defendants had made, and that no
account of rent was to be taken upon permanent and valuable
improvements erected by them, do not involve rights' in the
respective parties, and a pecuniary uncertainty in respect to
the sum to be paid by the defendant, which are only made
certain and operative by a decree of the court upon the master's report. The court's direction was, "that it be referred
to the master, to take an account of the rents .and profits received, or which could and ought to have been received, by the
defendants, or any of' them, for any part of the said premises;
that he take such an account distributively as to the said Ashley and Beebe, in the lifetime of Ashley, and as to his heirs
since his death, and as to said G. 0. Walker since his purchases; that he make no allowances for improvements made

286

SUPREME COURT.
Beebe dt al.

v.

.Ruuel

by them, or either of them, and take no account of rent upon
permanent and valuable improvements erected by them; and
that he report to the court -here, at the next term thereof. And
it is further ordered, &c., that the defendants do pay the costs
of this suit." Thus leaving a sum to be ascertained with precision by the master from different elements, from which he is
directed to make up the account, and those not merely consequential from the previous directions of the decree. Further,
a decree from which an appeal may be taken must not only be
final, but it must be one in which the matter in dipuite, excluhive of costs, shall exceed the sum or value of two thousand
dollars. The value of the subject-matter in controversy may
be shown fr6m the record, or by evidence aliunde, when it is
disputed; aad in this case the record discloses that to be such
as would give the court jurisdiction; but the decree also shows
that a sum is still unascertained between the parties, which
may or may not exceed two thousand dollars, and, if it does,
which may be the subject of another appeal. The object of
the law, and the interpretation of it by this court, is to prevent
a case from coming to it from the courts below, in which the
whole controversy has not been determined finally, and that
the same may be done in this cqurt. We say, "in which the
whole controversy has not been determined." Wherever it
has been, and ministerial duties are only to be performed,
though that be -to ascertain an amount due, the decree is final.
But'the reference of a case to a master, to take an account
upon evidence, and from the examination of the parties, and
to make or not to make allowances affecting the rights of the
parties, and to rep6rt his results to the court, is not a final decree; because his report is subject to exceptions from either
side, which must be brought to the notice of the court before
it can be available. It can only be made so by the courts overruling the exceptions, or by an order confirming the report,
with a final decree for its appropriation and payment. We
have just said the decree is final when ministerial duties are
only to be done to ascertain a sum due. The case of Ray v.
Law, in 3.Cranch, 179, is an instance. It was then ruledby
this court, that a decree for a sale under a mortgage is such a
final decree as may be appealed from. Afterwards, when that
case was cited in the case of the Palmyra, (10 Wheat., 502,)
Marshall, Chief Justice, said for the court: "In that case,
which was an appeal in an equity cause, there was a decree of
foreclosure and sale of the mortgaged prQuerty. The sale
could only be oddered after an account taken, or.the sum due
on the mortgage ascertained in some other way. And the
usual decree is, that unless the defendant shall pay that sum in

DEMMER TERM, 1856.
Be4e

d al. v.

wuudL

a given time, the estate shall be sold. The decree of sale,
therefore, is in such a case final upon the rights of parties in
-controversy, ,and leaves ministerial duties only to be performed." In such a case, the direction is but a consequence of the
decree, a~id no further decree is necessary. So a decree upon
*the coming in of the master's report on a bill for specific performance, ascertaining the quantity of land to be conveyed,
and the balance of money to be paid, and that the conveyance
.should be executed on such balance being tendered, is a final
decree. (Navis v. Waters, 1 John. Oh., 85.) But in the last
case cited, it would not have been final if the decree had not
directed the conveyance of the land upon the sum found by
.the master being tendered.
It has been supposed that this court did not apply its present interpretation of the laws regulating appeal in the cases of
hiting v. Bank of the United States, (18 Peters, 6,) of
Michau v. Girod, (4 How., 503,) and in Forgay et al. v. Conrad, (in 6 Howard, 201.) It is, however, not so. Whiting's
case, in that part of it relating to appeals, was only what this
court had said in Ray v. Law, in the case of the Palmyra, before -cited, that a decree of foreclosure and sale is final upon
the merits of the controversy, and an appeal lies therefrom. In
Michaud v. Girod, no such point was made in the argument
of it, nor touched upon in the opinion of the court. In For.gay's case, it was made upon the- decree given by the court
below, and it was adjudged by this court to be final to give
this court jurisdiction of it. But it was so, upon the ground
that the whole merits of the controversy between the parties
had been determined, that execution had been awarded, and that
the case had been xeferred to the master merely for the purpose of adjusting the accounts. The fact is, the order of the
court in that case for referrin it to a master was peculiar, making
it. doubtful, if it could in any way control or qualify the antecedent decree of the court upon the whole merits of the controversy, or modify it in any way, except upon a petitionfor a rehearing. We refer to the case, however, with confidence, to
show that the reasoning of the opinion is cautionary upon the
subject of bringing appeals, and confirmatory of what we have
said in this case. We dismiss the case, the court not having
jurisdiction of the appeal.

