DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
Waltosn

855

al. v. Cotton et al.

JosiAz WALTON, ADMINISTRATOR OF PRISCLA COTTON, ET AL.,
COMPLAINANTS AND PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. ALLEN CoTToN,
INOAH COTTON, AND WILLIAM E. JONES.
Under the act of Congress passed on the 2d of June, 1832, providing for the relief
of certain surviving officers of the Revolution, and its several supplements, the
word children in the acts embraces the grandchildren of a deceased pensioner,
whether their parents died before or after his decease. And they are entitled,
per stirpes, to a distributive share of the deceased parent's pension.

THIS case was brought up, from the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, by a writ of error issued under the twehty-fnfh
section of the judiciary act.
The history of the case is given in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Xtr. Baxter for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr. Lawrence for the defendants.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us by a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Tennessee.
It was commenced by filing a bill, in Sumner county, before
Chancellor Ridley, in which the complainants state they are
the children of Priscilla Cotton and Thomas Cotton, who was
a captain in the revolutionary war; that after his death, his
widow, Priscilla, filed her declaration for a pension, on account
of her husband. Josiah Walton made the application; but
she died before the pension was granted. Walton administered
on the estate, and he renewed the application, at great trouble
and expense. The Pension department allowed about onehalf the amount claimed. Out of the money drawn by the
administrator, he retained what was agreed for his services
and the services of counsel, and paid over the residue, in equal
shares, to all the children of Priscilla Cotton, and the representatives of her children who were dead.
The bill further represents -that William E. Jones, who acts
as an agent for pension claims, and Allen Cotton, with the
view of getting the business and money into their hands,
applied to the County Court of Davidson county, and suppressed
from said court the fact that an administration on said estate
had been granted in the county of Sumner, and procured
Allen Cotton to be appointed as administrator, which was
done with the view of depriving the complainants and others
of a legal portion of said pension fund.
The new administrator made application for the extension
of the pension, so as to cover the whole time from the allow-

856

SUPREME COURT.
Walton d al. v. Cotton et al.

ance of the pension to the death of the pensioner, only onehalf of which had been granted. The application was successful; and Jones, under a power of attorney from the administrator, received the sum of $3,500 from the Government, which
the defendants retain in their hands, and refuse to pay over;
three-fifths of the amount of which the complainants are
entitled to, if the children who died before the decease of their
mother be not entitled to any share, and three-eighths, should
they
entitled.
I Thebeanswer
admits many of the allegations of the bill, but
denies that the defendants acted improperly in procuring
administration in Dayidson county. They admit that they
applied for and obtained the above sum, with a full knowledge
by the Pension Office of the prior administration. The money
was paid to them as the only living children of Priscilla Cotton
at the time of her death; and they allege that, this being the
construction of the Government, it is conclusive.
The chancellor, on the final hearing, decreed that the representatives of Arthur Cotton, John Cotton, and Polly Foxall,
were entitled to three-fifths of said $3,500, and interest, to be
paid over to said children; and that said defendants, Noah
Cotton, Allen Cotton, and William E. Jones, who have received
said fund, are liable to pay over said three-fifths of $3,500,
amounting to $2,100, with interest as aforesaid, to be paid
over to the children of Polly Foxall, one-third; to the children
of Arthur Cotton, one-third; and to the children of John
Cotton, one-third, after paying the costs and expenses of their
suit, the costs to be paid out of the fund in the hands of the
defendants.
. From this decree, there was an appeal to the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, which, on a hearing, reversed the decree of the
chancellor, holding that the fund should be distributed among
the living children at the time of the pensioner's death, and
that no part of it shofild go to the representatives of deceased
children.
As the complainants claim aright under an act of Congress,
which by the decree of the Supreme Court has been rejected,
the case. is brought within the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, which gives us jurisdiction.
The first section of the act entitled "An act supplementary
to the 'Act for the relief of certain surviving officers of the
Revolution,' " dated June 4th, 1832, gave pensions to surviving
officers, non-commissioned officers, musicians, soldiers, and
Indian spies, who had served in the Continental line, or State
troops, volunteers, or militia, at one or more terms-a period
of two years-during, the war of the Revolution, &c., and

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.

357

Walton et al. v. Cotton a al.

Cotton was entitled to receive his full pay, not exceeding the
pay of a captain in the line, from the 4th of March, 1831,
during his natural life. The fourth section of the same sct
provided that the amount of pay which accrued under the act
before i date should be paid to the person entitled to the
same as soon as may be; and in case of the death of any
person embraced by the act, or of the act to -which it is supplementary, during the period intervening between the semiannual payments directed to be made and the death of such
person, shall be paid to his widow, or, if he leave no widow,
to his children.
The act of July 4th, 1836, in the first section, gives five
years' half-pay to widows, or children not sixteen years of
age, under certain circumstances. If the soldier had died
since the 4th March, 1831, and before the passage of that act,
the pension which had accrued during these periods is given
by the second section to the widow, and if no widow, to the
children. The act of the 7th July, 1838, extends the benefits
of the third section of the act of 1836 to widows whose
husbands have died since the passage of the act. The act of
19th July, 1840, enacts, in the first section, that any male
pensioner dying, leaving children. and no widow, the pension
due shall be paid to his children, and that it shall not be considered assets of said estate.
The second section provides, when a female pensioner shall
die, leaving children, the amount due at the time of her death
shall be paid to her representatives, for the benefit of her
children. And the third section declares, ."that on the death
of any pensioner, male or female, leaving children, the amount
due may be paid to any one or each of them, as they may
prefer, without the intervention of an administrator."
The question in the case turns upon the construction of these
statutes. Does a right construction of them give the pension
due to the grandchildren of the deceased pensioner; and if so,
does the bounty extend to the representatives of his children
who died before his decease; or, do the acts restrict the bounty
to his children living at the time of his death? This last
construction has been adopted and acted upon by the Government.
This view is mainly founded on the considerations, that on
the death of the pensioner, the bounty is given to his widow,
and, if he leave no widow, to his children; that it was a bounty of the Government, arising from personal considerations'of
gratitude for services rendered, is not liable to the claims of
creditors, and should not be extended, by construction, to persons not named in the act.

858

SUPREME COURT.
Waltmn et at. v. Cotton d aL.

The pension is undoubtedly a bounty of the Government,
and in the hands of an administrator of a deceased pensioner
it would not be liable to the claims of creditors had the acts
of Congress omitted such a provision. , But the legislative intent is shown to be in accordance, in this respect, with the
law. But should the word children, as used in these statutes,
be more restricted than when used in a will? In the construction of wills, unless there is something to control a different meaning, the word children is often held to mean grandchildren. There is no argument which can be drawn from
human sympathy, to exclude grandchildren from the bounty,
whether we look to the donors or to the chief recipient.
- Congress, from high motives of policy, by grantin pensions,
alleviate, as far as they may, a class of men who suftered
in the
military service by the hardships they endured and the dangers they encountered. But to withhold any arrearage of this
bounty from his grandchildren; who had the misfortune to be
left orphans, and give it to his living children, on his decease,
would not seem to be a fit discrimination of national gratitude.
Under the construction given by the Department, if a male
pensioner die, leaving no widow or children, but grandchildren, the pension cannot be drawn from the Treasury. This
would seem to stop short of carrying out the humane motive
of Congress. They have not named grandchildren in the
acts; bat they are included in the equity of the statutes.
And the argument that the pension is a gratuity, and was intended to be personal, will apply as well to grandchildren as
to children.
There can be no doubt that Congress had a right to distribute this bounty at their pleasure, and to declare it should not
be liable to the debts of the beneficiaries. But they will be
presumed to have acted under the ordinary influences which
lead to an equitable and not a capricious result. And where
the language used may be so construed as to carry out a beni
policy, witrn the reasonable intent, of Congress, it should be
pone.
On a deliberate consideration of the above statutes, we have
come to the conclusion that the word children, in the acts,
embrace the grandchildren of the deceased pensioner, whether
their parents died before or after his decease. And we think
they are entitled, per stirpes, to a distributive share of the deceased parent.
This construction does not correspond with the decree of
the chancellor, nor with that which was expressed by the Supreme Court in reversing his decree. The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is therefore reversed, and the case

DECEMBER TERM, 1856.
PraU d al. v. Reed.

is directed to be transmitted to that court, that the views here
given may be carried into effect, in the ordinary mode of proceeding by that court.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, Mr. Justice CURTIS, and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Justice CURTIS dissenting.
I cannot concur in so much of the opinion, just delivered, as
construes the word "children," in this act of Congress, to
mean children and grandchildren. The legal signification of.
the word children accords with its popular meaning, and designates the immediate offipring. (Adams v. Law, 17 How.,
419, and cases there cited.) It may be used in a more enlarged sense to include issue; but the intention so to employ it
must be manifested by the context, or by the subject-matter.
I see nothing in the context .or the subject-faiatter of this act to
carry the meaning of the word children beyond its ordinary
signification. Nothing has been suggested, save the conviction
felt by some members of the court, that grandchildren are
proper subjects of this bounty of Congress. This consideration is, in my opinion, too indeterminate to enable me to construe the act to mean what it has not said.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL concurred in the above opinion of Mr. Justice CURTIS.

SAMUEL F. PRATT, PASCAL P. PRATT, AND EDWARD P. BEALS,
CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT SULTANA, APPELLANTS, V.

CHARLES

M.

REED, LIBELLANT.

In order to create a maritime lien for supplies furnished to a vessel, there must be
a necessity for the supplies themselves, and also that they could be obtained
only by a credit upon the vessel.
Hence, where a running account for coal was kept with a vessel trading upon the
lakes, the master of which was also the owner, it does not appear that the coal
could be procured only by creating a lien upon the vessel.
In a contest, therefore, between a libellant for supplies and mortgagees of the vessel, the latter are entitled to the proceeds of sale of the boat.
This is under the general admiralty law. No opinion is expressed as to the effect
of the local laws of the States.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of New York, sitting in ad-

miralty.
The case is explained in the opinion of the court.

