OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

MANGUS

ET AL.

317 U. S.

v. MILLER.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 74. Argued November 17, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
1. The interest of one of two joint tenants in a contract to purchase
land payable in installments, where under state law it is an interest which may be alienated and subjected to execution and separate sale, is property which may be administered in farmer-debtor
proceedings under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended, although
subsequent to the filing of the petition the interest of his co-tenant
has been forfeited by default in payment of the installments of the
purchase price. P. 183.
2. The farme -debtor in this case, who was a juint tenant of a landpurchase contract, his wife being the other joint tenant, but, so far
as appears, not a farmer-debtor, was authorized to file his petition
under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act, and thus to subject his interest
to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court; and he thereupon became
entitled to the benefit of the moratorium afforded by § 75 (o) for the
purpose of enabling him to effect a composition with his creditors,
failing which he was entitled to proceed under § 75 (s). P. 184.
In advance of an authoritative determination by the state courts
of the rights of purchasers of land as joint tenants when the interest
of one of them has been forfeited for non-payment of purchase
money, this Court can not say that the difficulties of administering
the interests of the parties under § 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy Act
a
are insurmountable. P. 185.
3. The court of bankruptcy, having control under § 75 (e) of the Bankruptcy Act of the farmer's property, is free to permit and to facilitate
proceedings in the state courts to adjudicate the interests of the
parties to the contract, subject to the stay directed by § 75 (o) of any
cancelation of the contrapt or foreclosure of the farmer-debtor's interest in it. P. 185.
4. In the event that no composition is effected, the farmer-debtor may
ask to be adjudicated a bankrupt and as such to be placed in possession of the property under the provisions of § 75 (s) upon terma
*whichwill enable him, by paying a suitable rental, to redeem the property unless he is sooner able to finance himself. If his interest is

MANGUS v. MILLER.
178

179

Counsel for Parties.

found to be such that it is impracticable to place him in -possession
or otherwise to administer the property as provided by § 75 (s), he
is entitled to petition the court for leave to redeem the property,
and if he is unable to redeem it, a sale of his interest may be ordered
as directed by § 75 (s) (3). P. 186.
5. In proceedings for a stay under § 75 (s) (2) of the Bankruptcy
Act as an 'incident to which petitioners made a deposit of rental,
they withdrew the deposit when the court rendered a judgment,
denying its jurisdiction to review; for review of which they obtained
a writ of certiorari. Held:
(1) That whether the withdrawal of the amount deposited is so
inconsistent with further proceedings for the three-year stay authorized by § 75 (s) upon payment of a prescribed rental, could
not be determined on the record brought to this Court, and should,
in any case, be determined in the first instance by the bankruptcy
court having jurisdiction of the cause. P. 187..
(2) The withdrawal is not inconsistent with other remedies which
the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction to give under § 75, or with
recourse to measures which the court may take to permit an adjudication of the rights of the parties in the property involved.
P. 187.
(3) Since deposit of rental is not prerequisite to jurisdiction, recall and receipt of the money, whatever effect it may have had on
the right to the three-year stay authorized by § 75 (s), involved
no inconsistency with the assertion in, this case of the court's jurisdiction to make an adjudication of the rights of the parties as a
basis for composition and afford other relief. P. 187.
125 F. 2d 507, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 657, to review a judgment of the
court below which reversed orders of the court cf banEruptcy denying motions by the present respondemt to
strike from the debtor's schedules of property cer tain land
which respondent had contracted 'to sell to the farmerdebtor and another in joint tenancy.
Mr. Edwin J. Skeen, with whom Mr. J. D. Skeen was on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. HadlondP. Thomas for respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

317 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question is whether the interest of one of two joint
tenants of a land purchase contract can be administered in
farmer-debtor proceedings under § 75 of the Bankruptcy
Act as amended, 11 U. S. C. § 203, although subsequent to
the filing of his petition the interest of his co-tenant had
been forfeited by default in payment of installments of
the purchase price.
Petitioners, husband and wife, as "joint tenants with
full right of survivorship and not as tenants in common,"
.entered into a contract with respondent's assignor for the
purchase of a plot of land. They apparently entered into
possession under the contract, although the fact does not
explicitly appear in the record. The contract stipulated
for a down payment of $500 of the purchase price and for
payment of the balance in equal monthly installments extending over a period of more than seven years. Nearly
two years later, the buyers being in default in payment of
installments, respondent gave appropriate notice, in conformity to state law, that the contract would be forfeited
unless all payments due were made. Five days before
the date on which the forfeiture was to become effective,
the husband alone, without reference to his co-tenant, filed
his petition as a farmer-debtor under § 75. After the date
of forfeiture, respondent moved,.on a showing of the facts
as stated, to strike the land in question from the schedules
of the debtor's property, challenging the jurisdiction of
the court to administer it. The wife thereupon filed in
the bankruptcy proceeding a "joinder of Rose L. Mangus"
in which she asked to be permitted to adopt the petition of
her husband for relief under § 75 and his schedules of
property, referring to the land in question. It does not
appear whether she was an insolvent farmer-debtor within
the meaning of § 75 (r), and so entitled to the benefits of

MANGUS v. MILLER.
178

Opinion of the Court.

the Act. Upon respondent's filing of a supplemental motion to strike the land from the schedules of the debtor's
property, with a showing that at the time of the wife's
attempted joinder she had forfeited her interest in the
property, the court denied-both of respondent's motions.
The Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed,
125 F. 2d 507, holding that the right or interest which the
wife had acquired in the-land by the contract of purchase
had been forfeited before her attempted joinder in the
bankruptcy proceedings, see Federal Land Bank v. Sorenson, 121 P. 2d 398; Leone v. Zuniga, 84 Utah 417, 34 P. 2d
699, and that in consequence she had no remaining interest
in the land which she could ask the bankruptcy court to
administer. It thought that by the forfeiture respondent
became vested as her successor with the interest which
she had acquired in the land by virtue of the contract.
But it was also of opinion that notwithstanding the forfeiture she remained a joint tenant of the contract with
her husband and so was an indispensable party to any
judgment or order of the bankruptcy court making disposition of the debtor's interest in the contract and the
property. It also pointed out that although the interest
of a bankrupt joint tenant may be sold in a regular bankruptcy proceeding, the proceedings under § 75 (a)-(r) do
not look in the first instance to a sale of the debtor's property or operate to pass title to a trustee or the court,
but contemplate maintenance' of the status quo by a moratorium pending an adjustment or composition of his debts,
and his ultimate emergence from bankruptcy with all his
property. See John Hancock Ins. Co. v. Bartels, 308
U. S. 180, 184; Wright v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 311
U. S. 273.
From all this the court concluded that the difficulties of
administration of the bankrupt's interest in § 75 proceedings are so insurmountable as to require dismissal of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.,

317 U. S.

proceeding.' In the circumstances of this case, it attributed these difficulties to the uncertainty aA to the rights of
the husband as joint tenant of the contract with his wife
and as tenant in common with respondent of the land.
The uncertainty arose, it was suggested, from the doubt
whether the husband, upon effecting an adjustment and
compromise with creditors, would be entitled to acquire
all the land upon payment of the balance of the purchase
price, or only to demand half of it on payment of onehalf of the purchase money due. We granted certiorari,
316 U. S. 657, on a petition which challenged the rulings
of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the wife was an
indispensable party to the farmer-debtor proceeding, and
that the interest of the husband alone was not susceptible
of administration in that proceeding.
Section 75 (n) directs that the filing of the farmerdebtor's petition "shall immediately subject the farmer
and all his property . . . for all the purposes of this section, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court . . . including . . . any equity or right in any such property,
including, among others, contracts for purchase, contracts
for deed, or conditional sales contracts." Section 75 (o)
provides an effective moratorium, pending further proceedings, against the forfeiture of the debtor's interest in
the property over which the court has jurisdiction. This
it accomplishes by staying, unless otherwise permitted by
the court, proceedings for foreclosure of a mortgage,. or
for cancellation or rescission of an agreement for the sale
of land, or for the recovery of possession of land, or for
the seizure or sale of the debtor's property under conditional sales agreement. Kalb v. Feuerstein, 308 U. S.
433; John Hancock Ins. Co. v. Bartels, 308 U. S. 180.
'Compare Buss v. Prudential Ins. Co., 126 F. 2d 960; In re Harris,
15 F. Supp. 304.

MANGUS v. MILLER.
178

Opinion of the Court.

We see no reason to doubt that, under these provisions
and others presently to be noted, the bankruptcy court
had jurisdiction in a § 75 proceeding over the husband's
interest as joint tenant in the contract for the purchase
of the land. Section 75 (n) expressly subjects to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court the vendee's interest in
such a contract. And, so far as we are advised, Utah
accepts the general common law rules relating to joint
tenancies, including the rules permitting alienation of
the interest of a joint tenant, and making it property subject to execution and separate sale. Cf. Spalding v.
Allred, 23 Utah 354, 64 P. 1100; Neill v. Royce, 120 P. 2d
327; § 104-37-9 Revised Statutes of Utah, 1933; and see 3
Tiffany, Real Property (3rd ed.) § 425; 2 Thompson, Real
Property, §§ 1714-17. When so locally recognized, the
interest of a joint tenant is a property interest subject
to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court under § 70
of the general Bankruptcy Act, 11 U. S. C. § 110. Matter
of DePree, 30 A. B. R. (N. S.) 629; Matter of Williams,
16 A. B. R. (N. S.) 218; cf. In re Brown, 60 F. 2d 269; In re
Williams' Estate, 16 F. Supp. 909.
Section 75 (n) of the Farm Bankruptcy Act, 11 U.,S. C.
§ 203 (n), which provides that the filing of a petition shall
subject "the farmer and all his property" to the jurisdiction of the Court, further directs that, "In proceedings
under this section, except as otherwise provided herein,
the jurisdiction and powers of the courts, the title, powerp,
and duties of its officers, the duties of the farmer, and the
rigW and liabilities of creditors, and of all persons with
reqpect to the property of the farmer . . . shall be the
same as if a voluntary petition for adjudication had been
filed and a decree of adjudication had been entered. ..."
And sub-section (s) (4) of § 75 commands that ".,. . the
provisions of this title shall be held to apply also to part-

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

nerships, common, entirety, joint, community ownership
. . . and any such parties may join in one petition."
The final clause of this provision, permitting both joint
tenants to join in the petition, suggests that either, if entitled to the benefits of the Act, may file a petition without
the other. Such was declared to be its purpose by the
House Judiciary Committee which recommended its addition by way of amendment to § 75 (s) as originally enacted. In reporting this amendment the Committee
pointed out the diversity of rulings of the courts under
§ 75, saying, "Some have held that if a husband and wife
were jointly interested, or had interests in common, or
were partners in the farming operations, that then neither
of them could take advantage of the Act, nor could they
join. Obviously. such was not the intention of Congress."
H. R. Rep. No. 570, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4. We need
not now determine whether the wife, who does not appear
to be a farmer-debtor, could before the forfeiture have
joined in the petition. It is enough that one joint tenant
is authorized to file his petition under § 75 and subject
his interest to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court just
as he may under § 70 of the general Bankruptcy Act.
Accordingly we conclude that the husband's interest in
the property held by him as joint tenant with his wife is
property within the meaning of § 75 (n), and that the
court acquired jurisdiction over that interest upon the
filing of his petition. The husband's interest as joint
tenant being subject to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court, he was entitled to the benefit of the moratorium
afforded by § 75 (o) for the purpose of enabling him to
effect a composition with his creditors, failing which he
was entitled to proceed under § 75 (s). John Hancock
Ins. Co. v. Bartels, supra.
The Court of Appeals cited no decision of the Utah
courts, and we are referred to none, which supports its

MANGUS v. MILLER.
178

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion that respondent, as the result of the forfeiture,
of the wife's interest in the land, succeeded to that interest:
and became a co-tenant with the husband. So far as the
law of that state is concerned, it would seem to be an
equally tenable position that the forfeiture freed respondent's title of any equitable interest of the wife and left
it subject only to such demands as the husband might
assert by virtue of his interest. In advance of an authoritative determination by the state courts of the rights of
the parties to the contract after the forfeiture of the wife's
interest, we cannot say that the difficulties of administering the husband's interest under § 75 (s) are-insurmountable. Indeed, before dismissing the proceedings because
of difficulties in ascertaining the rights of the debtor under
state law and in administering them in bankruptcy, it
would be an appropriate exercise of the court's jurisdiction to take suitable measures to remove those difficulties
by affording the interested parties opportunity to assert
their rights in the state courts and, when they are ascertained and defined, by administering the debtor's interest as the Act provides, so far as may be found to be
practicable.
Section 75 (e) provides that, "after the filing of the petition and prior to the confirmation or other disposition
of the composition or extension proposal by the court, the
court shall exercise such control over the property of the
farmer as the court deems in the best interests of the
farmer and his creditors." During such control the court
is free to permit and to facilitate proceedings 'in the state
courts which would adjudicate the interests of the parties
in the contract, subject to the stay directed by § 75 (o)
of any cancellation of the contract or foreclosure of petitioner's interest in it. Utah, by § 104-3-18 of its Rdvised Statutes, has provided that "all persons holding as
tenants in common or as joint tenants, or any number

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

less than all, may jointly or severally commence or defend.
any civil action or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of the rights involved. In all cases one tenant in
common or joint tenant can sue his co-tenant." And it
has adopted the Uniform Declaratory Judgments Act,
under which respondent or petitioners, or either of them,
are free to proceed to an adjudication of their rights.
§§ 104-64-1 et seq., Revised Statutes of Utah, 1933. We
perceive-no insurmountable obstacle, if the bankruptcy
court is so advised, to the exercise of its jurisdiction so as
to permit the parties to ascertain their respective rights
by ai'appropriate proceeding in the state courts. See
Thompson v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478, 483.
While such practice is to be regarded as exceptional, the
circumstances which here suggest it appear to be exceptional. It may be suggested too that if, pending the pro,eedings for adjustment or composition with creditors,
the wife were to release or assign to her co-tenant her interest in the contract, all beneficial interest under which
she has forfeited, the technical difficulties thought to exist
by reason of her abseice as a party from the bankruptcy
proceedings might be removed.
With the court's jurisdiction over the debtor's interest
in the land and the duty to administer it established, we
cannot say that the accommodation with respondent and
other creditors which the statute contemplates could not
be arrived-at. But, in the event that no composition is
effected, the debtor may ask to be adjudicated a bankrupt,
aid -as such to be placed in possession of the property
under the provisions of § 75 (s) upon terms which will
enable him, by paying a suitable rental, to redeem the
property unless he is sooner able to finance himself. See
John Hancock Ins. Co. v. Bartels, supra. If his interest
is found to be such that it is impracticable to place him
in possession or otherwise to admiiister the property as

MANGUS v. MILLER.
178

Opinion of the Court.

provided by § 75 (s), he is entitled to petition the court
for leave to redeem the property; and, if he is unable to
redeem it, a sale of his interest may be ordered as directed
by § 75 (s) (3). Wright v. Union CentralIns. Co., supra.
The sale of the interest of a co-tenant may be separately
effected in a bankruptcy proceeding. In re Toms, 101 F.
2d 617; In re Brown, supra,273. And we cannot say that
a court possessing the powers of a court of equity could not
in this case direct a sale on conditions which would protect
the rights of the debtor, respondent, and the purchaser.
Respondent moves to dismiss the writ of certiorari because, after the judgment below denying the district
court's jurisdiction, petitioners procured a return of rental deposited by them in the bankruptcy court as an incident to proceedings under § 75 (s) (2). It is argued that
this action is so inconsistent with petitioners' appeal ar,
to estop them from further prosecution of it. The ord,-r,
if any, directing the deposit, and the attendant proceedings
do not appear in the record. Whether the withdrawal of
the amount deposited is so inconsistent' with further proceedings for the three-year stay authorized by § 75 (s)
upon payment of a prescribed rental, obviously cannot be
determined on this record, and should, in any case, be
determified in the first instance by the bankruptcy court
having jurisdiction of the cause. But it plainly is not inconsistent with other remedies which the court has jurisdiction to give under § 75, or with recourse to measures
which the court may take to permit an adjudication of the
rights of the parties, on the basis of which a composition
may be effected. In any case, since deposit of rental is
not prerequisite to jurisdiction, petitioners' recall and receipt of money, whatever effect it may have had on their
right to the three-year stay authorized by § 75 (s), involved
no inconsistency with the assertion on~rthis appeal of the
court's jurisdiction to resolve that question and to take

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S

other appropriate action. The court's authority to give
relief upon compliance with such terms as it may properly
impose, including the payment of rental, either by moratorium pending a composition with creditors or by sale as
the statute provides, remains unaffected. At least it has
authority under § 75 (s) and is required to permit redemption of the property by the debtor before ordering a sale.
Wright v. Union Central Ins. Co., supra.

We are of opinion that the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction over the debtor's interest in the property in question, and that in its sound discretion it should, in every

practicable way, exercise that jurisdiction for the protection of the interest of the debtor as the statute directs.
The judgment below should 19e reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with

this opinion.

Reversed
ETTELSON ET AL. v. METROPOLITAN LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OFAPPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 70. Argued November 12, 13, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
1. In a civil action in the federal District Court against an insurer to
recover the proceeds of policies of lifet insurance, wherein the insurer
filed a counterclaim alleging fraud by the insured in the procurement of the policies and praying their cancellation and that further
prosecution of the action be enjoiaed,' an order that the issue
raised by the counterclaim shall be heard and disposed of by the
court prior to the issue raised by thio complaint is an interlocutory
order granting an injunction, within the meaning of Judicial Code
§ 129, and is appealable under that Section.: P. 190.
The provisions of Rule 1 of the Rules of Civil Procedure, that the
object of the Rules is "t6 secure the just, speedy, and inexpensive
determination of every action," and Df Rule 2, that "there shall be
one form of action to be known as 'civil action,'" do not require a
different result.

