OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

to dismiss because they were out of time. He thereupon
heard and passed upon the petition's merits as bases for
rehearings. His reasons for refusing to open the original
orders complained of are adequate and amply supported
by the record. The appraisal was made and the time of
stay fixed pursuant to the debtors motion, he was represented by one or more coinsel at each meeting, had opportunity to present evidence, and siipulated to the perishable
character of the property ordered sold. See the last
I
paragraph of division II.
IV. On account of debtor's motion, requesting the running of the moratorium of three years from April 26, 1940,
the day of his adjudication in bankruptcy under 75 (s),
we do not consider the correctness of a stay of less than
three years under other circumstances. In this instance
it was correct.
Affirmed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. R. DOUGLAS STUART.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49. Argued October 23, 1942.-Decided November 16, 1942.
1. In resisting a taxpayer's petition for redetermination of deficiencies,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may invoke before the Circuit
Court of Appeals on review, and' in this Court by certiorari, provisions of the Revenue Law which were not relied on or adduced in
his answer to the taxpayer's petition. P. 159.
2. Section 166 of the Revenue Act of 1934, in providing that the income
from a trust shall be taxable as income of the grantor "where at any
time the power to revest in the grantor title to any part of the corpus
* Together with No. 48, Helvering, Commissioner of Internal Revenue, v. John Stuart, also on writ of certiorari, 316 U. S. 654, to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for, the Seventh Circuit. Argued October
22 and 23, 1942.

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

155

Syllabus.

of the trust is vested in any person not having a substantial adverse
interest in the disposition of such part of the corpus or the income
therefrom," intends that the question whether such power is so
vested by the trust instrument shall be determined by the construction and legal effect of the instrument under the state law. P. 161.
3. Section 167 of the Revenue Law of 1934, in providing that "where
any part of the income of a trust may, in the discretion of the grantor
or of any person not having a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such part of the income, be distributed to the grantor;
... such part of the income of the trust shall be included in computing the net income of the grantor," intends that whether such a
distribution is permissible under the trust instrument shall be determined by the state law.. Upon the question whether, under the
law of Illinois, in a trust deed for the benefit of the donor's children,
a provision purporting to empower a majority of three trustees (the
donor's wife, and brother) to amend the deed, by changing the beneficiaries and in other respects, could be applied to revest the property
in the donor, this Court accepts the reasoned judgment to the contrary of the Court of Appeals whose circuit embraces that State.
P. 161.
4. If reasonably avoidable this Court should not undertake firstinstance determinations of rules of local law. P. 164.
5. It would not be an arbitrary or unreasonable or even an unlikely
holding on the part of the courts of Illinois to conclude that under
the terms of the trusts involved here, equity ought to and would
prevent the wife and brother of the donor, claiming, as trustees,
authority to change the beneficiaries under the provisions of the
indenture, from vesting the property in themselves or in the donor
or in others for the benefit of themselves or the donor, to the detriment of the present beneficiaries. P. 164.
6. 'On the assumption that under such a trust deed the Illinois law
forbids the vesting of the res in the donor by act of the trustees,
within the intendment of § 166 of the Revenue Act of 1934, so also
it would be impossible for the trustees to accumulate the income
for the donor or to distribute it to him directly, within the intendment of § 167. P. 166.
7. Under the Illinois law, the power to amend which could not be exercised by the trustees in favor of the donor could not be exercised
in favor of his creditors. P. 166.
8. Under §§ 22 (a) and 167 of the Revenue Act of 1934, where there
is a trust directing and empowering the trustees to devote so much
of the net income, as to them shall seem advisable, to the education,

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

"317 U. S.

support and maintenance of the donor's minor children, the possibility of the use of the income to relieve 'the donor, pro tanto, of
his parental obligation, causes the'entire net income to be taxable
as income of the donor. Douglas vWillcuts, 296 U. S. 1. P. 167.
124 F. 2d 772, reversed in part; affirnied in part.
CERTIORARI,

316 U. S. 654, to review two judgments of

the court below, reversing decisions.of the Board of Tax
Appeals, 42 B. T. A. 1421, sustaining deficiency income tax
assessments.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Sewall Key, L. W. Post, and
Valentine Brookes 'were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Messrs. Herbert Pope (in Nos. 48 and 49) and George I.
Haight (in No. 48) argued the cause, and Messrs. Benjamin M. Price and William D. McKenzie were with them
on the briefs, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE REED,

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These petitions for certiorari bring here the liability of
each respondent for increased income taxes for the years
1934 and 1935. A deficiency was determined by the Commissioner for each year because of the taxpayers' failure
to include in their return income from various trusts
previously created by them for the benefit of their
children.
The taxpayers are brothers, residents of Illinois. In
1930 John Stuart, the respondent in No. 48, created one
trust for each of his three children: Joan, Ellen and John.
Latei, in 1932, R. Douglas Stuart, the respondent in No.
49, created such trusts for each of his four children:
Robert, Anne, Margaret and Harriet,. The trusts were
much alike. They were made in Illinois and specifically
provided that they were to be governed by the laws of
that state. The three children of John were all of age

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of the Court.

by January 1, 1934. None of the children of Douglas
were of age during either of the taxable years.
By the creation of the trusts, each taxpayer transferred
to three trustees certain shares of the common stock of
the Quaker Oats Company, of which respondents were
respectively president and first vice-president. The
trustees named in each instrument were the taxpayersettlor, his wife and his brother. The trusts created by
John thus had John, his wife and Douglas as trustees,
and those created by Douglas had Douglas, his wife and
John as trustees.
The trustees were given the power and authority of
"absolute owners" over the handling of the financial details of the respective trusts. They were freed from
liability or responsibility except such as were due to actual
fraud or willful mismanagement.
In the trusts created by R. Douglas Stuart for his minor
children, the trustees were directed to "pay over to [the
beneficiary] so much of the net income from the Trust
Fund, or shall apply so much of said income for his education, support and maintenance, as to them shall seem
advisable, and in such manner as to them shall seem best,
and free from control of-any guardian, the unexpended
portion, if any, of such income tc be added to the principal
of the Trust Fund. When the said [beneficiary] shall
attain the age of twenty-five years, the Trustees shall pay
over and deliver to him one-half of the Trust Fund; and
they shall pay over to him in reasonable installments the
income from the remaining one-half of the Trust Fund
until he shall attain the age of thirty years, when they
shall pay over and deliver to him the remainder of the
Trust Fund."
In the trusts created by John Stuart for his adult children, the directions were that the trustees should for
fifteen years "pay over and distribute, in reasonable in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

stallments," to the beneficiaries so Rauch of. the net income
"as they in their sole discretion shall deem advisable, the
undistributed portion of such income to be added to and
become a part of the principal of the Trust Fund." After
the fifteen years, the entire net income was to be paid to
the beneficiary for and during her life.
Each trust provided for the devolution of the corpus to
the issue of the beneficiary named in the instrument, and
in default of such issue to the issue of the donor, and in
default of issue of either to named educational or charitable institutions.
Two paragraphs relating to changes and amendments
are important. They were the same in all the instruments
and read as follows:
"Eighth. The Donor reserves and shall have the right
at any time and from time to time to direct the Trustees
to sell the whole of the Trust Fund, or any part thereof,
and to reinvest the proceeds in such other property as the
Donor shall direct. The Donor further reserves and shall
have.the right at any time and from time to time to withdraw and take over to himself the whole or any part of the
Trust Fund upon first transferring and delivering to the
Trustees other property satisfactory to them of a market
value at least equal to that of the property so withdrawn.
"Ninth. During the life of the Donor, the said [wife
and brother of the donor], or the survivor of them, shall
have full power and authority, by an instrument in writing
signed and delivered by them or by the survivor of them
to the Trustees, to alter, change or amend this Indenture
at any time and from time to time by changing the beneficiary hereunder, or by changing the time when the Trust
Fund, or any part thereof, or the income, is to be distributed, or by changing the Trustees, or in any other
respect."

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of the Court.

Pursuant to the authority of paragraph ninth, the two
trustees authorized in the trusts to make changes did provide on the 2d and 3d of August, 1935, respectively, for
the cancellation and expunction of both the eighth and
ninth paragraphs, set out above, and for the substitution
of the following in lieu of the expunged-ninth paragraph:
"Ninth. This Indenture and all of the provisions thereof
are irrevocable and not subject to alteration, change or
'amendment."
The Commissioner does not claim that any trust income
received after these amendments is attributable to the
taxpayers.
In answer to the taxpayer's petition in No. 49 for the
redetermination of the deficiencies, the Commissioner asserted the increase was required by the provisions of
§§ 22, 166, and 167 of the Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat.
680. Section 22 was not raised by the Commissioner in
his answer to the petition in No. 48. But the applicability
of that section was raised by the Commissioner as appellee
before the Circuit Court of Appeals (Helvering v. Gowran,
302 U. S. 238, 245). The contention in the Court of Appeals rested on the facts stipulated in the Board of Tax
Appeals. On the rejection of that ground in the court
below, the Commissioner was entitled to raise the question, as he did, in his petition for certiorari and rely on
§ 22 in this Court. Helvering v. Gowran, ibid, 246; cf.
Hormel v. Helvering, 312 U. S. 552. So far as pertinent
the sections are set out in the footnote below.*
*

Text of statutes, id., 686, 729.

22. GRoss INCOME.
(a) General Defiition.-'Grossincome' includes gains, profits, and

"SEC.

income derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal
service, of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or from profes3ions, vocations, trades, businesses, commerce, or sales, or dealings in

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The Board of Tax Appeals upheld the Commissioner's
determinations that § 166 governed the trusts' incomes
because the powers of the wife and brother, as trustees,
under the ninth paragraph were sufficient to revest the
funds in the grantors and because the trustees were without substantial adverse interests. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed this determination, Stuart v. Commissioner, 124 F. 2d 772, on its conclusion that under the law
of Illinois "the wife and brother as trustees had no authority . . . to revest the property in the grantor." The same
reasoning led the appellate court to say that neither § 167
nor § 22 was applicable, except as to the income of the
Douglas Stuart trusts actually used for the support of
a minor child.
property, whether real or personal, growing out of the ownership or
use of or interest in such property; also from interest, rent, dividends,
securities, or the transaction of any business carried on for gain or
profit, or gains or profits and income derived from any source whatever ...

"SEC. 166.

REVOCABLE TRUSTS.

Where at any time the power to revest in the grantor title to any
part of the corpus of the trust is vested(2) in any person not having a substantial adverse interest in the
disposition of such part of the corpus or the income therefrom, then
the income of such part of the trust shall be included in computing the
net income of the grantor.
"SEc. 167. INCOME For BENEFIT OF GRANTOR.
(a) Where any part of the income of a trust(2) may, in the discretion of the grantor or of any person not having
a substantial adverse interest in the disposition of such part of the
income, be distributed to the grantor;
then such part of the income of the trust shall be included in computing
the net income of the grantor."

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of the Court.

The applications for certiorari were granted because of
differing views in the courts of appeals as to the inclusion
of the incomes of trusts with similar provisions in the
gross incomes of the donors by virtue of the sections of
the Act relied upon by the Commissioner. Altmaier v.
Commissioner, 116 F. 2d 162; Fulham v. Commissioner,
110 F. 2d 916; Whiteley v. Commissioner, 120 F. 2d 782;
Commissioner v. Buck, 120 F. 2d 775.
To reach a decision as to the applicability of §§ 166 and
167 of the Revenue Act of 1934 (see footnote, p. 159,
supra) to these trusts, the instruments must be construed
to determine whether the power to revest title to any part
of the corpora in the grantors, or to distribute to them any
of the income, lies with any persons not having a substantial adverse interest to the grantors. That construction must be made in the light of rules of law for the
interpretation of such documents. The intention of Congress controls what law, federal or state, is to be applied.
Burnet v. Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 110; Lyeth v. Hoey, 305
U. S. 188, 194. Since the federal revenue laws are designed for a national scheme of taxation, their provisions
are not to be deemed subject to state law "unless the
language or necessary implication of the section involved"
so requires. UnitedStates v. Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399, 402-3.
This decision applied federal definition to determine
whether an interest in property was called a "future interest." When Congress fixes a tax on the possibility of
the revesting of property or the distribution of income,
the "necessary implication," we think, is that the possibility is to be determined by the state law. Grantees
under deeds, wills and trusts, alike, take according to the
rule of the state law. The power to transfer or distribute
assets of a trust is essentially a matter of local law. Blair
v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5, 9; Freulerv. Helvering, 291
503873-43-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

U. S. 35, 43-45.1 Congress has selected an event, that is
the receipt or distributions of trust funds by or to a
grantor, normally brought about by local law, and has directed a tax to be levied if that event may occur. Whether
that event may or may not occur depends upon the interpretation placed upon the terms of the instrument by state
law. Once rights are obtained by local law, whatever
they may be called, these rights are subject to the federal
definition of taxability. Recently in dealing with the
estate tax levied upon the value of property passing under
a general power, we said that "state law creates legal interests and rights. The federal revenue acts designate
what interests or rights, so created, shall be taxed." Morgan v. Commissioner, 309 U. S. 78, 80 (a case dealing with
the taxability at death of property passing under a general
power of appointment). In this case, as in Lyeth v.
Hoey,2 we were determining what interests or rights should
be taxed, not what interests or rights had been created,
and therefore applied the federal rule. Cf. Burnet v.
Harmel, 287 U. S. 103, 110; Palmer v. Bender, 287 U. S.
551, 555; Heiner v. Mellon, 304 U. S. 271, 279; Helvering
v. Fuller, 310 U. S. 69, 74. In this view the rules of law
to be applied are those of Illinois. That state is the residence of the parties, the place of execution of the instrument, as well as the jurisdiction chosen by the parties to
govern the instrument.
This was the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
124 F. 2d 772, 778. Their examination of the Illinois law
1 The incorporation of local law in federal tax acts has been repeatedly

recognized. Cf. Crooks v. Harrelson,282 U. S. 55 (Missouri real property excluded from federal estate tax because of state rule of law);
Poe v. Seaborn, 282 U. S. 101 (community property laws); Uterhart
v. United States, 240 U. S. 598, 603 (local law of wills).
305 U. S. 188, 193, 194 (exemption from income tax of funds received by an heir in compromise of litigation over a will as an inheritance, a result contrary to the law of the state of probate).

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of the Court.

led them to conclude that "the wife and brother as trustees
had no authority under the Illinois law to revest the property in the grantor," a requirement for liability under
§'166. This conclusion does not spring from a statute of
that state nor even from a clear or satisfying line of decisions. It is, however, the reasoned judgment of the
circuit which includes Illinois in which a judge of long
experience in the jurisprudence of that state participated.
Without a definite conviction of error in the conclusion,
this Court will not reverse that judgment. MacGregorv.
State Mutual Life Assurance Co., 315 U. S. 280. Cf. Reitz
v. Mealey, 314 U. S. 33, p. 39; Railroad omm'n v. Pullman Co., 312 U. S. 496, 499.
The Government does not challenge the conclusion of
the Court of Appeals that Illinois law controls. It sharply
differs as to the meaning of paragraph ninth, construed
generally, and as to the Illinois rule, but does not urge
that a federal rule of interpretation applies.
The suggestion is made that Helvering v. Fitch, 309
U. S. 149,156; Helvering v. Fuller,310 U. S. 69; Helvering
v. Leonard, id. 80; and Pearce v. Commissioner, 315 U. S.
543, require determination by this Court of the Illinois
law. In each of these cases, after courts of appeals had
given their opinion of the law of the respective states on
the power of the state courts to alter or revise property
settlements in judgments of divorce, we reviewed the state
decisions to determine whether the husband or wife was
taxable under the federal tax system upon the income
from the settlements. This depended upon whether the
husband could show clearlyand convincingly under the
state law that the settlement income was not received by
the wife pursuant to his continuing obligation to support
or whether the wife could raise -doubts and uncertainties
as to the proper conclusion. Pearce v. CommisSioner,
supra, 547.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

It is true we examined the state cases to determine the
applicable state law, but we did it for the purpose of determining whether the taxpayers had met their burden of
proving the Commissioner of Internal Revenue wrong in
assessing deficiencies against them. We could do the same
here but we are satisfied that the finding of the Court of
Appeals on Illinois law is a determination that meets that

burden. A requirement of a demonstration of state law,
"clearly and convincingly," may well necessitate a review
of tie conclusion of the Court of Appeals, while a requirement of a finding, as here, of the ultimate fact as to the law
would not. If reasonably avoidable we should certainly
avoid becoming a Court of first instance for the determination of the varied rules of local law prevailing in the fortyeight states. Nor do we see any reason why we should
prefer the view of the Board of Tax Appeals concerning
Illinois law to that of the Circuit Court of Appeals within
which Illinois is embraced.
One cannot say that it would be an arbitrary or unreasonable or even an unlikely holding on the part of the
courts of Illinois to conclude that, under the terms of
these trusts, equity ought to and would prevent the wife
and brother of the donor, claiming authority under, the
provisions of paragraph nine of the indenture, from vesting the property in themselves or in the donor or in others
for the benefit of themselves or the donor, to the detriment
of the present beneficiaries. To support this construction,
the Court of Appeals cites Frank v. Frank,305 Ill. 181,187,
137 N. E. 151, 152. In that case there was a deed for
a life estate in realty with vested remainder to others,
with "full power and authority" to the life tenant to sell
the premises by her sole deed. The life tenant sold the
fee for life support, a consideration necessarily usable by
the life tenant alone. The power was construed as applicable to the life estate alone and its use unauthorized

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of the Court.

for the fee. In Rock Island Bank v. Rhoads, 353 Ill. 131,
142, 187 N. E. 139, 141, the Supreme Court of that state
construed the authority of a life tenant to use and dispose
of the property as may "in her.judgment be necessary for
her comfort and satisfaction in life" to stop short of permitting her to add any of the life estate property to build
up her own separate estate. For the authority of courts
of equity in Illinois over trustees, there are cited cases
establishing their general power to require action in accordance with the intent of the donor. Maguire v. City
of Macomb, 293 Ill. 441, 453, 127 N. E. 682; Jones v. Jones,
124 Ill. 254, 262, 264, 15 N. E. 751; Welch v. Caldwell, 226
Ill. 488, 495, 498, 80 N. E. 1014.
The Commissioner cites no Illinois cases which bring us
to a conviction of error on the part of the Court of Appeals.
People v. Kaiser, 306 Ill. 313,137 N. E. 826, goes no further
than, to say a residuary estate bequeathed to a trustee for
gifts to such charitable institutions or needy persons as
the trustee deems deserving will be enforced by the courts.
It also seems that in Illinois a general power of appointment is exercisable in favor of the donee or his creditors.
Id., 317; Gilmanv. Bell, 99 Ill. 144, 149; Botzum v. Havana
National Bank, 367 Ill. 539, 543, 12 N. E. 2d 203. But
evidently the Court of Appeals does not consider that
these trustees under Illinois law have the power to vest
this property in themselves. Such a result follows from
their view that the property could not be vested in the
grantors. Consequently, this power of the trustees is not
a general power but a power in trust exercisable as fiduciaries to carry out the purposes of the trust. We there^fore do not need to decide whether if they could vest the
property in themselves they would have an interest adverse to the grantor. Without that power their interest
certainly is not adverse. Cf. Reinecke v. Smith, 289 U. S.
172, 174.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1042.
Opinion of the Court.

317

U. S.

The real issue is whether, under Illinois law, the trustees' authority under paragraph nine of the trust instruments "to alter, change or amend this Indenture at any
time and from time to time by changing the beneficiary
hereunder . . . or in any other respect," goes so far as
to permit the substitution of the donor for the beneficiaries. Would the trustees with authority to change
the terms and "the time when the Trust Fund . . . is
to be distributed" be permitted to revoke the trust and'
thus vest the corpus in the donor. These questions are
answered in the negative by the Court of Appeals and we
accept that conclusion. These trusts, therefore, stand as
though an Illinois statute or a provision of the instruments
forbade assignments of any of the corpora or of the income
to the grantors except as may be specifically provided by
their terms. The exception is of importance in examining
the trusts' provisions for the minor children of Douglas
Stuart.
On the assumption that the Illinois law forbids the vesting of the trust res in the taxpayers under § 166, it would
also be impossible for the trustees to accumulate the income for or to distribute it to the grantor directly so as to
come within § 167. 124 F. 2d 772, 778. Consequently,
the contention that the donors are taxable, as direct beneficiaries, because of the provisions of § 167 alone, must fail.
Could it be, however, that the donors were taxable under
§ 167 because the trustees could change the beneficiaries
of the trists to the creditors of the donors or to any other
person and thereby relieve the donor of a legal obligation?
Assuming that such a change would result in a distribution
to the grantor under § 167 and Douglas v. Willcuts, 296
U. S. 1, the ruling of the Court of Appeals on Illinois law
forbids such a distribution from these trusts. A decision
that a donor cannot take from a trust under state law
certainly prohibits a change of the instrument so as to
relieve the donor of legal obligations.

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of the Court.

The Commissioner, however, raised in the Court of Appeals and has pressed here the liability of the donors for
taxation under 22 (a), see footnote, p. 159, on the ground
that the trust incomes are chargeable to the donors
under the rule of Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331.
That is, whether after the establishment of the trust the
grantor may still be treated' as the owner of the corpus
and therefore taxable on its income. It is obvious that if
each of the trust incomes is attributable to the donors under this rule, they become a part of the present taxpayers'
income under § 167 (a) (1) and (2) also. This leads us
to consider both § 22 (a) and § 167, and their interplay
on one another, together.
Section 167 took its present form in the Revenue Act
of 1932. It was enacted especially- to prevent avoidance
of surtax by the trust device, when the income really remained in substance at the disposal of the settlor. S. Rep.
No. 665, 72d Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 34-35. It is to be interpreted in the light of its purpose for the protection of
the federal revenue. United States v. Hodson, 10 Wall.
395, 406; United States v. Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399, 403. Of
course, where the settlor or donor is not actually or in
substance a present or possible beneficiary of the trust, he
escapes the surtax by a gift in trpst. Revenue Act of
1934, §§ 161 to 168, Supplement E, 48 Stat. 727. Cf.
Helvering v. Fuller, 310 'U. S. 69, 74. In the absence of
a legislative rule, we have left to the process of repeated
adjudications the line between "gifts. of income-producing
property and gifts of income froin property of which the
donor remains the owner, for all substantial and practical
purposes." Harrisonv. Schaffner, 312 U. S. 579, 583.
In the John Stuart trusts, the trustees, n their discretion, were to distribute income to the named beneficiaries
for fifteen years and thereafter to distribute the entire
net income. In the Douglas Stuart trusts, the directions
authorized discretionary distribution to the beneficiaries

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

or its application to their education, support and maintenance until the children reached the age of twenty-five
years. Undistributed portions of the income were to be
added to the corpus. Plainly, these distributions or accumulations were to be used for the economic advantage
of the children of the settlors and to the amount of these
distributions and accumulations would satisfy the normal
desire of a parent to make gifts to his children. Is this
alone sufficient to make the income of the trusts taxable
to the settlors?
Disregarding for the moment the minority of some of
.the beneficiaries, we think not. So broad a basis would tax
to a father the income of a simple trust with a disinterested
trustee for the benefit of his adult child. No act of Congress manifests such an intention. Economic gain realized
or realizable by the taxpayer is necessary to produce a
taxable income under our statutory scheme. That gain
need not be collected by the taxpayer. He may give away
the right to receive it, as was done in Helvering v. Horst,
311 U. S. 112, Helvering v. Eubank, 311 U. S. 122, 125, and
Harrisonv. Schaffner, 312 U.S. 579. But the donor nevertheless had the "use [realization] of his economic gain."
311 U. S. at 117. In none of the cases had the taxpayer
really disposed of the res which produced the income. In
Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U. S. 376, he had disposed of the res
but With a power to revoke at any moment. This right
to realize income by revocation at the settlor's option
overcame the technical disposition. The "non-material
satisfactions" (gifts-contributions) of a donor are not
taxable as income. Helvering v. Horst. supra.
That economic gain for the taxable- year, as distinguished from the non-material satisfactions, may be
obtained through a control of a trust so complete that it
must be said .the taxpayer is the owner of its income. So.

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

169

Opinion of the Court.

it was in Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S. 331, 335, 336.

Cf. Helvering v. Fuller,310 U. S,69, 72 note 1, 76. Section 22 (a), we have said, indicated the intention of Congress to use its constitutional powers of income taxation
to their "full measure." Helvering v. Clifford, 309 U. S.
331, 334; Helvering v. Midland Life Ins. Co., 300 U. S.
216, 223; Douglas v. Willcuts, 296 U. S.1, 9; Irwin v.
Gavit, 268 U. S.161, 166. Control of the stocks of the
company of which the grantors were executives may have
determined the manner of creating the trusts. Paragraph
eight permits recapture of -the stocks from the trust by
payment of their value. (See p. 158, ante.) Family
relationship evidently played a part in the selection of
the trustees. On the other hand, broad powers of management in trustees, even though without adverse interest,
point to complete divestment of control, as does the impossibility of reversion to the grantors? The interlocking trustees were not appointed simultaneously. The
triers of fact have made no finding-upon this point. Cf.
Helvering v. Clifford, supra, 336, 338. When the Board
of Tax Appeals decided these cases under § 166 it was not
necessary for it to reach a conclusion- on 22 (a) or its effect
upon § 167. That should be done in No. 48, the John
Stuart trusts.
In No. 49, the R. Douglas Stuart trusts, the minority
of each of the beneficiaries brings the income from the
trusts under the provisions of 167 (a) (1) and (2). The
:grantor owes to each the parental obligation of support.
The Court of Appeals assumed that all income expended
was used for such a purpose unless the taxpayer showed
to the contrary. So far as the income was used to disCf. Helvering v. Clifford, supra; Suhr v. Commissioner, 126 F. 2d
283; Whiteley v. Commissioner, 120 F. 2d 782; Commissioner v. Buck,
120 F. 2d 775; Fulhamv. Commissioner, 110 F. 2d 916.

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

charge this obligation, the sums expended were properly
added to the taxpayer's income.'
As indicated in the cases of the Board of Tax Appeals
cited in the immediately preceding note, the Board has
restricted the tax liability of a grantor of a trust for the
support and maintenance of an infant and other purposes
to such sums as, actually or by presumption, have been
expended to relieve the settlor of his obligations. The
Board has not taxed the whole of such income to the taxpayer merely because a. part could have been but was not
used for the support of an infant. We take a. contrary
view. Among these involved problems of statutory construction, we observe the time-tried admonition of restricting the scope Qf our decision to ihe circumstances before us.
We are not here appraising the application of § 167 to
cases where a wife is the trustee or beneficiary of the funds
which may be used for the family benefit. Cf. Suhr v.
Commissioner, 126 F. 2d 283, 285, with Altmaier v. Commissioner, 116 F. 2d 162, and Fulham v. Commissioner,

110 F. 2d 916. We are dealing with a trust for minors
where the trustees, without any interest adverse to the
grantor, have authority to devote so much of the net income as "to them shall seem advisable" to the "education,
support and maintenance" of the minor. The applicable
statute says, "Where any part of the income . . .may
. . . be distributed to the grantor . . . then such part
. . . shall be included in computing the net income of

the grantor." Under such a provision the possibility of
the use of the income to relieve the grantor, pro tanto,
'Douglas v. Willcuts, 296 U. S. 1; Commissioner v. Grosvenor, 85 F.
2d 2; Black v. Commissioner, 36 B. T. A. 346; Tiernan v. Commissioner, 37 B. T. A. 1048, 1054; Pyeatt v. Commissioner, 39 B. T. A.
774, 780; Chandler v. Commissioner, 41 B. T. A. 165, 178; Wolcott v.
Commissioner, 42 B. T. A. 1151, 1157.

See also General Counsel's Memorandum 18972; 1937-2 Cum. Bull.
231, 233.

HELVERING v. STUART.
154

Opinion of

171

STONE, C. J.

of his parental obligation is sufficient to bring the entire
income of these trusts for minors within the rule of attribution laid down in Douglas v. Willcuts.
No. 48 is reversed and remanded to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for remand to the Board of Tax Appeals.
No. 49 is reversed and, for the reasons herein stated,
the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals is affirmed.
No. 48 reversed.
No. 49 reversed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE:

I think judgment should go for the Government in each
case.
Assuming, as the opinion of the Court declares, that
we must look to Illinois law to determine whether the trustees were free to distribute to respondents the trust income which the Commissioner has taxed under § 167 of
the Revenue Act of 1934, still I think respondents have
failed to carry the burden which rests on them to show
that the Illinois law prevents such distribution. The
power conferred on the trustees to dispose of future income
was without restriction. They were in terms authorized
at any time to alter the trust instrument so as to change
the beneficiary, to change the time when the trust fund
or any part of it or the income was to be distributed, or to
change it "in any other respect." On its face each trust
gave to the trustees other than the settlor plenary power
to bestow undistributed income on any person they might
choose as beneficiaries, including the settlor.
We are cited to no decision in the Illinois courts which
either holds or suggests that a power in trust so broadly'
phrased may not be exercised for the benefit of its donor.
Even the generally accepted rule that the donee of a power
in trust may not use it for his own benefit, Which Illinois
does not appear to follow, would hardly support the conclusion that he could not exercise it for the benefit of the

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

STONE, C. J.

317 U. S.

donor. Reinecke v. Smith, 289 U. S. 172, 176. We are
without even a speculative basis in judicial authority or
in reason for predicting that the Supreme Court of Illinois
would forbid such an exercise of the power.
When state law has not been authoritatively declared
we pay great deference to the reasoned opinion of circuit
courts of appeals, whose duty it is to ascertain from all
available data what the highest court of the state will
probably hold the state law to be. Wichita Royalty Co.
v. City Bank, 306 U. S. 103; West v. A. T. & T. Co., 311
U. S.223. But we have not wholly abdicated our function
of reviewing such determinations of state law, merely
because courts of appeals have made them.
Here our task is the easier because of the salutary rule
that he who assails adeficiency assessment before the
Board of Tax Appeals assumes the burden of showing, in
point of law as well as of fact, that the tax is unlawfully
assessed. Helpering v. Fitch, 309 U. S.149. The terms
of the trust instruments l4ring them so plainly within the
provisions of the tqxing statute as concededly to subject
respondents to the tax unless we are able to conclude that
some law of Illinois denies effect to their words. Responderts suggest no reason for such a rule of law which has ever
been advanced in judicial opinion, treatise or elsewhere,
and they point to no decision of the Illinois courts recognizing its existence. I am unable to conclude that it does
exist and consequently that the tax was not properly laid.
. The Board of Tax Appeals found that the trust instruments meant what they said and that in the family circle
involved they would be carried out according to their
meaning. It was hardly excessive skepticism on the
Board's part to conclude that Illinois law would not prevent compliance with the expressed intention. Its judgment ought not lightly to be disregarded.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

this opinion.

and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS join in

