562

5OCTOBER TERM, .1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

I would hold that the rich rewards of this kind of proceeding are reserved for those who actually and in good faith
have contributed something to the enforcement of the law
and the protection of the United States.

UNITED STATES

EXREL.

OSTRAGER

ET AL. v.

NEW

ORLEANS CHAPTER, ASSOCIATED GENERAL

CONTRACTORS, INC.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 236.

Argued December 10, 11, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.

Decided upon the authority of United States ex rel. Marcus v. Hess.
ante, p. 537.
127 F. 2d 649, reversed.

post, p. 613, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing the complaint in a qui tam action
under R. S. §§ 5438 and 3490-3493.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. William Katz, with whom Mr. Burnett Wolfson
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. R. Emmett Kerrigan,with whom Mr. Eberhard P.
Deutsch was on the brief, for respondents.
At the request of the Court, Solicitor General Fahy
flied a brief (on which also were Messrs. Robert L. Stern
and Fred E. Strine) on behalf of the United States, as
amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This action is substantially similar to that in United
,States ex rel. Marcus v. Hess, ante, p. 537. Relying on
§§ 5438 and 3490-93, Revised Statutes, the petitioner
charges that the respondents caused the government

U. S. EX REL. OSTRAGER v. CONTRACTORS.
562

563

Opinion of the Court.

$7,620 damages by submitting fraudulent collusive bids
on a hospital constructed with Federal Public Works Administration financial assistance. The petitioner in a qui
tam action asks double damages plus $2,000 from each of
seventeen respondents. The respondents had previously
been indic~ted by the United States government in a criminal action and had paid fines totalling $5,000.
The respondents answered on the merits, made other
pleadings not relevant at this stage of the case, and offered
two special defenses: that the action placed them in double
jeopardy in violation of the Fifth Amendment and that
the statutes involved did not provide a basis for such a
cause of action. The District Court, without reaching the
merits, dismissed the complaint on the theory of double
jeopardy. The Circuit.Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of the complaint but rested its conclusion on the
belief that no claim against the United States was inVolved
since the United States was not a party to the contract.
It relied heavily on the Hess case as decided by the Circuit
Ourt.
For the reasons set forth in our opinion in the Hess case,
we believe that the decision below should be reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in this opinion but concurs on the question of double jeopardy for thereasons
set forth in his opinion in United States ex rel. Marcus v.
Hess, ante, p. 537. MR. JUSTICE JAcxsoN dissents for the
reasons set forth in his opinion in the same case.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

took no part in the consideration

or-disposition of this case.

