PYLE v. KANSAS.

213

Opinion of the Court.

PYLE v. KANSAS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KANSAS.

Na. 50. Argued November 9, 10, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
1. Habeas corpus is a remedy available in the state courts of Kansas to
persons imprisoned in violation of rights guaranteed by the Federal
Constitution. P. 215.
2. A petition for a writ of habeas corpus alleging that the petitioner
is imprisoned upon a conviction obtained through the use of testimony known by the prosecuting officers to have been perjured, and
through the suppression by them of evidence favorable to him,
sufficiently alleges a deprivation of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution; and the denial of the petition without-a determination as to the truth of the allegations was error. P. 216.
3. In view of the inexpert drafting of the petition for the writ of habeas
corpus in this case, the remand to the state court is without prejudice
to any procedure there designed to achieve greater particularity in
the allegations. P. 216.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 654, to review the affirmance of a
judgment denying an application for a writ of habeas
corpus.

Mr. Joseph P. Tumulty, Jr. for petitioner.
Mr. Jay Kyle, with whom Messrs. Jay S. Parker, Attorney General of Kansas, and Braden C. Johnston, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of thc Court.

Petitioner seeks to review an order of the Supreme Court
of Kansas denying his application for writ of habeas
corpus. In 1935 petitioner was convicted by a jury in a
Kansas state court upon an information charging him

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

with the crimes of murder and robbery. A motion for a
new trial was overruled, and he was sentenced to life imprisonment under his conviction for murder, and to a term
of from 10 fo 21 years for robbery. On appeal the' judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Kansas.
State v. Pyle, 143 Kan. 772, 57 P. 2d 93.
On November 20, 1941, petitioner, a layman acting in
his own behalf, filed -n original application for writ of
habeas corpus in the Supreme Court of Kansas. The
crude allegations of this application charge that his imprisonment was the result of a deprivation of rights guaranteed him by the Constitution of the United States, in
that the Kansas prosecuting authorities obtained his conviction by the presentation of testimony known to be perjured, and by the suppression of testimony favorable to
him. Filed with this application were a brief and an abstract, also apparently prepared by petitioner himself,
which are part of the record before us. These documents
elaborate the general charges of the application, and specifically allege that "one Truman Reynolds was coerced
and threatened by the State to testify falsely against the
petitioner and that said testimony did harm to the petitioner's defense"; that "one Lacy Cunningham who had
been previously committed to a mental. institution was
threatened with prosecution if he did not testify for the
State"; that the testimony of one Roy Riley, material to
petitioner's defense, "was repressed under threat and coercion by the State"; that Mrs. Roy Riley and Mrs. Thelma Richardson were intimidated and their testimony
suppressed; and, that the record in the trial of one Merl
Hudson for complicity in the same murder and robbery
for which petitioner was convicted, held about six months
after petitioner's direct appeal from his conviction, reveals
that the evidence there presented is inconsistent with the
evidence presented at petitioner's trial, and clearly exonerates petitioner.

PYLE .v. KANSAS.
213

Opinion of the Court.

Certain exhibits accompanied the application; among
these were copies, sworn by petitioner to be true and correct copies of the originals, of an affidavit executed by
Truman Reynolds in 1940, and a letter 'dated: February
28, 1941, from the former prosecuting attorney who represented the State at petitioner's trial. The affidavit
contained a statement that affiant "was forced to give perjured testimony against Harry Pyle under threat by local
authorities at St. John, Kansas and the Kansas State
Police, of a penitentiary sentence for burglary if I did
not testify against Mr. Pyle." The letter stated, "Your
conviction was a grave mistake," and further that, "The
evidence at the trial of Merl Hudson certaiihly shattered
the conclusions drawn from the evidence .produced at your
trial."
In connection with his application, petitioner moved
for the appointment of counsel to represent him, for subpoenas duces tecum to bring up the records in the trials
of -Merl Hudson and one Bert (Bud) Richardson, for the
subpoenaing of certain witnesses allegedly material to
his case, and for his presence in court. The record does
not show what disposition, if any, was made of these
various motions.
No return was made tq the application for the writ.
On December 11, 1941, the court below entered an order
"that said petition be filed and, docketed without costs,
and thereupon, after due consideration by the court, it is
ordered that said petition for writ of habeas corpus be
denied." There was no opinion. A motion to relear
was also denied without opinion. We brought the case
here on certiorari, 316 U. S.654, because of the constitutional issues involved.
Habeas corpus is a remedy available in the courts of
Kansas to persons imprisoned in violation of rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United States. Cochran
v. Kansas, 316 U. S. 255, 258. Petitioner's papers are

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

inexpertly drawn, but they do set forth allegations that
his imprisonment resulted from perjured testimony,
knowingly used by the State authorities to obtain his
conviction, and from the deliberate suppression by those
same authorities of evidence favorable to him. These
allegations sufficiently charge a deprivation of rights guaranteed by the Federal Constitution, and, if proven, would
entitle petitioner to release from his present custody.
Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103. They are supported
by the exhibits referred to above, and nowhere are they
refuted or denied. The record of petitioner's conviction,
while regular on its face, manifestly does not controvert
the charges that perjured evidence was used, and that
favorable evidence was suppressed with the knowledge
of the Kansas authorities. No determination of the
verity of these allegations appears to have been made.1
The case is therefore remanded for further proceedings.
Cochran v. Kansas, supra; Smith v. O'Grady, 312 U. S.
329; cf. Waley v. Johnston, 316 U.S. 101, 104. In view-of
petitioner's inexpert draftsmanship, we of course do not
foreclose any procedure designed to achieve more particularity in petitioner's allegations and assertions.
Reversed.

'In re Pyle, 153 Kan. 568, 112 P. 2d 354, is not such a determination.
That was an appeal by petitioner from the dismissal of another petition for writ of habeas corpus by the Kansas district court for the
Leavenworth district.

