406

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
317 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of the Revenue Act of 1932 or 1928. These decisions
obviously are not in point on the question whether the
additional payments in the present case are part of the
sale price or other income under § 22. Nor do we find
persuasive the cases refusing to allow an installment purchaser an interest deduction because of his deferred payments where the purpose was an arrangement for the payment of the purchase price." In the present case, the
purchase price was settled as of January 3, 1933, when the
property was taken over.
Affirmed.
CORYELL ET AL. v. PHIPPS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF A
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

IEALS FOR THE

No. 246. Argued December 15, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.
1. Reviged Statutes § 4283-the limitation of liability provision-

should be administered liberally. P. 411.
2. An individual owner of a vessel who selects competent men to store
and inspect it, and who is not, on notice as to the existence of any
defect in it, can not, upon the theory that the "privity" and "knowledge" of his negligent agents are imputable to him, be denied the
benefit of the limitation of liability under R. S. § 4283, as respects
damage resulting from fire caused by an explosion oilboard during
the period of storage. P. 412.
128 F. 2d 702, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 609, to review the affirmance of a

decree of the District Court in admiralty, 39 F. Supp. 142,
permitting limitation of liability in a suit to recover
damages for the destruction of petitioners' vessels
"Hundahl v. Commissioner, 118 F. 2d 349 (C. C. A. 5th, 1941);
Henrietta Mills v. Commissioner, 52 F. 2d 931 (C. C. A. 4th, 1931);
Pratt-Mallory Co. v. United States, 82 Ct. Cls. 292, 12 F. Supp. 1020
(1936); Daniel Brothers Co.v. Commissioner,28 F. 2d 761 (C. C. A.
5ih, 1928).

CORYELL v. PHIPPS.
406

Opinion of the Court.

resulting from fire aboard a vessel owned by one of the
respondents.
Mr. T. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr. Leonard J. Matteson was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Chauncey I. Clark, with whom Mr. Eugene Underwood was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOuGLAs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners instituted a suit in Admiralty in the federal
District Court to recover damages for the destruction of
vessels owned by them as a result of a fire which occurred
in June, 1935, while the vessels were afloat at Pilkington's
storage basin at Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The fire was
caused by an explosion of gasoline fumes in the engine
room of the yacht Seminole, registered in the name of
Seminole Boat Co. and owned by it. Prior to 1929 the
Seminole was owned by respondent Phipps and his
brother. At that time they transferred the yacht to the
Seminole Boat Co., a Delaware corporation, all of the
stock of which was issued to the two brothers. At the
time of the fire, respondent Phipps still owned half of the
shares of stock, the other half having been acquired by
his sister. Neither she nor Phipps was an officer or director
of the company.
Respondent Phipps was sued on the theory that he was
the owner of the yacht and operated and controlled her
and that the Seminole Boat Co. was a dummy corporation.
In his answer, Phipps set up, inter alia, the defense of
limitation of liability contained in R. S. § 4283, 46 U. S. C.
§ 183.' The District Court found negligence .onthe part
'That section, as it read at the time of the fire, provided: "The
liability of the owner of anv vessel, for any embezzlement, loss, or
destruction, by any person, of any property, goods, or merchandise,

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of the Seminole Boat Co. It held that the corporation
was not a sham or a fraud but adequate to insulate
Phipps as a stockholder from liability for this tort. It
went on to hold that, even if the corporation be disregarded, Phipps was without "privity or knowledge" of
the events which caused the fire and hence could limit his
liability to the value of his interest in the yacht. 39 F.
Supp. 142. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
128 F. 2d 702. The case is here on a petition for a writ
of certiorari which we granted because of an asserted conflict, on the point of limitation of liability under § 4283,
between the decision below and In re New York Dock Co.,
61 F. 2d 777, and In re Great Lakes Transit Corp., 81 F.
2d 441.
The sole questions raised by the petition relate to the
liability of Phipps. Petitioners renew here their contention that the corporate existence of the Seminole Boat Co.
should be disregarded and that it should be treated as a
mere dummy or sham. We need not recite the facts on
which that argument rests nor express an opinion on it.
For even if we assume, without deciding, that the contention is a valid one and that Phipps should be treated as
owner of the yacht for the purposes of this litigation, we
nevertheless conclude that the courts below were correct
in allowing the limitation of liability under § 4283.
That section, as it read at the time of the fire,2 provided
as we have stated that the "liability of the owner" might
be limited to the "amount or value of the interest of such
shipped or put on board of such vessel, or for any loss, damage, or
injury by collision, or for any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or
.jorfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred, without the privity, or knowl-

edge of such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or
value of the interest of such oivner in such vessel, and her freight
then pending."
2 No question has been raised here as respects the amendments to the
section made by the Act of August 29, 1935, 49 Stat. 960, or by the Act
of June 5, 1936,49 Stat. 1479.

.CORYELL v. PHIPPS.
406

Opinion of the Court.

owner" in mhe vessel, where the loss was o.-casioned or
incurred without his "privity or knowledge." The District Court found that the proximate cause of the fire was
the presence of gasoline fumes in the engine room, caused
by a leak in some part of the machinery or equipment.
That leak, it concluded, occurred not from faulty:original
instailation of the gasoline tanks but with the passage of
time. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained those findings. It was not found by either of the courts below, nor
is it claimed, that Phipps had knowledge of that condition.
It is urged, however, that the agents of Phipps and. the
Seminole Boat Co. selected to manage and inspect the
yacht were incompetent and negligent, that their negligence is attributable to Phipps, and that, in any event, he
could not establish-his claim for limitation of liability
without showing that he had appointed competent persons to make the inspection. See M'Gill v. Michigan .
S. Co., 144 F. 788; In re Reichert Towing Line, 251 F. 214;.
The Silver Palm, 94 F. 2d 776. The Circuit Court of Appeals found that the vessel had been examined and pronounced fit by an experienced ship surveyor in February
1935, that she developed no faults in a cruise between Feb.
ruary and April of that year when she was turned over to.
Pilkington for storage, that "the rew left her gasoline
valves closed, her electric switches open, her gas tanks
registering empty, and her bilges clean and'free of gasoline
or gasoline vapor," and that "she was repeatedly examined
by competent men between April 15 and June 24, 1935,
who discovered nothing wrong-.with her." There is evidence to support those- findings and we will not disturb
them. Thus respondent has satisfied the burden of proof,
which is on those who seek the benefit of § 4283, of establishing.the lack of privity or knowledge (M'Gill v. Michigan S. S. Co., supra; In re Reichert Towing Line, supra;
The Silver Palm, supra) and is ehtitled to limit, his
liability, uhless any neglect of those to whom. duties

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

were delegated may be attributed to him for purposes of
§ 4283.
Petitioners press several lines of cases. on us. We are
not concerned here, however, with the question
of limitation of liability where the loss was occasioned by the
unseaworthiness of the vessel. The limitations acts have
long been held not to apply where the liability of the
owner rests on his personal contract. Pendleton v. Benner Line, 246 U. S. 353; Luckenbach v. McCahan Sugar
Co., 248 U. S. 139; Capitol TransportationCo. v. Cambria
Steel Co., 249 U. S. 334. As stated by Chief Justice Hughes
'in American Car & Foundry Co. v. Brassert,289 U. S. 261,
264, "For his own fault, neglect and contracts the owner
remains liable." And that exception extends to an implied as well as to an express warranty of seaworthiness.
Cullen Fuel Co. v. Hedger Co., 290 U. S. 82. But whatever limit there may be to that exception (id., p. 89; cf.
Earle & Stoddartv. Ellerman's Wilson Line, 287 U. S. 420,
arising under the fire statute) those cases are no authority
for imputing to the individual owner the neglect of another.
.soas to establish on his part privity within the meaning
of the statute.
Petitioners also rely on cases involving corporate shipowners. In those cases it is held that liability may not
be limited under the statute where the negligence is that
of an executive officer, manager or superintendent whose
scope, of authority includes supervision over the phase of
the business out of which the loss or injury occurred.
Spencer Kellogg & Sbns v. Hicks, 285 U. S. 502, and cases
cited; 3 Benedict, Admiralty (6th ed.) § 490. But those
cases are no authority for holding that the negligence
of a subordinate may be imputed to an individual owner
so as to place him in privity within the meaning of the
statute. A corporation necessarily acts through human
beings. The privity of some of those persons must be the
privity of the corporation else it could always limit its

CORYELL v. PHIPPS.
406

Opinion of the Court.

liability. Hence the search in those cases to see where
in the managerial hierarchy the fault lay.
In the case of individual owners, it has been commonly
held or declared that privity as used in the statute means
some personal participation of the owner in the fault or
negligence which caused or contributed to the loss or
injury. The 84-H, 296 F. 427; Warnken v. Moody, 22 F.
2d 960; Flat-Top Fuel Co. V. Martin.,85 F.-2d 39; and see
La Bourgogne, 210 U. S. 95, 122; Richardson'v. Harmon,
222 U. S. 96, 103; 3 Benedict, Admiralty (6th ed.) § 489.
That construction stems from the well settled policy to
administer the statute not "with a tight and grudging
hand" (Mr. Justice Bradley in Providence & New York
S. S. Co. V. Hill Mfg. Co., 109 U. S.578, 589) but "broadly
and liberally" so as "to achieve its purpose to encourage
investments in shipbuilding and to afford an opportunity
for the determination of claims against the vessel and its
owner." Just v. Chambers, 312 U. S. 383, 385. And see
Larsen v. Northland TransportationCo., 292 U. S. 20, 24;
Flink v. Paladini, 279 U. S. 59, 62; Richardson v. Harmon, supra, p. 103. Some cases, however, have barred
the individual owner from the benefits of the statute even
though the element of personal participation in the fault
or negligence was not present. Thus it has been thought
that the scope of authority delegated by an individual
owner to a subordinate may be so broad as to justify imputing privity (In re New York Dock Co., supra, p. 779)
as well as knowledge. In re Great Lakes Transit Corp.,
bupra, p. 444. We need not reach those questions in this
case. Privity, like knowledge' turns on the facts of
particular cases. Here two courts have found the absence
of both. We accept concurrent findings upon such matters. Just v. Chambers, supra, p. 385. And even were
we to assume without deciding that for the purposes of
§ 4283 privity as well as knowledge of an individual owner
may be constructive rather than actual, it does not follow

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

that Phipps should be barred from limiting his liability.
One who selects competent men to store and inspect a
vessel and who is not on notice as to the existence of any

defect in it cannot be denied the benefit of the limitation
as respects a loss incurred by an explosion during the
period of storage, unless "privity" or "knowledge" are
to become empty words. If § 4283 does not give protection to the individual owner in these circumstances, it is

difficult to imagine when it would.
Affirmed.

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE.
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 183. Argued December 14, 15, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.
1. Revised'Statutes § 1044, providing that "No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offense, not capital, . . . unless
the indictment is found, or the information is instituted, within
three years next after such offense shall have been committed,"
applies to a prosecution for criminal contempt. P. 416.
2. The act of inducing a federal court through misrepresentations
by attorneys to 'issue decrees effectuating a corrupt settlement of
litigation, including a distribution of impounded funds, if assumed to be "misbehavior" in the "presence" of the court within the
meaning of Jud. Code § 268, is a criminal contempt and an "offense"
against the United States within the meaning of R. S. § 1044.
P. 416.
3. The time when the three-year limitation of R. S. § 1044 begins to
run against a prosecution for a criminal contempt under Jud. Code
§ 268 is the time when the act of misbehavior in, the presence of
the court was committed; and, in a case of alleged contempt committed by inducing the court by false representations to order a
distribution of impounded funds, effectuating a fraudulent scheme,
the offense was complete when the misrepresentations were made,
*Together with No. 186, O'Malley v. United States, and No. 187,
McCormack v. United States, also on writs of certiorari, post, p. 608,
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

