OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED CARBON CO.

ET AL.

317 U. S.

v. BINNEY &

SMITH CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Argued November 13, 1942.-Decided December 7,1942.

1. Product claims of Patent No. 1,889,429, to Weigand and Venuto,
"1. Substantially pure carbon black in the form of commercially
uniform, comparatively small, rounded, smooth aggregates having
a spongy or porous interior. 2. As an article of manufacture, a pellet
of approximately one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter and formed
of a porous mass of substantially pure carbon black," held, bad for
indefiniteness. P. 232.
2. A patentee may iot broaden his claims by describing the product
in terms of function. P. 234.
3. An invention must be capable of accurate definition, and it must
be accurately defined, to be patentable. P. 237.
125 F. 2d 255, 126 F. 2d 3, reversed.
CERTIORARI,'316 U. S. 657, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 37 F. Supp. 779, dismissing a suit for infringement of a patent.

Mr. Hugh M. Morris, with whom Messrs. George P.
Dike, Arthur M. Smith, and Osman E. Swartz were on the
brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, with whom Mr. William' H.
Davis was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen filed a brief on behalf of
Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent sued for infringement of Patent No. 1,889,429, issued to Weigand and Venuto, relating to carbon.
black in aggregated form and a process for its conversion

UNITED CARBON CO. v. BINNEY CO.
228 -

229

Opinion of the Court.

to that form. Its complaint was particularized to apply
only to claims 1 and 2 of the patent, which are product
claims and not process claims. The District Court found
these claims invalid as lacking novelty and invention and
because they failed to define the product asserted to have
been invented:in such clear, definite, and exact terms as
required by patent law. It also found no infringement.
37 F. Supp.,779. The Circuit Court of Appeals held to
the contrary. on each of these propositions and reversed.
125 F. 2d 255. The importance of the questions in the
case prompted us to grant certiorari. 316 U. S. 657.
Carbon black has been manufactured from natural gas
since the 1870's. At present the most extensive of its many
uses is as a binder in automobile tires.' The particles of
carbon black in its original form are extremely fine and
dispersible. They are smaller than the length of a light
wave, having a diameter of about one-millionth of an inch.
One pound of them is said to present surfaces sufficient to
cover -12 or 13 acres. Unprocessed carbon black weighs
but ten pounds or less per cubic foot.
The fineness and dispersibility of the substance causes
it to raise in clouds of dust when handled, with consequent
losses, discomfort to workmen, and difficulties in manufacturing processes. Since 1915, when carbon black first came
to be widely used in the manufacture of rubber, many attempts.have been made to cope with the.dust problem. In
many cases, mixing rooms were segregated at great expense
from other parts of rubber factories, and the mills where
the carbon black was mixed into the rubber were enclosed
to confine the clouds of dust.
Efforts were made to prevent as well as to control the
dust. Compressing the carbon black to force out the
"Carbon black is also used as' an ingredient in various rubber, wax
and resin' compositions, phonograph records, paints and lacquers,
printer's ink, and carbon paper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

air and increase its density met with some, but only indifferent, success. Attempts were made to prevent dust
by the use of binders in the carbon black to make the
particles adhere. These were not satisfactory, since the
binders were unwanted and sometimes injurious substances and, at best, foreign matter to rubber formulas.
Wetting and drying the carbon black also proved unsatisfactory, since this caused the particles to adhere in such
manner that the aggregate product was not sufficiently
friable (i. e., breakable) and dispersible when mixed with
other substances.
Weigand and Venuto experimented extensively, and the
patent in litigation is the outcome. They mixed carbon
black with a liquid such as water; displaced the water
with another liquid, such as gasoline, which was substantially immiscible with the first and had a greater
ability to wet the carbon particles; agitated the mixture
until the water was substantially free from carbon; and
finally removed the gasoline by evaporation. As it apparently must in order to assert invention and infringement, respondent argues that Weigand and Venuto solved
the problem of carbon black dust by a product consisting
of carbon black aggregates formed without the use of
any binder, sufficiently hard and flowable to prevent the
formation of dust, yet sufficiently friable and dispersible
for use as a component in the manufacture of rubber and
other products.
Manufacture was undertaken, one Glaxner being employed to put into use the process taught by this patent.
He soon bettered his instruction by devising a simpler
and much less expensive process employing but one liquid.
His process was the subject of another patent,2 and at
once §uperseded that of the patent in suit, which thereupon became obsolete. Several other processes to achieve
2Glaxner,

Re. No. 21,379.

UNITED CARBON CO. v. BINNEY CO.

231

Opinion of the Court.

very similar results, including those used by the petitioner,
have also been developed and patented.' Commercial
success of respondent's process was short-lived, and the
really impressive commercial success has been achieved
since the development of the Glaxner.process.'
The product claims which respondent says the petitioner's product infringed, regardless of the process by
which it was made, read as follows: "1. Sustantially (sic)
pure carbon black in the form of commercially uniform,
comparatively small, rounded, smooth aggregates having
a spongy or porous interior. 2. As an article of manufac.ture, a pellet of approximately one-sixteenth of an inch in
3Billings & Offutt, Re. No. 19,750; Nos. 2,039,766, 2,120,540,
2,120,541; Price, No. 2,127,137; Heller & Snow, No. 2,131,686; Offutt,
No. 2,134,950; Grote, Re. No. 21,390.
4 Commercial success may be gauged by reference to the following
statistics on the sales of pounds of carbon black aggregates:

Year

Sales by
respondent

Sales by petitioner
.
.

_____

.
2v8ecess

192920, 000
1930
------------------164, 000
1931
------------------194,000
1932
------------------281,000

&
1 yre"
processf

.

.

Sales by

Cabot Co.
Cb "Cabot
"
process
proesso

(Total gross sales price, about $2,000.)

(In this year the Weigand and Venuto process
was superseded by the Glaxner process, which

1933
-----------------800,000
1934 ................
3,300,000
1935
-----------------15,000,000
1936
------------------30,000,000
193744,000,000
1938
.................. 53, 000,000
000,000
1939
.................. 97,

made possible the elimination of a price premium.)
---------------------------- 8,000,000
2,000 --- ------ ------------ 23,000,000
84,S76 ------------ 3, 66, 294
39,000, 000
62,000,000
7,031,000 ----------- 18,135,756
26,205,000
29,858,000

.680,363
3,747,538

11,928, 742
11,298,887

58,000,00
45,000,000

48,578, 00

17, 752,439

11, 533, 200

73,000,000

*In this process, carbon black mixed with water is forced through small apertures,
dried, and broken into short cylinders.
tTbis process, like the Glaxner process, employs but one liquid, water, and agitation.
*This Is a "dry" process, employing only agitation to cause the particles of carbon
black to adhere. It is the subject of a number of patents, the first of which was applied
for by Billings and Offutt on July 18, 1932 and issued as No. 2,120,540. Manufacture is
under license of the Cabot Company, patent owner.

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

diameter and formed of a porous mass of substantially
pure carbon black."
Section 4888 of the Revised Statutes, 35 U. S. C. § 33,
requires that the applicant for a patent "shall particularly
point out and distinctly claim the part, improvement, or
combination which he claims as his invention or discovery." As the Court recently stated in General Electric
Co. v. Wabash Corp., 304 U. S. 364, 369:
"Patents, whether basic or for improvements, must
comply accurately and precisely with the statutory requirements as to claims of invention or discovery. The
limits of a patent must be known for the protection of
the patentee, the encouragement of the inventive genius
of-others and the assurance that the subject of the patent
will be dedicated ultimately to the public. The statute
seeks to guard against unreasonable advantages to the
patentee and disadvantages to others arising from uncertainty as to their rights. The inventor must 'inform the
public during the life of the patent of the limits of the
monopoly asserted, so that it may be known which features may be safely used or manufactured without a
license and which may not.' The claims 'measure the
invention.' . . . In a limited field the variant must be
clearly defined."
The District Court found that the claims did not meet
*these requirements, and the Circuit Court of Appeals held
that they did. Much testimony was directed to this question at the trial, and it has been discussed in the briefs and
argument in this Court. Petitioner seeks reversal on the
grounds of anticipation and non-infringement. The scope
and sufficiency of the claims in suit necessarily present
themselves as preliminary problems in the resolution of
these ultimate issues. The courts in determining the
questions of invention and infringement brought to them
by respondent, no less than the parties-litigant, need and
may insist upon the precision enjoined by the statute.

UNITED CARBON CO. v. BINNEY CO.
228

233

Opinion of the Court.

To sustain claims so indefinite as not to give the notice
required by the statute would be in direct contravention
of the public interest which Congress therein recognized
and sought to protect. Cf. Muncie Gear Works v. Outboard, Marine & Mfg. Co., 315 U. S. 759.
Here, as in many other cases, it is difficult for persons
not skilled in the art to measure the inclusions or to appreciate the distinctions which may exist in the words of
a claim when read in the context of the art itself. The
cle-rest exposition of the significance which the terms
employed in the claims had for those skilled in the art
was given. by the testimony of Weigand, one of the patentees, whom respondent called as its witness. Weigand
was employed as Director of Research of the Columbian
Carbon Company, whose stock respondent owned, and for
whom respondent acted as sole selling agent. His testimony in this respect was given .principally upon crossexamination, but it-was in no wise impeached or contradicted, and is borne out by that of other witnesses. From
it we learn that "substantially pure" refers, not to freedom
from ash and other impurities, but rather to freedom from
binders; "commercially uniform" means only the degree
of uniformity demanded by buyers; "comparatively small"
is not shown to add anything to the claims, for nowhere
are we advised what standard is intended for comparisons;
"spongy" and "porous" are synonymous, and relate to; the
density and gas content of aggregates of carbon black.
.Although sponginess or porosity is not a necessary attribute of a friable substance, it does .contribute to the friability of aggregates of carbon black. It is of value only in
that regard. A spongy or porous aggregate of carbon black
may be so friable as to permit of the formation of dust;
and, on the other hand, it is conceivable that it might not
be sufficiently friable to mix satisfactorily with other substances such as those used in the manufacture of rubber
products. The correct degree of friability can be ascer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

tained only by testing the performance of the product in
actual processes of manufacture of products of which carbon black is a component. A "pellet" of carbon black is
"a spheroidal shaped aggregate that has substance and
strength to it." For "strength" "we have this rough and
ready test: does it survive under gentle rubbing of the
fingers. I would not say that is an adequate test to predicate rubber behavior on, but it is a rough and ready test";
and if it responds to that test it is a pellet within the meaning of the claim. Finally, what on first impression appears
to be reasonable certainty of dimension disappears when
we learn that "approximately one-sixteenth of an inch in
diameter" includes a variation from approximately 1/4th
to 1/100th of an inch.
So read, the claims are but inaccurate suggestions of the
functions of the product, and fall afoul of the rule that a
patentee may not broaden his claims by describing the
product in terms of function. Holland Furniture Co. v.
Perkins Glue Co., 277 U. S. 245, 256-258; General Electric
Co. v. Wabash Corp., supra, at 371-372.
Respondent urges that the claims must be read in the
light of the patent specification, ' and that as so read they
are sufficiently definite. Assuming the propriety of this
1 This states in pertinent part that:
"The main object of our invention is to secure carbon black having
the desired dispersive properties, greater density, freedom from dust,
freedom from gritty particles, less absorbed or occluded gases, reduced
oil absorption than the ordinary powder form, and capable of considerable handling without crushing or dusting.
"This process, if carried out under certain conditions, causos the
carbon black to form into pellets which are hard enough to stand any
ordinary shipment or handling without dusting, flying or breaking
down, and which at the same time are easily crushed by moderate
pressure, as between the fingers or by the pressures commonly employed in the rolls of rubber compounding niachinery, printer's ink
mixers and the like. The crushed particles have substantially their

UNITED CARBON CO. v. BINNEY CO.
228

235

Opinion of the Court.

method of construction, cf. GeneralElectric Co. vi Wabash
Corp., supra, at 373-375, it does not have the effect
original softness and the material disperses freely without leaving any
particles of undispersed carbon in the material.
"While the pellet form is a very convenient form of the carbon
black, the shape of the particles is not the most important characteristic of this novel carbon black.
"The pellets are very porous, of substantially spherical or globulai
form, have a smooth somewhat lustrous outer surface which is not
easily broken by handling, are more compact than untreated carbon,
are fragile under light pressure, and may be easily reduced to soft
minute particles which cannot be told from the original particles except
that possibly they have a more'unctuous feel. They somewhat resemble lead shot and may be rolled in the hand without dirtying or
dusting. Apparently the outer surface portion or shell of each pellet
is slightly more compact than the inner part, but still porous.
"In shipping or storing, we find that approximately twice the number of pounds of these pellets can be placed in a container of a given
size than is the case with the untreated carbon black. Thus, expense
is reduced for shipment or storage.
"There are various factors which enter into the process and these
may be varied to get the pellets harder or softer or larger or smaller.
Among these factors are the thickness of the paste, the amount of gasoline used, the adding of the gasoline in bulk or a little at a time, speed
of agitation, temperature, type of gasoline used, and character of the
carbon black.
"If small pellets are desired, a lesser amount of gasoline or other
liquid should be used in respect to the amount of water and carbon,
and greater agitation should be employed. To secure large pellets,
we use a larger amount of gasoline and slower agitation. In practice,
we do not consider a size larger than one-quarter of an inch desirable.
There are many kinds, grades or varieties -of carbon black and often
identification of the particular kind or grade is difficult. With our
improved process the different kinds or grades may be made into pellets
of different sizes so that identification is facilitated, for instance, very
small pellets may be made for printer's ink and larger ones for rubber,
etc."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

claimed, for the description in the specification is itself
almost entirely in- terms of function." It is therefore unnecessary to consider whether the rejection of certain
claims ' by the Patent Office might in turn deprive the
specification of any curative effect in this regard. Cf.

Schriber-Schroth Co. v. Cleveland Trust Co., 311 U. S.
211; Exhibit Supply Co. v. Ace Patents Corp., 315 U. S.
126.
The statutory requirement of particularity and distinctness in claims is met only when they clearly distinguish what is claimed from what went before in the art
and clearly circumscribe what is foreclosed from future
enterprise. A zone of uncertainty which enterprise and
experimentation may enter only at the risk of infringement claims would discourage invention only a little less
than unequivocal foreclosure of the field. Moreover, the
claims must be reasonably clear-cut to enable courts to
determine whether novelty and inventibn are genuine.
Congress has provided that a patent may be awarded only
for a new and useful manufacture "not patented or described in any printed publication in this or any foreign
country, before his invention or discovery thereof." R. S.
6

To meet objections of the examiner, the following product claims

were withdrawn in course of prosecution of the application:
"4. A pellet formed of (substantially pure)* soft carbon black
particles, the pellet being sufficiently hard to withstand ordinary
shipment or handling, but readily breaking down to a fine state of subdivision upon the application of slight pressure.
"8. Soft carbon black particles cohering in small masses of substantially uniform size and having smooth outer surfaces.
"2. Carbon black in the form of pellets of sponge-like or porous
structure.
"7. A carbon black pellet formed of soft carbon black, the pellet
having sufficient hardness to withstand ordinary shipment or handling
without dusting, but sufficiently fragile to permit reduction to the
original fine state of subdivision upon the application of light pressure."
*Added by amendment.

UNITED CARBON CO. v. BINNEY CO.
228

Opinion of the Court.

§ 4886, 35 U. S. C.§ 31. While we do not find it necessary
to consider questions of novelty and invention, in the view
we take of the claims in suit, a mere reading of prior art
patents shows how, if they are read with the liberality and
inclusiveness claimed for those in suit, they describe products, if not identical, at least of confusing similarity."
Whether the vagueness of 'the claim has its source in the
language employed or in the somewhat indeterminate
character of the advance claimed to have been made in
the art is not material. An invention must be capable of
accurate definition, and it must be accurately defined, to
be patentable. Cf. General Electric Co. v. Wabash Corp.,
supra, at 372-373.
We are of opinion that the claims in litigation are bad
for indefiniteness, and have no occasion to consider questions of novelty, invention, and infringement. The judgment below is
Reversed.

The prior Knowlton and Hoffman patent, No. 1,286,024, stated in
the specification that "Inptead of using the lampblack in its natural

condition, 'weprepare and treat the fine powder so as to cause its
concretion into friable grains or small lumps, dry and substantially
free from dust, and in this form incorporate it with the rubber on the
roller mill

the friability of the lumps or grains permitting

A uniform distribution of the filler throughout the rubber." Claim
No. 7 of this patent is: "The method of compounding rubber with
lampblack which consists in mixing the lampblack with water and
a binder, producing a granular condition, evaporating the water, and
incorporating the dry, granular lampblack-with rubber on a heated
mixing mill."
Claim No. 10 of the prior Coffin and Keen patent, No. 1,561,971, is:
"As a new article of manufacture, dried pulverulent material in the
form of very small individually dried fiable globular masses composed
of lightly cohering particles of the material."

