LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK R. CO.

481

Syllabus.

476

deduction by § 807 clearly do not go beyond the limits
of permissible constitutional power. Respondents also
object to the fact that the tax may have to be computed
by an algebraic formula ,or by complicated arithmetical
methods because of the two mutually dependent variables,
the amount of the tax and the amount of the residue
as reduced by the tax, and reference is made to the statements in, Edwards v, Slocum that "algebraic formulae are
not lightly to be imputed to legislators," 264 U. S. at 63.
This contention loses all significance when it is remembered that § 807 was intended as a "legislative reversal"
of Edwards v. Slocum. And compare United States v.
New York, 315 U. S. 510.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK WESTERN RAILROAD
Co.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT, FIRST DISTRICT, OF
ILLINOIS.

No. 124. Argued December 8, 9, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1043.
1. The Boiler Inspection Act imposes upon the carrier an absolute and
continuing duty 'to maintain its locomotives, and all parts and
appurtenances thereof, in proper condition, and safe to operate
without unnecessary peril to life or limb. Negligence is not the
basis of liability. P. 485.
2. The Boiler Inspection Act is to be liberally construed in the light of
its primepurpose, the protection of employees and others by requiring the use of safe equipment. P. 486.
3. The use of a locomotive tender upon which an employee must go
in the course of his duties, the top of which tender is covered with
ice, involves "unnecessary peril to life or limb" within the meaning
of the Boiler Inspection Act, as construed by Rule 153 of the Rules
adopted pursuant thereto by the Interstate Commerce Commission;
503873-43----38

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1942;
Counsel #f

Parties.

317 U. S.

which rule provides that the "Top of tender behind fuel space shall
be kept clean, and means provided to carry off waste water."
P. 486.
4. A rule promulgated by the Interstate Commerce Commission in
the exercise of its authority under the Boiler Inspection Act has
the force of law and becomes an integral part of the Act to be
judicially noticed. P. 488.
5. In an action for personal injuries, a railway employee relied upon
infractions of the Boiler Inspection Act in the use of a locomotive
which was in improper condition and unsafe to operate, constituting
unnecessary peril to life and limb (1) in that the tender on the top
where he was required to work was slippery with ice (this count
being supplemented by a charge that the tender leaked there); and
(2) in that the tender at the place inquestion was cracked, so as
to permit leakage of water, liable to freeze and cause a dangerous
condition on top of the tender. Held that the existence of a leak
was not essential to the first charge, and that a general verdict for
the plaintiff could be sustained, notwithstanding that by answer
to a special interrogatory the jury also found that the alleged leak
in the tender did not exist, P. 489.
6. In an action for personal injuries resulting from violations of the
Boiler Inspection Act, the partial defense of contributory negligence
and the bar of assumption of risk are not available under §§ 3 and 4
of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as those sections read at
the date of the accident here in question. P. 491.
312 Ill.
App. 73, 37 N. E. 2d 888, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post. p. 612, to review a judgment for the
present respondent, entered by the court below non
obstante veredicto in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability and the Boiler Inspection Acts. The
Supreme Court of Illinois refused leave to appeal.
Mr. William H. DeParcq,with whom Mr. Samuel Cohen
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harold A. Smith, with whom Messrs. H. Victor
Spike and Silas H. Strawn were on the brief, for
respondent,

LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK R. CO.
481

Opinion .of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner brought this action in an Illinois state court,
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act' and the
Boiler Inspection Act,2 for personal injuries sustained on
February 6, 1937, in the course of his employment as a
brakeman in interstate commerce. A general verdict of
$32,500 was returned in his favor by the jury, but on appeal the Appellate Court of Illinois for the First District
entered judgment for respondent notwithstanding the
verdict.' The Supreme Court of Illinois refused leave to
appeal. We granted certiorari because of the important
questions presented in the interpretation of the abovementioned federal statutes.
Petitioner fell from the top of the locomotive tender
while he was pulling a water spout, which was at the side
of the track, over the tender's manhole by means of a rod
and hook, preparatory to filling the tender's tank with
water. As to the circumstances of the accident, petitioner testified that the top of the tender between the
water manhole and the fuel space, an area of some six
square feet, was covered with ice; that there was a small
leak at the collar of the manhole from which water flowed
onto the tender's surface; that the rod, used for pulling
the water spout over the tender, was frozen in the ice, and
he had to kick it free; that he stood on the ice and braced
himself as he reached out with the rod to pull the spout;
and that as he pulled, the rod's hook slipped on the spout,
and his feet simultaneously 'slipped on the ice, causing
him to fall to the ground.
Petitioner's complaint charged negligence generally
with respect to the presence of ice on the tender and also
145

U. S. C. §§ 51 et seq.

2 45 U. S. C. §§ 22 et seq.

3 312 Ill. App. 73, 37 N. E. 2d 888.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

alleged as separate violations of the "Federal Safety Appliance Act" (more properly the Boiler Inspection Act),
first that respondent used "a locomotive and tender which
was in improper condition and unsafe to operate in the
service, and its condition constituted unnecessary peril
to life and limb in that . . . the top where the plaintiff
was required to work was slippery and covered with ice
and other slippery materials to endanger his life or limb,
and the tender leaked there, . . .,"and secondly that respondent used "a locomotive and tender which was in improper condition and unsafe to operate in the service, and
its condition constituted unnecessary peril to life and limb,
in that the . . . tender . . . at the part where the water is
supplied . . . to be [sic] cracked, worn and split, so as
to occasion and permit the leaking of water from and
through this crack, . .. rendering it likely and liable
for the water to freeze and, cause a dangerous
condition,.
When the jury rendered its general verdict
for petitioner, it also answered in the negative the following
special int3rrogatory submitted by respondent:
"Was there, at the time of the accident in question, a
leak in or near the manhole collar on the tender in
question ?"
Respondent then moved for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict, on the ground that the answer to the special
interrogatory removed all question of violation of the
Boiler Inspection Act from the case, that there was no
evidence of 'negligence, and that in any event petitioner
assumed the risk. The trial court denied this motion,
but on appeal it was held well taken in all respects.
'At the close of his case, petitioner voluntarily dismissed two additional counts charging general negligence in supplying a defective
rod and hook, and general negligence in supplying a defective water
spout.

LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK R. CO.
481

Opitiion of the Court.

For our purposes the case resolves into twn questions:
(1) Granting, as the jury found, that the tender did not
leak, could the jury nevertheless find that the Boiler Inspection Act was violated by the presence of ice on the
tender's top; and (2) Was the jury properly instructed
that it might so find? We believe that both questions
should be affirmatively answered and that the judgment
below should be reversed.
The Boiler Inspection Act (§ 2) provides:
"It shall be unlawful for any carrier to use or permit to
be used on its line any locomotive unless said locomotive,
its boiler, tender, and all parts and appurtenances thereof
are in proper condition and safe to operate in t-ho service to
which 'the same are put, that the same may be employed
in the active service of such carrier without unnecessary
peril to life or limb, and unless said locomotive, its boiler,
tender, and all parts and appurtenances thereof have been
inspected from time to time in accordance'with the provisions of sections 28, 29, 30, and 32 and are able to withstand such test or tests as may be prescribed in the rules
and regulations hereinafter provided for." 45 U. S. C.

§23.
Negligence is not the basis for liability under the Act.
Instead, it "imposes upon the carrier an absolute and continuing duty to maintain the locomotive, and all parts and
appurtenances thereof, in proper cbnditi6n, and safe to
operate . . . without unnecessary peril to life or limb."
Southern Ry. Co. v. Lunsford, 297 U. S. 398, 401; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U. S. 521; cf. Brady v.
Terminal Railroad Assn., 303 U. S. 10. Any employee
engaged in interstate commerce who is injured by reason
of a violation of the Act may bring his action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, charging the violation
of the Boiler Inspection Act. Moore v. C. & 0. Ry. Co., 291
U. S. 205, 210-211; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Donaldson,
246 U. S. 121; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, supra.

486'

4 OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The Act, like the Safety Appliance Act, is to be liberally
construed in the light of its prime purpose, the protection
of employees and others by requiring the use of safe equipment. Cf. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Donaldson, supra;
St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 29596; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U. S. 617,
621; Swinson v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 294 U. S.
529, 531. And, the Interstate Commerce Commission is
broadly authorized to set the standards of compliance by
prescribing "rules and regulations by which fitness for
service [of locomotives, tenders and their appurtenances]
shall be determined," Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line, 272
U. S. 605, 612, provided that, it ha- been said, the Commission finds such are required to remove unnecessary
peril to life or limb. United States v. B. & 0. R. Co.,
293 U. S. 454; cf. Southern Ry. Co. v. Lunsford, supra.
With these considerations in mind, we turn to the first
question.
The use of a tender, upon whose top an employee must
go in the course of his duties, which is covered with ice
seems to us to involve "unnecessary peril to life or limb"enough so as to permit a jury to find that the Boiler Inspection Act has been violated. Fortunately, we are not
left wholly to our own resources in construing the Act in
the light of its humanitarian purpose. The Interstate
Commerce Commission has set the standard here by
promulgating a rule (No. 153) that the "Top of tender
behind fuel space shall be kept clean, and means provided
to carry off waste water." I From the phrasing of Rule
153 we think it aimed at requiring the top of the tender
5The full text of Rule 153 follows:

"153. Feed water tanks.-(a) Tanks shall be maintained free from
leaks, and in safe and suitable condition for service. Suitable screens
must be provided for tank wells or tank hose.
(b) Not less frequently than once each month the interior of the
tank shall be inspected, and cleaned if necessary.

LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK R. CO.
481

487

Opinion of the Court.

to be kept free of foreign matter which would render footing insecure, for example, coal, dust, debris, grease, waste
water, and ice. While the locomotive inspection rules are
generally devoted to details of construction and specification of materials, at least one other rule deals with the
condition of surfaces upon which employees must stand."
In using the word "clean," the Commission must have
meant something more than mere manner of construction
or mechanical operation, because "clean" does not naturally lend itself to, such a limited connotation. That
something more is the continuing duty of promoting the
safety of employees by removing from the top of the
tender all extraneous substances which might make
standing there hazardous.
From various cases denying recovery under the Act,
respondent attempts to extract a general rule that the
Act covers only defects in construction or mechanical
operation and affords no protection against the presence
of dangerous objects or foreign matter.' But there is no
(c) Top of tender behind fuel space shall be kept clean, and means
provided to carry off waste water. Suitable covers shall be provided
for filling holes."
See Official Pamphlet of Interstate Commerce Commission, Bureau of
Locomotive Inspection, Orders dated October 11, 1915, to Februar ,
21, 1929; Roberts, Federal Liabilities of Carriers (2d ed.) vol. 2, p.
2069.
6 Rule

117 provides:

"117. Cab aprons.-Cab aprons shall be of proper length and width
to insure safety. Aprons must be securely hinged, maintained in a
safe and suitable condition for service, and roughened, or other provision made, to afford secure footing."
See Official Pamphlet, supra, and Roberts, op. cit., p. 2062.
7
Ford v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 54 F. 2d 342 (grease on a locomotive grab-iron held no violation of Safety Appliance and Boiler
Inspection Acts); Reeves v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 147
Minn. 114, 179 N. W. 689 (presence of coal upon a step leading to
the locomotive cab held no violation of Safety Appliance and Boiler
Inspection Acts); Slater v. Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry. Co., 146

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Olinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

warrant in the language of the Act for construing it so
narrowly, or for denying the Commission power to remedy
shortcomings, other than purely mechanical defects, which
may make operation unsafe. The Act without limitation
speaks of equipment "in proper condition and safe to
operate . . . without unnecessary peril to life or limb."
Conditions other than mechanical imperfections can
plainly render equipment, unsafe to operate without unnecessary peril to life or limb. Whatever else may be
said about the cases relied upon by respondent, they are
sufficiently distinguishable in that they either did not
involve or did not consider Rule 153 or any comparable
regulation.
Respondent insists that reliance cannot be placed on
Rule 153 because it was not called to the attention of the
trial court or the jury and its injection now would involve
deciding the case on issues not submitted to the jury. We
do not regard this point as well taken. No claim is advanced that the rule is invalid, and we see no reason for
questioning it. Adopted in the exercise of the Commis
sion's authority, Rule 153 acquires the force of law and
becomes an integral part of the Act (cf. Napier-v. Atlantic
Coast Line, supra; Un.ted States v. B. & 0. R. Co., supra),
to be judicially noticed. Caha v. United States, 152 U. S.
211, 221-22. The failure of petitioner's counsel to call
Minn. 390, 178 N. W. 813 (holding no cause of action under Safety
Appliance Act for injuries caused by an ice bunker displaced by a
trespasser so it projected upon the running board); Chicago, R. I.
& P. Ry. Co. v. Benson, 352 Ill. 195, 185 N. E. 244 (Safety Appliance
Act held not violated by wrapping wire around grab-irons); Harlan
v. Wabash Ry. Co., 335 Mo. 414, 73 S. W. 2d 749 (failure of fellow
employees to close a trap door in the cab over the stoker held no
violation of the Boiler Inspection and Safety Appliance Acts); Riley
v. Wabash Ry. Co., 328 Mo. 910, 44 S. W. 2d 136 (holding po cause.
of action existed under Boiler Inspection Act for injuries sustained
because a clinker hook was misplaced on a tender top by a fellow
servant.

LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK R. CO.
481

Opinion of the Court.

Rule 153 to the attention of the trial court should no more
deprive petitioner of its benefits than the failure to plead
specifically the Federal Employers' Liability Act foreclosed the application of that Act on appeal to test the
correctness of the trial judge's refusal to charge in Grand
Trunk Western Ry. Co. V. Lindsay, 233 U. S. 42, especially
when, as here, the rule only fortifies a result which we think
the jury could probably have reached even in the absence
of such a rule.
Concluding that the jury had a right to find a violation
of the Boiler Inspection Act by reason of the presence of
ice on the top of the tender even though there was no leak,
we turn now to the second question: Was the jury properly
instructed that it might so find? The court below held
and respondent here earnestly insists that with regard to
the Boiler Inspection Act the case was tried solely on the
theory that the only violation of that Act charged was that
the tender leaked, and the answer to the special interrogatory therefore removed all question of violation of the
Act from the case. This was not the view oi the trial
judge, and, while the record is not as satisfactory as we
might wish, we agree with him.
It is true that both charges of violation of the Act do
allege the presence of a leak, and petitioner's counsel did
say in his closing argument to the jury "So, as I say,
gentlemen, don't find that there was no leak, or you put
him (petitioner) out of court." But there is no reason to
penalize petitioner for remarks of counsel uttered in an
excess of zeal, and the full text of the complaint is such
that it is fair to say that the presence of a leak was vital
to only one charge of violation of the Act, being merely an
incidental, nonessential allegation of the other.8 This
8 Thus, while a lcak is alleged in paragraph 4 (d) of the complaint,

the full text makes it clear that the gist of the charge is simply the
presence of ice:
"d. Defendant did then and there unlawfully and contrary to the
Federal Safety Appliance Act use and permit to be used on its line of

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

was the understanding of the trial judge, upon whom rests
primarily the function of interpreting- the pleadings.
For, in overruling respondent's motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, the trial judge said: "Now,
whether there was a crack or not, yet still the question of
the Safety Appliance [Boiler Inspection Act] could remain in there if the Court did feel that it was the duty of
railway at Ferndale Yard a locomotive and tender which was in
improper condition and unsafe to operate in the service, and its condition constituted unnecessary peril to life and limb in that the defendant required, caused and permitted plaintiff to work on the tender
of the locomotive of his train on the occasion above charged, in the
act of putting water in the tender of the locomotive, this tender was
unsafe because the top where the plaintiff was required to work was
slippery and covered with ice and other slippery materials to endanger
his life or limb, and the tender leaked there, and while he was so at
work, as above charged, he slipped on this slippery and unsafe condition on top of the tender and was thrown and caused to fall and be
seriously injured."
On the other hand, the essence of Paragraph 4 (e)is the presence
of-a leak, as the following full quotation shows:
"e. Defendant did then and there unlawfully and contrary to the
Federal Safety Appliance Act use and permit to be used on its line
of railway at Ferndale Yard, Michigan, a loc6motive and tender which
was in improper condition and unsafe to operate in the service, and its
condition constituted unnecessary peril to life and limb, in that the defendant did operate' this locomotive and tender with the tender of this
locomotive at the part where the water is supplied to and poured into
the locomotive to be cracked, worn and split, so as to occasion and
.permit the leaking of water from and through this crack, hole and
aperture and to flood, seep and cover the top of the tender where
plaintiff was required to be in the performance of his duties as employee, rendering it likely and liable for the water to freeze and cause
a dangerous condition, and thereby, by reason of this violation bn the
part of the defendant of this Federal Safety Appliance Act, the water
in this tender did leak through this defective place onto the top of the
tender, and did freeze, and it thereby caused plaintiff, while he was so
at work, as above charged, on the top of this tender, to slip and be
thrown and seriously injured."

LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK"R. CO.
481

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant to keep the tender clear so that the man
might operate."
In his instructions to the jury, the judge read the
Boiler Inspection Act and stated:
"You are instructed that under the law the defendant
was bound to furnish to the plaintiff a locomotive, atthe
time in question, which was safe to be used, and to keep
and maintain the same in such condition at all times so
as not to expose the plaintiff to any hazard or risk."
Respondent took no'exception. We think this charge sufficiently informed the jury that it could find a violation
of thi3 Act from the presence of ice, even if there were no
leak. Evidently this was the understanding of the jury,
because it found nothing incongruous in simultaneously
answering the special interrogatory negatively and returning a general verdict for petitioner despite counsel's
statement that a finding of no leak would put his client
out of court.
Since petitioner's injuries were the result of respondent's violation of the Boiler Inspection Act, the partial
defense of contributory negligence and the bar of assumption of risk are not available to resp6ndent under
§§ 3 and 4 of the Federal Employers' Liability. Act, 45
U. S. C. §§ 53, 54, as those sections existed at the date of
the accident. This disposition of the case makes it unnecessary to consider either whether respondent was generally negligent, or the merits of petitioner's contention,
based on the premise that respondent was so negligent,
that the 1939 amendment to § 4 of the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, 53 Stat. 1404, completely abolishing' the defense of assumption of risk in actions under that Act,
should be given retroacive application.
Under the facts of this case and the applicable law, the
jury could rightfully find for petitioner. The benefits
of that rightful determination should not have been taken
from him.

OCTOBER TERM, 194.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs- in the result.
SPIES v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 278. Argued December 18, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
Section 145 (b) of the Internal Revenue Code, making it a felony
willfully to attempt to evade or defeat a tax, is not violated by
willful omissions to make a return and pay a tax, defined in § 145 (a)
as misdemeanors. P. 497.
128 F. 2d 743, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 610, to review the affirmance of a
conviction upon an indictment under 26 U. S. C. § 145 (b)
for attempting to evade and defeat a federal income tax.
.

Mr. David V. Cahill for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
GeneralFahy and Messrs.Sewall Key and Earl C. Crouter
were on the brief, for -the United States.
MR. JUSTICE JAcxsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner has been convicted of attempting to defeat
and evade income tax, in viqlation of § 145 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1936, 49 Stat. 1648, 1703, now §'145 (b) of the
Internal Revenue Code. The Circuit Court of Appeals
found the assignmient of error directed to the charge to the
jury the only one of importance enough to notice. The
charge followed the interpretation put upon this section
of the statute in O'Brien v. United States, 51 F. 2d 193
(C. C. A. 7), and United States v. Miro, 60 F. 2d 58 (C. C.

