CLYDE-MALLORY LINES v. EGLANTINE.

395

'Opinion of the Court.
CLYDE-MALLORY LINES v. THE EGLANTINE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI .TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 265. Argued November 20, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.
1. Where a libel in rem is brought against a vessel, in private
ownership and operation, to recover upon a cause of 'action arising
out of a collision which occurred when the vessel was owned and
operated by the Government, and the Government appears in the
suit and assumes liability under § 4 of the Suits in Admiralty Act,
the two-year limitation period of § 5 of that Act is applicable
P. 397.
2. Section 18 of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, which incorporates
§ 9 of the Shipping Act of 1916, provides that government merchant vessels should be "subject to all laws, regulations and liabilities
governing merchant vessels," leaving 'the time within which to
bring suits for the enforcement of liens to be decided in uccordance
with the general rules of laches under admiralty practice;- In a
case such as the one here presented, the two-year bar of § 5 of the
Suits in Admiralty Act is not affected by § 9 of the Shipping Act of
1916 as reenacted, even though the reenactment was subsequent
to the Suits in Admiralty Act., P. 398.
127 F. 2d 569, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 609, to review the reversal of a decree

in favor of the petitioner, 38 F. Supp. 658, in a suit begun
by a libel in rem against a vessel and in which the United
States intervened.
Mr. CJhaunceyI. Clark, with whom Mr. Eugene Underwood was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Sidney J. Kaplan, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Mr. J. Frank,
Staley were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The question in this case is whether the libel in rem
brought by the petitioner against the Steamship Eglantine

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

is barred by § 5 of the Suits in Admiralty Act, 41 Stat. 525,
which provides that "suits hereunder shall be brought
within two years after the cause of action arises."
On December 21, 1932, while the Eglantine was being
operated by the United States as a merchant vessel, it
collided with the Steamship Brazos, owned by the petitioner. Four and one-half years later, after the government had sold the Eglantine to a private operator, the
petitioner filed this libel in rem againstthe vessel and the
marshal took it from the private owner under an admiralty warrant of attachment. Admiralty imposes a lien
upon privately owned vessels for damages inflicted by
'negligent operation and provides for enforcement by proceedings against the vessels themselves.1 In § 9 of the
Shipping Act of 1916, 39 Stat. 728, Congress permitted
enforcement of such liens against government merchant
vessels by providing that they should be "subject to all
laws, regulations and liabilities governing merchant vessels" generally. The Shipping Act contained no limitation of time within which such actions must be commenced,
but left that. question to be decided in accordance with the
general rules of laches under admiralty practice.' This
clause was carried forward and became a part of § 18 of
the Merchant Marine Act of 1920. 46 U. S. C. § 808.,
It is the petitioner's contention that this action in rem
was authorized and controlled by § 9 as amended. The
:government contends that the Suits in Admiralty Act
withdrew the previous 1916 congressional consent to impose and enforce liens against vessels for injuries inflicted
by government operation whether the vessels are in its
possession or that of its purchasers. In addition, the government asserts that this proceeding is one under and controlled by § 5 of the Suits in Admiralty Act and therefore
barred because brought more than two years after the colThe John G. Stevens, 170 U. S. 113, 120.
2The Key City, 14 Wall. 653.

- CLYDE-MALLORY
395

LINES v. EGLANTINE.

397

Opinion of the Court.

lision. The District Court ruled against the government
on both these defenses, under authority of The Bascobal,
295 F. 299. But the Circuit Court of Appeals declined to
follow its former ruling in The Bascobal, held § 5 applicable, and accordingly reversed, 127 F. 2d 569. We
granted certiorari because the questions raised are. important in the construction of the Suitsin Admiralty Act,
and are in some doubt. Cf. The Caddo, 285 F. 643. We
think the limitations of § 5 of the Suits in Admiralty Act
are controlling, and for that reason we find it unnecessary
to consider the other defense set up by the government.
In The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S. 246, this Court decided
that § 9 of the Shipping Act of 1916 did make government merchant vessels subject to seizure under in rem
proceedings. This decision however prompted Congress
shortly thereafter to review and reconsider the effect of
the broad powers § 9 had granted.' The result of this
review was passage of the Suits in Admiralty Act in which
Congress expressly withdrew its previous consent to have
government vessels subject to the laws applicable to merchant ships generally. Section 1 provided for their immunity from arrest or seizure -by judicial process in he
United States or its possessions; § 2 authorized libels in
personam directly against the United States for injuries
inflicted by its govcernmental ship operations. But Congress went beyond the cases of liability for ships in the
possession of the United States and made careful provision
in § 4 for a manner of determining governmental liability
for maritime torts occurringi during the period of government ownership should government vessels be transferred
to private owners before suit was brought. That Section
gave the government the privilege, of which it availed
itself in this case, to appear as a party defendant and assume liability, and expressly prescribed that "thereafter
such cause shall proceed agaifist the United States in
8Blamberg Bros. v. United States, 260 U. S. 452, 458.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

accordance with the provisions of this Act." Immediately subsequent is the "provision of this Act" here in
question: "Suits hereunder shall be brought within two
years." This is as surely a provision of the Act in accordance with which the cases must be governed as is any
other clause. The Suits in Admiralty Act thus prescribes
a comprehensive procedural pattern designed fully to control the method by and the time within which obligations
for damages inflicted by government operation of ships
must be instituted and determined.
There is no question that under the Suits in Admiralty
Act suits against the governnent for maritime torts committed by its vessels, when brought while the vessels are
still in the possession of the government, are, subject to
the two-year limitation provision. Section 4 provides so
closely related a method of permitting the government
to meet its obligations on a maritime tort with economy
and dispatch that we should be slow to construe any
ambiguity in the statute to establish a separate and distinct period of limitation for it. The conclusion is inescapable that there is no practical difference between suits
against the government as owner of the vessel and against
the government 'as the party in interest when it voluntarily appears to defend its lately sold property against
tort liabilityAs has been noted, § 9 of the 1916 Act was incorporated
in the 1920 Merchant Marine Act, passed three months
:after the Suits in Admiralty Act. It has been suggested,
although not vigorously pressed, that even if the Suits
in Admiralty Act was intended to bar actions such as this,
it was modified by re-enactment of § 9. Congress did, not,
however, in passing the Merchant Marine Act, *as it did
in passage of the Suits in Admiralty Act, have its attention focused on this particular problem. Running through
the Merchant Marine Act there appears repeated manifestation of a Congressional purpose to expedite transfer

KIESELBACH v. COMMISSIONER.
395

Syllabus.

of. government vessels into private hands,' a purpose,
clearly compatible with the Suits in Admiralty Act whicfi
through its limitation provisions cut off lingering liens.
There is nothing whatever in the 1920 Merchant Marine
Act, nor, so far as has been pointed out to us, anything in
its legislative history, indicating that Congress intended
to repeal, alter, or amend the Suits in Admiralty Act in
whole or in part. The 1920 re-enactment is not meaningless; it retains in the law that portion of the 1916 statute

unaffected by the Suits in Admiralty Act. It remains an
expression of the basic policy of waiver of immunity by
the government for maritime torts of the sort within its
scope.

We hold that when the government voluntarily appears
in an action authorized by § 4 of the Suits in Admiralty
Act, the proceedings are governed by § 5 with its limitation provisions.
Affirmed.

KIESELBACH ET UX. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
U'J.VIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT..

No. 184. Argued December 11, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943
Title *to real. property in the City of New York was taken by the City,
together with the possession and the right to all after-accruing rents,
by a proceeding in condemnation under § 976 of the Greater New
Yor Charter. Several months later, the final decree awarded the
former owners, as just compensation, the value of the property on
.the day of taking, with interest thereon from that date till the date
of payment. Held. that the part of the award designated as "interest," although it was part of the "just compensation" that must be
paid the owner to justify the taking, was not a part of the sale price
of a capital asset under § 117 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1936 and
was taxable as income under § 22 of that Act. P. 403.
127 F. 2d 359, affirmed.
'41 Stat. 988, §§ 1, 5,6, 7, 12, 19

