56

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. CALLAHAN WALKER
CONSTRUCTION CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 65. Argued October 23, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.
Under the Government construction contract here involved, an "equitable adjustment" for the extra work performed by the contractor re-

quired merely the ascertainment of the cost of digging, moving, and
placing earth, and of a reasonable allowance for profit. These were
questions of fact; and, if they were erroneously determined by the
contracting officer, the contractor's remedy was by appeal to the
head of the department concerned, as provided by Article 15 of the

contract. P. 61.
95 Ct. Cls. 314, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

316 U. S. 656, to review a judgment against

the United States in a suit by a contractor upon a construction contract.
Mr. Richard S. Salant, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Mr. Oscar H.
Davis were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Robert A. Littleton for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case involves the meaning and application of the
terms of a standard form of Government construction
contract.
The findings of the Court of Claims may be summarized.
In 1931 the War Department asked bids for the construction of a levee on the east side of the Mississippi River.
The respondent bid 14.430 a cubic yard on a section of
the work involving approximately 3,881,600 cubic yards
.of earthwork. A paragraph of the specifications reserved
*the right to make such changes in the work contemplated
as might be necessary or expedient to carry out the intent

U. S. v. CALLAHAN WALKER CO.
Opinion of the Court.

of the contract or to meet unanticipated conditions, but
added that no such modification would be the basis for a
claim for extra compensation except as provided in the
regular form of contract to be entered into between the
parties.
The respondent began construction at the south end of
the project and proceeded northward. The length of
the proposed levee was divided by stations ohe hundred
feet apart and numbered from north to south. Sixtyeight per cent. of the construction between Station 5123
and Station 5113 had been completed when portions of the
levee already constructed south of Station 5123 were found
to have a tendency to subside., For this reason the Government contracting officer, on October 7, 1932, ordered
the work stopped between the two stations while he sought
to determine the, cause of the subsidence. He concluded
that the placing of an enlarged false berm, not called for
in the original specifications, would prevent subsidence in
the sector between the two stations. On October 18th he
gave respondent a written order to construct such a berm;
the order stated that respondent would be given one hundred per cent. credit for the earth placed south of Station
5123 where the subsidence had occurred, and that payment for additional yardage required by the false berm
would be made at the contract price per cubic yard. The
additional yardage involved was about 64,000 cubic yards.
The work covered by the change order was necessary for
the completion of the project. The order was issued
against the respondent's protest that an extra price shold
be allowed as the additional work would cost the respondent more than 14.430 per cubic yard, and that the order was
not within the terms of the contract. The respondent
asserted it would later present a claim'for extra cost occasioned it by the additional work.
Article 3 of the standard form of constru'ction contract
signed by the parties provides:

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.

58

Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

"Article 3. Changes.-The contracting officer may at
any time, by a written order, and without notice to the
sureties, make changes in the drawings and (or) specifications of this contract and within the general scope thereof.
If such changes cause an increase or decrease in the
amount due under this contract, or in the time required
for its performance, an equitable adjustment shall be
made and the contract shall be modified in writing accordingly. .

.

. Any claim for adjustment under this article

must be asserted within ten days from the date the change
is ordered, unless the contracting officer shall for proper
cause extend such time, and if the parties can not agree
upon the adjustment the dispute shall be determined as
provided in Article 15 hereof. But nothing provided in
this article shall excuse the contractor from proceeding
with the prosecution of the work so changed."
Article 15 provides:
"Article 15. Disputes.-Except as otherwise specifically provided in this contract, all disputes concerning
questions of fact arising under this contract shall be decided by the contracting officer or his duly authorized
representative, subject to written appeal by the contractor within thirty days to the head of the department
concerned, whose decision shall be final and conclusive
upon the parties. thereto as to such questions of fact. In
the meantime the contractor shall diligently proceed with
the work as directed."
The respondent did not appeal from the order of the
contracting officer to the head of the department concerned. After completion of the work, the acceptance of
the Government's final payment was under protest.
Thereafter respondent brought this action for its additional costs cver the price of 14.430 paid it for the extra
work, and was awarded a recovery by the court below.
The Government's defense was that, under the terms of
the contract, the contracting officer's decision as to what

U. S. v. CALLAHAN WALKER CO..
Opinion of the Court.

56

was an equitable adjustment involved only a question of
fact, and that, if the respondent was dissatisfied with the
officer's judgment, the contract limited further recourse
to an appeal to the' department head. The court below
overruled the contention by a vote of 3 to 2, one of the
judges in the majority writing a separate opinion. Two
of the judges were of opinion that the contracting officer.
paid no attention to Art. 3 -of the contract, made no adjustment, and, without considering the possibility of extra
costs involved in the extra work, simply ruled that the
contract price applied-to it.
We cannot accept this view for several reasons. In the
first place, there are no findings to support it. The findings show that the officer gave the matter 6onsideration,
reached a decision about it, and issued the order which
gave respondent a credit to which it might not have been
entitled under the contract, -and fixed the rate of 14.43¢
per cubic yard for the extra yardage required by the
change in the specifications. There are no findings that
the contracting officer failed to ascertain the probable
cost of the new work or that he did not honestly decide
that the contract price would be a. fair allowance for the
extra work. If the conflict between the opinion and the
findings were sufficient to require a remand for clarification, this is obviated in the present instance by certification of the evidence, Which supports the following conclusions. Between October 7th, the date of the stop order,
and October 18th, the date of the change order, the respondent's officials were in' touch with the area engineer
and the contracting officer, represented that there was not
sufficient earth in the borrow pit opposite the sector in
question but that the earth would -have to be brought
from other points, and that the contract pric6 o'f 14.430
would be insufficient to compensate for the additional
expense involved. The Government's representatives dis1 95

Ct. Cis. 314.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

agreed with the contentions. Prior to October 18th, however, after talking with the contracting officer, respondent's officials signified that they would proceed with the
work as ordered, keep a careful record of the work done
and its cost, and would later insist on payment of any
cost greater than that specified by the change order.
All three judges who were in the majority below agreed,
as an alternative ground of decision, that if what the contracting officer did constituted his notion of an equitable
adjustment, he was wrong; and the respondent was right
in its claim that the adjustment made was unfair and inequitable. To the Government's insistence that the question was one of fact and, therefore, to be settled finally by
appeal to the department head, in accordance with Art. 15
of the contract, the court below replied that this court, in
Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Co., 308 U. S. 106, and Securities Commission v. United States Realty Co., 310 U. S.
434, held that what constitutes an equitable adjustment is
not a question of fact but a question of law. In this view
they held that Art. 15 was inapplicable; that the contracting officer having erred in his construction of the contract
had thereby breached its terms, and the respondents were
entitled to sue for the amount of damage incurred by that
breach.
The decisions cited are not authority for the principle
that what is fair and equitable is always a question of law.
Quite the contrary. In § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act it
was provided that the court should confirm a plan of reorganization if satisfied "it is fair and equitable" and does
not discriminate' unfairly in favor of any class of creditors
or stockholders. We held that, in this connection, the
phrase "fair and equitable" had become a term of art, that
Congress used it in the sense in which it had been used
by the courts in reorganization cases, and that whether a
plan met the test of fairness and equity long established
by judicial decision was not a question to be answered by.

UNITED STATES v. RICE.
56

Syllabus.

the creditors and stockholders but by the court as a matter
of law.
An "equitable adjustment" of the respondent's additional payment for extra work involved merel 7 the-ascertainment of the cost of digging, moving, and placing earth,
and the addition to that cost of a reasonable and customary allowance for profit. These were inquiries of fact.
If the contracting officer erroneously answered them,
Article 15 of the contract provided the only 6venue for
relief.
The judgment is
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. RICE

ET AL.,

RECEIVERS FOR

D. C. ENGINEERING COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 31.

Argued October 22, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

Under a Government contract for the installation of equipment in
a building, the contractor agreed to complete the work within the
time allowed under another contract, with another contractor, for
the construction of the building. The building contract provided
for complet _n within 25Q days after notice, but permitted changes
in the specifications to be made in the event of discovery of subsurface conditions materially different from those shown in the
drawings or indicated in the specifications. Shortly after notice
to begin had been given, work under the building contract was
suspended pending the making of such a permitted change. Held:
1. A delay resulting from such a permitted change did not
constitute a breach by the Government of the equipment contract. P. 64.
The Government was not bound to have the building ready for
the work of the equipment contractor at a particular time.
2. The equipment contractor was not entitled to recover consequential damages for delay thus resulting; for such a delay, extension of the time for completion was an "equitable. ijustment" under
the contract. P. 66
95 Ct. Cls. 84, reversed.

