STATE BANK v. BROWN.
Opinion of the Court.

STATE BANK OF HARDINSBURG v. BROWN

ET UX.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 23. Argued October 16, 1942.-Decided November 16, 1942.
1. Under § 75 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act, the filing of a farmerdebtor's petition can not bring into the jurisdidtion of the bankruptcy court property which has been sold in mortgage foreclosure
proceedings, and as to which, under the state law, every equity or
right of the debtor has been extinguished. P. 138.
2. The law of Indiana gives the debtor a year from the institution of
foreclosure suit within which to redeem and terminates his right
and interest in the property at the sale. The delivery of a deed
by the sheriff becomes a ministerial act constituting merely a record
evidence of the purchaser's title which is perfect from the date of
sale. P. 141.
124 F. 2d 701, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. 794, to review a judgment which
reversed an order of the bankruptcy court, striking a farm
from the bankrupt's schedules.

Mr. Telford B. Orbison for petitioner.

Messrs. Samuel E. Cook and Ulysses S. Lesh submitted
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the

opinion of the Court.

The court below has construed § 75 (p) of the Bank-

ruptcy Act ' as bringing within the court's jurisdiction
property mortgaged by the debtor as to which, after foreclosure, the debtor's equity of redemption had expired.'
Because of conflict of decision 3 we granted certiorari.
11 U.S. C. § 203.

124 F. 2d 701.
3Glenn v. Hollums, 80 F. 2d 555; Shreiner v. Farmers Trust Co.,
91 F. 2d 606. Compare In re Randall, 20 F. Supp. 470; Buttars v.
Utah Mortgage Loan Corp., 116 F. 2d 622.
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Subsequent to the adoption of § 75 the respondents
borrowed $2,500 from the petitioner and gave a promissory
note secured by mortgage on their farm in Indiana. In
a foreclosure proceeding in an Indiana state court petitioner obtained judgment November 20, 1939, ordering
that the property be sold to satisfy the debt. May 25,
1940, the sheriff sold the farm to the petitioner. The
respondents, who had not redeemed, filed their petition
under § 75 on May 28, 1940, listing the farm in their
schedules.
. June 1, 1940, the sheriff executed and delivered his deed
to the petitioner; and, June 30, 1940, petitioner filed, in
the District Court, a motion to strike the farm from the
schedules on the ground that, at the date of the petition,
the respondents had no right or equity in the property as
the period of redemption provided by state law expired
at the time of the sheriff's sale. The court granted the
motion and struck the property from the schedules. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, by a divided court, reversed
the judgment.
Section 75 (n), so far as pertinent, provides:
"The filing of a petition . . . praying for relief
under . . . [this section] shall immediately subject the
farmer and all his property, wherever located, for all
the purposes of this section, to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the court, including all real or personal property, or any
equity or right in any such property, including, among
others . . . the right or the equity of redemption where
the period of redemption has not or had not expired, or
where a deed of trust has been given as security, or where
the sale has not or had not been confirmed, or where deed
had not been delivered, at the time of filing the petition.
"In all cases where, at the time of filing the petition,
the period of redemption has not or had not expired, or
where the right under a deed of trust has not or had not
become absolute, or where the sale has not or had not been

STATE BANK v. BROWN.
185

Opinion of the Court.

confirmed, or where deed had not been delivered, the period
of redemption shall be extended or the confirmation of
sale withheld for the period necessary for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this section."
The applicable statute of Indiana is Chapter 90 of the
Acts of 1931. Although this statute appears not to have
been construed by the state courts, it seems plain that
under its provisions a sale in foreclosure can not be had
until one year after the institution of the proceedings and
that a sale, then made, cuts off all equity of redemption.
The court below so conceded.
The question then is, should § 75 (n) be so read that,
although the debtor has no interest or equity in the land
which has been sold, and is at most a trustee of the bare
legal title, the land is to be drawn into the bankruptcy
if the sheriff has not delivered his deed at the date of the
initiation of the proceedings. The respondents insist that
the section literally so provides and should be given effect
accordingly. The petitioner replies that the fair meaning
of the section as a whole is that only if the debtor still
retains an equity of redemption does the land come under
'the bankruptcy jurisdiction: It adds that if the language
be of doubtful import the legislative history fully supports
the construction for which it contends. We hold with the
petitioner.
Section 75 (n), after declaririg that all the debtor's property shall come under the exclusive jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy court, adds that any equity or right in such
property shall be within the court's jurisdiction. It then
attempts to detail such rights, by a clause opening with
the phrase "including, among others, . . . the right or
the equity of redemption where the period of redemption
has not or had not expired, . , ." This language would
seem adequate to vest in the trustee any unexpired dquity
of redemption and furnish the basis for dealing with the
4 Burns indiana Statutes 1933, §§ 3-1801 to 3-1809, inclusive.

138-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

property subject to such equity oi redemption. Apparently out of an excess of caution the sentence then proceeds
to catalog certain instances where, under state law, some
act or thing has not occurred whose occurrence is essential
to the termination of the equity of redemption. Thus the
section proceeds "or where a deed of trust has been given
as security, or where the sale has not or had not been confirmed, or where deed had not been delivered, at the time
of filing the petition." It is, of course, common knowledge that, in various states, one or other of the events
mentioned is necessary finally to cut off the equity of
redemption.
The second paragraph of the section merely extends the
period of redemption in cases where, at the time of filing
the petition, the period of redemption has not or had not
expired. Here again, however, in an excess of caution,
the statute provides, after mentioning the expiration of
" the period of redemption, "or where the right under a deed
of trust has not or had not become absolute, or where' the
sale has not or had not been confirmed, or where deed
had not been delivered, the period of redemption shall be
extended . . ." It seems clear that if no right of
redemption exists there can be no period of redemption to
extend.
A fair reading of the entire section indicates a clear
intent to extend the bankruptcy jurisdiction over all prop
erty which still remains subject to redemption under state
law at the time of filing the petition. The section does
not evidence any intent on the part of Congress to bring
back into the bankruptcy proceeding property which was
once owned by the bankrupt and as to which his ownership and interest has been extinguished, unless such intent
can be drawn from the provisions qualifying the general
words of the section. We think that if Congress intended
that a bankruptcy might reach back into the past and
bring under the court's jurisdiction a former interest in

STATE BANK v. BROWN.
135

Opinion of the Court.

property, which, under state law, had irrevocably passed
to a third person, it would have so stated in terms too clear
to leave any doubt.
If it be conceded that the construction of the section is
doubtful, the legislative history is overwhelmingly in
support of the view we have stated.
Subsection (n) as originally enacted 5 provided that the
filing of a petition under § 75 "shall subject the farmer and
his property, wherever located, to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the court." In administering this section the federal
courts held diverse views as to their power to deal with
the equity of redemption of a mortgagor after foreclosure.'
When Congress came to amend the Act to meet the decision
of this court in Louisville Joint Stock Land Bank v. Radford, 295 U. S. 555, it had in mind the fact that in many
states a deed of trust is used as a method of giving real
estate security for loans whereunder the trustee may.make
a sale; that in some states the equity of redemption
exists until a deed has been delivered; that in others it
expires with the actual sale under foreclosure; that in
others it expires when the sale has been confirmed by the
court and that in some, although all of these acts have
been performed, the debtor has a right to relief during a
specified period after confirmation of sale, delivery of
deed and entry into possession by the purchaser.! The
Committee Reports in the House and Senate I with respect
to the proposed amendment evince a purpose to amend
the existing law so as to render it clear that, whatever the
right of redemption under state law, the bankrupt and his
estate were to have the benefit of that right. Referring,
547 Stat. 1473.
0 See 99 A. L. R. 1390-1393.
7 See Jones, Mortgages (8th Ed.) §§ 1695--1746; Wiltsie, Mortgage
Foreclosure (5th Ed.) § 1199.
H. R. Report No. 1808, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.; S R. 985, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942..
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

inter alia, to the amendments to.subsection (n), the House
Report ttates:
"These other amendments are largely clarification, and
have become necessary because of the diverse rulings and
holdings of the various United States district courts in the
construction of section 75. Some of these courts have
held that the farmer debtor could not take advantage of
the act after foreclosure sale, and during the period of
redemption. Some of these courts have refused to permit
the farmer iiv thiat position to file his petition, although
under the law of his State he was in possession, entitled
to rents and profits, and in full control of the property, and
could redeem it within the period allowed.
"Again, other courts have held that the farmer could
not take advantage of the act during theperiod of moratorium established by a State, while others have held that
the debtor could not take advantage of the act after sale,
but prior to confirmation, although in all of these cases
if the debtor had the money, and were in a position to pay,
he could redeem, and save the property.
"It is clear that these courts are reasoning too technically, and have failed to carry out the intention of
Congress, which was to protect the farmer's home and
property, and at the same time to protect the creditor.
On the other hand, other courts have held just the opposite, and have given full protection, and carried out the intent of Congress. Under this condition, we think it is
*admitted by all that there should be uniformity."
The language of the Senate Report goes into somewhat
more detail but is of the same purport. When the amendments were before the Senate, Senator Borah, a member
of the Committee, explained them to the Senate in the
following language:'
"In the first place, however, it ought to be said that we
undertook to make some amendments in section 75 before
"Cong. Rec. Vol. 79, Pt. 13, p. 13632.

STATE BANK v. BROWN.
135

141

Opinion of the Court.

we got to subsection (s). These amendments are for the
purpose of clarifying section 75. Someof the courts have
held that the farmer debtor could not take advantage of
the act after foreclosure sale and during the period of
redemption. The bill undertakes to clarify it so as to
permit the farmer to take advantage of section 75 after
foreclosure and during the period of redemption.
"Some of the courts also refused to permit the farmer
who was in that position to file his petition, although under
the law of the State he was in possession and full control
of the property and could redeem it during the period of
moratorium established by the States. One of the amendments to section 75 takes care of that objection which was
raised by the court.
"Amended subsection (s) construes, interprets, and
clarifies both subsections (n) and (o) of section 75. By
reading subsections (n) and (o) as now enacted, it becomes
clear that it was the intention of Congress, when it passed
section 75, that the debtor and all of his property should
come under the jurisdiction of the court of bankruptcy,
and that the benefits of the act should extend to the farmer
prior to confirmation of sale and- during the period of
redemption. In other words, the amendments provide
that the farmer may avail himself of the act after foreclosure and during the period of redemption, and may also
avail himself of the act during the period of the moratorium provided for him within the State."
The law of Indiana gives the debtor a year from the
institution of foreclosure suit within which to redeem and
terminates his right and interest in- the property at the
sale. The delivery of a deed by the sheriff, therefore,
becomes a ministerial act which he: can be compelled to
perform."0 Such delivery constitutes mere record evi-"
'0 Jessup v. Carey, 61 Ind. 584, 592; Hubble v. Berry, 180 Ind. 513,
519, 103 N. E. 328; State ex rel. Miller v. Bender, 102 Ind. App. 185,
; N. E. 2d 662.,

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1942..
MURPHY,

317 U. S.

J., dissenting.

dence of the purchaser's title which is perfect from the
date of sale. As the sale cut off all rights of the debtor,
§ 75 (n) does not bring the property within the jurisdiction
of the bankruptcy court.
The petitioner urges that the construction given the
section by the court below would render it inconstitutional. The view we take of the meaning of the statute
makes it unnecessary to consider this contention.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting:
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and I can-

not agree with the opinion of the Court. Section 75 (n)
subjects to the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy
court all property in which the petitioning farmer-debtor
has. any equity or right, "including, among others ...
the right or the equity of redemption where the period
of redemption has not or had not expired,

. . .

or

where deed had not been delivered, at the time of filing
the petition." Conceding that respondents' equity of redemption was cut off under Indiana law prior to the filing
of their petition, the deed had not been delivered at the
time of filing. Respondents thus come within the exact
terms of § 75 (n), and the property should not have been
struck from their schedules.
We have said that doubts in § 75 are to be settled in the
debtor's favor, and that it "must be liberally construed
to give the debtor the full measure of the relief afforded
by Congress, lest its benefits be frittered away by narrow
formalistic interpretations which disregard the spirit-and
the letter of the Act." Wright v. Union Central Ins. Co.,
311 U. S. 273, 279. But we are now told that the spirit
and the letter of § 75 (n), especially the phrase "or where
.deed had not been delivered'," may be disregarded upon a

STATE BANK v. BROWN.
135

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

"fair redding of the entire section" and a consideration of
its legislative history, both of which, it is claimed, disclose
that Congress did not intend the benefits of § 75 to extend
beyond the expiration of the equity of redemption by force
of state law, the above-quoted phrase being added, "apparently out of an excess of caution," to provide for those
states in which the equity of redemption survives until the
delivery of a deed. If Congress so intended, its words
were poorly chosen. Congress could easily have declared

that bankruptcy jurisdiction does not survive the extinguishment of the equity of redemption under state law,
whether that extinguishment is accomplished by sale,
confirmation, or the delivery of a deed. Instead Congress
used the disjunctive "or". That Congress did not so
intend is clear from the legislative history of the Act. The
true Congressional purpose was '"to protect the farmer's
home and property, and at the same time to protect the
creditor."' This purpose is best achieved by giving effect
to the precise words of § 75 (n). The farmer is given a
chance to rehabilitate himself so long as he has any vestige
of a right in the property, call it "barelegal title" or what
you will. The creditor is protected because the value of
the property remains, under adequate safeguards provided
by the Act, as security for the debt. "There is no constitutiohal claim of the creditor to more than that." Wright
v. Union CentralIns. Co., 311 U. S. 273, 278.

H. Rep. No. 1808, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2. See also S. Rep.
No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.

