OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

p. 524. If a substantial part of an employee's activities
related to goods whose movement in the channels of interstate commerce was established by the test we have described, he is covered by the Act. Here as in other situations (Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, supra, p. 523) the
question of the Act's coverage depends on the special facts
pertaining to the particular business. The Circuit Court
of Appeals remanded the cause to the District Court so
that new findings could be made and an appropriate decree be framed. Whether additional evidence must be
taken on any phase of the case so that a decree may be
drawn is a question for the District Court. We merely
hold that the decision of the Circuit.Court of Appeals as
construed and modified by this opinion states the correct
view of the law. As so modified, the judgment below is
Affirmed.
HIGGINS v. CARR BROTHERS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUIPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF MAINE.

No. 97.' Argued November 19, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. The record in this case does not warrant setting aside the conclusion of the court below that, when merchandise coming from other
States was unloaded at the place of business of the wholesaler here
(selling intrastate exclusively), its interstate movement had ended,
and that an employee whose activities related to the goods thereafter was not covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. Walling v..
Jacksonville Paper Co., ante, p. 564, distinguished. P. 574.
2. That a wholesaler whose business is exclusively intrastate is in competition with wholesalers doing interstate business is of no significance in determining the applicability of the.Fair Labor Standards
Act, since that Act does not extend to activities "affecting" commerce, but only to such as are "in" commerce. P. 574.
25 A. 2d 214, affirmed.

HIGGINS v. CARR BROS. CO.
572

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S.658, to review the affirmance of a
judgment denying recovery of alleged unpaid wages and
for damages, in a suit brought by an employee against his
employer, under the Fair 'Labor Standards Act.
Mr. Edward B. Perry, with whom Mr. Franz U. Burkett
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Clement F. Robinson and Francis W. Sullivan
submitted for respondent.
Mr. Charles B. Rugg filed a brief on behalf of the
American Retail Federation, as amicus curiae, urging
.affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Walling v. Jacksonville
PaperCo., ante, p. 564, and is here on certiorari to the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine. Higgins claims minimum
wages and overtime compensation alleged to be due him
under §§ 6 (a) and 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act
between January 1939 and July 1940. Prior to that time,
respondent, which conducts a wholesale fruit, grocery and
produce business in Portland, Maine, had been selling and.
delivering its merchandise not only to the local trade in
Maine but also to retailers in New Hampshire.• Fr the
period here in question the New Hampshire trade had
been discontinued and all sales and deliveries were solely
to retailers in Maine. The only additional facts which
we know about respondent's course of business are accurately summarized in the following excerpt from the,
opinion of the Supreme Judicial Court: "It buys its merchandise from local producers and from dealers in other
states, has it delivered by truck and rail, unloaded into
its store and warehouse and from there sells and distributes it to the retail trade. While some of the produce

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

and fruit is processed, much of it is sold in the condition
in which it is received. The cororation owns all of its
merchandise and makes its own deliveries. It makes no
sales on commission nor on order with shipments direct
from the dealer or producer to .the retail purchaser."
Higgins' employment involved work as night shipper putting up orders and loading trucks for delivery to retail
dealers in Maine or driving a truck distributing merchandise to the local trade.
Petitioner in his brief describes the business in somewhat greate detail and seeks to show an actual or practical continuity of movement of merchandise from without
the state to respondent's regular customers within the
state. But here, unlike Walling v. Jacksonville PaperCo.,
there .snothing in the record before us to support those
statements nor to impeach the accuracy.of the conclusion
of the Supieme Judicial Court of Maine that when the
merchandise coming from without the state was unloaded
at respondent's place of business its "interstate movement
had ended." Some effort is made to show that the court
below applied an incorrect rule of law in the sense that it
gave the Act too narrow a construction. In that connection it is argued that respondent is in competition with
wholesalers doing an interstate business and that it can
,by underselling affect those businesses andttheir interstate
activities. As we indicated in Walling v. Jacksonville
Paper Co., that argument would be relevant if this Act
had followed the pattern of other federal legislation such
as theNational Labor Relations Act (see 29 U. S. C. §152
(7), § 160 (a)) and extended fedeT A control to business
"affecting commerce." But as we pointed out in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, this Act did not go
so far but was more narrowly confined..
Thus petitioner has not maintained the burden of showing error inthe judgment which he asks us to set aside.
Affirmed.

