BRADY v. ROOSEVELT S. S. CO.

575

Counsel for Parties.

BRADY, ADMINISTRATRIX, v. ROOSEVELT
STEAMSHIP CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 269. Argued December 18, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. An action to recover for a death resulting from injuries sustained
when a rung of a ladder broke as the decedent, a United States customs inspector in the course of his official duties, was climbing .to
board a vessel docked at a pier, is within the admiralty jurisdiction. Pp. 576-577.
2. The Suits in Admiralty Act does not preclude a suit against a private corporation (none of whose stock is owned directly or indirectly
by the United States) to recover damages for a maritime tort arising
out of the negligent operation of a vessel owned by the United
States Maritime Commission, and which the corporation operates
under a contract made pursuant to § 707 (c) of the Merchant Marine
Act of 1936, even though the contract may give to the corporation in
such case a right of exoneration or indemnity against the Commission.
Fleet Corporationv. Lustgarten,280 U. S. 320, overruled pro tanto.
Pp. 578, 582.
The Suits in Admiralty Act does not restrict the remedy in such
case to a libel in personam against the United States or the Maritime Commission.
128 F. 2d 169, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 609, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the plaintiff in a suit against the steamship
company to recover damages for the death of plaintiff's
intestate.

Mr. Simone N. Gazan for petitioner.
Mr. Vernon Sims Jones, with whom Mr. Raymond
Parmerwas on the brief, for respondent.
Solicitor General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General
Shea, and Mr. Sidney J. Kaplan filed a memorandum on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae.

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE. DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
S. S. Unicoi was a vessel owned by the United States
Maritime Commission and operated for it by respondent
under a contract covering this and other vessels. The
contract' recites that it was made pursuant to § 707 (c)
of the Merchant Marine Act' of 1936 (49 Stat. 2009, 46
U. S. C. § 1197 (c); .see § 704, 46 U. S. C. § 1194), the
Commission having advertised the line for charter and
having failed to receive satisfactory bids. Respondent
is a private corporation, none of whose stock is owned
directly or indirectly by the United States.
The deceased was a United States customs inspector.
While boarding the vessel on his official duties in July
1938, a rung of the ladder which he was climbing broke.
The injuries which resulted caused his death. At the
time of the injury the vessel was docked at a pier in New
York City.
2 Respondent was designated as a managing agent for the Commission as owner "to manage, operate, and conduct the business of the
Line .. .for and on behalf of the Owner and under its supervision
and direction." Respondent agreed. "to man, equip, victual, supply
and operate the vessels, subject to such restriftions and in such
manner as the Owner may prescribe" and "to conduct its operations
dth respect to the vessels .. .in full compliance with the applicable provisions of law." Respondent agreed "subject to such regulations or methods of supervision and inspection as may be required
or prescribed" by the Commission to "exercise reasonable care and
diligence to maintain the vessels in a thoroughly efficient state of
repair, covering hull, machinery, boilers, tackle, apparel, furniture,
equipment, and spare parts." Respondent did not share in profits
but was entitled to reimbursement for expenses under a provision of
the cont-act which stated: "The Owner agrees to pay to the Managing Agent the actual overhead expenses of the Managing Agent determined by the Owner to have been fairly and reasonably incurred
and to be properly applicable to the management and operation of the
Commission's vessels under this agreement."

BRADY v. ROOSEVELT S. S. CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner, the widow, sued as administratrix to recover
damages for the benefit of herself and the children.
That suit was brought in the New York Supreme Court
but removed to the federal District Court. Respondent
moved to dismiss on the authority of Johnson v. Emergency Fleet Corp., 280 U. S.320. That motion was denied and a trial to a jury on the law side of the court was
had. A verdict for petitioner was returned. On appeal
the judgment was reversed with directions to dismiss the
complaint, one judge dissenting. The Circuit Court of
Appeals stated in reaching that result that the Suits in
Admiralty Act (41 Stat. 525, 46 U. S. C. §§ 741, 742) as
construed by the decision in the Johnson case made the
remedies afforded by that Act the exclusive ones, viz. a
libel in personam against the United States or the Maritime Commission. 128 F. 2d 169. We granted the petition for a writ of certiorari because of the public
importance of the problem.
We agree with the court below that this was a maritime
tort over which the admiralty court has jurisdiction.
Vancouver S. S. Co. v. Rice, 288 U. S.445; The Admiral
Peoples, 295 U. S.649. And we may assume that petitioner could have sued either the United States or the
Commission under the Suits in Admiralty Act. In any
event, such a suit would be the exclusive remedy in admiralty against either of them. Eastern Transportation
Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 675; Emergency Fleet
Corp. v. Rosenberg Bros. & Co., 276 U, S.202. And it is
likewise clear that the action in admiralty afforded by
§ 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act is the only available
remedy against the United States or a corporation Whose
entire outstanding capital stock is. owned by the iUnited
States or its representatives. Johnson v. Energ,ncy
Fleet Corp., supra. The sole question here is w'.-vther
the Suits in Admiralty Act makes private operators such
as respondent non-suable for their torts.
503873-43----44

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Emergency Fleet Corp. v. Lustgarten, 280 U. S. 320, one
of the three companion cases to the Johnson case, supports
the view that it does. In that case a merchant vessel,
Coelleda, was owned by the United States and operated
for it by the Consolidated Navigation Co. pursuant to a
contract made through the Fleet Corporation. A seaman
employed thereon sued the Fleet Corporation and the
Consolidated Navigation Co. to recover damages for personal injuries sustained in that service. There was a
judgment for the plaintiff which' was affirmed on appeal.
This Court reversed and remanded the cause with directions to dismiss. The Johnson case and the other'two companion cases were suits against the Fleet Corporation or
the United States. In one opinion dealing with all
four cases, this Court said: "Directly or mediately, the
money required to pay a judgment against any of the defendants in these cases would come out of the United
States. It is the real party affected in all of these actions."
280 U. S. pp. 326-327. It added that the aim of uniformity would not be established "if suits under the Tucker Act
and in the Court of Claims be allowed against the United
States and actions at law in state and federal courts be
permitted against the Fleet Corporation or other agents
for enforcement of the maritime causes of action covered
by the Act." p. 327. Accordingly it concluded that "the
remedies given by the Act are exclusive in all cases where
a libel might be filed under it." p. 327. These statements, coupled with the fact that the judgment in the
Lustgartencase was reversed not only as respects the Fleet
Corporation but the Consolidated Navigation Co. as well,
support the view adopted by the court below.
Our conclusion, however, is that that position is untenable and that the Lustgarten case so far as it would prevent
a 'private operator from being sued under the circum-.
starnces of this case must be considered as no longei
controlling.

BRADY v. ROOSEVELT S. '. CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

There is ample support for the holding in the Johnson
case that § 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act was intended
to provide the only available remedy against ,the United
States or its wholly owned -corporations for enforcement
of maritime causes of action covered by the Act. But
there is not the slightest intimation or suggestion in the
history of that Act that it was designed to abolish all remedies which might exist against a private company for
torts committed during its operation of government vessels under agency agreements.
Sec. 1 of the Suits in Admiralty Act provides that no
vessel owned by the United States or a governmental corporation or "operated by or for the United States, or such
corporation" shall be "subject to arrest or seizure by
judicial process in the United States or its possessions."
That section was designed to avoid the inconvenience, expense and delay resulting from the holdings in The Florence H., 248 F. 1012, and The Lake Monroe, 250 U. S.246,
that libel in rem would lie against vessels owned by the
United States. See S. Rep. No. 223, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.;
H. Rep. No. 497, 66th Cong., 2d Sess. The wording of that
section makes clear that the right to arrest or seize the vessel was taken away whether the vessel was operated by the
United States or its wholly owned corporation or for either
of them by a private company. To that extent the Act
affects remedies which would otherwise exist on maritime
causes of action arising out of operation of government
vessels by private companies for the United States or its
wholly owned corjorations. Yet there is no .indication
whatsoever that it went further and took away any personal remedy which a tort claimant might have against
such a private operator. While § 1 abolishes the right
to arrest. or seize the vessel, § 2 provides that "a libel in
personam may be brought against the United States or
against such corporations" in cases where "if such vessel
were privately owned or operated . . .a proceeding in

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

admiralty could be maintained." Sec. 2, however; does
not mention private operators. Nor do the Committee
Reports advert to private operators, except as they may
be affected by § 1. The liability of an agent for his own
negligence has long been embedded in the law. Quinn v.
Southgate Nelson Corp., 121 F. 2d 190, is a recent application of that principle to a situation very close to the
present one. But the principle is an ancient one and
applies even to certain acts of public officers or public instrumentalities. As stated in Sloan Shipyards Corp. v.
Emergency Fleet Corp., 258 U. S. 549, 567, "An instrumentality of government he might be and for the greatest
ends, but the agent, because,,he is agent, does not cease
to be answerable for his acts." In that case tJe Fleet
Corporation was held to be amenable to suit. And that
policy has been followed. For when it comes to the utilization of corporate facilities' in the broadening phases of
federal activities in the commercial or business field, immunity from suit is not favored. Keifer & Keifer v.
Reconstruction Finance Corp., 306 U. S. 381; Federal
Housing Administrationv. Burr, 309 U. S.242. Congress
adopted that policy when it made corporations wholly
owned by the United States suable on maritime causes of
action under § 2 of the Suits in Admiralty Act. That it
had the power to grant or withhold immunity from suit
on behalf of governmental corporations is plain. Federal
Land Bank v. Priddy, 295 U. S. 229; Reconstruction
Finance Corp. v. Menihan Corp., 312 U. S.81. We may
also assume that it ,would have the power to grant immunity to private operators of government vessels for
their torts. But such a basic change in one of the funda2As to the liability of public officials see generally Dunlop v. Munroe,
7 Cranch 242, 269; Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
842, 843; Wilkes v. Dinsman, 7 How. 89, 123; Robertson v. Sichel, 127'
U. S. 507; Spalding v. Vilas, 161 U. S. 483; Brissac v. Lawrence, 2
Blatchford 121; United States v. Rogde, 214 F. 283, 290,

BRADY v. ROOSEVELT S. S. CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

mentals of the law of, agency should hardly be left to
conjecture. The withdrawal of the right to sue the agent
for his torts would result at timesin a substantial dilution
of the rights of claimants. Assuming that the ordinary
rules of agency apply in determining whether the United
States or the Maritime Commission is responsible under
§ 2 of the Act for torts of private operators such as respondent, there would be instances where unless the private operator was liable no one would be. The principal is
not liable for every negligent act of his agent. Furthermore, if all suits to enforce maritime causes of action must
be brought in such cases under§ 2 of the Act the short
statute of limitations of two years contained in § 5 is applicable. ' Emergency Fleet Corp. v. Rosenberg Bros. & Co.,
supra. Moreover, if, as apparently was the case here, the
claimant was eligible to receive and did receive compensation under the United States Employees Compensation
Act (39 Stat. 742, 5 U. S. C. § 751), he is barred from suing
th'e United States for the tort. Dahn v. Davis, 258 U. S.
421. He may.however sue "some person other than the
United States"; and in case of recovery the amount is
credited on the compensation payable to him. § 777. We
mention these matters as illustrations of the practical impact on claimants if it were held that the Suits in Admiralty Act restricted all suits in cases like the present to
libels in personam against the United States or its wholly
owned corporations. We can only conclude that if Congress had intended to make such an inroad on the rights
of claimants it would have siid so in unambiguous terms.
.There is one bit of legislative history which it is claimed
reveals such a purpose. It is a single statement made by
Representative Volstead, sponsor of the bill in the House
(59 Cong. Rec. 1680): "Mr. White of Maine. Would this
bill apply to Shipping Board vessels that are allocated to
private concerns and are being operated by prive concerns? Mr. Volstead: Yes; it covers all ships owned by

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

the Government." The reply was accurate. The Act does
cover government ships operated by private concerns.
For as we have seen § 1 is applicable to that situation as
well as to others and takes away the remedy of a libel
inrem. But it is a non sequitur to say that because the
Act takes away the remedy of libel in rem in all cases involving government Vessels and restricts the 'remedies
against the United States and its wholly owned corporations. it must be presumed to have abolished all right to
proceed against all other parties. Congress in fashioning
§ 2 of the Act, like this Court in interpreting it in the
Johnson case, was preoccupied with suits against the
United States and its wholly owned corporations. Since
itdealt under § 2 only with libels in personam against
them, the only fair assumption is that it left all personal
actions against others wholly unaffected.
It is contended, however, that if the judgment against
respondent stands, the United States ultimately will have
to pay it by reason of provisions, of the contract between
respondent and the Commission. It is therefore urged
that the United States is the real party in interest. We do
not stop to interpret the contract.. Even if we assume,
without deciding, that the Commission has contracted to
reimburse the respondent for such expenditures, it does
not affect the result in this case. The right of the private
operator to recover over from the United States would be
a matter of favor, not ofright, in many cases. For apart
from any express contract the agent's right of exoneration
or indemnity has not been thought to extend to situations
where his liability was based on his own fault. 4 Williston,
Contracts (1.936 ed.), § 1026. Hence we cannot conclude
that, in all cases where a private operator of a government
vessel under an agency agreement is sued,, the United
States would as a matter of law ultimately be liable to pay
in absence of an express provision for exoneration. It is
hard to believe that Congress had any such notion when

BRADY v. ROOSEVELT S. S. CO.
575

Opinion of the Court.

it passed the Suits in Admiralty Act. To attribute that
idea to itwould be to give the Act a construction which
would in practical effect encourage, the assumption by the
United States of the obligations bf private persons.'
Moreover, if petitioner had a cause of action against
respondent' it is difficult to see how she could be deprived
of it by reason of a contract between respondent and the
Commission. Immunity from suit on a cause of action
which the law creates cannot be so readily obtained. Cf.
Guaranty Trust & S. D. Co. v. Green CoveR. Co., 139
U. S. 137, 143. The rights of principal and agent inter se
are not the measure of the rights of third persons against
either of them •for their torts. It is, of course, true that
government contractors obtain certain immunity in connection with work which they do pursuant to their contractual undertaking with .the United States. Yearsley
v. Ross Construction Co., 309 U. S. 18; was a recent example. In that case the contractor in building dikes in
the Missouri River for the United States had washed
away a part of the plaintiff's land. We held that the contractor was not liable, saying (pp. 20-21) "that if this
authority to carry out the project was validly conferred,
that is, if what was done was within the constitutional
power of Congress, there is no, liability on the part of the
contractor for executing its will." But here the situation
is quite different. The question is not whether the Commission had authority to delegate to respondent responsibilities for managing and operating the vessel as its
agent., It is whether respondent can escape liability for
-a negligent exercise of that delegated power if we assume
3 The provision in § 8 of the Suits in Admiralty Act that any final
judgment "rendered in any suit herein authorized" shall be paid "by
the proper accounting officers of the United States" must be taken to
refer only to judgments against the United States or its wholly owned
corporations since under our construction- the Act does not control or
affect actions in personam'againstprivate operators.

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

that by contract it will be exonerated or indemnified for
any damages it must pay. As stated in Sloan Shipyards
Corp. v. Emergency Fleet Corp., supra, pp. 566-567, "the
general rule is that any person within the jurisdiction
always is amenable to. the law. If he is sued for conduct
harmful to the plaintiff his only shield is a constitutional
rule of law that exonerates him." Furthermore, if the
United States were to become the real party in interest by
reason of a contract for exoneration or indemnity, a basic
alteration in that concept (Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185
U. S. 373, 387) would be made, not pursuant to a Congressional policy' but by reason of concessions made by contracting officers of the government. Such a change would
be detrimental to the interests of private claimants, as we
have said, since it would subtract from the legal remedies
which the law has afforded them. Beyond that it would
make the existence of a right to exoneration or indemnity
a jurisdictional fact. That could hardly help but complicate and delay the enforcement of rights based on these
maritime torts. At least in the absence of a clear Congressional policy to that end, we cannot go so far.
We hold that the Suits in Admiralty Act did not deprive petitioner of the right to. sue respondent for dam4Cf. Clyde-Mallory Lines v. The Eglantine, ante, p. 395, in which
we held that the United States by appearing in an action for libel
in rem against a government vessel' for damages suffered during its operation by the United States could invoke the two-year statute of
limitations contained in § 5 of the Suits in Admiralty Act, even though
the United Stateshad sold the vessel to a private operator. In that case
we were dealing with § 4 of the Act which expressly provides for such an
appearance in that type of case and which states that "thereafter such
cause shall proceea against the United States in accordance with the
provisions of this Act." Accordingly we stated, "The conclusion is
inescapable that ther6 14 no practical difference between suits against.
the government as owner of the vessel and against the government
as the party in interest when it oluntarily appears to defend its lately

sold property against tort liability."

BRADY v. ROOSEVELT S. S. CO.
575

585

Opinion of the Court.

ages for his maritime tort. Whether a cause of action
against respondent has been established is, of course, a
different question, as the issues involved in Quinn v.
Southgate Nelson Corp., supra, indicate. The Circuit
Court of Appeals did not reach that question. Accordingly" we reverse the judgment and remand the cause
to it.

Reversed.

