OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

that Phipps should be barred from limiting his liability.
One who selects competent men to store and inspect a
vessel and who is not on notice as to the existence of any

defect in it cannot be denied the benefit of the limitation
as respects a loss incurred by an explosion during the
period of storage, unless "privity" or "knowledge" are
to become empty words. If § 4283 does not give protection to the individual owner in these circumstances, it is

difficult to imagine when it would.
Affirmed.

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE.
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 183. Argued December 14, 15, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.
1. Revised'Statutes § 1044, providing that "No person shall be prosecuted, tried, or punished for any offense, not capital, . . . unless
the indictment is found, or the information is instituted, within
three years next after such offense shall have been committed,"
applies to a prosecution for criminal contempt. P. 416.
2. The act of inducing a federal court through misrepresentations
by attorneys to 'issue decrees effectuating a corrupt settlement of
litigation, including a distribution of impounded funds, if assumed to be "misbehavior" in the "presence" of the court within the
meaning of Jud. Code § 268, is a criminal contempt and an "offense"
against the United States within the meaning of R. S. § 1044.
P. 416.
3. The time when the three-year limitation of R. S. § 1044 begins to
run against a prosecution for a criminal contempt under Jud. Code
§ 268 is the time when the act of misbehavior in, the presence of
the court was committed; and, in a case of alleged contempt committed by inducing the court by false representations to order a
distribution of impounded funds, effectuating a fraudulent scheme,
the offense was complete when the misrepresentations were made,
*Together with No. 186, O'Malley v. United States, and No. 187,
McCormack v. United States, also on writs of certiorari, post, p. 608,
to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.
412

413

Opinion of the Court.

and the three years are counted from that time. The bar, of the
statute can not be deferred upon the ground that the offense was a
continuing one and was not. complete until the litigation ended, or
until further acts dehors were committed in the execution of the
scheme. P. 419.
128 F. 2d 676, reversed.

CERTIoRAR, post, p. 608, to review judgments affirming
sentences for contempt. For opinions of the trial court,
see 35 F. Supp. 593, 39 F. Supp. 189.
Mr. Ralph M. Russell argued the cause for petitioner
in No. 186; Mr. John G. Madden argued the cause for
petitioner in No. 183; and Messrs. James E. Burke and
James P. Aylward were with them on the brief for petitioners in Nos. 183 and 186. Mr. James E. Carroll submitted for petitioner in No. 187.
Messrs. William S. Hogsett and Herbert W. Wechsler
argued the cause, and Solicitor General Fahy and Mr.
Richard K. Phelps were with Mr. Hogsett on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners, together with one Street, now deceased,
conceived and executed a nefarious scheme in fraud of
the federal District Court and in. corruption of the administration of justice. The short of it was that petitioners by fraud and deceit and through misrepresenta-.
tions by attorneys induced the court to issue decrees
effectuating a corrupt settlement of litigation. It happened
this way:
Several
insurance companies doing business in Missouri
filed with the Superintendent of Insurance an increase
in insurance rates which the Superintendent denied. The
insurance companies filed over 130 separate injunction
suits against the Superintendent and the Attorney Gen-

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

eral in the federal court to restrain the enforcement of
certain statutes of Missouri on the ground of unconstitutionality. A three-judge court was convened which
granted motions for interlocutory injunctions on July 2,
1930, whereby the Superintendent and the Attorney General were enjoined, pending final decision, from enforcing
the Missouri statutes-on condition, however, that the
'insurance companies deposit the amount of increase in
rates which was collected with a custodian of the court
to await the final outcome of the litigation. In September 1930 a special master was appointed, who held hearings. During this time the premiums impounded by
the court accumulated, until by 1936 they amounted to
almost $10,000,000.
The lure of this sizeable amount of other people's money
played an important part in the scheme which was
hatched.
Street was in charge of the rate litigation for the insurance companies. Pendergast was a "political boss."
O'Malley was the then Superintendent of Insurance.
McCormack was an insurance agent. Of these, only
O'Malley was a party to the litigation. Street agreed
to pay Pendergast a "fee" of $750,000 to use his influence
over O'Malley and obtain a settlement of the litigation
which would be satisfactory to the insurance companies.
O'Malley was agreeable. McCormack was the go-between. Street made an initial payment of $100,000 in
currency, which was divided $55,000 to Pendergast,
$22,500 to O'Malley, and $22,500 to McCormack.
Thereafter an agreement was reached and reduced to
writing in form of a memorandum. O'Malley would
approve as of June 1, 1930, 80% of the increase in rates
which the companies had sought; the parties would appear
by their attorneys and join in seeking appropriate orders for distribution of the impounded money; 20' was
.to go to the policyholders, 50% directly to the insurance

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.
412

415

Opinion of the Court.

companies, and 30% to Street and another as trustees for
the insurance companies. The latter were to account
to the companies but nut to .the court or the superintendent. The memorandum agreement was not disclosed to
the court. But on June 18, 1935, the insurance companies filed in'each case a motion reciting terms of settlement and praying for An order of distribution. On
the next day the insurance companies and O'Malley filed
stipulations agreeing that the court should make the
order of distribution. Thereafter on June 22, 1935, October 26, 1935 and January 24, 1936, hearings were held
in open court on the motions, and briefs were filed.
Counsel, who were wholly innocent and acting in good
faith, assured the court of the honesty, fairness, and desirability of the settlement. On February 1, 1936, the
court, acting in reliance, on the representations and without a hearing on the merits, entered a decree ordering
distribution of the impounded funds as prayed in the
motions. It also dismissed the bills, reserving jurisdiction, however, for certain purposes.
Petitioners then proceeded further with their corrupt
plan. About April, 1936, Street paid $330,000 in currency, of which Pendergast received $250,000, O'Malley
$40,000 and McCormack $40,000. In the fall of 1936,
Pendergast received another $10,000 in cash from Street.
That left $310,000 of the $750,000 "fee" unpaid. And,
so far as appears, it was never paid, due to the unraveling
of facts which led to an exposure of the entire corrupt
scheme. For about that time an internal revenue investi-'
gation of Street's income tax return disclosed that over
$400,000 of the funds for which Street was to account as
trustee had been paid to unknown persons. This was
reported to the Court in February 1939. A grand jury
investigatiori followed, in which the rest of the sordid story
was unfolded. See United States v. Pendergast, 28 F.
Supp. 601. The Department of Justice caused Pender-

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

gast and O'Malley to be indicted for evasion of income
taxes on the amounts of money so received. They pleaded
guilty and were fined and imprisoned late in May, 1939.
Id. On May 29, 1939, O'Malley's successor filed a motion
praying that the decrees of February 1, 1936, be set aside
on the basis of t] se disclosures and that the insurance
companies be ord'ed to restore the funds distributed to
them. The court ordered the insurance companies to
make restitution; and they did. At the same time, the
court asked the district attorney whether contempt proceedings should be filed. About a year passed, when the
court on May 20, 1940, requested the district attorney to
institute contempt proceedings against petitioners. An
information was filed July 13, 1940. Motions to abate
and quash were overruled. 35 F. Supp. 593. Thereafter
answers were filed and a hearing had. Petitioners were
adjudged guilty of contempt-Pendergast and O'Malley
being sentenced to two years' imprisonment and McCormack being sentenced to probation for two years. 39
F. Supp. 189.. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
128 F. 2d 676. We granted the petition for certiorari
because of the importance in the administration of justice
of the problems raised.
Petitioners press several objections to the judgment
below. The chief of these are that the offense was not
a contempt under § 268 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C.
385) as construed by Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33,
tnd that even though it was, the prosecution of it was
barred by the three year statute of limitations contained
in § 1044 of the Revised Statutes, 18 U. S. C. § 582. We
do not reach the first of these questions and need not
express an opinion on it. For although -we assume
arguendo that the Circuit Court of Appeals was correct
in holding (128 F. 2d -p. 683) that the conduct of petitioners was "misbehavior" in th "presence" of the court)
within the meaning of- § 268 of the Judicial Code; and

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.
412

Opinion of the Court.

therefore punishable as a contempt, we are of the opinion
that this prosecution was barred by § 1044 of the Revised
S-tatutes.
That section provides: "No person shall be prosecuted,
tried, or punished for any offense, not capital,...
unless the indictment is found, or the information is
instituted, within three years next after such offense shall
have been committed . . ." It would seem that the
statute fits this case like a glove. If the conduct in question was a contempt, there can be no doubt that it was
a criminal contempt as defined by our decisions. See Nye
v. United States, supra, pp. 41-43 and cases cited. As
such, it was an "offense" against the United States, within
the meaning of § 1044. It was held in Gompers v. United
States, 233 U. S.604, that a wilful violation of an injunction, likewise punishable as a contempt under § 268 of
the Judicial Code, was such an "offense." And see
United States v. Goldman, 277 U. S.229. Cf. Ex, parte
Grossman, 267 U. S.87. It was said in the Gompers case
that those contempts were "infractions of the law, visited
with punishment as such. If such acts are not criminal,
we are in error as to the most fundamental characteristic
of crimes as that word has been understood'in English
speech." '233 U. S. p. 610. That observation is equally
pertinent here. Moreover, we can see no reason for
treating one type of contempt under § 268 of the Judicial
Code differently in this respect from others under the same
section. No such difference is discernible from the language of § 1044. Because of that and because of the further circumstance that Congress classified them together
in defining the offense in § 268, we can hardly conclude
that a distinction between them for purposes of § 1044
should be implied. Furthermore, the fact that this prosecution was by information, the absence of which has been
held not fatal under § 1044 (Gompers v. United States,
503873o-

-- 34

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

supra, pp. 611-612), brings the case squarely within the
language of the section.
Certainly the power to punish 'ontempts in the
"presence" of the court, like the power to punish contempts for wilful violations of the court's decrees, "must
have some limit in time." Gompers v. United States,
supra, p. 612. It is urged, however, that there is no limitation on prosecutions for contempts in the "presence" of
the court except as one may be implied from the conclusion
of the proceeding inwhich the contempt arises. But if we
are free to consider the matter as open, no reason for that
different treatment of contempts in the "presence" of the
court is apparent. Adams v. Woods, 2 Cranch 336, held
tnat this statute of limitations was applicable to an action
of debt for a penalty. Chief Justice Marshall stated that
it would be "utterly repugnant to the genius of our laws"
to allow such an action to lie "at any distance of time."
Id., p. 342. That observation is equally apt here. Proceedings like the rate litigation out of which this prosecution arose might well continue for years on end awaiting final disposition of all the funds. If there is a contempt, it takes place when the "misbehavior" occurs in
the "presence" of the court. Statutes of limitations normally begin to run when the crime is complete. See
United States v. Irvine, 98 U. S. 450. Every statute of
limitations, of course, may permit a rogue to escape. Yet,
as Chief Justice Marshall observed in Adams v. Woods,
supra, p. 342, "not even treason can be prosecuted after a
lapse of three years." That was still true at the time of
this offense. See R. S. § 1043, 18 U. S. C. § 581. There is
no reason why this lesser crime, punishable without some
of the protective features of criminal trials, should receive
favored treatment.
But it is said that the contrary conclusion is to be in-.
ferred from Gompers v. United States, supra,because this
Court took pains to point out that its ruling was applicable

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.
412

Opinion of the Court.

only to proceedings for contempt "not committed in the
presence of the court." 233 U. S. p. 606. But that reservation, made out of an abundance of caution, also extended
to "proceedings of this sort only" (id., p. 606), viz. proceedings where no information was filed. Ex parte Terry,
128 U. S. 289, 314, sanctioned summary punishment for
"direct contempts" committed in the "presence" of the
court. The question whether that procedure could be
followed "at a subsequent term, or at a subsequent day
of the same term," was specifically reserved. Id., p. 314.
That is a procedural problem peculiar to direct contempts
in the face of the court (see Cooke v. United States,
267 U. S. 517), and obviously has no relevancy to the
problem of the statute of limitations.
The prosecution contends, however, that the offense
consisted in the imposition of a fraudulent scheme upon
the court, that successful execution of the scheme required
not only misrepresentations to the court but continuous
coperation in concealing the scheme until its completion,
that the fraud on the court would not be fully effected until 80% of the impounded funds was distributed to the
insurance companies and $750,000 paid by Street and
divided among petitioners. On that theory the fraudulent scheme, though commenced before the three year
period, continued thereafter. Accordingly, it is argued,
by analogy to such cases as United States v. Kissel, 218
U. S. 601, 607-608; Hyde v. United States, 225 U. S. 347,
367-370; Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S. 392, 400-401, that the
statute of limitations began to run only after the latest
act in the execution of the scheme. It is true that the
information was drawn on the theory of such a continuing offense. But the difficulty with that theory lies
in the nature of the offense described by § 268 of the
Judicial Code.
That section, so far as material here, limits the power
"to punish contempts" to cases of "misbehavior" in the

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

"presence" of the court. If this was an ordinary criminal
prosecution brought under § 135 of the Criminal Code
(18 U. S. C. § 241) for "corruptly" obstructing "the due
administration of justice," quite different considerations
would goverr4. The fact that the acts were not in the
"presence" of the court would be immaterial. And we
may assume, that a fraudulent scheme of the character
of the present one would constitute a continuous offense
under that section. We may also assume that certain
"misbehavior" in the "presence" of the court might constitute an offense under § 135 of the Criminal Code as well
as a contempt under § 268 of the Judicial Code, so as to
give a choice between prosecution before a jury and prosecuticn before a judge. But the offense of "misbehavior"
in the "presence" of the court does not have the sweep
of "corruptly" obstructing or conspiring to obstruct "the
due administration of justice." Congress restricted the
class of offenses for which one may be tried without a jury.
In the present case, as in prosecutions for contempt for
wilful violations of injunctions (Gompers v. United States,
supra,p. 610), each act "so far as it was a contempt, was
punishable as such" and therefore "must be judged by
itself." As we have said, once the "misbehavior" occurs
in the "presence" of the court, the crime is complete. It
is conceded that but for the misrepresentations made to
the court there would have been no "misbehavior" in its
"presence" within the meaning of § 268 of the Judicial
Code. And it is not claimed that there were any misrepresentations made to the court within three years of the
filing of the information; or if May 29, 1939, the date when
the court directed the inquiry, be deemed the important
one (Gompers v. United States, supra,'p. 608), there is no
contention that any such misrepresentations were made
within three years of that time. It is not fraud on the
court which §268 makes punishable as a contempt, unless
that fraud is "misbehavior" in the "presence" of the court

PENDERGAST v. UNITED STATES.
412

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

or "so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice." And, if the latter requirements are not met,
the fact that the fraud may be "misbehavior" is not sufficient. The mere continuance of a fraudulent intent
after an act of "misbehavior" in the "presence" of the
court does not make that "misbehavior" a continuing
offense under § 268. The misrepresentations to the court
made possible, of course, the consummation of this nefarious scheme. But each subsequent step in that scheme
did not constitute a contempt unless, like the misrepresentation itself, it was "misbehavior" in the "presence"
of the court or "so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice." No such showing has been made
here and none has been attempted. The fact that the
scheme was fraudulent and corruptly obstructed the
administration of justice does not enlarge the limited
power to punish for contempt. It merely means that if
petitioners can be punished, it must be through the ordinary channels of criminal prosecutions under the Criminal
Code. We are forced to conclude that any contempt
committed occurred not later than February 1, 1936, when
the court ordered the distribution of the impounded funds.
It was therefore barred by the statute of limitations.'
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or disposition of this case.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting:

I do not agree that we should leave undecided the question whether conduct of this sort constitutes punishable
contempt. To use bribery and fraud on the Court to
obtain its order for disbursement of nearly $10,000,000 in
trust in its custody is not only contempt but contempt of
a kind far more damaging to the Court's good name and
more subtly obstructive of justice than throwing an ink-

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of FRANKFURTER, J.

317 U. S.

well at a Judge or disturbing the peace of a courtroom. I,
would hold the conduct of these petitioners to be "misbehavior" and within the "presence" of the Court and hence
a contempt within the meaning of the. statute. I should
not deflect what seems to be the course of practical and
obvious justice in this case by resort to metaphysical
speculations as to the effect of absence of the schemers
from the courtroom when attorneys whom also they had
deceived obtained the order from the Court.
Neither can I agree with the Court's conclusion that
this contempt expired with the setting sun and the statute
of limitation then began its work of immunizing these
defendants. The fraud had as 'its object not merely to
get the Court order, but to get the money from the Court's
custody. The contempt and the fraud did not cease to
operate so long as the money was being disbursed in
reliance upon it, and by virtue of its concealment.
.Hence, I find no good reason for interfering with the
effort of the lower court to bring these men to account for
their fraud on it.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER:

I wholly agree with the conclusion of MR. JUSTICE
that the petitioners' conduct constituted a con-

JACKSON

tempt within the meaning of § 268 of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 385. But I am also compelled to conclude,
for the reasons stated in the opinion of the Court, that
prosecution for such offense is barred by the applicable
statute of limitations, R. S. § 1044, 18 U. S. C. § 582.

