OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

MOTHER LODE COALITION MINES CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE,

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 94. Argued November 19, 1942.-Decided December 7, 1942.
1. An income tax return for the year 1934, in which the taxpayer had
items of gross income (and related deductions) from a mining property, was the "first return .

.

. in respect of" the property within

the meaning of § 114 (b) (4) of the Revenue Act of 1934, and the
taxpayer's failure in that return to state whether it elected to have
the depletion allowance for such property computed on the percentage basis foreclosed a claim of a percentage depletion allowance
in its return for 1935,-notwithstanding that in 1934 the taxpayer
had no net income and no basis for a depletion allowance. P. 223.
2. This construction of § 114 (b) (4) is in accord with the administrative interpretation evidenced by Article 23 (m)-5 of Treasury
Regulations 86, which is consistent with the statute and supported
also by practical considerations. P. 224.
125 F. 2d 657, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 660, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 42 B. T. A. 596,
sustaining the Commissioner's disallowance of a deduction for depletion in the computation of petitioner's income tax.

Mr. Paul E. Shorb, with whom Messrs. Charles A. Horsky and John 2'. Sapienza were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Valentine Brookes argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
41essrs. Sewall Key, Samuel H. Levy, Carlton Fox, and
Archibald Cox were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The ultimate question presented by this case is whether
petitioner is entitled to a deduction in its 1935 income tax
return for percentage depletion under § 114 (b) (4) of the

MOTHER LODE CO. v. COMM'R.

223

Opinion of the Court.

222

Revenue Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 680, which allowed the deduction from gross income in the case of mines, etc., of
specified percentages of gross income, but not to exceed
50% of the net income computed without regard to depletion allowance, and required that:
"A taxpayer making his first return under this title in
respect of a property shall state whether he elects to have
the depletion allowance for such property for the taxable
year for which the return is made computed with or without regard to percentage depletion, and the depletion allowance in respect of such property for such year shall
be computed according to the election thus made. If the
taxpayer fails to make such statement in the return, the
depletion allowance for suchproperty for such year shall
be computed without reference to percentage depletion.
The method, determined as above, of computing the depletion allowance shall be applied in the case of the property for all taxable years in which it is in the hands of
such taxpayer, . . ."
I
The pivotal question is whether petitioner's income tax
return for 1934 or for 1935 was the first return in respect
of its mining property within the meaning of § 114 (b) (4).
During the tax year 1934, petitioner's copper mine was
closed. In its 1934 income tax return, petitioner reported
gross income from the sale of ore mined the' previous year,
but the deductions, most of which were attributed to
"Shutdown Expense," were such that there was no net
income. Petitioner claimed no depletion allowance in that
return-depletion allowances prior to 1933 had exhausted
petitioner's cost basis-and made no statement with regard to percentage depletion. In 1935, petitioner derived
a net profit from the operation of its mine and claimed a
deduction for percentage depletion, stating that it had
elected percentage depletion for the fiture in its' 1933
1

Emphasis added.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U.S.

return, filed under § 114 (b) (4) of the Revenue Act of
1932,47 Stat. 169. The Commissioner disallowed thepercentage depletion deduction for 1935, ruling that, under
§ 114 (b) (4) of the 1934 Act, petitioner's 1934 return was
its first return in respect of its mining property and that
its failure to make an affirmative election in that return
constituted an election to compute depletion thereafter
without reference to percentage depletion. Accordingly,
the Commissioner made a deficiency determination which
the Board of Tax Appeals sustained. The court below
affirmed. 125 F. 2d 657. We granted certiorari because
of an asserted conflict with the decision in Pittston-Duryea
Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 117 F. 2d 436.2
Section 114 (b) (4) required petitioner to elect in its
"first return under this title [income tax] in respect of a
property" whether its depletion allowance was to be computed with or without regard to percentage depletion,
and the method thus chosen became binding for the subsequent taxable years. Petitioner's 1934 return falls
within the exact statutory definition of "first return." It'
was the first return filed under the 1934 Act, and it was
"in respect of" the mining property since it listed items
of gross income and deductions arising out of that property. Petitioner's failure there to state its election foreclosed any subsequent claim to percentage depletion.
This has been the administrative interpretation. Article
23 (m)-5 of Regulations 86.' We think this regulation is
granting the writ, we excluded argument on the point, decided
adversely to petitioner below, that its election to take percentage
depletion in its 1933 return under the Revenue Act of 1932 made
unnecessary a new election under the Revenue Act of 1934.
3 This Article provides in part as follows: "In his first return made
under Title I of the Act (for a taxable year beginning after December
31, 1933) the taxpayer must state as to each property with respect
to which the taxpayer has any item of income or deduction whether
he elects to have the depletion allowance for each such property for
2In

the tax, ble vear commuted with or without reference to percentage

MOTHER LODE CO. v. COMM'R.
222

Opinion of the Court.

binding because not only is it practically compelled, by the
words of § 114 (b) (4), but also it is a reasonable interpretation which, as will be shortly pointed out, is fair.and
workable in its operation.
Petitioner asserts that this interpretation fails to give
effect to the meaning of § 114 (b) (4) as a whole, and contends that, when such effect is given, "first return" must
mean the first return in which a depletion allowance
could be claimed. The argument for this result runs as
follows: Section 114 (b) (4) requires the taxpayer to state
in its first return whether it elects to have "the depletion
allowance for such property for the taxable year for which
the return is made computed with or without regard to
percentage depletion," and then provides that "the depletion allowance in respect of such property for such
year shall be computed according to the election thus
made"; therefore, the "first return" must be one in which
petitioner could elect to have the "depletion allowance
. . . for the taxable year" computed with or without reference to percentage depletion; and, in its 1934 return,
petitioner could not so elect because a percentage depletion allowance is limited in any case to 50% of net income
and it had no net income.
The fallacy of this argument is apparent, and the fault
lies in the final step. The statute provides for the election of a method of computation for the present and the
future; it does not, contrary to petitioner's assertions,
make the necessity for election depend upon whether an
allowance actually results from the method of computation chosen. Petitioner could have elected in 1934 to
have the depletion allowance for 1934 "computed with
depletion.

. .

. If the taxpayer fails to make such statement in the

return in which the election should be so indicated, the depletion
allowance for the year for which an election must be first exercised
and for all succeeding taxable years will be computed without reference

to percentage depletion."
503873-43-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

or without regard to percentage depletion," and the
computation could then have been made according to the
method chosen. It so happened that petitioner was not
entitled to any allowance in 1934; its depletable cost had
been exhausted, and computation on the percentage basis
would have resulted in nothing. So the choice had no significance for that year, but, that could be ascertained only
after the computation was made. The idea that it would
be absurd to compel an election until a deduction actually
resulted, see Pittston-DuryeaCoal Co. v. Commissioner,
117 F. 2d 436, 438, is best answered by the fact that the
statute gave taxpayers an opportunity to elect a depletion
program for the present and future years; nothing in it
indicates that Congress was concerned with whether a
depletion allowance actually resulted in each year from
the program selected.
Petitioner's contentions really resolve into the proposition that "first return" means "first return made by a taxpayer having net income derived from a property." But
the statute does not speak of first return showing net income, and there is nothing to indicate that such was Congress' intention.'. Furthermore, as the court below
pointed out, 125 F. 2d 657 at p. 659, if petitioner had
a basis for cost depletion in 1934, it would have been put
to an election in that year even though it had no net income, because cost depletion allowance is in no manner
dependent upon the existence of net income. The fact
4Petitioner
relies upon the remarks of Representative Disney, who
offered an amendment to § 114 (b) (4) of the Internal Revenue Code,
as part of the Revenue Act of 1942, which would have written the petitioner's interpretation into the statute with the explanation that the
amendment clarified the original Congressional intent. Hearings Before House Committee on Ways and Means on Revenue Revision of
1942, 77th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 3489. However, this amendment was
rejected in Committee. Section 145 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1942,.
approved October 21, 1942, eliminates the necessity of election, but
nothing in its legislative history casts any light upon our problem.

MOTHER LODE CO. v. COMM'R.
222

Opinion of the Court.

that petitioner's depletable cost was exhausted is no reason
for expanding the statutory definition. Section 114 (b)
(4) is a liberal offer limited to those who meet the exact
statutory terms. Riley Investment Co. v. Commissioner,
311 U. S. 55.
Strong practical considerations also support the Commissioner's construction of the statute and warrant rejection of petitioner's "first return with net income"
theory. All taxpayers are put on an equal basis if they
must elect their depletion program in the first return filed
"in respect of a property"; a taxpayer, situated as petitioner, is not then free to defer election until it has net,
income at some future date when conditions may be such.
that its election can be made more advisedly than that of
its competitors. Secondly, administrative simplicity and
certainty are best achieved by the Commissioner's interpretation. If, by "first return made by a taxpayer
having net income derived from a property," petitioner
means. first return for a year in which there actually was
net income, cf. Kehoe-Berge Coal Co. v. Commissioner,
117 F. 2d 439, it could not be known in some cases whether
a taxpayer was put to its election in 1934 or a later year
until after finally determining, perhaps after protracted
litigation, whether or not the taxpayer had actual net income in 1934. The uncertainty and confusion thereby
created would be most undesirable; a taxpayer could not
intelligently plan its operations, and the Bureau of Internal Revenue would be compelled to keep open all the
returns for subsequent years in order to check the later
depletion deductions. If it is petitioner's contention that
'the critical fact of net income is disclosed by the face of
the return, the obligation to state an election would depend to some extent upon the errors of the taxpayer, a
consequence which it is not to be presumed that Congress
intended.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.

