CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
EX PARTE QUIRIN ET
NOS. -

AL.'

, ORIGINAL. MOTIONS FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITIONS
FOR WRITS OF HABEAS CORPUS
AND

UNITED STATES EX REL. QUIRIN ET
PROVOST MARSHAL.2
NOS.

AL.

V.

COX,

1-7. CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Argued July 29-30, 1942.-Decided July 31, 1942.
Per Curiam decision filed, July 31, 1942.3
29, 1942.4

Full Opinion filed, October

1. A federal court may refuse to issue a writ of habeas corpus where

the facts alleged in the petition, if proved, would not warrant discharge of the prisoner. P. 24.
1No. -, Original, Ex parte Richard Quirin; No. -, Original, Ex
parte Herbert Hans Haupt; No. -, Original, Ex parte Edward John
Kerling; No. -, Original, Ex parte Ernest Peter Burger; No. -,
Original, Ex parte Heinrich Harm Heinck; No. -,
Original, Ex
parte Werner Thiel; and No. -, Original, Ex parte Hermann Otto
Neubauer.
2 No. 1, United States ex. rel. Quirin v. Cox, Provost Marshal; No.
2, United States ex rel. Haupt v. Cox, Provost Marshal; No. 3, United
States ex rel. Kerling v. Cox, Provost Marshal; No. 4, United States
ex tel. Burger v. Cox, Provost Marshal; No. 5, United States ex rel.
Heinck v. Cox, Provost Marshal; No. 6, United States ex tel. Thiel v.
Cox, Provost Marshal; and No. 7, United States ex rel. Neubauer v.
Cox, Provost Marshal.
3See footnote, post, p. 18.
'Post, p. 18.
503873-43----8

1

2

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

2. Presentation to the District Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia of a petition for habeas corpus was the institution of a suit; and denial by that court of leave to file the petition
was a judicial determination of a case or controversy reviewable by
appeal to the U. S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and
in this Court by certiorari. P. 24.
3. The President's Proclamation of July 2, 1942, declaring that all
persons who are citizens or subjects of, or who act under the direction of, any nation at war with the United States, and who during
time of war enter the United States through coastal or boundary
defenses, and are charged with committing or attempting to commit sabotage, espionage, hostile acts, or violations of the law of war,
"shall be subject to the law of war and to the jurisdiction of military
tribunals," does not bar accused persons from access to the civil
courts for the purpose of determining the applicability of the
Proclamation to the particular case; nor does the Proclamation,
which in terms denied to such persons access to the courts, nor
the enemy alienage of the accused, foreclose consideration by the
civil courts of the contention that the Constitution and laws of
the United States forbid their trial by military commission. P. 24.
4. In time of war between the United States and Germany, petitioners, wearing German military uniforms and carrying explosives,
fuses, and incendiary and time devices, were landed from German
submarines in the hours of darkness, at places on the Eastern seaboard of the United States. Thereupon they buried the uniforms and
supplies, and proceeded, in civilian dress, to various places in the
United States. All had received instructions in Germany from an
officer of the German High Command to destroy war industries and
war facilities in the United States, for which they or their relatives
in Germany were to receive salary payments from the German Government. They also had been paid by the German Government
during their course of training at a sabotage school, and had with
them, when arrested, substantial amounts of United States currency,
which had been handed to them by an officer of the German High
Command, who had instructed them to wear their German uniforms
while landing in the United States. Specification 1 of the charges
on which they were placed on trial before a military commission
charged that they, "being enemies of the United States and acting
for . ..the German Reich, a belligerent enemy nation, secretly
and covertly passed, in civilian dress, contrary *to the law of war,
through the military and naval lines and defenses of the United

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Syllabus.
States .. .and went behind such lines, contrary to the law of war,
in civilian dress . . . for the purpose of committing . . . hostile
acts, and, in particular, to destroy certain war industries, war utilities
and war materials within the United States." Held:
(1) That the specification sufficiently charged an offense against
the law of war which the President was authorized to order tried by
a military commission; notwithstanding the fact that, ever since
their arrest, the courts in the jurisdictions where they entered the
country and where they were arrested and held for trial were open
and functioning normally. Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, distinguished. Pp. 21, 23, 36, 48.
(2) The President's Order of July 2, 1942, so far as it lays down
the procedure to be followed on the trial before the Commission and
on the review of its findings and sentence, and the procedure in fact
followed by the Commission, were not in conflict with Articles of War
38, 43, 46, 502 and 70. P. 46.
(3) The petitioners were in lawful custody for trial by a military
commission; and, upon petitions for writs of habeas corpus, did not
show cause for their discharge. P. 47.
5. Articles 15, 38 and 46 of the Articles of War, enacted by Congress,
recognize the "military commission" as an appropriate tribunal for
the trial and punishment of offenses against the law of war not
ordinarily tried by courts-martial. And by the Articles of War,
especially Article 15, Congress has explicitly provided, so far as it
may constitutionally do so, that military tribunals shall have jurisdiction to try offenses against the law of war in appropriate cases.
Pp. 26-28.
6. Congress, in addition to making rules for the government of our
Armed Forces, by the Articles of War has exercised its authority
under Art. I, § 8, el. 10 of the Constitution to define and punish
offenses against the law of nations, of which the law of war is a
part, by sanctioning, within constitutional limitations, the jurisdiction of military commissions to try persons for offenses which,
according to the rules and precepts of the law of nations, and more
particularly the law of war, are cognizable by such tribunals. And
by Article of War 15, Congress has incorporated by reference,
as within the jurisdiction of military commissions, all offenses which
are defined as such by the law of war and which may constitutionally be included within that jurisdiction. Pp. 28, 30.
7. This Court has always recognized and applied the law of war as
including that part of the law of nations which prescribes, for the

4

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

conduct of war, the status, rights and duties of enemy nations as well
as of enemy individuals. P. 27.
8. The offense charged in this case was an offense against the law
of war, the trial of which by military commission had been authorized by Congress, and which the Constitution does not require to be
tried by jury. Ez parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, distinguished. P. 45.
9. By the law of war, lawful combatants are subject to capture
and detention as prisoners of war; unlawful combatants, in addition,
are subject to trial and punishment by military tribunals for acts
which render their belligerency unlawful. P. 30.
10. It has long been accepted practice by our military authorities
to treat those who, during time of war, pass surreptitiously from
enemy territory into our own, discarding their uniforms upon entry,
for the commission of hostile acts involving destruction of life or
property, as unlawful combatants punishable as such by military
commission. This practice, accepted and followed by other governments, must be regarded as a rule or principle of the law of war
recognized by this Government by its enactment of the Fifteenth
Article of War. P. 35.
11. Citizens of the United States who associate themselves with the
military arm of an enemy government, and with its aid, guidance
and direction enter this country bent on hostile acts, are enemy
belligerents within the meaning of the Hague Convention and the
law of war. P. 37.
12. Even when committed by a citizen, the offense here charged is
distinct from the crime of treason defined, in Article III, § 3 of the
Constitution, since the absence of uniform essential to one is irrelevant to the other. P. 38.
13. Article III, § 2, and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments of the Constitution did not extend the right to demand a juiy to trials by military commission or require that offenses against the law of war, not
triable by jury at common law, be tried only in civil courts. P. 38.
14. Section 2 of the Act of Congress of April 10, 1806, derived from
the Resolution of the Continental Congress of August 21, 1776, and
which imposed the death penalty on alien spies "according to the law
and usage of nations, by sentence of a general court martial," was a
contemporary construction of Article III, § 2 of the Constitution and
of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, as not foreclosing trial by military tribunals, without a jury, for offenses against the law of war.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Statement of the Case.
committed by enemies not in or associated with our Armed Forces.
It is a construction which has been followed since the founding of
our government, and is now continued in the 82nd Article of War.
Such a construction is entitled to great respect. P. 41.
15. Since violation of the law of war is adequately alleged in this case,
the Court finds no occasion to consider the validity of other specifications based on the 81st and 82nd Articles of War, or to construe
those articles or decide .upon their constitutionality as so construed.
P. 46.
Leave to file petitions for habeas corpus in this Court denied.
Orders of District Court (47 F. Supp. 431), affirmed..

The Court met in Special Term, on Wednesday, July 29,
1942, pursuant to a call by the Chief Justice having the
approval of all the Associate Justices.
The Chief Justice announced that the Court had convened in Special Term in order that certain applications
might be presented to it and argument be heard in respect
thereto.'
In response to an inquiry by the Chief Justice, the Attorney General stated that the Chief Justice's son, Major
Lauson H. Stone, U. S. A., had, under orders, assisted
defense counsel before the Military Commission, in the
case relative to which the Special Term of the Court was
called; but that Major Stone had had no connection with
this proceeding before this Court. Therefore, said the
Attorney General, counsel for all the respective parties in
this proceeding joined in urging the Chief Justice to participate in the consideration and decision of the matters to
be presented. Colonel Kenneth C. Royall, of counsellor
the petitioners, concurred in the statement and request
of the Attorney General.
The applications, seven in number (ante, p. 1, n. 1), first
took the form of petitions to this Court for leave to file
petitions for writs of habeas corpus to secure the release
of the petitioners from the custody of Brigadier General

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Argument for Petitioners.

317 U. S.

Albert L. Cox, U. S. A., Provost Marshal of the Military
District of Washington, who, pursuant to orders, was
holding them in that District for and during a trial before
a Military Commission constituted by an Order of the
President of the United States. During the course of
the argument, the petitioners were permitted to file petitions for writs of certiorari, directed to the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, to review,
before judgment by that Court, orders then before it by
appeal by which the District Court for the District of
Columbia had denied applications for leave to file petitions for writs of habeas corpus.
After the argument, this Court delivered a Per Curiam
Opinion, disposing of the cases (footnote, p. 18). A full
opinion, which is the basis of this Report, was filed with
the Clerk of the Court on October 29, 1942, post, p. 18.
Colonel Kenneth C. Royall and Colonel Cassius M.
Dowell had been assigned as defense counsel by the President in his Order appointing the Military Commission.
Colonel Royall argued the case and Colonel Dowell was
with him on the brief.
Enemy aliens may resort to habeas corpus. Ex parte
Milligan, 4 Wall. 2, at pp. 115-121; Kaufman v. Eisenberg, 32 N. Y. S. 2d 450; Ex parte Orozco, 201 F. 106; Ex
parte Risse, 257 F. 102; 55 Harvard L. Rev. 1058; 31 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 361.
50 U. S. C. § 21 relates only to internment and does not
authorize a proclamation denying to alien enemies the right
to apply for writ of habeas corpus.
The 82nd Article of War, which provides for trial and
punishment of spies by courts-martial or by military commission, must be construed as applying only to offenses
committed in connection with actual military operations,
or on or near military fortifications, encampments, or
installations.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

7

Argument for Petitioners.

Mere proof that persons in uniform landed on the American coast from a submarine, or otherwise, does not supply
any of the elements of spying. None of the petitioners
committed any acts on, near, or in connection with any
fortifications, posts, quarters, or encampments of. the
Army; or on, near, or in connection with any other military installations; or at any location within the zone of
operations. 2 Wheaton, Int. L., 6th Ed., 766; 2 Oppenheim, Int. L., 1905 Ed., 161; Halleck, Int. L., 3d Ed., 573.
In the absence of evidence of any acts within this zone,
there is no authority for a military commission under
Article of War 82.
That the acts alleged to have been committed by the
petitioners in violation of the 81st Article were not in the
zone of military operations would also preclude the jurisdiction of a military commission to try this offense. See
18 U. S.,C. § 1; 50 U. S. C. §§ 31-42, 101-106. The petitioners were arrested by the civil authorities, waived
arraignment before a civil court, and also waived removal
to another federal judicial district. The civil courts
thereby acquired jurisdiction; and there was no authority
for the military authorities to oust these courts of this
jurisdiction.
The Rules of Land Warfare describe no such offense as
that set forth in the specifications of the first charge.
These Rules were prepared in 1940 under the direction of
the Judge Advocate General, and purport to include all
offenses against the law of war.
The so-called law of war is a species of international
law analogous to common law. There is no common
faw crime against the United States.
The first charge sets out no more than the offenses of
sabotage and espionage, which are specifically covered by
50 U. S. C., §§ 31-42, 101-106, and which are triable by the
civil courts.

8

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Argument for Petitioners.

317 U. S.

The charge of conspiracy can not stand if the other
charges fall. Furthermore, 18 U. S. C. 88 deals expressly
with the offense of conspiracy, and this charge is not
triable by a military commission.
The conduct of the petitioners was nothing more than
preparation to commit the crime of sabotage. The objects
of sabotage had never been specifically selected and the
plan did not contemplate any act of sabotage within a
period of three months. These facts are not even sufficient to constitute an attempt to commit sabotage.
The civil courts were functioning both in the localities
in which the offenses were charged to have been committed
and in the District of Columbia where the alleged offenses
were being tried. In these localities there was no martial
law and no other circumstances which would justify
action by a military tribunal.
The only way in which the petitioners as a practical
matter could raise the jurisdictional question was by
petition for writ of habeas corpus.
The military commission had no jurisdiction over petitioners. Article of War 2 defines the persons who are
subject to military law, and includes members of the armed
forces and other designated persons. Military courtsmartial and other military tribunals have no jurisdiction
to try any other person for offenses in violation of the
Articles of War, except in the cases of Articles 81 and 82.
The same is true of any alleged violations of the law of
war. Ex parte Milligan, supra; 31 Ops. Atty. Gen. 356.
Civil persons who commit acts in other localities than
the zone of active military operations are triable only in
the civil courts and under the criminal statutes. While it
is true that the territory along the coast was patrolled by
the Coast Guard, the patrol was unarmed. It would be
a strained use of language to say that this patrol made
the beach a military line or part of the zone of active
operations.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Argument for Petitioners.

Nor is the situation changed by the fact that on the
Long Island beach, some distance away, was located a
Signal Corps platoon engaged in operating a radio locator
station. The evidence shows that this platoon did not
patrol the beach and was not engaged in any military of-.
fensive or defensive operation at the time the petitioners
landed. The whole United States is divided into defense
areas or sectors and the orders therefor are substantially
similar to those providing for the southern and eastern
defense sectors. If the prosecution were correct in its contention that the issuance of orders for these sectors creates
a zone of active military operations, then the entire United
States is a zone of active military operations, and persons
located therein are subject to the jurisdiction of military
tribunals. The- Florida and Long Island seacoasts were
not and are not in any true sense zones of active military
operations, but are instead parts of the Zone of the Interior
as defined in the Field Service Regulations.
Martial law is a matter of fact and hot a matter of
proclamation; and a proclamation assuming to declare
martial law is invalid unless the facts themselves support
it. See Sterling v. Constantin,287 U. S. 378.
The President's Order and Proclamation did not create
a state of martial law in the entire eastern part of the
United States. In view of the facts, there was no adequate
reason, either of military necessity or otherwise, for depriving any persons in that area of the benefit of constitutional provisions guaranteeing an ordinary and proper
trial before a civil court. Ex parte Milligan, supra.
The President had no authority, in absence of statute,
to issue the Proclamation. In England, the practice has
been to obtain authority of Parliament for similar action.
4 and 5 Geo. V, c. 29; 5 and 6 Geo. V, c. 8; 10 and 11 Geo.
V) c. 55; 2 and 3 Geo. VI, (1939) c..62. Congress alone
can suspend the writ of habeas corpus, and then only in
cases of rebellion or invasion. Const., Art. I, § 9, cl. 2;

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Argument for Petitioners.

317 U. S.

Ex parte Merryman, 17 Fed. Cas. 114; Ex parte Boliman,
4 Cranch 101; McCall v. McDowell, Fed. Cas. No. 8673;
Ex parte Benedict, 3 Fed. Cas. No. 1292; Willoughby,
Const. L., § 1057.
The Proclamation was issued after the commission of
the acts which are charged as crimes and is ex post facto.
Congress itself could not have passed valid legislation
increasing the penalty for acts already committed. Const.,
Art. I, § 9, cl. 3; Thompson v. Utah, 170 U. S. 343; Burgess
v. Salmon, 97 U. S. 384.
The Proclamation is violative of the Fifth and Sixth
Amendments, of Art. III, § 2, cl. 3, and of Art. I, §.9, cl. 2,
of the Constitution.
The Order is invalid because it violates express provisions of Article of War 38 respecting rules of evidence;
and is inconsistent with provisions of Article 43 requiring
concurrence of three-fourths of the Commission's members for conviction or sentence.
Article 70 requires a preliminary hearing like one before
a committing magistrate, with liberty of the accused to
cross-examine. This is ignored by the Order.
Whereas Article 50 requires action by the Board of
Review and the recommendation of the Judge Advocate
General before the case is submitted to the President, the
Order requires that the Commission transmit the record
of the trial, including any judgment or sentence, directly
to the President for his action thereon.
The Order has made it impossible to comply with the
statutory provisions, by directing the Judge Advocate
General (and the Attorney General) to conduct the prosecution, thereby disqualifying the Judge Advocate General
and his subordinates from acting as a reviewing authority.
The proceedings disclose that the Judge Advocate General
has in fact assisted in the conduct of the prosecution.
This is a material violation of the statutory rights afforded accused persons by the Articles of War. The

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

11

Argument for Respondent.

provisions of Articles 46 and 501 are the methods of appeal by a person tried before a military commission. The
Order deprives them of this method of appeal.
A cardinal purpose of Article 38 was to provide a procedure for military commissions, with the proviso that
nothing in the procedure shall be "contrary to or inconsistent with" the Articles of War.
The President had no authority to delegate the rulem.king power under Art. 38 to the Commission. In violation of Articles 38 and 18 the petitioners were denied
the right to challenge a member of the Commission peremptorily. Confessions of the defendants were improperly
admitted against each other.
If it be suggested. that these are matters which do not
affect the jurisdiction of the Commission or the validity
of the proceedings, but are merely questions which may
be raised on appeal or review, the answer is that the Order
deprived the petitioners of such appeal or review.
Citing Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U. S. 378; Caldwell v. Parker,252 U. S. 376;
Kahn v. Anderson, 255 U. S. 1; Home Building & Loan
Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398; Carter v. Carter Coal
Co., 298 U. S. 330; 55 Harvard L. Rev. 1295; 31 Ops. A. G.
363.
Attorney General Biddle, with whom Judge Advocate
General Myron C. Cramer, Assistant Solicitor General
Cox, and Col. Erwin M. Treusch were on the brief, for
respondent.
Enemies who invade the country in tine of war have no
privilege to question their detention by habeas corpus.
Halsbury's Laws of England, 2d Ed., Vol. IX, p. 701, par.
1200; p. 710, par. 1212; Blackstone, 21 Ed., Vol. 1, c. 10, p.
372; Sylvester's Case, 7 Mod. 150 (1703); Rex v. Knockaloe Camp Commandant, 87 L. J . B. N. S. 43 (1917);
Rex v. Schiever, 2 Burr. 765 (1759); Furly v. Newnham,
2 Doug. K. B. 419 (1780) ; Three Spanish.Sailors,2 W. B.

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Argument for Respondent.

317 U.s

1324 (1779); Rex v. Superintendent of Vine Street
PoliceStation, [ 1916] 1 K. B. 268; Schaffenius v. Goldberg,
[1916] 1 K. B. 284; Rules of Land Warfare, pars. 9, 70,
351,352, 356.
If prisoners of war are denied the privilege of the writ
of habeas corpus, it is inescapable that petitioners are not
entitled to it. By removal of their uniforms before their
capture, they lost the possible advantages of being prisoners of war. Surely, they did not thus acquire a privilege
even prisoners of war do not have.
Whatever privilege may be accorded to such enemies is
accorded by sufferance, and may be taken away by the
President. Alien enemies-even those lawfully resident
within the country-have no privilege of habeas corpus
to inquire into the cause of their detention as dangerous
persons. Ex parte Graber, 247 F. 882; Minotto v. Bradley, 252 F. 600. See also Ex parte Weber', [1916] 1 K. B.
280, affirmed [1916] 1 A. C. 421; Rex v. Superintendent of
Vine Street Police Station, [1916] 1 K. B. 268; Rex v.
Knockaloe Camp Commandant, 87 L. J. K. B. N. S. 43; Re
Chamryk, 25 Man. L. Rep. 50; Re Beranek, 33 Ont. L.
Rep. 139; Re Gottesman, 41 Ont. L. Rep. 547; Gusetu v.
Date, 17 Quebec Pr. 95; Act of July 6, 1798, 50 U. S. C.
§ 21; De Lacey v. United States, 249 F. 625.
The fact is that ordinary constitutional doctrines do not
impede the Federal Government in its dealings with
enemies. Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch 110, 121.123; Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Juragua Iron
Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 297; De Lacey v. United
States, 249 F. 625.
The President's power over enemies who enter this
country in time of war, as armed invaders intending to
commit hostile acts, must be absolute.
In his Proclamation, the President took the action he
deemed necessary to deal with persons he and the armed
forces under his command reasonably believed to be enemy

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
I

Argument for Respondent.

invaders. He declared that all such persons should be
subject to the law of war and triable by military tribunals.
He removed whatever privilege such persons might otherwise have had to seek any remedy or maintain any proceeding in the courts of the United States.
These acts were clearly within his power as Commander
in Chief and Chief Executive, and were lawful acts of the
sovereign-the Government of the United States-in time
of war.
The prisoners are enemies who fall squarely within the
terms of the President's proclamation. Cf. Trading with
the Enemy Act of 1917, §§ 2, 7 (b).
To whatever extent the President has power to bar
enemies from seeking writs of habeas corpus, he clearly
has power to define "enemy" as including a class as broad
as that described in the Trading with the Enemy Act.
Even if it be assumed that Burger and Haupt are citizens
of the United States, this does not change their status as
"enemies" of the United States. Hall, Int. L. (1909) 490497; 2 Oppenheim, Int. L. (1940) 216-218. This rule
applies to all persons living in enemy territory, even if
they are technically United States citizens. Miller v.
United States, 11 Wall. 268; Juragua Iron Co. v. United
States, 212 U. S. 297, 308. The return of Burger and
Haupt to the United States can not by any possibility be
construed as an attempt to divest themselves of their
enemy character by reassuming their duties as citizens.
The offenses charged against these prisoners are within
the jurisdiction of this military commission. Articles of
War 81 and 82 (10 U. S. C., §§ 1553-4).
The law of war, like civil law, has a great lex non
scripta,its own common law. This "common law of war"
(Ex parte Vallandigham, 1 Wall. 243; 249) is a centuriesold body of largely unwritten rules and principles of international law which governs the behavior of both soldiers

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Argument for Respondent.

317 U. S.

and civilians during time of war. Winthrop, Military
Law and Precedents (1920), 17, 41, 42, 773 ff.
The law of war has always been applied in this country.
The offense for which Major Andr6 was convicted-passing through our lines in civilian dress, with hostile purpose-is one of the most dangerous offenses known to
the law of war. The other offenses here charged-appearing behind the lines in civilian guise, spying, rdlieving the
enemy, and conspiracy-are equally serious and also demand severe punishment. See Digest of Opinions of
Judge Advocate General, Howland (1912), pp. 1070-1071.
Cf. Instruction for the Government of Armies of the
United States in the Field (G. 0. 100, A. G. 0. 1863) § I,
par. 13; Davis, Military Law of the United States (1913),
p. 310; Rules of Land Warfare, §§ 348, 351, 352; Article of
War 15.
The definition of lawful belligerents appearing in the
Rules of Land Warfare (Rule 9) was adopted by the
signatories to the Hague Convention in Article I, Annex
to Hague Convention No. IV of Oct. 18, 1907, Treaty
Series No. 539, and was ratified by the Senate of the United
States. 36 Stat. 2295. Our Government has thus recognized the existence of a class of unlawful belligerents.
These unlawful belligerents, under Article of War 15, are
punishable under the common law of war. See text
writers, supra;Ex parte Vallandigham, 1 Wall. 243, 249.
Military commissions in the United States derive their
'authority from the Constitution as well as statutes, military usage, and the common law of war. Const, Art. I;
Art. II, § 2 (1). In Congress and the President together is
lodged the power to wage war successfully. Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 426.
. Military commissions have been acknowledged by Congressional statutes which have recognized them as courts
of military law. Articles of War 15, 38, 81, 82; 10 U. S. C.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
I

Argument for Respondent.

§§ 1486, 1509, 1553, 1554. Their authority has also been
recognized in presidential proclamations and orders, rulings of the courts, and opinions of the Attorneys General.
The offenses charged here are unquestionably within the
jurisdiction of military commissions. The prisoners are
charged with violating Articles of War 81 and 82 (10 U. S.
C., §§ 1553-4) which specifically provide for trial by military commission. They are also charged with violating
the common law of war in crossing our military lines and
appearing behind our lines in civilian dress, with hostile
purpose, and with conspiring to commit all the above vio"lations, which in itself constitutes an additional violation of the law of war. The jurisdiction of military
commissions over these offenses under the law of war (in
addition to the specific offenses codified in the Articles of
War) is expressly recognized by Article of War 15 (10 U. S.
C. § 1486).
The military commission has jurisdiction over the persons of these prisoners. Ex parte Milligan,4 Wall. 2, 123,
138-139. The offenses charged here arise in the land or
naval forces. The law of war embraces citizens as well as
aliens (enemy or not); and civilians as well as soldiers are
all within their scope. Indeed it was for the very purpose
of trying civilians for war crimes that military commissions first came into use. Winthrop, Military Law and
Precedents (1920) 831-841.
This broad comprehension of persons is well within the
limits of the excepting clause of the Fifth Amendment.
That clause has been almost universally construed to include civilians. Wiener, Manual of Martial Law (1940),
137; Morgan, Court-MartialJurisdiction over Nonmilitary Persons under the Articles of War, 4 Minn. L. Rev.
79, 107; Winthrop, Military Law and Precedents (1920
ed.) 48, 767; Fletcher, The Civilian -and the War Power,
2 Minn. L. Rev. 110, 126; 16 Op. Atty. Gen. 292; Ex
parte Wildman, 2§ Fed. Cas. 1232. Such construction

16

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Argument for Respondent.

317 U. S.

is founded in common sense: of all hostile acts, those by
civilians are most dangerous and should be punished most

severely.
By the law of war, war crimes can be committed anywhere "within the lines of a belligerent." Oppenheim's
Int. L. (Lauterpacht's 6th ed. 1940) 457. Having violated the law of war in an area where it obviously applies,
offenders are subject to trial by military tribunals wherever they may be apprehended. Congress may grant jurisdiction to try civilians for offenses which "occur in the
theatre of war, in the theatre of operations,-min any place
over which the military forces have actual control and
jurisdiction." Cf. Morgan, supra, at 107; Wiener, supra,
at 137. Neither the Bill of Rights nor Ex parte Milligan
grants to such persons constitutional guarantees which the
Fifth Amendment expressly denies to our own soldiers.
Cf. 2 Warren, The Supreme Court in United States History (1937) 418; Corwin, The President: Office and Powers (2d ed. 1941) 165; United States v. McDonald, 265 F.
754. The test of whether or not the civil courts are open
to punish civil crimes is too unrealistic a test to be applied
blindly to all exercises of military jurisdiction.
The judgment of the President as to what constitutes
necessity for trial by military tribunal'should not lightly
be disregarded. Prize Cases, 2 Black 635. The English
courts have not only long since rejected the doctrine of
Ex parte Milligan, which they once accepted, but also
.h~ve recently sustained a wide discretion granted to the
Executive for the detention of persons suspected of hostile
associations. Liversidge v. Anderson, [1942] 1 A. C. 206;
Greene v. Secretary of State for Home Affairs, [1942] 1
A. C. 284.
Courts do not inquire into the Executive's determination on matters of the type here involved. Martin v.
Mott, 12 Wheat. 19. Cf. United States v. George S. Bush

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Argument for Respondent.

& Co., 310 U. S. 371; United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 320; Dakota Central Tel. Co. v.
South Dakota, 250 U. S. 163. Even if it be assumed that
the President's nomination of a military commission to
try war criminals, as specified by Congress, must be tested
by the "actual and present necessity" criterion of the
majority opinion in the Milligan case, this Court will not
review the President's judgment save in a case of grave
and obvious abuse. Moyer v. Peabody, 212 U. S. 78;
Sterling v. Constantin,287 U. S. 378.
The Commis~ion was legally convened and constituted.
Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S. 487, 500; Keyes v. UnitedStates,
109 U. S. 336.
The procedure and regulations prescribed by the President are proper. Article of War 43, requiring unanimity
for a death sentence, refers to courts-martial. It has no
application to charges referred to a military commission.
The President's order did not make improper provision
for review, Articles of War 46, 48, 501/2 and 51 considered.
There was no improper delegation of rule-making
power.
The doctrine of unconstitutional delegation of powers
relates only to the improper transfer of powers from one
of the three branches of the government to another. It has
nothing to do with delegations by the Chief Executive to
his military subordinates within the executive branch.
Military courts "form no part of the judicial system of the
United States." Kurtz v. Moffitt, 115 U. S,487, 500.
Objections to the actions of the Commission on a variety
of grounds, ranging from its refusal to permit peremptory
challenges to its rulings on the admissibility and sufficiency of evidence, are not cognizable by this Court The
writ of habeas corpus can only be used to.question the
jurisdiction of a military tribunal. It cannot be converted
into a device for civil court review.
503873-43-9

18

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases are brought here by petitioners' several
applications for leave to file petitions for habeas corpus
in this Court, and by their petitions for certiorari to
review orders of the District Court for the District of
Columbia, which denied their applications for leave to
file petitions for habeas corpus in that court.
The question for decision is whether the detention of
petitioners by respondent for trial by Military Commission, appointed by Order of the President of July 2, 1942,
The following is the per curiam opinion filed July 31, 1942:
PER CURIAM.

In these causes motions for leave to file petitions for habeas corpus
were presented to the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia, which entered orders denying the motions. Motions for
leave to file petitions for habeas corpus were then presented to this
Court, and the merits of the applications were fully argued at the
Special Term of Court convened on July 29, 1942. Counsel for petitioners subsequently filed a notice of appeal from the order of the
District Court to the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, and they have perfected their appeals to that court.
They have presented to this Court petitions for writs of certiorari
before judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 347 (a). The petitions are
granted. In accordance with the stipulation between counsel for
petitioners and for the respondent, the papers filed and argument
had in connection with the applications for leave to file petitions for
habeas corpus are made applicable to the certiorari proceedings.
. The Court has fully considered the questions raised in these cases
and thoroughly argued at the bar, and has reached its conclusion
upon them. It now announces its decision and enters its judgment
in each case, in advance of the preparation of a full opinion which
necessarily will require a considerable period of time for its preparation
and which, when prepared, will be filed with the Clerk.
The Court holds:
(1) That the charges preferred against petitioners on which they
are being tried by military commission appointed by the order of the

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Opinion of the Court.

on charges preferred against them purporting to set out
their violations of the law of war and of the Articles of
War, is in conformity to the laws and Constitution of the
United States.
After denial of their applications by the District Court,
47 F. Supp. 431, petitioners asked leave to file petitions
for habeas corpus in this Court. In view of the public
importance of the questions raised by their petitions and
of the duty which rests on the courts, in time of war as
well as in time of peace, to preserve unimpaired the constitutional safeguards of civil liberty, and because in
our opinion the public interest required that we consider
and decide those questions without any avoidable delay,
we directed that petitioners' applications be set down for
full oral argument at a special term of this Court, convened on July 29, 1942. The applications for leave to
file the petitions were presented in open court on that
day and were heard on the petitions, the answers to them
of respondent, a stipulation of facts by counsel, and the
record of the testimony given before the Commission.
While the argument was proceeding before us, petitioners perfected their appeals from the orders of the
District Court to the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia and thereupon filed with this
President of July 2, 1942, allege an offense or offenses which the
President is authorized to order tried before a military commission.
(2) That the military commission was lawfully constituted.
(3) That petitioners are held in lawful custody for trial before
the military commission, and have not shown cause for being discharged by writ of habeas corpus.
The motions for leave to file petitions for writs of habeas corpus
are denied.
The orders of the District Court are affirmed. The mandates are
directed to issue forthwith.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration or decision
of these cases.

20

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Court petitions for certiorari to the Court of Appeals before judgment, pursuant to § 240 (a) of the Judicial Code,
28 U. S. C. § 347 (a). We granted certiorari before judgment for the reasons which moved us to convene the special
term of Court. In accordance with the stipulation of
counsel we treat the record, briefs and arguments in the
habeas corpus proceedings in this Court as the record,
briefs and arguments upon the writs of certiorari.
On July 31, 1942, after hearing argument of counsel
and after full consideration of all questions raised, this
Court affirmed the orders of the District Court and denied
petitioners' applications for leave to file petitions for habeas corpus. By per curiam opinion we announced the
decision of the Court, and that the full opinion in the
causes would be prepared and filed with the Clerk.
The following facts appear from the petitions or are
stipulated. Except as noted they are undisputed.
All the petitioners were born in Germany; all have lived
in the United States. All returned to Germany between
1933 and 1941. All except petitioner Haupt are admittedly citizens of the German Reich, with which the United
States is at war. Haupt cdme to this country with his
parents when he was five years old; it is contended that he
became a citizen of the United States by virtue of the
naturalization of his parents during his minority and that
he has not since lost his citizenship. The Government,
however, takes the position that on attaining his majority
he elected to maintain German allegiance and citizenship,
or in any case that he has by his conduct renounced or
abandoned his United States citizenship. See Perkins v.
Elg, 307 U. S., 325, 334; United States ex rel. Rojak v.
MarshalL, 34 F. 2d 219; United States ex rel. Mcimeca v.
Husband, 6 F. 2d 957, 958; 8 U. S. C. § 801, and compare
8 U. S. C. § 808. For reasons presently to be stated we do
not find it necessary to rpsolve these contentions.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

21

Opinion ofthe Court.

After the declaration of war between the United States
and the German Reich, petitioners received training at a
sabotage school near Berlin, Germany, where they were
instructed in the use of explosives and in methods of secret
writing. Thereafter petitioners, with a German citizen,
Dasch, proceeded from Germany to a seaport in Occupied
France, where petitioners Burger, Heinck and Quirin, together with Dasch, boarded a German submarine which
proceeded across the Atlantic to Amagansett Beach on
Long Island, New York. The four were there landed
from the submarine in the hours of darkness, on or about
June 13, 1942, carrying with them a supply of explosives,
fuses, and incendiary and timing devices. While landing
they wore German Marine Infantry uniforms or parts of
uniforms. Immediately after landing they buried their
uniforms and the other articles mentioned, and proceeded
in civilian dress to New York City.
The remaining four petitioners at the same French
port boarded another German submarine, which carried
them across the Atlantic to Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida.
On or about June 17, 1942, they came ashore during the
hours of darkness, wearing caps of the German Marine
Infantry and carrying with them a supply of explosives,
fuses, and incendiary and timing devices. They immediately buried their caps and the other articles mentioned,
and proceeded in civilian dress to Jacksonville, Florida,
and thence to various points in the United States. All
were taken into custody in New York or Chicago by agents
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. All had received
instructions in Germany from an officer of the German
High Command to destroy war industries and war facilities in the United States, for which they or their relatives
in Germany were to receive salary payments from the
German Government. They also had been paid by the
German Government during their course of training at
the sabotage school and had received substantial sums in

22

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

United States currency, which were in their possession
when arrested. The currency had been handed to them
by an officer of the German High Command, who had
instructed them to wear their German uniforms while
landing in the United States.'
The President, as President and Commander in Chief
of the Army and Navy, by Order of July 2, 1942,2 appointed a Military Commission and directed it to try
petitioners, for offenses against the law of war and the
.Articles of 'War, and prescribed regulations for the procedure on the trial and for review of the record of the trial
and of any judgment or sentence of the Commission. On
the same day, by Proclamation,' the President declared
that "all persons who are subjects, citizens or residents of
any nation at war with the United States or who give.
obedience to or act under the direction of any such nation,
I From June 12 to June 18, 1942, Amagansett Beach, New York,
and Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, were within the area designated as
the Eastern Defense Command of the United States Army, and subject
to the provisions of a proclamation dated May 16, 1942, issued by Lieutenant General Hugh A. Drum, United States Army, Commanding
General, Eastern Defense Command (see 7 Federal Register 3830).
On the night of June 12-13, 1942, the waters around Amagansett
Beach, Long Island, were within the area comprising the Eastern Sea
Frontier, pursuant to the orders issued by Admiral Ernest J. King,
Commander in Chief of the United States Fleet and Chief of Naval
Operations. On the night of June 16-17, 1942, the waters around Ponte
Vedra Beach, Florida, were within the area comprising the Gulf Sea
,Frontier, pursuant to similar orders.
On the night of June 12-13, 1942, members of the United States
Coast Guard, unarmed, maintained a beach patrol along the beaches
surrounding Amagansett,'Long Island, under written orders mentioning the purpose of detecting landings. On the night of June 17-18,
1942, the United States Army maintained a patrol of the beaches
surrounding and including Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida, under written
orUers mentioning the purpose of detecting the landing of enemy
agents from submarines.
2 7 Federal Register 5103.
8 7 Federal Register 5101.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
1

Opinion of the Court.

and who during time of war enter or attempt to enter the
United States . . through coastal or boundary defenses, and are charged with committing or attempting
or preparing to commit sabotage, espionage, hostile or
warlike acts, or violations of the law of war, shall be subject to the law of war and to the jurisdiction of military
tribunals."
The Proclamation also stated in terms that all such
persons were denied access to the courts.
Pursuant to direction of the Attorney General, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation surrendered custody of
petitioners to respondent, Provost Marshal of the Military
District of Washington, who was directed by the Secretary of War to receive and keep them in custody, and
who thereafter held petitioners for trial before the
Commission.
On July 3, 1942, the Judge Advocate General's Department of the Army prepared and lodged with the Commission the following charges against petitioners, supported
by specifications:
1. Violation of the law of war.
2. Violation of Article 81 of the Articles of War, defining the offense of relieving or attempting to relieve, or
corresponding with or giving intelligence to, the enemy.
3. Violation of Article 82, defining the offense of spying.
4. Conspiracy to commit the offenses alleged in charges
1, 2 and 3.
The Commission met on July 8, 1942, and proceeded
with the trial, which continued in progreqs while the
causes were pending in this Court. On July 27th, before
petitioners' applications to the District Court, all the
evidence for the prosecution and the defense had been
taken by the Commission and the case had been closed
except for arguments of counsel. It is conceded that ever
since petitioners' arrest the state and federal courts in
Florida, New York, and the District of Columbia, and in

24

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

the states in which each of the petitioners was arrested
or detained, have been open and-functioning normally.
While it is the usual procedure on an application for a
writ of habeas corpus in the federal courts for the court
to issue the writ and on the return to hear and dispose of
the case, it may without issuing the writ consider and
determine whether the facts alleged by the petition, if
proved, would warrant discharge of the prisoner. Walker
v. Johnston, 312 U. S.275, 284. Presentation of the petition for judicial action is the institution of a suit. Hence
denial by the district court of leave to file the petitions in
these causes was the judicial determination of a case or
controversy, reviewable on appeal to the Court of Appeals
and reviewable here by certiorari. See Ex parte Milligan,
4 Wall. 2, 110-13; Betts v. Brady, 316 U. S. 455,
458-461.
Petitioners' main contention is that the President is
without any statutory or constitutional authority to order
the petitioners to be tried by military tribunal for offenses
with which they are charged; that in consequence they
are entitled to be tried in the civil courts with the safeguards, including trial by jury, which the Fifth and Sixth
Amendments guarantee to all persons charged in such
courts with criminal offenses. In any case it is urged
that the President's Order, in prescribing the procedure of
the Commission and the method for review of its findings
and sentence, and the proceedings of the Commission under the Order, conflict with Articles of War adopted by
Congress--particularly Articles 38, 43, 46, 50 and 70and are illegal and void.
The Government challenges each of these propositions.
But regardless of their merits, it also insists that petitioners must be denied access to the courts, both because they
are enemy aliens or have entered our. territory as enemy
belligerents,. and because the President's Proclamation
undertakes in terms to deny such access to the class of

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
1

Opinion of the Court.

persons defined by the Proclamation, which aptly describes the character and conduct of petitioners. It is
urged that if they are enemy aliens or if the Proclamation
has force, no court may afford the petitioners a hearing.
But there is certainly nothing in the Proclamation to preclude access to the courts for determining its applicability
to the particular case. And neither the Proclamation nor
the fact.that they axe enemy aliens forecloses consideration by the courts of petitioners' contentions that the Constitution and laws of the United States constitutionally
enacted forbid their trial by military commission. As announced in our per curiam opinion, we have resolved those
questions by our conclusion that the Commission has
jurisdiction to try the charge preferred against petitioners.
There is therefore no occasion to decide contentions of the
parties unrelated to this issue. We pass at once to
the consideration of the basis of the Commission's
authority.
We are not here concerned with any question of the
guilt or innocence of petitioners.' Constitutional safeguards for the protection of all who are charged with offenses are not to be disregarded in order to inflict merited
punishment on some who are guilty. Ex parte Milligan,
supra, 119, 132; Tumey v. Ohio, 273 U. S. 510, 535; Hill
v. Texas, 316 U. S. 400, 406. But the detention and trial
of petitioners--ordered by the President in the declared
exercise of his powers as Commander in Chief of the Army
in time of war and of grave public danger-are itot to be
set aside by the courts without the clear conviction that
they are in conflict with the Constitution or laws of Congress constitutionally enacted.
Congress and the President, like the courts, possess no
power not derived from the Constitution. But one of
'As appears from the stipulation, a defense offered before the Military Commission was that petitioners had had no intention to obey
the orders given them by the officer of the German High Command.

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

the objects of the Constitution, as declared by its preamble,
is to "provide for the common defence." As a means to
that end, the Constitution gives to Congress the power to
"provide for the common Defence," Art. I, § 8, cl. 1; "To
raise and support Armies," "To provide and maintain a
Navy," Art. I, § 8, cl. 12, 13; and "To make Rules for the
Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces,"
Art. I, § 8, cl. 14. Congress is given authority "To declare
War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisa, and make
Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water," Art. I,
§ 8, cl. 11; and "To define and punish Piracies and Felonies
committed on the high Seas, and Offences against the Law
of Nations," Art. I, § 8, cl. 10. And finally, the Constitution authorizes Congress "To make all Laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Conotitution in the Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof." Art. I, § 8, cl. 18.
The Constitution confers on the President the "executive Power," Art. II, § 1, cl. 1, and imposes on him the duty
to "take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed." Art.
II, § 3. It makes him the Commander in Chief of the
Army and Navy, Art. II, §2, cl. 1, and empowers him to
appoint and commission officers of the United States.
Art. II, §3, cl. 1.
The Constitution thus invests the President, as Commander in Chief, with the power to wage war which Congress has declared, and to carry into effect all laws passed
by Congress for the conduct of war and for the government
and regulation of the Armed Forces, and all laws defining
and punishing offenses against the law of nations, including those which pertain to the conduct of war.
By the Articles of War, 10 U. S. C. §§ 1471-1593,.Congress has provided rules for the government of the Army.
It has provided for the trial and punishment, by courts

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
1

27

Opinion of the Court.

martial, of violations of the Articles by members of the
armed forces and by specified classes of persons associated
or serving with the Army. Arts. 1, 2. But the Articles
also recognize the "military commission" appointed by
military command as an appropriate tribunal for the trial
and punishment of offenses against the law of war not
ordinarily tried by court martial. See Arts. 12, 15.
Articles 38 and 46 authorize the President, with certain
limitations, to prescribe the procedure for military commissions. Articles 81 and 82 authorize trial, either by
court martial or military commission, of those charged
with relieving, harboring or corresponding with the enemy
and those charged with spying. And Article 15 declares
that "the provisions of these articles conferring jurisdiction upon courts martial shall not be construed as depriving military commissions ...

or other military tribunals

of concurrent jurisdiction in respect of offenders or offenses
that by statute or by the law of war may be triable by such
military commissions . . . or other military tribunals."

Article 2 includes among those persons subject to military
law the personnel of our own military establishment. But
this, as Article 12 provides, does not exclude from that class
"any other person who by the law of war is subject to trial
by military tribunals" and who under Article 12 may be
tried by court martial or under Article 15 by military
commission.,
Similarly the Espionage Act of 1917, which authorizes
trial in the district courts of certain offenses that tend to
interfere with the prosecution of war, provides that nothing contained in the act "shall be deemed to limit the
jurisdiction of the general courts-martial, military commissions, or naval courts-martial." 50 U. S. C. § 38.
From the very beginning of its history this Court has
recognized and applied the law of war as including that
part of the law of nations which prescribes, for the conduct

28

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of war, the status, rights and duties of enemy nations as
well as of enemy individuals.' By the Articles of War,
and especially Article 15, Congress has explicitly provided,
so far as it may constitutionally do so, that military tribunals shall have jurisdiction to try offenders or offenses
against the law of War in appropriate cases. Congress, in
addition to making rules for the government of our Armed
Forces, has thus exercised its authority to define and punish
offenses against the law of nations by sanctioning, within
constitutional limitations, the jurisdiction of military
commissions to try persons for offenses which, according
to the rules and precepts of the law of nations, and more
particularly the law of war, are cognizable by such tribunals. And the President, as Commander in Chief, by his
Proclamation in time of war has invoked that law. By
his Order creating the present Commission he has undertaken to exercise the authority conferred upon him by
Congress, and also such authority as the Constitution itself gives the Commander in Chief, to direct the performance of those functions which may constitutionally
be performed by the military arm of the nation in time
of war.
An important incident to the conduct of war is the adoption of measures by the military command not only to
repel and defeat the enemy, but to seize and subject to disciplinary measures those enemies who in their attempt to
thwart or impede our military effort have violated the law
' Talbot v. Janson, 3 Dall. 133, 153, 159-61; Talbot v. Seeman, 1
Cranch 1, 40-41; Maley v. Shattuck, 3 Cranch 458, 488; Fitzsimmons
v. Newport Ins. Co., 4 Cranch 185, 199; The Rapid, 8 Cranch 155,
159-64; The St. Lawrence, 9 Cranch 120, 122; Thirty Hogsheads of
Sugar v. Boyle, 9 Cranch 191, 197-98; The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435, 447-48;
United States v. Reading, 18 How. 1, 10; Prize Cases, 2 Black 635,
666-67, 687; The Venice, 2 Wall. 258, 274; The William Bagaley, 5
Wall. 377; Miller v. United States, 11 Wall. 268; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509, 517; United States v. Pacific Railroad, 120 U. S.
227, 233; JuraguaIron Co. v. United States, 212 U. S. 297.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

29

Opinion of the Court.

of war. It is unnecessary for present purposes to determine to what extent te President as Commander in Chief
has constitutional power to. create military commisslons
without the support of Congressional legislation. For
here Congress has authorized trial of offenses against the
law of war before such commissions. We are concerned
only with the question whether it is within the constitutional power of the National -Government to place petitioners upon trial before a military commission for the
offenses with which they are charged. We must therefore
first inquire whether any of the acts charged is an offense
against the law of war cognizable before a military tribunal, and if so whether the Constitution prohibits the
trial. We may assume that there-are acts regarded in
other countries, or by some writers-on international law,
as offenses against the law of war which would not be
triable by military tribunal here, either because they are
not recognized by our courts as violations of the law of
war or because they are of that class of offenses constitutionally triable only by a jury. It was upon such grounds
that the Court denied the right to proceed by military
tribunal in Ex parte Milligan, supra. But as we shall
show, these petitioners were charged with an offense
against the law of war-which the Constitution does not
require to be tried by jury.
It is no objection that Congress in providing for the trial
of such offenses has not itself undertaken to codify that
branch of international law or to mark its precise boundaries, or to enumerate or define by statute all the acts
which that law condemns. An Act of Congress punishing
"the crime of piracy, as defined by the law of nations" is
an appropriate exercise' of its constitutional authority,
Art. I, § 8, el. 10, '.'to define and punish" the offense, since
it has adopted by reference the sufficiently precise definition of international law. United States v. Smith, 5
Wheat. 153; see The MariannaFlora, 11 Wheat. 1, 40-41;

30

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

United States v. Brig Malek Adhel, 2 How. 210, 232; The
Ambrose Light, 25 F. 408, 423-28; 18 U. S. C. § 481.'
Similarly, by the reference in the 15th Article of War to
"offenders or offenses that . by the law of war may
be triable by such military commissions," Congress has
incorporated by reference, as within the jurisdiction of
military commissions, all offenses which are defined as
such by the law of war (compare Dynes v. Hoover, 20
How. 65, 82), and which may constitutionally be included
within that jurisdiction. Congress had the choice of crystallizing in permanent form and in minute detail every
offense against the law of war, or of adopting the system
of common law applied by military tribunals so far as it
should be recognized and deemed applicable by the courts.
It chose the latter course.
By universal agreement and practice, the law of war
draws a distinction between the armed forces and the
peaceful populations of belligerent nations ' and also be6 Compare 28 U. S. C. § 41 (17), conferring on the federal courts
jurisdiction over suits brought by an alien for a tort "in violation of
the laws of nations"; 28 U. S. C. § 341, conferring upon the Supreme
Court such jurisdiction of suits against ambassadors as a court of law
can have "consistently with the law of nations"; 28 U. S. C. §' 462,
regulating the issuance of habeas corpus where the prisoner claims
some right,- privilege or exemption under the order of a foreign state,
"the validity and effect Whereof depend upon the law of nations";
15 U. S. C. §§ 606 (b) and 713 (b), authorizing certain loans to foreign
governments, provided that "no such loans shall be made in violation
of international law as interpreted by the Department of State."
THague Convention No. IV of October 18, 1907, 36 Stat. 2295,
Article I of the Annex to which defines the persons to whom belligerent
rights and duties attach, was signed by 44 nations. See also Great
Britain, War Office, Manual. of Military Law (1929) ch. xiv, §§ 17-19;
German General Staff, Kriegsbrauch im Lan*dkriege (1902) ch. 1; 7
Moore, Digest of International Law, § 1109; 2 Hyde, International
Law (1922) § 653-54; 2 Oppenheim, International Law (6th ed. 1940)
§ 107; Bluntschli, Droit International (5th ed. tr. Lardy) §§ 531-32;
4Calvo, Le Droit International Theorique et Pratique (5th ed. 1896)

§§ 2034-35.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
I

Opinion of the Court.

tween those who are- lawful and unlawful combatants.
Lawful combatants are subject to capture and detention
as prisoners of war by opposing military forces. Unlawful
combatants are likewise subject to capture and detention, but in addition they are subject to trial and punishment by military tribunals for acts which render their
belligerency unlawful.' The spy who secretly and without uniform passes the military lines of a belligerent in
time of war, seeking to gather military information and
communicate it to the enemy, or an enemy combatant
who without uniform comes secretly through the lines
for the purpose of waging war by destruction of life or
property, are familiar examples of belligerents who are
generally deemed not to be entitled to the status of prisoners of war, but to be offenders against the law of war subject to trial and punishment by military tribunals. See
Winthrop, Military Law, 2d ed., pp. 1196-97, 1219-21;
Instructions for the Government of Armies of the United
States in the Field, approved by the President, General
Order No. 100, April 24, 1863, §§ IV and V.
Such was the practice of our own military authorities
before the adoption of the Constitution,9 and during the
Mexican and Civil Wars. 10
8 Great Britain, War Office, Manual of Military Law, ch. xiv,
§§ 445-451; Regolamento di Servizio in Guerra, § 133, 3 Leggi e Decreti
del Regno d'Italia (1896) 3184; 7 Moore, Digest of International
Law, § 1109; 2 Hyde, International Law, §§ 654, 652; 2 Halleck, International Law (4th ed. 1908) § 4; 2 Opp6nheim, International Law,
§ 254; Hall, International Law, §§ 127, 135; Baty & Morgan, War,
Its Conduct and Legal Results (1915) 172; Bluntschli, Droit International, §§ 570 bis.
9 On September 29, 1780, Major John Andre, Adjutant-General to
the British Army, was tried by a "Board of General Officers" appointed by General Washington, on a charge that he had come within
the lines for an interview with General Benedict Arnold and had been
captured while in disguise and travelling under an assumed- name.
The Board found that the facts charged were true, and that when
captured Major Andre had in his possession papers containing in-

32

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Paragraph 83 of General Order No. 100 of April 24, 1863,
directed that' "Scouts or single soldiers, if disguised in
the dress of the country, or in the uniform of the army
hostile to their own, employed in obtaining information,
if found within or lurking about the lines of the captor,
are treated as spies, and suffer death." And Paragraph
telligence for the enemy, and reported their conclusion that "Major
Andre . . . ought to be considered as a Spy from the enemy, and that
agreeably to the law Aid usage of nations . . . he ought to suffer

death." Major Andre was hanged on October 2, 1780. Proceedings
of a Board of General Officers Respecting Major John Andre, Sept.
29, 1780, printed at Philadelphia in 1780.
10During the Mexican War military commissions were created in a
large number of instances for the trial of various offenses. See General
Orders cited in 2 Winthrop, Military Law (2d ed. 1896) p. 1298,
note 1.
During the Civil War the military commission was extensively used
for the trial of offenses against the law of war. Among the more significant cases for present purposes are the following:
On May 22, 1865, T. E. Hogg aild others were tried by a military
commission, for "violations of the laws and usages of civilized war,"
the specifications charging that the accused "being commissioned,
enrolled, enlisted or engaged" by the Confederate Government, came
on board a United States merchant steamer in theport of Panama "in
the guis of peaceful passengers" with the purpose of capturing the
vessel and converting her into a Confederate cruiser. The Commission found the accused guilty and sentenced them to be banged. The
reviewing authority affirmed the judgments, writing an extensive
opinion on the question whether violations of the law of war were
alleged, but modified the sentences to imprisonment for life and
for various periods of years. Dept. of the Pacific, G. 0. No. 52,
June 27, 1865.

On January 17, 1865, John Y. Beall was tried by a military commission for "violation of tha laws of war." The opinion by the reviewing
authority reveals that Beal, holding a commission in the Confederate
Navy, came on board a merchant vessel at a Canadian port in civilian
dress and, with associates, took possession of the vessel in Lake Erie;
that, also in disguise, he unsuccessfully attempted to derail a train in
New York State, and to obtain military information. His conviction
by the Commission was affirmed on the ground that he was both a spy

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Opinion of the Court.

84, that "Armed prowlers, by whatever names they may
be called, or persons of .the enemy's territory, who steal
within the lines of the hostile army, for the purpose of
robbing, killing, or of destroying bridges, roads, or canals,
or of robbing or destroying the mail, or of cutting the
telegraph wires, are not entitled to the privileges of the
prisoner of war."11 These and related provisions have
and a 'guerrilla," and he was sentenced to be hanged.

Dept. of the
East, G. 0. No. 14, Feb. 14, 1865.
On January 17, 1865, Robert C. Kennedy, a Captain of the Confederate Army, who was shown to have attempted, while in disguise,
to set fire to the City of New York, and to have been seen in disguise
in various parts of New York State, was convicted on charges of acting
as a spy and violation of the law of war "in undertaking to carry on
irregular and unlawful warfare." He was sentenced to be hanged,
and the sentence was confirmed by the reviewing authority. Dept.
of the East, G. 0, No. 24, March 20, 1865.
On September 19, 1865, William Murphy, "a rebel emissary in the
employ of and colleagued with rebel enemies," was convicted by a military commission of "violation of the laws and customs of war" for
coming within the lines and burning a United States steamboat and
other property. G. C. M. 0. No. 107, April 18, 1866.
Soldiers and officers "now or late of the Confederate Army," were
tried and convicted by military commission for "being secretly within
the lines of the United States forces," James Hamilton, Dept. of the
Ohio, G. 0. No. 153, Sept, 18, 1863; for "recruiting men within the
lines," Daniel Davis, G. 0. No. 397, Dec. 18, 1863, and William F.
Corbin and T. G. McGraw, G. 0. No. 114, May 4,1863; and for "lurkitg about the posts, quarters, fortifications and encampments of the
armies of- the United States," although not "as a spy," Augustus A.
Williams, Middle Dept., G. 0. No. 34, May 5, 1864. For other cases
of violations of the law of war punished by military commissions during
the Civil War, see 2 Winthrop, Military Laws and Precedents (2d ed.
1896) 1310-11.
1 See also Paragraph 100: "A messenger or agent who attempts to
steal through the territory occupied by the enemy, to further, in any
manner, the interests of the enemy, if captured, is not entitled to the
privileges of the prisoner of war, and may be dealt with. according to
the circumstances of the case."
Compare Paragraph 101.
503873-43-:---10

34

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

been continued in substance by the Rules of Land Warfare promulgated by the War Department for the guidance of the Army. Rules of 1914, Par. 369-77; Rules
of 1940, Par. 345-57. Paragraph 357 of the 1940 Rules
provides that "All war crimes are subject to the death
penalty, although a lesser penalty may be imposed."
Paragraph 8 (1940) divides the enemy population into
"armed forces" and "peaceful population," and Paragraph
9 names as distinguishing characteristics of lawful belligerents that they "carry arms openly" and "have a fixed
distinctive emblem." Paragraph 348 declares that "persons who take up arms and commit hostilities" without
having the means of identification prescribed for belligerents are punishable as "war criminals." Paragraph
351 provides that "men and bodies of men, who, without
being lawful belligerents" "nevertheless commit hostile
acts of any kind" are not entitled to the privileges of
prisoners of war if captured and may be tried by military
commission and punished by death or lesser punishment.
And paragraph 352 provides that "armed prowlers . . .
or persons of the enemy territory -who steal within the
lines of the hostile army for the purpose of robbing, killing, or of destroying bridges, roads, or canals, of robbing
or destroying the mail, or of cutting the telegraph wires,
are not entitled to be treated as prisoners of war." As is
evident from reading these and related Paragraphs 345347, the specified violations are intended to be only illustrative of the applicable principles of the common law of
war, and not an exclusive enumeration of the punishable'
acts recognized as such by that law. The definition of
lawful belligerents by Paragraph 9 is that adopted by
Article 1, Annex to Hague Convention No. IV of October
18, 1907, to which the United States was a signatory and
which was ratified by the Senate in 1909. 36 Stat. 2295.
The preamble to the Convention declares:

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

35

Opinion of the Court.

"Until amore complete code of the laws of war has been
issued, the High Contracting Parties deem it expedient
to declare that, in cases not included in the Regulations
adopted by them, the inhabitants and the belligerents
remain under the protection and the rule of the principles
of the law of nations, as they result from the usages established among civilized peoples, from the laws of humanity,
and the dictates of the public conscience."
Our Government, by thus defining lawful belligerents
entitled to be treated as prisoners of war, has recognized
that there is a class of unlawful belligerents not entitled
to that privilege, including those who, though combatants,
do not wear "fixed and distinctive emblems."' And by
Article 15 of the Articles of War Congress has made provision for their trial and punishment by military commission, according to "thelaw of war."
By a long course of practical administrative construction by its military authorities, our Government has likewise recognized that those who during time of war pass
surreptitiously from enemy territory into our own, discarding their uniforms upon entry, for the commission of
hostile acts involving destruction of life or property, have
the status of unlawful combatants punishable as such by
military commission. This precept of the law of war has
been so recognized in practice both here and abroad, and
has so generally been accepted as valid by authorities on
international law 12 that we think it must be regarded as
12 Great Britain, War Office, Manual of Military Law (1929) § 445,
lists a large number of acts which, when committed within enemy lines
by persons in civilian dress associated with or acting under the direction of enemy armed forces, are "'war crimes." The list includes:
"damage to railways, war material, t* graph, or other means of com" Section *449 states
munication, in the interest of the enemy. ..
that all "war crimes" are punishable by death.
Authorities on International Law have regarded as war criminals
such persons who pass.through the lines for the purpose of (a) destroy-

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

a rule• or principle of the law of war recognized by this
Government by its enactment of the Fifteenth Article of
War.

Specification 1 of the first charge is sufficient to charge
all the petitioners with the offense of unlawful belligerency, trial of which is within the jurisdiction of the Commission, and the admitted facts affirmatively show that the
charge is not merely colorable or without foundation.
Specification 1 states that petitioners, "being enemies
the German
of the United States and acting for ...
Reich, a belligerent enemy nation, secretly and covertly
passed, in civilian dress, contrary to the law of war, through
the military and naval lines and defenses of the United
States . . . and went behind such lines, contrary to the
law of war, in civilian dress . . . for the purpose. of committing . . .hostile acts, and, in particular, to destroy
certain war industries, war utilities and war materials
within the United States."
This specification so plainly alleges violation of the law
of war as to require but brief discussion of petitioners'
contentions. As we have seen, entry upon our territory
ing bridges, war materials, communication facilities, etc.: 2 Oppenheim, International Law (6th ed. 1940) § 255; Spaight, Air Power and
War Rights (1924) 283; Spaight, War Rights on Land (1911) 110;
Phillipson, International Law and the Great War (1915) 208; Liszt,
Das V51kerrecht (12 ed. 1925), § 58 (B) 4; (b) carrying messages
secretly: Hall, International Law (8th ed. 1924) § 188; Spaight, War
Rights on Land 215; 3 Merignhac, Droit Public International (1912)
296-97; Bluntschli, Droit International Codifi6 (5th ed. tr. Lardy)
§ 639; 4 Calvo, Le Droit International Theorique et Pratique (5th ed.
1896) § 2119; (c) any 'hostile act: 2 Winthrop, Military Law
and Precedents, (2nd ed. 1896) 1224. Cf. Lieber, Guerrilla Parties
(1862), 2 Miscellaneous Writings (1881) 288.
These authorities are unanimous in stating that a soldier in uniform
who commits the acts mentioned would be entitled to treatment as a
prisoner of war; it is the absence of uniform that renders the offender
liable to trial for violation of the laws of war.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
I

Opinion of the Court.

in time of war by enemy belligerents, including those acting under the direction of the armed forces of the enemy,
for the purpose of destroying property used or useful in
prosecuting the war, is a hostile and warlike act. It subjects those who participate in it without uniform to the
punishment prescribed by the law of war for unlawful
belligerents. It is without significance that petitioners
were not alleged to have borne conventional weapons or
that their-proposed hostile acts did not necessarily contemplate collision with the Armed Forces of the United
States. Paragraphs 351 and 352 of the Rules of Land
Warfare, already referred to, plainly contemplate that the
hostile acts and purposes for which unlawful belligerents
may be punished are'not limited to assaults on the Armed
Forces of the United States. Modern warfare is directed
at the destruction of enemy war supplies and the implements of their production and transportation, quite as
much as at the~armed forces. Every consideration which
makes the unlawful belligerent punishable is equally applicable whether his objective is the one or the other.
The law of war cannot rightly treat those agents of enemy
armies who enter our territory, armed with explosives intended for the destruction of war industries and supplies,
-as any the less belligerent enemies than are agents similarly entering for the purpose of destroying fortified places
or our Armed Forces. By passing our boundaries for such
purposes without uniform or other emblem signifying their
belligerent status, or by discarding that means of identification after entry, such enemies become unlawful belligerents subject to trial and punishment.
Citizenship in the United States of an enemy belligerent
does not relieve him from the consequences of a belligerency which is unlawful because in violation of the law
of war. Citizens who associate themselves with the military arm of the enemy government, and with its aid,

38

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

guidance and direction enter this country bent on hostile
acts, are enemy belligerents within the meaning of the
Hague Convention and the law of war. Cf. Gates v. Goodloe, 101 U. S. 612, 615, 617-18. It is as an enemy belligerent that petitioner Haupt is charged with entering the
United States, and unlawful belligerency is the gravamen
of the offense of which he is accused.
Nor are petitioners, any the less belligerents if, as they
argue, they have not actually committed or attempted to
commit any act of depredation or entered the theatre or
zone of active military operations. The argument leaves
out of account the nature of the Offense which the Government charges and which the Act of'Congress, by incorporating the law of war, punishes. It is that each petitioner, in circumstances which gave him the status of an
enemy belligerent, passed our military and naval lines
and defenses or went behind those lines, in civilian dress
and with hostile purpose. The offense was complete
when with that purpose they entered--or, having so entered, they remained upon--our territory in time of war
without uniform or other appropriate means of identification. For that reason, even when committed by a citizen,
the-offense is distinct from the crime of treason defined in
Article III, § 3 of the Constitution, since the absence of
uniform essential to one is irrelevant to the other. Cf.
Morgan v. Devine, 237 U. S. 632; Albrecht v. United
States, 273 U. S. 1, 11-12.
But petitioners insist that, even if the offenses with
which they are charged are offenses against the law Of war,
their trial is subject to the requirement of the Fifth
Amendment that no person shall be held to answer for a
capital or otherwise infamous crime unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, and that such trials
by Article III, § 2, and the Sixth Amendment must be by
jury in a civil court. Before the Amendments, § 2 of Arti-

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Opinion of the Court.
cle III, the Judiciary Article, had provided, "The Trial of
all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by
Jury," and had directed that "such Trial shall be held in
the State where the said Crimes shall have been

committed."
Presentment by a grand jury and trial by a jury of the
vicinage where the crime was committed were at the time
of the adoption of the Constitution familiar parts of the
machinery for criminal trials in the civil courts. But
they were procedures unknown to military tribunals,
which are not courts in the sense of the Judiciary Article,
Ex parte Vallandigham, 1 Wall. 243; In re Vidal, 179 U. S.
126; cf. Williams v. United States, 289 U. S. 553, and
which in the natural course of events are usually called
upon to function under conditions precluding resort /to
such procedures. As this Court has often recognized, it

was not the purpose or effect of §2 of Article III, read in
the light of the common law, to enlarge the then existing
right to a jury trial. The object was to preserve unimpaired trial by jury in all those cases in which it had been
recognized by the common law and in all cases of a like
nature as they might arise in the future, District of Columbia v. Colts, 282 U. S.63, but not to bring within the
sweep of the guaranty those cases in which it was then
well understood that a jury trial could not be demanded
as of right.
The Fifth and Sixth Amendments, while guaranteeing
the continuance of certain incidents of trial by jury Which
Article III, § 2 had left unmentioned, did not enlarge the
right to jury trial as it had been established by that
Article. Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S.'540, 549. Hence
petty offenses triable at common law without a jury may
be tried without a jury in the federal courts, notwithstanding Article III, §2, and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
Schick v. United States, 195 U. S.65; District of Colum-

40

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

bia v. Clawans, 300 U. S. 617. Trial by jury of criminal
contempts may constitutionally be dispensed with in the
federal courts in those cases in which they could be tried
without a jury at common law. Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S.
289, 302-04; Savin, Petitioner,131 U. S. 267, 277; In re
Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 594-96; United States v. Shipp, 203
U. S. 563, 572; Blackmer v. United States, 284 U. S. 421,
440; Nye v. United States, 313 U. S. 33, 48; see United
States v. Hudson and Goodwin, 7 Cranch 32, 34. Similarly, an action for debt to enforce a penalty inflicted by
Congress is not subject to the constitutional restrictions
upon criminal prosecutions. United States v. Zucker, 161
U. S. 475; United States v. Regan, 232 U. S. 37, and cases
cited.
All these are instances of offenses committed against the
United States, for which a penalty is imposed, but they are
not deemed to be within Article III, § 2, or the provisions
of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments relating to "crimes"
and "criminal prosecutions." In the light of this longcontinued and consistent interpretation we must conclude
that § 2 of Article III and the Fifth and Sixth Amendments cannot be taken to have extended the right to demand a jury to trials by military commission, or to have
required, that offenses against the law of war not triable
by jury at common law be tried only in the civil courts.
The fact that "cases arising in the land or naval forces"
are excepted from the operation of the Amendments does
not militate against this conclusion. Such cases are expressly excepted from the Fifth Amendment, and are
deemed excepted by implication from the Sixth. Ex
parte Milligan, supra, 123, 138-39. It is argued that the
exception, which excludes from the Amendment cases arising in the armed forces, has also by implication extended
its guaranty to all other cases; that since petitioners, not
being members of the Armed Forces of the United States,
are not within the exception, the Amendment operates to

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
Opinion of the Court.

give to them the right to a jury trial. But we think this
argument misconceives both the scope of the Amendment
and the purpose of the exception.
We may assume, without deciding, that a trial prosecuted before a military commission created by military
authority is not one "arising in the land . . . forces,"
when the accused is not a member of or associated with
those forces. But even so, the exception cannot be taken
to affect those trials before military commissions which
are neither within the exception nor within the provisions
o Article III, § 2, whose guaranty the Amendments did
not enlarge. No exception is necessary to exclude from
the operation of these provisions cases never deemed to
be within their terms. An express exception from Article
III, § 2, and from the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, of
trials of petty offenses and of criminal contempts has not
been found necessary in order to preserve the traditional
practice of trying those offenses without a jury. It is no
more so in order to continue the practice of trying, before
military tribunals without a jury, offenses committed by
enemy belligerents against the law of war.
Section 2 of the Act of Congress of April 10, 1806, 2
Stat. 371, derived from the Resolution of the Continental
Congress of August 21, 1776," imposed the death penalty
on alien spies "according to the law and usage of nations,
by sentence of a general court martial." This enactment
must be regarded as a contemporary construction of both
Article III, § 2, and the Amendments as not foreclosing
trial by military tribunals, without a jury, of offenses
against the law of 'war committed by enemies not in or
associated with our Armed Forces. It is a construction
of the Constitution which has been followed since the
founding of our Government, and is now continued in the
82nd Article of War. Such a construction is entitled to
1-3See Morgan, Court-Martial Jurisdiction over Non-Military Persons under the Articles of War, 4 Minnesota L. Rev. 79, 107-09.

42

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

the greatest respect. Stuart v. Laird, 1 Cranch 299, 309;
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 691; United States v. CurtissWright Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 328; It has not hitherto been
challenged, and, so far as we are advised, it has never been
suggested in the very extensive literature of the subject
that an alien spy, in time of war, could not be tried by
military tribunal without a jury."
14In a number of cases during the Revolutionary War enemy spies
were tried and convicted by military tribunals: (1) Major John Andre,
Sept. 29, 1780, see note 9 supra. (2) Thomas Shanks was convicted
by a "Board of General Officers" at Valley Forge on June 3, 1778, for
"being a Spy in the Service of the Enemy," and sentenced to be hanged.
12 Writings of Washington (Bicentennial Comm'n ed.) 14. (3)
Matthias Colbhart was 'convicted of "holding a Correspondence with
the Enemy" and "living as a Spy among the Continental Troops" by a
General Court Martial convened by order of Major General Putnam
on Jan. 13, 1778; General Washington, the Commander in Chief,
ordered the sentence of death to be executed, 12 Id. 449-50. (4) John
Clawson, Ludwick Lasick, and William Hutchinson were convicted of
"lurking as spies in the Vicinity of the Army of the United States" by
a General Court Martial held on June 18, 1780. The death sentence
was confirmed by the Commander in Chief. 19 Id. 23. (5) David
Farnsworth and John Blair were convicted of "being found about the
Encampment of the United States as Spies" by a Division General
Court Martial .held on Oct. 8, 1778 by order of Major General Gates.
The death sentence was confirmed by the Commander in Chief. 13 Id.
139-40. (6) Joseph Bettys was convicted of being "a Spy for General
Burgoyne" by coming secretly within the American lines, by a General
Court Martial held on April 6, 1778 by order of Major General McDougall. The death sentence was confirmed by the Commander in
Chief. 15 Id. 364. (7) Stephen Smith was convicted of "being a
Spy" by a General C6urt Martial held on Jan. 6, 1778. The death
sentence was confirmed by Major General McDougall. Ibid. (8)
Nathaniel Aherly and Reuben Weeks, Loyalist soldiers, were sentenced
to be hanged as spies. Proceedings of a General Court Martial Convened at West Point According to a General Order of Major General
Arnold, Aug. 20-21, 1780 (National Archives, War Dept., Revolutionary War Records, MS No. 31521). (9) Jonathan Loveberry, a
Loyalist soldier, was sentenced to be hanged as a spy. Proceedings of
a General Court Martial Convened at the Request of Major General

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

43

Opinion of the Court.

The exception from the Amendments of "cases arising
in the land or naval forces" was not aimed at trials by
military tribunals, without a jury, of such offenses against
the law of war. Its objective was quite different-to
authorize the trial by court martial of the members of our
Armed Forces for all that class of crimes which under the
Fifth and Sixth Amendments might otherwise have been
deemed triable in the civil courts. The cases mentioned
in the exception are not restricted to those involving
offvnses against the law of war alone, but extend to trial
of all. offenses, including crimes which were of the class
traditionally triable by jury at common law.' Ex pate
Mason; 105 U.S.696; Kahn v. Anderson, 255 U. S. 1, 8-9;
cf. Caldwell v. Parker,252 U. S.376'.
Arnold at the Township of Bedford, Aug. 30-31, 1780 (Id. MS No.
31523). He later escaped, 20 Writings of Washington 253n. (10)
Daniel Taylor,'a lieutenant in the British Army, was convicted as a
spy by a general court maitial convened on Oct. 14, 1777, by order of
Brigadier General George Clinton, and was hanged. 2 Public Papers
of George Clinton (1900) 443. (11) James Molesworth was convicted
as a spy and sentenced to death by a general court martial held at
Philadelphia, March 29, 1777; Congress confirmed the order of Major
General Gates for the execution of the sentence. 7 Journals of the
Continental Congress 210. See also cases of "M. A." and "D. C.,"
G 0. Headquarters of General Pullivan, Providence, R. I., July 24,
1778, reprinted in Niles, Principles and Acts of the Revolution (1822)
369; of Lieutenant Palmer, 9 Whitings of Washington, 56n; of Daniel
Strang, 6 Id. 497n; of Edward Hicks, 14 Id. 357; of John Mason and
James Ogden, executed as spies near Trenton, N. J., on Jan. 10, 1781,
mentioned in Hatch, Administration of the American Revolutionary
Army (1904) 135 and Van Doren, Secret History of the American
Revolution (1941) 410.
During the War of 1812, William Baker was convicted as a spy and
sentenced to be hanged, by a general court.martial presided over by
Brigadier General Thomas A. Smith at Plattsburg, N. Y., on March 25,
1814, National Archives, War Dept., Judge Advocate General's
Office, Records of Courts Martial, MS No. 0-13. William Utley,
tried as a spy by a court martial held at Plattsburg, March 3-5, 1814,
was acquitted. Id., MS No. X-161. Elijah Clark was convicted as

44

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Since the Amendments, like § 2 of Article III, do not pre-clude all trials of offenses against the law of war by military
commission without a jury when the offenders are aliens
not members of our Armed Forces, it is plain that they
present no greater obstacle to the trial in like manner of
citizen enemies who have violated the law of war applicable to enemies. Under the original statute authorizing
trial of alien spies by military tribunals, the offenders
were outside the constitutional guaranty of trial by jury,
not because they were aliens but only because they had
violated the law of war by committing offenses constitutionally triable by military tribunal.
We cannot say that Congress in preparing the Fifth and
Sixth Amendments intended to extend trial by jury to the
cases of alien or citizen offenders against the law of war
otherwise triable by military commission, while withholding it from members of our own armed forces charged with
infractions of the Articles of War punishable by death. It
is equally inadmissible to construe the Amendments-a spy, and sentenced to be hanged, by a general court martial held at
Buffalo, N. Y., Aug. 5-8, 1812. He was ordered released by President
Madison on the ground that he was an American citizen. Military
Monitor, Vol. I, No. 23, Feb. 1, 1813, pp. 121-122; Maltby, Treatise
on Courts Martial and Military Law (1813) 35-36.
In 1862 Congress amended the spy statute to include "all persons"
instead of only aliens. 12 Stat. 339, 340; see also 12 Stat. 731, 737.
For the legislative history, see Morgan, Court-Martial Jurisdiction
over Non-Military Persons under the Articles of War, 4 Minnesota
L. Rev. 79, 109-11. During the Civil War a number of Confederate
officers and soldiers, found within the Union lines in disguise, were
tried and convicted. by military commission for being spies. Charles
H. Clifford, G. 0. No. 135, May 18, 1863; William S. Waller, G. 0.
No. 269, Aug. 4, 1863; Alfred Yates and George W. Casey, G. 0.
No. 382, Nov. 28, 1863; James R. Holton and James Taylor, G. C. M. 0.
No. 93, May 13, 1864; James McGregory, G. C. M. 0. No. 152, June 4,
1864; E. S. Dodd, Dept. of Ohio, G. 0. No. 3, Jan. 5, 1864. For other
cases of spies tried by military commission, see 2 Winthrop, Military
Law and Precedents; 1193 et seq.

EX PARTE QUIRIN.
1

Opinion of the Court.

whose primary purpose was to continue unimpaired presentment by grand jury and trial by petit jury in all those
cases in which they had been customary-as either abolishing all trials by military tribunals, save those of the personnel of our own armed forces, or, what in effect comes
to the same thing, as imposing on all such tribunals the
'necessity of proceeding against unlawful enemy belligerents only on presentment and trial by jury. We conclude
that the Fifth and Sixth Amendments did not iestrict
whatever authority was conferred by the Constitution to
try offenses against the law of war by military commission,
and that petitioners, charged with such an offense not
-required to be tried by jury at common law, were lawfully
placed on trial by the Commission without a jury.
Petitioners, and especially petitioner Haupt, stress the
pronouncement of this Court in the Milligan case, supra,
p. 121, that the law of war "can never be applied to citizens
in states which have upheld the authority of the government, and where the courts are open and their process
unobstructed." Elsewhere in its opinion, at pp. 118, 12122 and 131, the Court was at pains to point out that
Milligan, a citizen twenty years resident in Indiana, who
had never been a resident of any of the states in rebellion,
was not an enemy belligerent either entitled to the status
of a prisoner of war or subject to the penalties imposed
upon unlawful belligerents. We construe the Court's
statement as to the inapplicability of the law of war to
Milligan's case as having particular reference to the facts
before it. From them the Court concluded that Milligan,
not being a part of or associated with the armed forces of
the enemy, was a non-belligerent, not subject to the law
of war save as--in circumstances found not there to be
present, and not involved here-martial law might be
constitutionally established.
The Court's opinion is inapplicable to the case presented
by the present record. We have no occasion now to define

46

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

with meticulous care the ultimate boundaries of the jurisdiction of military tribunals to try persons according to
the law of war. It is enough that petitioners here, upon
the conceded facts, were plainly within those boundaries,
and were held in good faith for trial by military commission, charged with being enemies who, with the purpose
of destroying war materials and utilities, entered, or after
entry remained in, our territory without uniform-an
offense against the law of war. We hold only that those
particular acts constitute an offense against the law of war
which the Constitution authorizes to be tried by military
commission.
Since the first specification of Charge I sets forth a violation of the law of war, we have no occasion to pass on
the adequacy of the second specification of Charge I, or
to construe the 81st and 82nd Articles of War for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the specifications under
Charges II and III allege violations of those Articles or
whether if so construed they are \onstitutional. McNally
v. Hill, 293 U. S. 131.
There remains the contention that the President's Order
of July 2, 1942, so far as it lays down the procedure to be
followed on the trial before the Commission and on the
review of its findings and sentence, and the procedure in
fact followed by the Commission, are in conflict with Ardcles of War 38, 43, 46, 501 and 70. Petitioners argue
that their trial by the Commission, for offenses against
the law of war and the 81st and 82nd Articles of War, by
a procedure which Congress has prohibited would invalidate any conviction which could be obtained against them
and renders -theirdetention for trial likewise unlawful (see
McClaughry v. Deming, 186 U. S. 49; United States v.
Brown, 206 U. S. 240, 244; Runkle v. United States, 122
U. S. 543, 555-56; Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 80-81);
that the President's Order prescribes such an unlawful

EX PARTE QUIRIN.

47

Opinion of the Court.
procedure; and that the secrecy surrounding the trial and
all proceedings before the Commission, as well as any review of its decision, will preclude a later opportunity to
test the lawfulness of the detention.
Petitioners do not argue and we do not consider the
question whether the President is compelled by the Articles of War to afford unlawful enemy belligerents a trial
before subjecting them to disciplinary measures. Their
contention is that, if Congress has authorized their trial
by military commission upon the charges preferred-violations of the law of war and the 81st and 82nd Articles
of War-it has by the Articles of War prescribed the procedure by which the trial is to be conducted; and that,
since the President has ordered their trial for such offenses
by military commission, they are entitled to claim the
protection of the procedure which Congress has commanded shall be controlling.
We need not inquire whether Congress may restrict the
power of the Commander in Chief to deal with enemy belligerents. For the Court is unanimous in its conclusion
that the Articles in question could not at any stage of the
proceedings afford any basis for issuing the writ. But a
majority of the full Court are not agreed on the appropriate grounds for decision. Some members of the Court are
of opinion that Congress did not intend the Articles of
War to govern a Presidential military commission convened for the determination of questions relating to admitted enemy invaders, and that the context of the Articles makes clear that they should not be construed to
apply in that class of cases. Others are of the view thateven though this trial is subject to whatever provisions of
the Articles of War Congress has in terms made applicable
to "commissions"-the particular Articles in question,
rightly construed, do not foreclose the procedure prescribed by the President or that shown to have been er-

48

JULY SPECIAL TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

ployed by the Commission, in a trial of offenses against

the law of war and the 81st and 82nd Articles of War, by
a military commission appointed by the President.
Accordingly, we conclude that Charge I, on which petitioners were detained for trial by the Military Commission, alleged an offense which the President is authorized
to order .tried by military commission; that his Order
convening the Commission was a lawful order and that the
Commission was lawfully constituted; that the petitioners were held in lawful custody and did not show cause for
their discharge. It follows that the orders of the District
Court should be affirmed, and that leave to file petitions
for habeas corpus in this Court should be denied.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.

