AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.

519

Syllabus.

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION v. UNITED

STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 201.

Argued December 11, 14, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.

Petitioners, the American Medical Association and the Medical Society of the District of Columbia (corporations), were indicted
and convicted of conspiring to violate § 3 of the Sherman Act by
restraining trade or commerce in the District of Columbia. Two
unincorporated associations and twenty-one individuals (some of
whom were officers or employees of one or the other of the petitioners; others were physicians practicing in the District of Columbia and members of the petitioners) were codefendants but
were acquitted by directed verdict or found not guilty. The indictment charged that;oto prevent Group Health-a nonprofit corporation organized by Government employees to provide medical
care and hospitalization on a risk-sharing prepayment basis, and
employing full-time physicians on a salary basis--from carrying
out its objects, the defendants conspired to koerce practicing physicians, members of the petitioners, from accepting employment under
Group Health; to restrain practicing physicians, members of the
petitioners, from consulting with Group Health's doctors who
might desire to consult with them; and to restrain hospitals in and
about Washington from affording facilities for the care of patients
of Group Health's physicians. Held:
1. It is unnecessary here to decide, and the Court does not decide,
whether a physician's practice of his profession constitutes trade
under § 3 of the Sherman Act. P. 528.
2. Oroup Health is engaged in "trade" within the meaning of § 3
of th4 Sherman Act, notwithstanding that it is cooperative and procures service and facilities on behalf of its members only. P. 528.
3. The indictment in this case charges a conspiracy'to restrain and
obstruct the business of Group Health, and therefore a conspiracy in
restraint of trade or commerce in violation of § 3 of the Sherman
Act. P. 528.
*Together with No. 202, Medical Society of the District of Columbia v. United States, also on writ of certiorari, post, p. 613, to the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.

520

OCTOBER TERM,- 19,42.
Argument for Petitioners.

317 U. S.

4. The fact that the defendants were physicians and medical
organizations is of no significance, if the purpose and effect of their
conspiracy was obstruction and restraint of the business of Group
Health, since § 3 prohibits "any person" from imposing the proscribed restraints. P. 528.
5. The courts below correctly construed the indictment in this
case as charging a single conspiracy to obstruct and restrain the
business of Group Health-the recited "purposes" constituting
merely different steps toward the accomplishment of that end-and
the cause was submitted to the jury on this theory. Petitioners'
challenge of the validity of the general verdict of guilty-based in
effect on the contention that the indictment charged five separate
conspiracies, and that the defendants were entitled to have the
trial court rfile upon the sufficiency in law of each of the chargestherefore fails. P. 532.
6. The evidence in the case was sufficient for submission to the
jury. P. 533.
7. The dispute between petitioners (and their members) and
Group Health (and its members) was not one "concerning terms
and conditions of employment," and therefore petitioners' activities
were not exempted, by § 20 of the Clayton Act as expanded by § 13
of the Norris-LaGuardia Act, from the operation of the Sherman
Act. P. 533.
130 F. 2d 233, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 613, to review the affirmance of con-

victions for vioiation of-the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Messrs. Seth W. Richardson and William E. Leahy, with
whom Messrs. Edward M.

Burke and Charles S. Baker

were on the brief, for petitioners.
The word "trade" in § 3 of the Sherman Act does not
include the practice of medicine and the rendering of
medical services as described in the indictment, because
they are not "commercial" in nature. The natural meaning and judicial definitions of the word "trade" exclude
the professions. Federal Club v. National League, 259
U. S. 200; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283

U. S. 643.

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

521

Argument for Petitioners.

Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, held in substance and effect that no activity could be in ."trade"
within the meaning of either § 1 or § 3 of the Sherman Act
unless it was a "commercial" activity.
None of the five activities alleged to have been re-.
strained were "trade" under the Sherman Act. Group
Health Was organized under sections of the District of
Columbia Code providing for the incorporation of charitable, educational, and religious associations. Its sole
activities are to collect dues from its members, pay rent
for and maintain a suite of doctors' offices, with the usual
appurtenances thereto, employ doctors to render medical
services, within limits, to its members and'to pay, within
limits, the hospital bills of its members. Such activities are not "commercial" or "business" activities.
The members of Group Health are not engaged in a
"commercial" or "business" activity; the activity of the
doctors employed by Group Health is not "commercial"
or "business" activity; the practice of medicine by the
medical profession generally is not a "commercial" or
"business" activity; and. the Washington hospitals, or
that part of their activities here involved', are not "commercial" or "business" activities.
If any one of the five activities alleged to have been
restrained was not "trade" under § 3 of the Sherman Act,
then no one is able to determine whether or not the jury
returned its verdict based on a restraint of an activity
that was not "trade" under § 3 of the Sherman Act.
Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359, 367-370; Thornhil.t v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, 96; Garland.v. Davis, 4
How. 131; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Reeves, 10 F. 2d
329, 330, 331; Patton v. Wells, 121 F. 337, 340; St. Louis,
1. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Needham, 63 F. 107, 113, 114; Manderville v. Cookenderfer, 3 Cranch, C. C. (3 D. C.) 257,
Fed. Cas. No. 9,009. Furthermore, if any one of the five
activities alleged to have been restrained was not "trade"

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Argument for Petitioners.

317 U. S.

under § 3 of the Sherman Act, the court erroneously
charged the jury that restraint on any one of the five
classes alleged to have been restrained was sufficient to
convict. Stromberg v. California, supra; Maryland v.
Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490, 493.
The word "restraint" in. § 3 of the Sherman Act does
not include any restraint that does not fix prices or suppress competition to the extent that market prices are
substantially affected to the injury of the public. Apex
Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469; InternationalUnion
v. Donnelly Garment Co., 119 F. 2d 892, 898; Gundersheimer's v. Bakery Workers' Union, 73 App. D. C. 352,
353, 119 F. 2d 205, 206; United States v. Local 807, 118
F. 2d 68,4-689, affirmed 315 U. S. 521; InternationalAssn.
v. Pauly Jail Bldg. Co., 118 F. 2d 615, 621; United States
v. Gold, 115 F. 2d 236-238; Konecky v. Jewish Press, 288
F. 179; and Swartz v. ForwardAssn., 41 F. Supp. 294.
The indictment herein did not attempt to charge price
fixing or suppression of competition that affected market
prices to the injury of the public. No such contention
ever appeared until after the opinion in the Apex case.
A dispute concerning terms and conditions of employment of doctors, which was within the Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia Acts, was involved, in which petitioners
were interested. The case is therefore not within the
Sherman Act.
The dispute concerning terms and conditions of employment of doctors arose in the following manner: When a
committee of the executive committee of the District Society and representatives of Group Health conferred for
the first time, a controversy arose, the matrix of which
was the terms and conditions of employment by Group
Health of members of the District Society to perform
.Group Health's corporate medical work. Group Health
rejected an offered basis of employment of members of the
District Society, insisted upon dictating the terms, con-

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

523

Argument for the United States.

ditions; and method of payment of compensation and of
employing members of the District Society, regardless
of whether Group Health's plans were illegal or in conflict witl the constitution and employment rules of the
District Society. This controversy over terms and conditions of employment continued throughout the indictment period and was involved in all of the activities
charged or proven. See United States v. Hutcheson, 312
U. S.219; United States v. Carrozzo, 37 F. Supp. 191, af-a
firmed, 313 U. S.508; New Negro Alliance v. Sanitary Grocery Co., 303 U. S. 552; Drivers Union v. Lake Valley
Co., 311 U. S.91; Gundersheimer's v. Bakery Workers'
Union, 73 App. D. C. 352, 353, 119 F. 2d 205, 206; International Union v. Donnelly Garment Co., 119 F. 2d 892,
898; InternationlAssn. v. Pauly Jail Bldg. Co., 118 F. 2d
615, 621.
Mr. John -Henry Lewin and Assistant Attorney General Arnold, with whom Solicitor General Fahy and
Messrs. Charles H. Weston and Richard S. Salant were
on the brief, for the United States.
Petitioners conspired to boycott Group Health in order
to prevent it from marketing medical services in competition with petitioners'. doctor members. Such a boycotting combination to exclude a competitor from the
market is a restraint of trade prohibited by the Sherman
Act. The decisions have not been rested upon the ground
that there had been price-fixing or that competition had
been suppressed to the extent that market prices were
substantially affected. Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193
U. S.38; Straus v. American Publishers'Assn., 231 U. S.
222; Eastern States Retail Lumber Dealers' Assn. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600; Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S.291; ParamountFamous Laaky Corp. v.
United States, 282 U. S. 30; United States v. First National Pictures,.282 U. S. 44; Sugar Institute v. United

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Argument for the United States.

317 U. S.

States, 297 U. S. 553, 587-589, 601; Fashion Originators'
Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 312 U. S.457.
Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, did not hold
that the restraints of trade condemned by the Sherman
Act are limited to those involving price-fixing or a suppression of competition which substantially affects market
prices. The case held only that the restraints prohibited
by the Act are those which suppress or substantially
restrict competition in the marketing of goods or
services and price-fixing was referred to merely as one
conspicuous example of the type of restraint declared illegal. This interpretation of the Apex case is confirmed by
Fashion Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade Comm'n,
312 U. S. 457, which held that an intent to increase prices
is not "an ever-present essential" of conduct constituting
a violation of the Sherman Act.
The.conspiracy to prevent Group Health from successfully carrying on its.business of furnishing medical service
to members of the consuming public was a restraint of
trade prohibited by the Sherman Act. The Act applies
to restraints upon competition in providing services as
well as goods and Congress cannot be presumed to have in'tended to exclude consumers of medical service from the
protection extended generally to purchasers and consumers of goods or services.
Group Health was engaged in a large-scale undertaking
to provide medical service in exchange for payment of
dues. This exchange of service for-money is trade in the
primary and most usual meaning of the word. The fact
that Group Health is a non-profit corporation is immaterial. Its business operations were trade, although carried on for the benefit of its consumer-members rather
than for the benefit of stockholders.
The district court advised the jury that the indictment
alleged that petitioners conspired to restrain Group
Health, the doctors on its staff, other doctors, and the

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

525

Argument for the United States.

Washington hospitals. But it further advised the jury
that the indictment alleged that the "plan-and purpose"
of the conspiracy was to "hinder and obstruct" Group
Health and the doctors on its staff, in certain specified
ways.
The jury, in order to convict, was required to find not
only that there was a conspiracy to restrain trade in one
of the several ways mentioned by the court (i. e., to restrain Group Health, its doctors, other doctors, or the
hospitals) but also .that the plan and purpose of the conspiracy was to obstruct and interfere with Group Health
in its business of providing medical care for its members.
The jury was instructed, in other words, that restraint
upon thebusiness of Group Health was an essential element of the conspiracy charged against petitioners.
Under the district court's charge to the jury, petitioners'
convictions must be sustained if the restraints upon the
trade of Group Health are within the ban of the statute;
But if the application of the Act to restraints upon individual doctors in the pursuit of their calling is an essential
issue in this case, such restraints'are within the scope of
the common-law concept, embodied in the Sherman Act,
of restraint of trade.
Section 20 of the Clayton Act grants immunity only
where there is dispute concerning some question of employment involving the employer-employee relationship.
Petitioners cannot subsume themselves under the class
of employee representatives under the Act since peti*tioners' members were not employees and did not want
to be employees. Rather, petitioners are analogous to a
trade association representing independent business units.
Nor was the controversy itself of a. kind contemplated by
the Clayton Act. The dispute between petitioners and
Group Health was as to whether the latter's method of
providing medical services should be permitted to operate.
A controversy of this kind, between competitors and

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

concerning competition, is not within the scope of § 20.
Columbia River Packers Assn. v. Hinton, 315 U. S. 143.
A further factor "establishing the inapplicability of the
Clayton Act is that, even assuming that petitioners were
"employee representatives," there was no. employer-employee relationship in respect of Grou p Health and its
doctors. Group Health's doctors are independent contractors, not employees. Therefore the relationship
which was of concern to Congress in its enactment of the
Clayton 'and Norris-LaGuardia Acts is entirely lacking
here.
I!R. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioners have been indicted and convicted of conspiring to violate § 3 of the Sherman Act,1 by restraining
trade or commerce in the District of Columbia. Theyr are
respectively corporations of Illinois and of the District of
Columbia. Joined with them as defendants were two
unincorporated associations and twenty-one individuals,.
some of whom are officers or employes of one or other of
the petitioners, the remainder being physicians practicing
in the District of Columbia and members of the pititioners serving, as to some of them, on various committees of
the petitioners having to do with professional ethics and
with the practice of medicine by petitioners' members.
For the-moment it is enough to say that the indictment
charged a conspiracy to hinder and obstruct tl.e operations of Group Health Association, Inc., a nonprofit corporation organized by Government employes to provide
medical care and hospitalization on a risk-sharing prepayment basis. Group Health employed lhysicians on a full
time salary basis and sought hospital facilities for the
treatment of members and their families. This plan was
contrary to the code of ethjcs of the petitioners. The in1 Act of July 2, 1890, § 3, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 3.

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

527

Opinion of the Court.

dictment charges that, to prevent Group Health from
carrying out its objects, the defendants conspired to coerce
practicing physicians, members of the petitioners, from
accepting employment under Group Health, to restrain
practicing physicians, members of the petitioners, from
consulting with Group Health's doctors who might desire
to consult with them, and to restrain hospitals in and about
the City of Washington from affording facilities for the
care of patients of Group Health's physicians.
The District Court sustaified a demurrer to the indictment on the grounds, amongst others, that neither the
practice of medicine nor the business of Group Health is
trade as the term is used in the Sherman Act.2 On appeal the Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the restraint of trade prohibited by the statute may extend both
to medical practice and to the operations of Group
Health,'
The case then went to trial in the District Court. Certain defendants were acquitted by direction of the judge.
Asto the others, the case was submitted to the jury, which
found the petitioners guilty and all the other defendants
not guilty. From judgments of conviction the peti-.
tioners appealed to the Court of Appeals, which reiterated
its ruling as to the applicability of § 3 of the Sherman
Act, considered alleged trial errors, and affirmed, the
judgments.'
We granted certiorari limited to three questions which
we thought important: 1. Whether the practice of medicine and the rendering of medical services as described
in the indictment are "trade" under § 3 of the Sherman
Act. 2. Whether the indictment charged or the evidence
United States v. American Medical Association, 28 F. Supp. 752.
3 United States v. Amerian Medical Association, 72 App. D. C. 12,
2

110 F. 2d 703, 710, 711.
4 American Medical Association v. United States, 76 U. S. App
D. C. 70, 130 F. 2d 233.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

proved "restraints of trade" under § 3 of the Sherman
Act. 3. Whether a dispute concerning terms and conditions of employment under the Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia Acts was involved, and, if so, whether petitioners
were interested therein, and therefore immune from
prosecution under the Sherman Act.
First. Much argument has been addressed to the
question whether a physician's practice of his profession
constitutes trade under § 3 of the Sherman Act. In the
light of what we shall say with respect to the.charge laid
in the indictment, we need not consider or decide this
question.
Group Health is a membership corporation engaged in
business or trade. Its corporate activity is the consummation of the co6perative effort of its members to obtain
for themselves and their families medical service and
hospitalization on, a risk-sharing prepayment basis. The
corporation collects its funds from members. With these
funds physicians are employed and hospitalization procured on behalf of members and their dependents. The
fact that it is cobperative, and procures service and facilities on behalf of its members only, does not remove its
activities from the sphere of business.'
If, as we hold, the indictment charges a single conspiracy to restrain and obstruct this business it charges a
conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce within the
statute. As the Court of Appeals properly remarked, the,
calling or occupation of the individual physicians charged
as defendants is immaterial if the purpose and effect of
their conspiracy .was such obstruction and restraint of the
business of Group Health. The court said:' "And, of
Compare Associated Press v. Labor Board, 301 U. S. 103, 128-9;
In re Duty on Estate of Incorporated Council, 22 Q. B. 279, 293;
Maryland & Virginia Milk Produccrs' Assn. v. District of Columbia,
119 F. 2d 787, 790; La Belle v. .HenepinCounty Bar Assn., 206 Minn.
73 App. D. C. 399, 119 F. 2d 787, 790; La Belle v. Hennepin County
Bar Assn., 206 Minn. 290, 294; 288 N. W. 788, 790.
6 110 F. 2d 711.

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

529

Opinion of the Court.

course, the fact that defendants are physicians and medical organizations is of no significance, for Sec. 3 prohibits
'any person' from imposing the proscribed restraints . . ."
It is urged that this was said before this Court decided
Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S.469. But nothing
in that decision contradicts the proposition stated.
Whether the conspiracy was aimed at restraining
or destroying competition, or had as its purpose a
restraint of the free availability of medical or hospital
services in the market, the Apex case places it within the
scope of the statute.7
Second. This brings us to consider whether the indictment charged, or the evidence proved, such a conspiracy
in restraint of trade. The allegations of the indictment
are lengthy Ad detailed. After naming and describing
the defendants and the Washington hospitals, it devotes
many paragraphs to a recital of the plan adopted by
Group Health and alleges that, principally for economic
reasons, and because of fear of business competition, the
defendants have opposed such projects.
The indictment then recites the size and importance
of the petitioners, enumerates means by which they can
prevent their members from serving Group Health plans,
or consulting with physicians who work for Group Health,
and can prevent hospitals from affording facilities to
Group Health's doctors.
In charging the conspiracy, the indictment describes
the organization and operation of Group Health and
states that, from January 1937 to the date of the indictment, the defendants, the Washington hospitals, and
others cognizant of the premised facts, "have combined
and conspired together for the purpose of restraining
trade in the District of Columbia, . . ." In five paragraphs the pleading states the purposes of the conspiracy.
7 Compare Fashion Originator'sGuild v. Federal Trade Commission
312 U.S.457, 465, 466, 467.
503873-43-----41

530 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The first is the purpose of restraining Group Health
from doing business;' the second, that of restraining members of Group Health from obtaining adequate medical
care according to Group Health's plan; the third, that of
restraining doctors serving Group Health in the -pursuit
of their calling; the fourth, that of restraining doctors
not on Group Health's staff from practicing in the District of Columbia in pursuance of their calling; and the
fifth, that of restraining the Washington hospitals in the
business of operating their hospitals.
After reciting certain of the proceedings and plans
adopted to forward the conspiracy, the indictment alleges
that the conspiracy, and the intended restraints which
have resulted from it, have been effectuated "in the following manner and by the following means"; and alleges
that the defendants have combined and conspired "with
the plan and purpose to hinder and obstruct Group
Health Association, Inc. in procuring and retaining on
its medica staff qualified doctors and to hinder and
obstruct the doctors serving on that staff from obtaining
consultations with other doctors and specialists practicing in the District of Columbia." It states that, pursuant to this plan and purpose, the defendants have
resorted to certain means to accomplish the end, and
recounts them.
In another paragraph, the defenda*nts are charged to
have conspired with "the plan and purpose to hinder and
obstruct Group Health Association, Inc. in obtaining
access to hospital facilities for its members and to hinder
and obstruct the doctors on the medical staff of Group
Health from treating and operating upon their patients in
Washington hospitals." It is alleged that, pursuant to
this plan and purpose, defendarnts have done certain acts
to deter hospitals with which they were connected and
Qver.which they exercised influence, from affording hospital f.cilities to Group Health's doctors.

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

531

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioners' contention is, in effect, that the indictment charges five separate conspiracies defined by their
separate and recited purposes, namely, conspiracy to obstruct the business of Group Health, to obstruct its members from obtaining the benefit of its activities, to obstruct
its doctors from serving it, to obstruct other doctors in the
practice of their calling, and to restrain the business of
Washington hospitals. The petitioners say that they were
entitled to have the trial court rule upon the sufficiency in
law of each of these charges and, as this was not done, the
general verdict of guilty cannot stand.- They urge ttift
even though some of the named purposes relate to the
business of Group Health, and that business be held trade
within the meaning of the statute, yet, as the practice of
medicine by doctors not employed by Group Health is not
trade, and the operations of Washington hospitals are not
trade, the last two purposes specified cannot constitute
violations of § 3 and the jury should have been so instructed. In this view they insist that the jury may have
convicted them of restraining physicians unconnected
with Group Health, or of restraining hospitals, and, if so,
the verdict and judgment cannot stand.
If in fact the indictment charges a single conspiracy to
obstruct and restrain the business of Group Health, and
if the recited purposes are really only subsidiary to that
main purpose or aim, or merely different steps toward the
accomplishment of that single end, and if the cause was
submitted to the jury on this theory, these contentions
fail.
When the case first went to the Court of Appeals that
tribunal construed the indictment as charging but a single
conspiracy. It said: ' "The charge, stated in condensed
form, is that the medical societies combined and conspired
to prevent the successful operation of Group Health's
8 110 F. 2d 711.

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the 'Court.

317 U. S.

plan, and the steps by which this was to be effectuated
were as follows: (1) to impose restraints on physicians
affiliated with, Group Health by threat of expulsion or
actual expulsion from the societies; (2) to deny them the
essential professional contacts with other physicians; and
(3) to use the coercive power of the societies to deprive
them of hospital facilities for their patients."
- In the trial, the District Court conformed its rulings
to
this decision and submitted the case to the jury on the
theory that the indictment charged but one conspiracy.
We think the courts below correctly construed the indictment. It is true that, in describing the conspiracy,
five purposes are stated which the conspiracy was intended
to further, but, in a later paragraph, still in the charging
part of the instrument, it is alleged that the purpose was
to hinder and obstruct Group Health in various ways and
by, various coercive measures, which are identical with
the "purposes" before stated. The trial judge, after calling the jury's attention to the juxtaposition of these two
formulations of the charge, added:
"These purposes, it is alleged, were to be attained by
certain coercive measures against the hospitals -and doctors designed to interfere with employment of doctors by
Group Health and use of the hospitals by members of its
medical staff and their patients ...
In inimediate context the judge added"To sustain that charge the Government must
prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that a conspiracy did in fact
exist to restrain trade in the District in at least one of the
several ways alleged, and according to the particular purpose and plan set forth."
At another point, the trial judge summarized the Government's claim that the evidence in the case showed op*position by the petitionqrs to Group Health and its plan;
that they feared competition between the plan and the

I

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

533

Opinion of the Court.

organized physicians and that, to obstruct and destroy
such competition, the petitioners conspired with certain
officers and members and hospitals to prevent successful
operation of Group Health's plan by imposing restraints
upon physicians affiliated with Group Health, by denying
such physicians professional contact and consultation
with other physicians, and by coercing the hospitals to
deny facilities for the *treatmentof their patients. Again
the judge charged: "Was there a conspiracy to restrain
trade in one or more of the ways alleged?" And again:
"If it be true . . . that the District Society, acting only to
protect its organization, regulate fair dealing among its
members, and maintain and advance the standards of medical practice, adopted reasonable rules and measures to
those ends, not calculated to restrain Group Health, there
would be no guilt, though the indirect effect may have
been to cause some restraint against Group Health."
We need add but a word as to the sufficiency of the
proof to sustain the charge. The petitioners in effect challenge the sufficiency, in law, of the indictment. They
hardly suggest that if the pleading charges an offense
there was no substantial evidence of the commission of
the offense. But, however the argument is viewed, we
agree with the courts below that the case was one for submission to a jury. No purpose would be served by
detailed discussion of the proofs.
Third. We hiold that the dispute between petitioners
and their members, and Group Health and its members,
was not one concerning terms and conditions of employrnent within the Clayton ' and the Norris-LaGuardia 0
Acts.
Section 20 of the Clayton Act, as expanded by § 13 of
the Norris-LaGuardia Act, is the only legislation which
38 Stat. 730, §§ 6 and 20, 15 U. S. C. 17, 29 U. S. C. 52.
10 47 Stat. 70, §§ 4, 5, 6, 8 and 13, 29 U. S. C. §§ 104, 105, 106, 108

and 113.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

can have any bearing on the case. Section 20 applies to
cases between "an employer and employees, or between
employers and employees, or between employees, or between persons employed and-persons seeking employment,
involving, or growing out of, a dispute concerning terms
or conditions of employment . . ."; and provides that
none of the acts specified in the section shall "be considered or held to be violations of any law of the United
States."
Section 13 of the Norris-LaGuardia Act defines a labor
dispute as including "any controversy concerning terms or
conditions of employment, or concerning the association
or representation of persons in negotiating, fixing, maintaining, changing, or seeking to arrange terms or conditions of employment, regardless of whether or not the
disputants stand in the proximate relation of employerand employee." It also provides that "A case shall be
held to involve or to grow out of a labor dispute when
the case involves persons who are engaged in the same
industry, trade, craft, or occupation; or have direct or
indirect interests therein; or who are employees -of the
same employer; or who are members of the same or an
affiliated organization of employers or employees; whether
such dispute is (1) between one or more employers or
associations of employers and one or more employees or
associations of employees; (2) between one or more employers or associations of employers and one or more
employers or associations of employers; or (3) between
one or more employees or associations of employees and
one or more employees or associations of employees; or
when the case involves any conflicting or competing interests in a 'labor dispute' (as defined in this section) of
'persons participating or interested' therein (as defined in.
this section)."
Citing these provisions, the petitioners insist that their
dispute with Group Health was as to terms and conditions

AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN. v. U. S.
519

535

Opinion of the Court.

of employment of the doctors employed by Group Health
since the District Medical Society objected to its members,
or other doctors; taking employment under Group Health
on the terms offered by that corporation. They assert
that § 20 of the Clayton Act, as expanded by § 13 of the
Norris-LaGuardia Act, includes all persons and associations involved in a dispute over terms and conditions of
employment who are engaged in the same industry, trade,
craft, or occupation, or have direct or indirect interests
therein. And they rely upon our decisions in New Negro
Alliance v. Sanitary Grocery Co., 303 U. S. 552; and
Drivers' Union V.Lake Valley Co., 311 U. S..91, as bringing within the coverage of ;the acts a third party, even
though that party be a corporation not in trade, and employers and employers' associations even though they be
only indirectly interested in the controversy. They insist
that as the petitioners and Group Health, its members
and doctors, other doctors and the hospitals, were either
directly or indirectly interested in a controversy which
concened the terms of employment of doctors by Group
Health, the case falls within the exemption of the statutes
and they cannot be held criminally liable for'a violation
of the Sherman Act.
It seems plain enough that the Clayton and NorrisLaGuardia Acts Were not intended to immunize such a
dispute as is presented in this case. Nevertheless, it is
not our province to define the purpose of Congress apart
from what it has said in its enactments, and, if the petitioners' activities fall within the classes defined by the
acts, we are bound to accord petitioners,- especially in a
criminal case, the benefit of the legislative provisions.
We think, however, that, gpon analysis, it appears. that
petitioners' activities are not within the exemptions
granted by, the statutes. Although the Government asserts the contrary, we shall assume that the doctors having

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

contracts with Group Health were employes of that corporation. The petitioners did not represent present or prospective employes. Their purpose was to prevent anyone
from taking employment under Group Health. They
were interested in the terms and conditions of the employment only in the sense that hey desired wholly to
prevent Group Health from functioning by having any
employes. Their objection was to its method of doing
business. Obviously there was no dispute between Group
Health and the doctors it employed or might employ
in which petitioners were either directly or indirectly
interested.
In truth, the petitioiers represented physicians who desired that they and all others should practice independently on a fee for service basis, where whatever
arrangement for payment each had was a matter that lay
between him and his patient in each individual case of
service or treatment. The petitioners were not an association of employes in any proper sense of the term. They
were an association of individual practitioners each exercising his calling as an independent unit. These independent physicians, and the two petitioning associations
which represent them, were interested solely in preventing
the operation of a business conducted in corporate form by
Group Health. In this aspect the case is very like Columbia River Packers Assn. v. Hinton, 315 U. S. 143.
What was there decided requires a holding that the petitioners' activities were not exempted by the Clayton and
the Norris-LaGuardia Acts from the operation of the
Sherman Act.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took
no part in the consideration or the decision of this case.

