OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

that assets subject to the paymerit of the certificates are
being neglected. Thus it is not shown that the claim
against the guarantee company is not being pursued or
that its collection could better be handled in proceedings
under Ch. X. There is no showing that the machinery
employed or available in the state foreclosure proceeding
to safeguard and protect the interests of those creditors
after the sale is not comparable to that contained in Ch.
X for the consummation of plans which are not only fair
but feasible. § 221 (2). In view of the burden on a petitioner to make the showing required by § 130 (7) and
§ 146 (4); the bankruptcy court is not warranted in
assuming, without more, that a state foreclosure proceeding, instituted for and on behalf of the first mortgage
creditors exclusively, is inadequate, measured by Ch. X
standards, to protect their interests. The contrary course
would result in Ch. X'making greater inroads on prior
proceedings than § 130 (7) and § 146 (4) indicate was the
purpose.
Affirmed.
WARREN-BRADSHAW DRILLING CO. v. HALL,
AGENT, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 21.

Argued October 16, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

1. The application of the Fair Labor Standards Act depends upon the

character of the activitiT of the eqplbyee. P. 90.
2. Employees seeking to recoyer overtime compensation and ]iquidated damages under § 16 (b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
held to have sustained the burdeif of proving that they were engaged
in the production of goods for.interstate commerce within the meaning of the Act. P. 90.
3. Members of a rotary drilling crew, engaged within a State, as employees of an independent contractor, in partially drilling oil wells

WARREN-BRADSHAW CO. v. HALL.
88.

Opinion of the Court.

,(to a depth short of the oil sand stratum)-which wells were
later "brought in" by other workmen; and some of the oil and gas
from which, in crude form or as refined products, moved in interstate
commerce-were engaged in a "process or occupation necessary to
the production" of oil for interstate commerce, and were covered
by the Fair Labor Standards Act. P. 91.
4. Assuming that this is prerequisite to the application of the Act in
this case, there were reasonable grounds for the employer to anticipate, at the time of drilling, that oil when produced by the wells
would move into other States. P. 92.
5. In the case of an employee who is employed on the basis of an
eight hour day at a fixed daily wage, and regularly works seven.days
a week, the fact that he is paid, and accepts, wages which are in
excess of the statutory minimum, including the minimum for overtime, does not constitute compliance with the overtime compensation requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Overnight
TransportationCo. v. Missel, 316 U. S.572.' P. 93.
124 F. 2d 42, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 660, to review the affirmance of a

judgment, 40 F. Supp. 272, against an employer in an
action on behalf of certain of its employees for unpaid
overtime compensation and liquidated damages under § 16'
(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Mr. FrankSettle, with whom Mr. Sam Clammer was on

the brief, for petitioner:
Mr. DallasScarborough, with whom Mr. Ellis Douthit
was on the brief, for respondents.
Solicitor Gen'eral Fahy and Messrs. Irving J. Levy,

Mortimer B. Wolf, and Peter Seitz filed a brief on behalf
of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U. S.

Department of Labor, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We are concerned here, as in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling,
316 U. S. 517, with a problem of statutory delineation, not

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

constitutional power, in the application of the Fair Labor
Standards Act I to a particular situation. This is an action
to recover unpaid overtime compensation and an equal
amount as liquidated damages, brought by respondent
employees under § 16 (b). We must decide whether respondents are engaged "in the production of goods for
commerce," within the meaning of § 7 (a) of the Act. The
district court held that they were so engaged, and, since
petitioner had failed to compensate them for overtime
hours as required by § 7 (a), accordingly rendered judgment for each respondent in the appropriate amount.2
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed with an immaterial
modification,' and the case comes here on certiorari.
The application of the Act depends upon the character
of the employees' activities. Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling,
supra, p. 524. The burden was therefore upon respondents to prove that, in the course of performing their services for petitioner and without regard to the nature of its
business, they were, as its employees, engaged in the production of goods, within the meaning of the Act, and that
such production was for interstate commerce. We agree
with both courts below that respondents have sustained
that burden.
Petitioner is the owner and operator of rotary drilling
equipment and machinery, who contracts with the owners
or lessees of oil lands to drill holes to an agreed-upon depth
short of the oil sand stratum. When that depth is reached,
the rotary rig is removed, and the machinery and crew
move on to other locations. For reasons peculiar to the
oil industry, a cable drilling crew then undertakes with
cable tools to "bring in" the well, or else demonstrate that
it is a dry hole. Respondents were employed by peti'52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq.
240 F. Supp. 272.
8 124 F. 2d 42

WARREN-BRADSHAW CO. v. HALL.
88

Opinion of the Court.

tioner as members of its rotary drilling crew and worked
on approximately thirty-two wells in the Panhandle Oil
Field of Texas; thirty-one of those wells produced oil,
and the other one produced gas. Petitioner was not the
owner or lessee of any of the lands on which respondents
drilled, and was not shown to have any interest therein or
in the oil produced.
In § 3 (j) Congress has broadly defined the term "produced," and has provided that "an employee shall be
deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods
if such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other
manner working on such goods, or in any process or occupation necessary to the production thereof, in any State."
Whether or not respondents, in drilling to a specified depth
short of oil, may be regarded as engaged in producing or
mining-and we certainly are not to be understood as intimating that they may not-recognition of the obvious
requires us to hold that, at the very least, they were engaged in a "process or occupation necessary to the production" of oil. Oil is obtained only by piercing the
earth's surface; drilling a well is a necessary part of the
productive process to which it is intimately related. The
connection between respondents' activities in partially
drilling wells and the capture of oil is quite substantial,
and those activities certainly bear as "close and immediate tie" to production as did the services of the building
maintenance workers held within the Act in Kirschbaum
Co. v. Walling, supra,pp. 525-526.
The evidence supports the finding that some of the oil
produced ultimately found its way into interstate commerce. All the wells had pipeline connections, some of
them being with petroleum companies operating on a
41, 'Produced' means produced, manufactured, mined, handled, or in
any other manner worked on in any State; . .

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

national scale, wherein the oil was commingled with the
production of other wells. Officials of the State of Texas
*testified that some crude oil is shipped out of the State by
these pipelines, and that a large percentage of crude oil
sent to refineries in Texas thereafter passes out of the
State in the form of refined products:
Petitioner contests the applicability of the Act on the
ground that it, as an independent contractor not financially interested in the wells, had no intention, expectation
or belief that any oil produced would be shipped in interstate commerce, and cites as support United States v.
Darby, 312 U. S. 100, 118, where it was said that the
"production for commerce" intended by Congress includes
"at least production of goods, which, at the time of production, the employer, according'to the normal course of his
business, intends or expects to move in interstate commerce although, through the exigencies of the business,
all of the goods may not thereafter actually enter interstate commerce." Respondents counter with the proposition that it is enough that the owners of the oil wells
expected the oil produced to move across-state lines, but
the Government does not ask,' and there is no need for,
us to pass upon that proposition. The Act extends at
least to the employer who expects goods to move in interstate commerce. United States v. Darby, supra. Assuming that such expectation, or a reasonable basis therefor,
was necessary on petitioner's part before the application
of the Act to petitioner, it is here present. The record
contains ample indication that there were reasonable
grounds for petitioner to anticipate, at the time of drilling,
that oil produced by the wells drilled, would move into
other states. Petitioner; closely identified as it is with
5 The Solicitor General submitted a brief on behalf of the Administrator of 'the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of
Labor, as amicus curiae.

WARREN-BRADSHAW CO. v. HALL.
88

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

the business of oil production, cannot escape the impact
of the Act by a transparent claim of ignorance of the interstate character of the Texas oil industry. St. John v.
Brown, 38 F. Supp. 385, 388; cf. Fleming v. Enterprise
Box Co., 37 F. Supp. 331, 334-335, affirmed, 125 F.
2d 897.
One final contention merits but slight consideration.
Respondents were employed on the basis of an eight hour
day and regularly worked seven days a week, receiving
fixed wages ranging from $6.50 to $11 per day. There
was no agreement providing for an hourly rate of pay or
that the weekly salary included additional compensation
for overtime- hours. Petitioner urges that it complied
with the overtime compensation requirements of the Act
because respondents received wages in excess of the statutory minimum wage, including time and one-half of that
minimum wage for all overtime hours, which wages
respondents impliedly agreed included overtime-compensation by accepting them. A similar argument 'was
squarely rejected in Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316
U. S. 572.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I dissent, as I did in-Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316
U. S. 517, and for the same reason. But'I think the
present a more extravagant application of the statute than
that there approved. We may assume that Congress, in
drafting the- Act, had in mind the practical, as disa theoretical, 'distinction between what
tinguished
'is national from
and what is local,-between what, in fact,
touches interstate commerce and what in truth, is
intrastate.
The phrases, on which respondents rely are 'these: An
employee "who is engagedin [interstate] commerce or in
the production of goods for [interstate] commerce," § 7
(a); and "'Produced' 'means produced, manufactured,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBFRTS, J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

mined, handled, or in any other manner worked on in any
State; and for the purposes of this Act an employee shall
be deemed to have been engaged in the production of
goods if such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other
manner working on such goods, or in any process or occupation necessary to the ,production thereof, in any State,"
§ 3 (j).
The opinion disavows any thought that the respondents
may be classed as those who mine the oil which passes
into commerce; but this seems to be a reservation intended
not to preclude such a holding. The Court relies, rather,
on the Act's inclusion of anyone employed "in any process
or occupation necessary to the production" of goods for
commerce.
The reasoning seems to be as follows: The oil will pass
into commerce if it is mined. But it cannot be mined
unless somebody drills a well. An independent contractor's men do part of the drilling. Their work is
"necessary" to the mining and the transportation of the
oil. So they fall within the Act.
This is to ignore all practical distinction between what
is parochial and what is national. It is but the application
to the practical affairs of life of a philosophic and impractical test. It is but to repeat, in another form, the old
story of the pebble thrown into the pool, and the theoretically infinite extent of the resulting waves, albeit too
tiny to be seen or felt by the exercise of one's senses.
The labor of the man who made the tools which drilled
the well, that of the sawyer who cut the wood incidentally
used, that of him who mined the iron of which the tools
were made, are all just as necessary to the ultimate extraction of oil as the labor of respondents. Each is an antecedent of the consequent,-the production of the goods for
commerce. Indeed, if respondents were not fed, they
could not have drilled the well, and the oil would not have

. RIGGS v. DEL DRAGO.
88

Statement of the Case.

gone into conirnerce. Is the cook's work "necessary" to
the production of the oil, and within the Act?
I think Congress could not and did not intend to exert
its granted power over interstate commerce upon what in
practice and common understanding is purely local activity, on the pretext that everything everybody does is a
contributing cause to the existence of commerce between
the States, and in that sense necessary to its existence.

RIGGS, SPECIAL GUARDIAN, v. DEL DRAGO

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SURROGATE'S COURT OF NEW YORK
COUNTY, NEW YORK.

No. 30.

Argued October 20, 1942.-Decided November 9, 1942.

1. Section 124 of the New York Decedent Estate Law, requiring that,
unless otherwise directed by the decedent's will, the burden of any
federal estate tax paid by the executor or administrator be apportioned among the beneficiaries of the estate, is not in conflict with
the federal estate tax law (Internal Revenue Code, § 800 et seq.),
and does not contravene the supremacy clause of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 97, 102.
The intent of Congress was that the federal estate tax should be
paid out of ihe estate as a whole, and that the distribution of the
remaining estate and the ultimate impact of the federal tax should
be determined under the state law. The provisions of the Revenue
Act of 1916 and subsequent Acts, their legislative history and administrative interpretation support this conclusion; and §§ 826
(b), 826 (c), and 826 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code do not
require a different result.
2. Nor does the fact that the ultimate incidence of the federal estate
tax is thus governed by state law violate the constitutional requirement of geographical uniformity in federal taxation. P. 102.
287 N. Y. 61, 38 N. E. 2d 131, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 315 U. S. "795, to review a decision of the
Court of Appeals of New York, holding unconstitutional
Section 124 of the New York Decedent Estate Law. The
Surrogate's Court entered its order upon the remittitur
of the Court of Appeals.

