476 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

is not the sort of irreparable injury against which equity
protects," Cf. Dalton Machine Co. v. Virginia, 236 U. S.
699.
That United may be subjected to a course of litigation
before its rights under the Ohio law are fully determined
is the least of all reasons for this use of equity jurisdiction.
The compelling consideration here isthat "Lawsuits also
often prove to have been groundless; but no way has been
discovered of relieving a defendant from the necessity of
a trial to establish the fact." Myers v. Bethlehem Corp.,
303 U. S.41, 51.
The judgment below should be reversed and the State
of Ohio permitted to continue as best it can in view of the
long delay caused by the unfortunate intervention of the
federal courts.
HARRISON, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,. v. NORTHERN TRUST CO. ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 103. Argued December 8, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
1. In § 303 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 which, as amended by
§ 807 of the Revenue Act of 1932, provides that where the federal
estate tax is "payable . . .out of the bequests, legacies, or devises
* otherwise deductible under this paragraph, then the amount deductible under this paragraph shall be the amount of such bequests,
legacies, or devises reduced by the amount of such taxes," the words
"payable out of" are used in the sense of "diminished or reduced
by" the payment of the tax. P. 479.
2. The legislative history of 'astatute may be considered in ascertaining its meaning, no matter how clear its words may appear on
superficial examination. P. 479.
3. Where a residuiry estate is bequeathed to charities for which deduction is allowed by § 303 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926, as
amended by § 807 of the Revenue Act of 1932, and by the state law

HARRISON v. NORTHERN TRUST CO.
476

477

Opinion of the Court.

the federal estate tax is a charge not against the residue but against
the entire estate, the amount which, in computing the federal. estate
tax, may be deducted from the gross estate on account of the charities, is the amount of the residuary estate actually passing to the
charitable beneficiaries after. provision is made for the payment
of the tax. P. 480.
4. The deduction here involved is one which Congress could have
denied altogether, and the limitation placed upon it by § 807 is
constitutional. P. 480.
125 F. 2d 893, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 612, to review the affirmance of a
judgment for the present respondents in an action to recover an alleged overpayment of federal estate taxes.

Miss Helen R. Carloss argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistait Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold Raum, J. Louis Monarch, and
Bernard Chertcojj were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Alexander F. Reichmann, with whom Mr. Andrew
J. Dallstreamwas on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondents, the executors under the will of Henry M.
Wolf, brought this action to recover an alleged overpayment of federal estate taxes. The case turns upon
whether, under the provisions of § 303 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1926, as amended by § 807 of the Revenue Act of
1932,1 the amount to be deducted from decedent's gross
'Section 807 provides as follows:
Sections 303 (a) (3) and 303 (b) (3) of the Revenue Act of 1926 are
amended by inserting after the first sentence of each a new sentence to

read as follows:
"It the tax imposed by section 301, or, any estate, succession, legacy,
or inheritance taxes, are, either by the terms of the will, by the law'of
the jurisdiction under which the estate is administered, or by the law
of the jurisdiction imposing the particular tax, payable in whole or in

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

estate on account of the bequest of his residuary estate to
charity is the actual amount of such bequest, after pay-..
ment of federal estate taxes, or what would have been the
amount if there had been no such taxes.
Testator, a resident of Illinois, bequeathed the residue
of his estate to four named charitable organizations. The
will contained no provision as to the payment of federal
or state death taxes except for a direction that all inheritance, legacy, succession and estate taxes upon certain specific bequests to indixiduals should be paid out of the general estate. The residuary estate, after deducting funeral
and administration expenses and specific bequests but not
the federal estate tax, amounted to $463,103.08, all of
which sum respondents claim they are entitled to deduct
from the statutory gross estate in computing the federal
estate tax. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue ruled,
however, that only that portion of the residue which was
actually distributable to the charitable donees, i. e., the
amount remaining after payment of the federal estate tax,
was deductible as a charitabl6 bequest.. He determined
that the total estate tax amounted to $459,879.57, which
would be paid out of the residuary estate, and that
respondents were therefore entitled to deduct only
$3,223.51, the amount actually passing under the residuary
bequests.
-Respondents paid the assessed tax under protest and
filed a claim for refund which the Commissioner rejected.
This suit followed, and the district court entered judgment
for respondents. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
125 F. 2d 893. We granted certiorari because of the importance of the question in the administration of the
federal estate tax system..
part out of the bequests, legacies, or devises otherwise deductible under
this paragraph, then'the amount deductible under this paragraph shall
be the amount of such bequests, legacies, or devises reduced by the
amount of such taxes."
It is now part of § 8 2 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code.

HARRISON v. NORTHERN TRUST CO.
476

479

Opinion of the Court.

Section 807 recognizes that the ultimate thrust of the

federal estate tax is to be determined by state law, cf.
Riggs v. Del Drago, ante, p. 95, and provides that Where
the tax is, either under the will or the applicable local
law, "payable . . .out of the bequests, legacies, or devises otherwise deductible under this paragraph, then the
amount deductible under this paragraph shall be the
amount of such bequests, legacies, or devises reduced by
the amount of such taxes." ' The court below fixed upon
the words "payable out of" and held § 807 inapplicable
because the federal estate tax was a charge against the
entire estate and not against the residue under Illinois
law,8 and therefore was not "payable out of" the residuary
bequest. The court then followed Edwards v. Slocum,
264 U. S.61, where, under substantially identical facts and
in the absence of a statute such as § 807, the instant issue
was resolved against the Government. In so doing, the
court below refused to examine the legislative history of
§ 807, on the ground that the section was unambiguous.
But words are inexact tools at best, and for that reason
there is wisely no rule of law forbidding resort to explanatory legislative history no matter how "clear the words
may appear on 'superficial examination.'" United States
v. American TrW~iking Assns., 310 U. S.534, 543-44. See
also United States v. Dickerson, 310 U. S.554, 562. So,
accepting the Circuit Court's interpretation of Illinois law
as to the incidence of the tax, we think it should have considered the legislative history of § 807 to determine in
just what: sense Congress used the words "payable out
of." The committee reports on § 807 demonstrate that it
was intended as "a legislative reversal of the decision" in
Edwards v. Slocum, supra (H. Rep. No. 708, 72d Cong.,
2 Emphasis

added.
cases of People v. Pasfield, 284 IIl. 450, 120 N. E. 286; People
v. Northern Trust Co., 289 Il. 475, 124 N. E. 662; and'People v. McCormick, 327 Ill.
547, 158 N. E. 861, were cited for this proposition.
8 The

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

1st Sess., p. 50),' and that Congress used the words "payable out of" in the sense of "diminished or reduced by"
the payment of the tax. Thus the House Report states:
"The purpose of this amendment is to limit the deduction for charitable bequests, etc., to the amount which the
decedent has in fact and in law devised or bequeathed to
charity. Under existing law no consideration can be given
to any estate, succession, legacy, or inheritance taxes imposed with respect to a decedent's estate even though by
the terms of his will or the local law they actually reduce
the amount of such bequest or devise." p. 49.
And, in referring to the situation in Edwards v. Slocum, it
was said:
"Under the State law the estate tax was payable generally out of the estate and so fell upon and reduced the
residuary estate given to charity." p. 50.
That is the case here, for while the estate -tax may be a
charge against' the entire estate under Illinois law, admittedly its payment will operate to reduce the amount
of the residuary estate. This legislative history is conclusive in favor of the Government's contention that respondents are entitled to deduct only the amount of the
residuary estate actually passing to the charitable beneficiaries after provision is made for the payment of the
federal estate tax.
It is argued on behalf of respondents that this interpretation of § 807 results in a "tax upon a tax" and is therefore unconstitutional. We need not stop to consider the
accuracy of this nomenclature, because-this case involves
only a charitable deduction which Congress could have
-denied altogether, and the limitations placed upon that
4See
also S. Rep. No. 398, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 35, and H. Conference Rep. No. 844, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 25-26, with reference
to§ 303 (a) of the Revenue-Act of i924 which contained the same sentence as § 807.

LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK R. CO.

481

Syllabus.

476

deduction by § 807 clearly do not go beyond the limits
of permissible constitutional power. Respondents also
object to the fact that the tax may have to be computed
by an algebraic formula ,or by complicated arithmetical
methods because of the two mutually dependent variables,
the amount of the tax and the amount of the residue
as reduced by the tax, and reference is made to the statements in, Edwards v, Slocum that "algebraic formulae are
not lightly to be imputed to legislators," 264 U. S. at 63.
This contention loses all significance when it is remembered that § 807 was intended as a "legislative reversal"
of Edwards v. Slocum. And compare United States v.
New York, 315 U. S. 510.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
LILLY v. GRAND TRUNK WESTERN RAILROAD
Co.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT, FIRST DISTRICT, OF
ILLINOIS.

No. 124. Argued December 8, 9, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1043.
1. The Boiler Inspection Act imposes upon the carrier an absolute and
continuing duty 'to maintain its locomotives, and all parts and
appurtenances thereof, in proper condition, and safe to operate
without unnecessary peril to life or limb. Negligence is not the
basis of liability. P. 485.
2. The Boiler Inspection Act is to be liberally construed in the light of
its primepurpose, the protection of employees and others by requiring the use of safe equipment. P. 486.
3. The use of a locomotive tender upon which an employee must go
in the course of his duties, the top of which tender is covered with
ice, involves "unnecessary peril to life or limb" within the meaning
of the Boiler Inspection Act, as construed by Rule 153 of the Rules
adopted pursuant thereto by the Interstate Commerce Commission;
503873-43----38

