200

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Statement of the Case.

317 U. S.

of exceptions in the District Court to present the point
urged by petitioner. Upon the entry of such an order
it will be the duty of counsel for petitioner to present a
bill made up from the best sources available. It will
then become the duty of the district judge to assist in
amplifying, correcting, and perfecting this bill from such
sources, and to settle the same in order to present the
evidence given at the trial. From such a bill the Circuit
Court of Appeals will no doubt be able to decide whether
there was evidence to sustain petitioner's conviction.
So ordered.
UNITED STATES v. WAYNE PUMP CO. ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR WPHE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Nos. 81 and 82. Argued November 16, 1942.-Decided
December 7, 1942.
1. The decision of the District Court in these cases, sustaining demurrers to indictments for violations of the Sherman Act, was based not
only on the construction of the statute but also on the independent
ground of the insufficiency of the indictments as pleadings, and
therefore was not appealable directly to this Court under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 207.
2. The amendment by Act of May 9, 1942, of the Criminal Appeals
Act, which for the first time permits appeals to the Circuit Courts
of Appeals from orders sustaining demurrers to indictments in cases
not directly appealable to this Court, and which directs that such
appeals, when erroneously taken to this Court, shall be remanded
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, is not retrospective in operation
and is inapplicable to appeals for which, when taken, there was no
statutory authority. P. 209.
44 F. Supp. 949, appeals dismissed.

APPEALS from judgments of the District Court in two
cases, heard together, sustaining demurrers to indictments
for violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act.

U. S. v. WAYNE PUMP CO.
200

Opinion of the Court.

Assistant Attorney GeneralArnold, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Mr. Archibald Cox were on the brief,
for the United States.
Mr. Edward R. Johnston for the Wayne Pump Co. et al.;
Mr. James H. Winston for the Gilbert & Barker Mfg. Co.
et al.; and Mr. Harold F. McGuire for Veeder-Root, Inc.
et al.,-appellees. With them on the biriefs for appellees
were Messrs. Charles L. Byron, Howard Somervell, Louis
F. Niezer, Ballard Moore, James M. Carlisle, Arthur S.
Lytton, John C. Slade, Bryce L. Hamilton, Barry Gilbert,
and George W. Ott.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These are companion appeals from orders sustaining
demurrers to indictments for violations of the Sherman
Act. The indictment in No. 81 charges the defendants,
manufacturers of gasoline pumps, a manufacturer of gasoline computing mechanisms and a gasoline pump manufacturing association, and certain of their officers, with
conspiracy, extending from 1932 to the date of the indictment, January 31, 1941, to fix the prices of computer
pumps in interstate trade and commerce, in violation of
§ 1 of the Sherman Act. Computer pumps are gasoline
pumps embodying a mechanism which calculates, measures, displays and records the quantities and prices of
gasoline passing through the pumps to the purchasers.
In No. 82 the defendants are the same except that the as:sociation and its officer are omitted. This latter indictment varies from the former in that in two counts it
charges a conspiracy to monopolize the manufacture and
sale of computer pumps and computing mechanisms in
violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act.'
'Section 1: "Every contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among

O
OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

The facts alleged to support the charge in the count for
price-fixing and those to support the count for monopolizing are substantially the same. The counts vary only as
to the purposes alleged. The same means allegedly are
employed to carry out each conspiracy. As similar legal
issues arise in each case and as our conclusions upon each
count are based upon the same reasoning, it is not necessary to make further differentiations between the counts.
One opinion was handed down by the District Court. It
sets out the indictments quite fully. United States v.
Wayne Pump Co., 44 F. Supp. 949.
As our decision does not and cannot in. our view consider the correctness of a trial court's judgment that an
indictment failed properly to allege the facts establishing
a crime (United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310; United
States v. Burroughs,289 U. S. 159), we do not set out the
allegations of these counts in extenso. This has been
done in United States v. Wayne Pump Co., supra. We
shall state here, for convenience in getting a focus on the
problem only, that the counts of the indictments charged
conspiracies among the defendants to fix prices on, and
monopolize the interstate trade in, computer pumps and
the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be
illegal ....

Every person who shall make any contract or engage

in any combination or conspiracy hereby, declared to be illegal shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall
be punished by fine not exceeding $5,000, or by imprisonment not
exceeding one year, or by both said punishments in the discretion of
the court." -50 Stat. 693, 15 U. S. C. § 1.
Section 2: "Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons,
to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the several
States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not
exceedig five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one

year, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court."
26 Stat. 209, 15 U. S. C. § 2.

U. S. v. WAYNE PUMP CO.
200

Opinion of the Court.

computing mechanisms by a scheme for using patent rights
and licenses to manufacture under them.
The defendants demurred to the indictments as insufficient in law to state an offense. It was said in the demurrers that the indictments failed to describe or particularize the offense attempted to be charged with sufficient
definiteness, certainty or specificity to inform the defendants of the nature and causes of the accusations or to
enable them to plead an acquittal or conviction thereunder
ip bar of other proceedings.
The trial court sustained the demurrers to each count,
from which ruling appeals to this Court were prayed under
the Criminal Appeals Act, 34 Stat. 1246. That statute
authorizes an appeal to this Court "from a decision or
judgment quashing, setting aside, or sustaining a demurrer
to, any indictment, or any count thereof, where such decision .or judgment is based upon the invalidity, or construction of the statute upon which the indictment is
founded." 2 We have no jurisdiction if the judgment below is not so based. United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S.
188; United States v. Halsey, Stuart & Co., 296 U. S. 451;
United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188.
In their statement opposing jurisdiction, appellees contended that the demurrers were sustained because of the
insufficiency of the indictments as pleadings, as distinguished from a construction of the statute upon which the
indictments were based, and therefore questioned our
2

As amended on May 9, 1942, the Act further provides: "An appeal
may be taken by and on behalf of the United States from the district
courts to a circuit court of appeals or the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, as the case may be, in all criminal
cases, in the following instances, to wit: From a decision or judgment
quashing, setting aside, or sustaining a demurrer or plea in abatement
to any indictment or information, or any count thereof except where a
direct appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States is provided by
this Act.". 56 Stat. 271, 18 U. S. C. § 682.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

jurisdiction under the Act. We postponed decision of .this
question to the argument on the merits and we now come
to its decision.
There is disagreement between the parties as to whether
the District Court sustained the demurrers on the ground
of the deficiency of the pleadings as well as upon a construction of the statute. The language of the opinion
makes it apparent to us that the District Court's conclusion was at least in part bottomed upon the indefiniteness,
uncertainty and lack of specificity of the indictments. In
the opinion it is said, 44 F. Supp. 949, 956:
"There is no charge that defendants fixed the prices of
gasoline pumps generally, or restricted their manufacture
and sale. They are charged only with fixing the prices of
computer pumps, a right which the Wayne Pump ColApany already had under the statutory monopoly granted
by the Government when its patent was issued. What is
meant by the phrase 'used the Jauch patent" is not quite
clear. If the defendants did more than enter into ordinary
patent license agreements, under the terms of which the
Wayne Pump Company, as owner of the patent, licensed
the others to manufacture computer pumps, and fixed the
prices at which the pumps should be sold; or if the Government claims that these defendants were involved in
some offense under the Sherman Act other than the exercise of a patent monopoly, then such offense should be
set out clearly in the indictments."
The court further said, id., 956:
"How they took joint .action or entered into joint agreements to use the Jauch patent to achieve the alleged illegal
objectives, or how they went outside the monopoly granted
to the patentee and its licensees, is nowhere set out in the
indictments. ''
I The lower court in United States v. Colgate & Co., 253
F. 522, affirmed 250 U. S. 300, had criticized an indictment

U. S. v. WAYNE PUMP CO.
200

205

Opinion of une Court.

because of failure to set out facts against any set of wholesalers or retailers alleged to have acted in combination with
the defendant. In this case, commenting upon what is
said to be a similar situation, the District Court said, id.,
958:
. "So in the case at bar, if these conditions exist, the
Government should have no difficulty in setting forth at
least one specific instance of where defendants determined
the resale price at which jobbers might resell computer
pumps. If this condition does exist, surely the Government must be in possession of the facts, and they should be
set out in the indictments, so as to reasonably inform
defendants of the offense with which they are charged."
The opinion added, id., 958:
"The Government in its argument insists that competing patents are here involved, and that a monopoly of
competing patents was acquired by some of the defendants
in furtherance of the'plan to carry out the conspiracy, but
the indictments set out no facts whereby to identify these
competing patents, nor in what manner nor by whom such
monopoly in them was acquired."
Finally the trial court concluded, id., 959:
"It is fundamental that in every indictment the defendant is entitled to be informed with such definiteness and
certainty of the accusations against him as will enable him
to make his defense, and avail himself of acquittal or conviction in any further prosecution for the same offense.
Having in mind that the subject matter of the instant indictments is protected by a patent, I am of the opinion
that the defendants here have not been furnished with
such definite and particular allegations of fact as will meet
this test. The charges are much too general. They do
not adequately describe the nature of the alleged unlawful
conspiracy agreements or arrangements which defendants
are accused of having made, nor show how the defendants

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

became parties thereto, nor how they collaborated in doing
the unlawful things; nor set out any unlawful means
whereby the unlawful objectives were accomplished."
Further, the District Court, in our opinion, made it altogether clear that it was not determining solely the limits
of a patent monopoly. It pointed out that a patentee
might license (id., 954) as it chose, provided only that in so
doing it did not violate any other law. The Sherman
Act was in mind. The court said, id., 956:
"While ownership of the patent gives to the patentee
a complete monopoly within the field of his patent, it of
course does not give him any license to violate the provisions of the Sherman Act or of any other law. Under his
monopoly he may not use his patent as a pretext for fixing
prices on an unpatented article of commerce; nor fix the
resale price on his patented article; nor make use of
'tying clauses.'
The Government, of course, recognizes that the opinion
manifests the District Court's view that the indictment
failed to allege violations of the Sherman Act with sufficient definiteness and particularity. But the Government urges that such a ruling arose from the District
Court's error in holding, on the merits, that the facts set
out in the indictment do not charge, as a matter of substance, crimes within the meaning of the Sherman Act.
It is the Government's contention that, after making this
fundamental ruling, the District Court "then simply went
on to say that the indictments are defective as pleadings
if they are intended to charge crimes within the Sherman
Act as that Act is construed by the court below."
We do not read the District Court's opinion. in that
way. Where a court interprets a criminal statute so as to
exclude certain acts and transactions from its reach, it
would of necessity also hold, expressly or impliedly, as the
Government suggests, that the indictment, considered

U. S. v. WAYNE PUMP CO.
200

Opinion of the Court.

merely as a pleading, was defective. Yet, the essence of
the ruling would be based upon a construction of the statute. We accept as correct, for the purposes of this discussion only, the Government's understanding of the opinion
as holding that the allegations of the indictment, considered in substance and apart from required specificity, did
not allege violations of the Sherman Act. It was a Statutory construction such as that just stated which led this
Court to accept jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals
Act in United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188, 195.
In the light of the opinion, however, we conclude. that
the judgment upholding the demurrer was based also on
grounds independent of the construction of the statute
involved. The demurrers upon which the ruling below
was based show on their face, as appears from the typical
example below, that they were aimed not at the coverage
of the Sherman Act but at the form of the indictments.
3 The formal parts are omitted:
"1. Said indictment and each count thereof, in violation of the rights
guaranteed to said defendants by the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States, fails to describe and particularize the offenses attempted to be charged therein with sufficient
definiteness, certainty and specificity to inform them of the nature
and cause of the accusation, to enable them to prepare and make their
defense thereto, and to enable them to plead an acquittal or a conviction thereunder in bar of any other proceedings against them based
on the matters or things, or any of them, on which said indictment is
based.
2. The averments of said indictment, and each count thereof, purporting to charge a combination and conspiracy to monopolize the
manufacture and sale of computer pumps and a combination and
conspiracy to monopolize the manufacture and sale of computing
mechanisms are mere conclusions.
3. Said indictment fails to make aveiinents sufficient to identify
and describe the supposed combination and conspiracy in each-count
of said indictment alleged in that it does not allege with particularity
any of the following:
(a) The factual basis upon which the United States relies for its
charge that said combinations and conspiracies exist or have existed"

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

This was the objection determined by the court. The
excerpts from the opinion quoted above are conclusive,
we think, that the District Court rested its ruling on the
insufficiency of the pleading as an independent ground.
Since the judgment below was not placed solely upon
the invalidity or construction of the statute but had an
additional and independent ground, the Criminal Appeals
Act does not authorize review. United States v. Hastings,
296 U. S. 188, 193; United States v. Halsey, Stuart & Co.,
296 U. S. 451; United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188,
193. Any contrary holding would be to assume a power
of review not bestowed by Congress.5 Furthermore, at
the time of the entry of the District Court judgment, there
was no provision for review of orders sustaining demurrers
upon grounds other than those involving the construction
of the basic statute.
The Criminal Appeals Act,8 under which the Government brought these cases here, now contains a provision
(b) The manner of formation of the supposed combinations and
conspiracies;

(c) The terms of the supposed combinations and conspiracies; or
(d) The manner in and by which it is claimed that said defendants
became parties to the supposed combinations or conspiracies.
4. The averments in said indictment and each count thereof with
respect to the supposed combinations and conspiracies to monopolize,
and the intended means for the accomplishment thereof, are so vague,
indefinite, uncertain, and conclusory in character as to fail to apprise
said defendants of the manner in which the prosecution claims that
they have violated the law pertaining to combination or conspiracy to
monopolize the manufacture and sale of the computer pumps or the
manufacture and sale of computing mechanisms."
' At one time, this Court permitted review under the Criminal Appeals Act of questions of statutory construction even where such questions were not the sole basis of the judgment. United States v. Stevenson, 215 U. S. 190, 195. This practice was disapproved. See United
States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188, 194.

5United States v. Hastings,296 U. S. 188, 192, n.2.
6Act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, 18 U. S. C. § 682.

U. S. v. WAYNE PUMP CO.
Opinion of the Court.

200

for a remand to the Circuit Court of Appeals if review by
this Court on direct appeal is found to be unauthorized.
The Government does not differ with appellees' specific
statement that the new provision is inapplicable to this
appeal. We do not think that it is applicable. Six weeks
after time to appeal had expired' the Act was amended."
The amendment for the first time permits appeals to the
Circuit Courts of Appeals from orders sustaining a demurrer to an indictment in cases not directly appealable to
this Court. The time to appeal to all courts remains unchanged. The amendment provides that "if an appeal
shall be taken pursuant to 'this Act to the Supreme Court
of the United States which, in the opinion of that Court,
should have been taken to a circuit court of appeals . . .
the Supreme Court of the United States shall remand the
cause to the circuit court of appeals .. .which shall then
have jurisdiction to hear and determine the same as if the
appeal had been taken to that court in the first instance; . . ." This language directs the remand of a
case in which the appeal, at the time it was taken, should
have been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals but was
instead erroneously taken to this Court. It is intended
to save to the Government the right of appeal which might
otherwise be lost by its erroneous view as to the proper appellate tribunal.' At the time the instant appeals were
7 The orders appealed from are dated February 24, 1942. The act
provides that appeals be taken within thirty days after the judgment
is rendered. Petitions for appeal were allowed March 26, 1942, within
the thirty day period.
8 Act of May 9, 1942, 56 Stat. 271.
"In describing the effect of the bill, it was said by the House
Conference Managers that the act "permits appeals to the circuit
courts of appeals of the United States where appeals have improperly
been taken directly to the Supreme Court. . . . In other words, it
permits of a correction of the appeal in cases where appeal has been
taken to the wrong court." H. Rep. No. 2052, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 2; see also H. Rep. No. 45, 77th Cong., Ist Se-s., p. 2.
503873-43-21

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

taken, there was no statutory authority for an appeal to
the Circuit Court of Appeals end therefore no room for an
erroneous . choice between appellate courts. Consequently, the proviso has no application. To hold otherwise would be to give a right of appeal where none existed
at the time the appeal was taken. While this might be
permissible if there were such a legislative intention, the
amendment is not retrospective in terms. Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 478; Freebornv. Smith,
2 Wall. 160. Nor does it appear that Congress had the
instant case in mind in enacting the amendment. H.
Rouw Co. v. Crivella, 310 U. S. 612. We therefore view
the right to appeal and the court to which an appeal lies
as they existed at the time the appeal was taken. Gwin
v. UnitedStates, 184 U. S. 669, 674.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

of these appeals.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting:

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and I are

of the view that the judgments should be reversed. In
our opinion the District Court's rulings that the indictments were defective resulted from interpretations of the
Sherman Act and the patent law which are erroneous in
light of United States v. Masonite Corporation,316 U. S.
266, and related cases.

