ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. V. PERKINS.

501

Opinion of the'Court.

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP.

ET AL.

v. PERKINS,

SECRETARY OF LABOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 142. Argued November 20, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.
1. Upon an application by the Secretary of Labor to a federal District
Court for enforcement of a subpoena duces tecum, issued by the
Secretary in pursuance of an investigation of alleged violations of the
Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act and requiring the production of
payroll and similar records relating to plants of the contractor other
than those specified in the contract, the District Court, in' the circumstances of this case, was without authority to proceed to. hear and
determine whether the Act and contract covered such plants, and it
was its duty to order enforcement of the subpoena. P. 506.
2. The delegation to the Secretary of Labor of the subpoena power, as
here exercised, was within the authority of Congress. P. 510.
128 F. 2d 208, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 607, to review the reversal of orders
of the District Court, 37 F. Supp. 604 and 40 F. Supp. 254,
refusing enforcement of subpoenas duces tecum issued by
the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Walsh-Healey
Public Contracts Act.

Mr. Howard A. Swartwood,-with whom Messrs. William
H. Pritchard,Edward H. Green, and John C. Bruton were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Paul Freund, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs. Sidney J.

Kaplan and Irving J. Levy were on the brief, for

respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the

opinion of the Court.

This case concerns the validity of a subpoena issued by
the Secretary of Labor in administrative proceedings
against the petitioner under the Walsh-Healey Public Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

tracts Act.'

317 U. S.

The petitioner successfully resisted the Sec-

retary's petition for enforcement in the District Court,'
whose judgment Was in turn reversed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit.' We granted certiorari
because of the importance of the questions in the enforcement of the Act, and because of probable conflict with a
holding of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit.'
The Walsh-Healey Act requires that contracts
with the
Government for the "manufacture or furnishing of materials, supplies, articles, and equipment in any amount
exceeding $10,000" shall represent and stipulate, inter alia,
for the payment of "not less than the minimum wages as
determined by the Secretary of Labor" (§ 1 (b)), and that
"no person employed by the contractor*in the manufacture
or furnishing of the materials, supplies, articles, or equipment used in the performance of the contract shall be permitted to work in excess of eight hours in any one day or
in excess of forty hours in any one week" (§ 1 (c)); but
provides that the Secretary may allow exemptions from
the minimum wage provisions, and permit increases in
the stipulated maximum hours on payment of wages at
"not less than one and one-half times the basic hourly
rate received by any employee affected." (§ 6.)
The Act provides for liquidated damages for violations
of required stipulations in the contract (§ 2); and, further,
that "unless the. Secretary of Labor otherwise recommends" no government contract shall be awarded to the
149 Stat. 2036; 41 U. S. C. § 35-45.

The proceedings were instituted against both petitioners, the Endicott Johnson Corporation and its secretary, and both participated in
the subsequent litigation. For convenience we refer to both as "the
petitioner."
2 37 F. Supp. 604 and 40 F. Supp. 254.
128 F.2d 208.
'General Tobacco & Grocery Co. v. Fleming, 125 F.2d 596.

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v PERKINS.
501

503

Opinion of the Court.

firm or subsidiaries of the firm which he finds to have defaulted in its obligation under the Act "until three years
have elapsed from the date the, Secretary of Labor determines such breach to have occurred." (§ 3.)
The Secretary is directed "to administer the provisions
of this Act" and empowered to "make investigations and
findings as herein provided, and prosecute any inquiry
necessary to his functions." (§ 4.) And that he may the
better and the more fairly discharge his functions, he is
authorized to hold hearings "on complaint of a breach or
violation of any representation or stipulation" and "to
issue orders requiring the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of evidence under oath ...
In case of contumacy, failure, or refusal of any person to
obey such an order," the District Court of the United
States "shall have jurisdiction to issue to such person an
order requiring such person to appear before him or representative designated by him, to produce evidence if, as,
and when so ordered, and to give testimony relating to the
matter under investigation or in question; and any failure
to obey such order of the court may be punished by said
court as a contempt thereof." The Secretary is directed
to make "findings of fact after notice and hearing, which
findings shall be conclusive upon all agencies of the United
States, and if supported by the preponderance of the evidence, shall be conclusive in any court of the United
States; and the Secretary of Labor . . . shall have the
power, and is hereby authorized, to make such decisions,
based upon findings of fact, as are deemed to be necessary
to enforce the provisions of this Act." (§ 5.)
Pursuant to her authority under the Act, the Secretary"
in 1937 defined by rulings the coverage of the Act. She
provided, inter alia, that "employees engaged in or connected with the Manufacture, fabrication, assembling,
handling, supervision, or shipment of materials, supplies,
articles, or equipment used in the performance of the con-

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

tract" might be employed overtime, at "one and one-half
times the basic hourly rate or piece rate received by the
employee."
Stipulations as to minimum wages were
made to "apply only to purchases or contracts relating to
such industries as have been the subject of a determination by the Secretary of Labor." 6 Thereafter, and. on
December 21, 1937, she made a determination of minimum wages 'to be paid employees "engaged in the performance of contracts . . . for the manufacture or supply
of men's welt shoes." On September 29, 1939, and after
the completion of the contracts involved in this case, the
Secretary issued rulings specifically dealing with "integrated establishments."
From the pleadings in the District Court and admitted
statements in affidavits filed, there appear the following
facts:
Between October 26, 1936, and June 8, 1938, petitioner
was awarded several contracts for boots, shoes, gymnasium
shoes and arctic overshoes. Each was for an amount in
excess of $10,000, and each contract included representations and stipulations in accordance with-the Act and the
f/r Rulings and Interpretations under the W'alsh-Healey Public Contracts Act, No. 1, § 4 (2) (a).
PIbid. § 4 (1).
7 Rulings and Interpretations No. 2, providing in § 1 (2):
"When a contractor to whom a contract subject to the Act is
awarded operates an integrated establishment which manufactures or
produces materials or supplies that are incorporated into or otherwise
used in the manufacture or supply of the materials, supplies, articles,
or equipment called for by the contract, the Act is applicable to those
departments which are engaged in the manufacture or production of
the materials or supplies to be so incorporated into or used in the
manufacture or processing of the ultimate product to be delivered to
the Government as-well as to the employees engaged in the manufacture or processing of that ultimate product. For example: The processing of the leather and rubber for the shoes supplied under Government contracts subject to the' Act is within the purview of the Act
and Regulations, and compliance therewith it essential."

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501

505

Opinion, of the Court.

Secretary's rulings thereunder set out above. Bids for
and awards of the contracts designated the places of manufacture, and manufacture elsewhere was forbidden.' In
the plants 'so, specified, notices required by the contract
were posted,9 and there the petitioner admitted an obligation and apparently intended to comply with the Act and
contract. The violations claimed in 'those plants are
minor, if any; petitioner offered to adjust any violation
found there and it has willingly furnished complete records
and information as to those plants and those employed in
them. But there ended, the petitioner claims, both the
investigatory power of the Secretary and its obligation to
make its records available. .'
The Secretary did not agree, and instituted an administrative proceeding against petitioner, charging violation
1The bid stated:

"Bidders must state in space provided below names and locations of
the factories where manufacture of the item bid upon will be performed. The performing of any of the work contracted for in any place
other than that named in the bid is prohibited unless 'the same is specifically approved in advance by the Contracting Officer. If more than
one place of manufacture is named, the quantity to be manufactured
in each place must be given."
A typical statement in response is:
Names and locations of factories:
Quantities
"George F. Tabernacle" Factory (item 1) ........ 133,524 pairs
East side of Washington Street (item 2) ......... 182,256 pairs
(South of corner Susquehanna Street), Binghamton, N. Y., (total items 1 and 2) ............ 315,780 pairs
A typical notice of award stated:
For 133,524 pairs Shoes, Service; Special Type "B" with Full
Middle sole and Rubber Heel; 182,256 pairs Shoes, Service,
Special Type "B," with Corded Rubber Sole and Uncorded Rubber Heel.
To be manufactured at or supplied from Geo. F. Tabernacle,
. (Name and location of plants)

Binghamton, N. Y.
Article 18 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of the stipulations in the contract by virtue of payments
by petitioner of less than the minimum wages determined
by her on December 21, 1937, for the "manufacture or supply of men's welt shoes," and of failure to make required
additional payments for overtime work, in other and
physically separate plants owned and operated by the
petitioner. In those plants, it manufactured parts such
As counters and rubber heels, tanned leather for uppers
and soles, and made cartons for packaging shoes for the
Government, as well as'for- its civilian customers. The
subpoena in question issued in this proceeding called for
records chiefly relating to payrolls in such plants, and as
to them the petitioner refused to comply.
To obtain the compliance to the subpoena which petitioner refused, the Secretary had resort to the District
Court as provided by § 5, alleging the foregoing facts and
that "following an investigation by representatives of the
Department of Labor, and it having appeared to the plaintiff upon the basis of such investigation that defendant"
had violated these stipulations of the contracts, she commenced such proceeding; and that "plaintiff has reason to
believe, and said amended (administrative) complaint alleges, that the persons employed" and alleged to-have been
underpaid "in its Calfskin Tannery, Upper Leather Tannery, Sole Leather Tannery, Paracord Factory, Sole Cuting Department (Johnson City), Sole Cutting Department (Endicott), Counter Department (Johnson City),
and Carton Department (Johnson City) were employed
by it in performance of the contracts specified," and that
su~h allegations were denied by the answer in the administrative proceedings.
The Corporation pleaded to the District Court its ownership and management of the plants in question and that
the rubber heels and soles, the counters, cartons, and all
except a portion of the leather soles "used in the manufacture" of the 'government footwear, "were manufac-

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501

507

Opinion of the Court.

tured" in its several separate plants or departments. It
also set forth in full its answer in the administrative proceeding and reasons why it ceonsidered "arbitrary, artificial,
unreasonable, discriminatory, and capricious" the ruling of
the Secretary that the Act and contract applied to the
plants other than those specifically named in the contracts. It denied that the payroll and similar records
sought as to such plants were relevant to the determination of any matter confided to the Secretary's
determination.
The District Court denied the Secretary's motion on
the pleadings and accompanying affidavits for an enforcement order, overruled her contention that it was for her
to decide this issue in the administrative proceeding, and
set the case down for trial on the question of whether the
Act and contracts under the circumstances covered the
separate plants.
We think that the admitted facts left no doubt that
under the statute determination of that issue was primarily the duty of the Secretary.
The Act directs the Secretary to administer its provisions. It is not an Act of general applicability to industry. It applies only to contractors who voluntarily enter
into competition to obtain government business on terms
of which they are fairly forewarned by inclusion in the
contract. Its purpose is to use the leverage of the Governi ent's immense purchasing power to -aise labor
standards.
Congress submitted the administration of the Act to the
judgment of the Secretary of Labor, not to the judgment
of the courts." One of her principal functions is the conclusive determination of questions of fact for the guidance
of procurement officers in withholding awards of governCf. Perkins v. Lukens Steel Co., 310 U. S. 113, and cases there
cited.
IQ

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

ment contracts to those she finds to be violators for three
years from the date of the breach.
-The matter 'hich the Secretary was investigating and
was authorized to investigate was an alleged violation of
this Act and these contracts. Her scope would include
determining what employees these contracts and the Act
covered. It would also include whether the payments to
them were lower than the scale fixed pursuant to the Act.
She could not perform her full statutory duty until she
examined underpayments wherever the coverage extended, becauseunderpayment is an indispensable, albeit
not the 6nly, element of proof of violation. It is the only
basis on which she can compute liquidated damage as she
is required to do, and it is necessary to find the. date of the
last underpayment to fix the beginning, of the three-year
period of disqualification for further contracts. Thus the
payrolls are clearly related to the violation. Indeed, the
underpayment is itself the violation under investigation.
Of course another indispensable, element of violation is
that the underpaid employee be included within the benefits of the Act and contracts. This, too, was a matter
under investigation' in the administrative proceeding.
But because she sought evidence of underpayment before
she made'a' decision on the question of coverage and alleged that she "had reason to believe" the employees in
question were covered, the District Court'refused to order
its production, tried the issue of coverage itself, and decided it against the Secretary.' This ruling would require
the Secretary, in order to get evidence of violation, either
to allege she had decided the issue of coverage before the
hearing or to Sever the issues for separate hearing and decision. The former would be of dubious propriety, and
the latter of doubtful practicality. The Secretary is given
no power-to investigate mere coverage, as such, or to make
findings thereonexcept as incident to trial of the issue of
violation. No doubt she would have discretion to take

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501

509

Opinion of the Court.

up the issues of coverage for separate and earlier trial if
she saw fit. Or, in a case such as the one revealed by the
pleadings in this one, she might find it advisable to begin
by examining the payroll, for if there were no underpayments found, the issue of coverage woula be, academic.
On the admitted facts of the case, the District Court had
no authority to control her procedure or to condition enforcement of her subpoenas upon her first reaching and
announcing a decision on some of the issues in her administrative proceeding.
Nor was the District Court authorized to decide the
question of coverage itself. The evidence sought by the
subpoena was not plainly incompetent or irrelevant to any
lawful purpose of the Secretary in the discharge of her
duties under the Act, and it was the duty of the District
Court to order its production for the Secretary's consideration. The Secretary may take the same view of the evidence 'that the District Court did, or she may not. The
consequence of the action of the District Court was to disable the Secretary from rendering a complete decision on
the alleged violation as Congress had directed her to do,
and that decision was stated by the Act to be conclusive as
to matters of fact for purposes of the award of government
contracts. Congress sought to have the procurement officers advised by the experience and discretion opj the Secretary rather than of the District Court. To perfoim hber
function she -mustdraw inferences and make findings'from
the same conflicting materials that the District Court considered in anticipating and foreclosing her conclusions.
The petitioner has advanced many matters that are
-entitled to hearing and consideration in its defense against
the administrative complaint, but they are not of a kind
that can be accepted as a defense against the subpoena."
1 Thse relate to: the meaning of the contract and the Act as implemented by administrative rulings in existence at the time of the
making and performance of the contract; the question of possible retro-

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

317 U.S.

The subpoena power delegated by the statute as here
exercised is so clearly within the limits of Congressional
authority that it is not necessary to discuss the constitutional questions urged by the petitioner, and on the record
before us the cases on which it relies 2 are inapplicable and
do not require consideration.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting:

Because of the varied and important responsibilities of
a quasi-judicial nature that have been entrusted to administrative agencies in the regulation of our political and
economic life, their activities should not be subjected to
unwarranted' and ill-advised intrusions by the judicial
branch of the government. Yet, if they are freed of all
restraint upon inquisitorial activities and are allowed uncontrolled discretion in the exercise of the sovereign power
of government to invade private affairs through the use of
the subpoena, to the extent required or sought in situations like the one before us and other inquiries of much
broader scope, under the direction of well-meaning but
over-zealous officials they may at times become instruments of intolerable oppression and injustice. This is
not to say that the power to enforce their subpoenas
should never be entrusted to administrative agencies, but
thus far Congress, for unstated reasons, has not seen fit
to confer such authority upon any agency which it has
active effect of Rulings and Regulations No. 2, supra,note 7; the nature
of petitioner's business organization; an, practices of procurement,
manufacture, storage, consumption and distribution obtaining at petitioner's plants.
12 Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 6i6; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Harriman v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 211 U. S. 407; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
237 U. S. 434; Federal Trade Commission v. American Tobacco Co.,
264 U. S. 298.

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501

MURPHY,

511

J., dissenting.

created.1

So here, while the Secretary of Labor is empowered to administer the Walsh-Healey Act, to "prose-

cute any inquiry necessary to his functions," and "to issue
orders requiring the attendance- and the testimony of wit-

nesses and the production of evidence under oath," he
alone cannot compel obedience of those orders. "Jurisdiction" so to do is conferred upon the district courts of
the United States and it is our immediate task to delineate
the proper function of those courts in the exercise of this

jurisdiction.2

Specifically the question is: What is the

duty of the courts when the witness or party claims the

proceeding is without authority of law?
The disregard of subpoenas issued by some agencies is punishable
by fine and imprisonment in a criminal proceeding, but apparently
no federal agency has ever been given the power to punish disobedience
as a contempt of its authority. (See Final Report of the Attorney
General's Committee on Administrative Procedure, Appendix K.)
The common method of enforcing subpoenas is to punish disregard of
the subpoena as contempt of the issuing body. It has been held in
some states that the power to punish for contempt cannot be conferred upon a body of a non-judicial character. See Langenberg v.
Decker, 131 Ind. 471, 31 N. E. 190; In re Whitcomb, 120 Mass. 118, 21
Am. Rep. 502. Contra, In re Hayes, 200 N. C. 133, 156 S. E. 791.
Compare statements in Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson, 154
U. S. 447, at 485 and 489.
2 Section 5 of the Act provides in part: "In case of contumacy, failure, or refusal of any person to obey such an order, any District Court
of the United States or of any Territory or possession, or the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, within the jurisdiction of which the'
inquiry is carried on, or within the jurisdiction of which said person
who is guilty of contumacy, failure, or refusal is found, or resides or
transacts business, upon the application by the Secretary of Labor or
representative designated by him, shall have jurisdiction to issue to
such person an order requiring such person to appear before him or
representative designated by him, to produce evidence if, as, and when
so ordered, and to give testimony relating to the matt6r under investigation or. in question; and any failure to obey such order of the court
may be punished by said court, as a contempt thereof; . .
Criminal sanctions are'not provided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MumPHY,

J., disscnting.

317 U. S.

This Court, in recognition of the drastic nature of the
subpoena power and the possibilities of severe mischief
inherent in its use, has insisted that it be kept within welldefined channels. Cf. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
616; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Federal Trade Comm'n
v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S. 298; Cudahy Packing

Co. v. Holland,315 U. S. 357, 363. In conditioning enforcement of the Secretary's administrative subpoenas upon
application therefor to a district court, Congress evidently
intended to keep the instant subpoena power within limits,
and clearly must have meant for the courts to perform
more than a routine ministerial function in passing upon
such applications. If this were not the case, it would have
been much simpler to lodge the power of enforcement directly with the Secretary, or else to make disregard of his
subpoenas a misdemeanor. So we have said that "appropriate defense may be made" to such- an application for
enforcement.

Myers v. Bethlehem Corp., 303 U. S.

41,49.
The Government concedes that the district courts are
more than mererubber stamps of the agencies in enforcing
administrative subpoenas and lists as examples of appro'priate defenses, claims that a privilege of the witness, like
that against self-incrimination, would be violated; ' or
that the subpbena is unduly vague or unreasonably oppre ssive; ' or that the hearing is not of the kind authorized;' or that the subpoena was not issued by the person
vested with the-power;' or that it is plain on the pleadings
that the evidence sought is not germane to any lawful subject of inquiry. But the Government insists that the issue
a Cf. Boyd v? United States, 116 U. S. 616.

'Cf. Hale v. Henkel,.201 U. S. 43; Federal Trade Comm'n v. American Tobacco Co., 264 U. S.298.
a Cf. Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 211 U. S. 407; Elis
v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434.
6 Cf. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Holla2d, 315 U. S. 357.

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501

MURPHY,

513

J., dissenting.

of "coverage," i. e., whether the Act extends to plants of
petitioner's establishment which manufactured materials
used in making complete shoes but not named in the contracts, is not a proper ground for attack in this case. I
think'it is.
If petitioner is not subject to the Act as to the plants in
question, the Secretary has no right to start proceedings
or to require the production of records with regard to
those plants. In other words, there would be no lawful
subject of inquiry, and under present statutes giving the
courts jurisdiction to enforce administrative subpoenas.
petitioner is entitled to a judicial determination of this
issue before its privacy is invaded. Of, Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 479; Harrimanv.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 211 U.S. 407; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434; General Tobacco & Grocery Co. v. Fleming, 125 F. 2d 596.
Of course, the courts should not arrogate to themselves
the functions of administrative agencies. It is trite but
truthful to say that administrative agencies render valuable and very necessary services in the solution of the
complex governmental and economic problems of our
time. In the making of investigations, the determination of policy, the collection of evidence, and its current
evaluation, preparatory or incidental to administrative
action, experience and special training are valuable aids.
But after all, as pointed out by Gellhorn, Federal Administrative Proceedings, pp. 27-29, the administrator is only
an expert ex-officio.' Just as the courts should not usurp
7 "When reference is made to the 'expert administrative agency,' it
is surely not intended to mean that the necessary expertness is lodged
in the head or heads of the agency or that they, in their own person,
possess every expertisoneeded for the informed discharge of the manifold duties imposed upon the modern administrative organiza-

tion.

. .

. We must look beyond the heads to find the talents which

make the agency expert in its assigned tasks.
503873-43-----40

This is a central

514-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

the prerogatives of the agencies, neither should the word
"administrative" and its companion "expertness" overawe them into abdicating responsibilities imposed upon
them by Congress.
The legal propriety of instituting proceedings is a question which an agency is authorized if not obliged to determine, provisionally at least, before instituting the proceedings. Bit while the decision may be the agency's in the
first place, it is not a decision which it is ordinarily more
competent to make than the courts and judges, who (at
least in theory) should be more qualified than administrative officers, many of whom are laymen, to determine
whether a statute extends to a certain set of facts. If the
preliminary determinations by an agency of the scope of
its power and jurisdiction are sacrosanct, why did Congress subject their final determination to judicial scrutiny,
as it has done in the Walsh-Healey Act with regard, at
least, to the enforcement of the wage and hour requirements-on behalf of the employees? And if the courts are
qualified to pass final judgment on the "quasi-judicial"
findings and conclusions of the administrators, which they
are ordinarily permitted to do to a greater or lesser extent,'
they are no less qualified to determine whether the evidence which moved the administrator to enter a formal
complaint is sufficient in law to show probable cause that
the statute under which the administrator is proceeding
covers the case. Without such a showing of probable
cause, the district courts ought not to be required as a
matter of mere routine to lend their aid to the proceeding
by compelling obedience to the subpoena.
reality....

The administrative agency as now organized is a vehicle

for bringing the judgments of numerous specially qualified officials to
bear upon a single problem."
8 The Walsh-Healey Act provides in § 5 that the Secretary's findings
of fact shall be conclusive in any court of the United States "if supported by the preponderance of the evidence."

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501,

MURPHY,

515

J., dissenting.

It is to be understood, of course, that if the matter is in
doubt and if there is a reasonable legal basis for the charge,
the court should not substitute its judgment on the law or
the facts for that of the agency. The court's duty is to
assist the agency in the performance of its functions and
the discharge of its responsibilities, in the absence of a
clear and convincing showing that it is proceeding without
legal warrant. But it is hardly its duty to assist in the
face of such a showing. So, when it becomes necessary.for
the Secretary in the course of a proceeding under the
Walsh-Healey Act to appeal to the district court for the
exercise of its jurisdiction over subpoena enforcement, it
is within the'competence and authority of the court to inquire and satisfy itself whether there is probable legal justification for the proceeding, before it exercises its judicial
Authority to require a witness or a party to reveal his
private affairs or be held in contempt.
Considerations of practical advantage and elementary
juice support this conclusion. Such a rule carries out
what must have beenthe statutory intent, and would permit a timely and reasonable measure of judicial control
over administrative use of the drastic subpoena power, subject to prompt review if the control were abused to the
detriment of the agency. If administrative agencies may
be temporarily handicapped in some instances by frivolous
objections, the public will be protected in other instances
against the needless burden and vexation of proceedings
which may be instituted without legal justification.
There is an obvious difference between the present case,
wherein the district court exercises a jurisdiction expressly
given to it by the statute, and those cases, such as Myers V.
Bethlehem Corp., 303 U. S. 41, and Newport News Co. v.
Schauffler, 303 U. S. 54, in which without express statutory
authority a court is asked to enjoin an administrative
proceeding as being contrary to law. Indeed, the very difference is noted in the Myers case, where it is said that

.516

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

"appropriate defense may be made" to an application for
the enforcement of an administrative subpoena. 303
U. S. at 49.
Just how much of a showing of statutory coverage should
be required to satisfy the district court, and just how far it
should explore the question, are difficult problems, to be
solved best by a careful balancing of interests and the exercise of a sound and informed discretion. If the proposed
examination under the subpoena or the proceeding itself
would be relatively brief and of a limited scope, any doubt
should ordinarily be resolved in favor of the agency's
power. If it promises to be protracted and burdensome
to.the party, a more searching inquiry is indicated. A
formal finding of coverage by the agency, which the Secretary did not make here, should be accorded some weight
in the court's deliberation, unless wholly wanting in either
legal or factual support, but it should not be conclusive.
In short, the responsibility resting upon the court in this
situation is not unlike that of a committing magistrate on
preliminary examination to determine whether an accused
should be held for trial.
With these considerations in mind, let us turn to the
facts of this case. Petitioner has willingly complied with
all demands of the Secretary relating to the plants of its
establishment, named in the contracts, in which the shoes
were manufactured. It resists the application for enforcement of the subpoenas directing the production of records
of other plants, not named in the contracts, in which some
component parts for the shoes were manufactured, on the
ground that the Walsh-Healey Act does not extend to those
plants. It is true that petitioner voluntarily entered into
the contracts with the Government, but those referred only
to the specific plants where the finished product was made.
And, it was not until 1939, after all the contracts were completed, that the Secretary issued rulings specifically deal-

ENDICOTT JOHNSON CORP. v. PERKINS.
501

MURPHY,

517

J., dissenting.

ing with "integrated establishments." ' The mere fact
that petitioner voluntarily contracted with reference to
some plants does not necessarily mean that the Secretary
is free to investigate petitioner's entire business without
let or hindrance. That depends upon whether or not the
Act extends to those other plants. Petitioner was entitled
to have this question determined by the district court before the. subpoena was enforced over its objection.
•In view of the opinion' of the Court, there is no reason
for discussing whether the district court correctly, construed the scope of the Walsh-Healey Act, or whether it
conducted its examination in accordance with the principles I have attempted to outline in the course of this
opinion. It is enough to say that I am of opinion that
under the facts of this case the district court should not be
compelled mechanically to enforce the Secretary's subpoena, in the exercise of its statutory jurisdiction.. It
should first satisfy itself that probable cause exists for the
Secretary's contention that the Act covers the plants in
question.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS joins in this dissent.

9Rulings and Interpretations under the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act, No. 2.

