UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 78.

Argued November 16, 17, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.

1. Where, from the date of its authorization by Act of Congress, a
federal reclamation project included the relocation of a line of
railroad, and a probable route was marked out over certain lands
subsequently taken in eminent domain proceedings, it is proper,.
in determining just compensation, to exclude from value as of the
date of the taking such increase as occurred since the date of the
authorization of the project and as a result thereof. P. 377.
2. The exclusion from value, as of the date of the taking, of any increase which occurred since the date of the authorization of the
project and as a result thereof, is applicable also in the determination of severance damage. P. 379.
3. Although the federal court in eminent domain proceedings is required
by federal statutes to follow the forms and methods of procedure
prescribed by local law, it is not bound by the local law on questions
of substantive right-such as the measure of compensation-which
are governed by the Federal Constitution. P. 379.
4. The District Court's alleged disregard of the local practice in respect
to the admission of opinion evidence as to value, did not in this
case involve substantial or prejudicial error. P. 380.
5. Where, pursuant to the Act of February 26, 1931, the Government,
in a proceeding in eminent domain, files a declaration of taking and
deposits with the court the amount of estimated compensation, it
is entitled to recover the excess of such amount over the amount
of the award. P. 380.
6. The inclusion in a general judgment in condemnation proceedings
of a judgment of restitution for the amount by which the sum
deposited by the Government and paid to the landowners exceeded
the amount subsequently awarded as just compensation, did not
in this case deny due process in violation of the Fifth Amendnent;
for, upon defendants' motions to set aside the judgments, there was
full opportunity for a hearing. P. 382.
125 F. 2d 75, reversed.
503873--43----31

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

CnioRAI, 316 U. S. 657, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the Government against certain landowners
in eminent domain proceedings.
Assistant Attorney General Littell, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Vernon L. Wilkinson and
Roger P. Marquiswere on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Laurence J. Kennedy argued the cause, and Mr.
.Francis Carr wasop -the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTiCE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case lresents important questions respecting stand-ards for valuing property taken for public use. For this
reasoh, and because of an apparent conflict with one of our
decisions, we granted certiorari.
The United States condemned a strip across the respondents' lands for tracks of the Central Pacific Railroad,
relocation of which was necessary on account of the prospective flooding of the old right-of-way by waters to be
impounded by the Central Valley Reclamation Project in
California. For many years a proposal to initiate state
reclamation works in this vicinity had been before the
people of the state. In 1932 they voted approval and authorization of the project. It was, however, subsequently
adopted by the United States as a federal project.
April 6, 1934, the Chief of Engineers of the Army recommended that the Governn~ent contribute twelve million
dollars towards the project.' Congress authorized thd
appropriation in the following year.2 December 22, 1935,
the President approved construction. of the entire improvement. 'In 1936 Congress appropriated $6,900,000
1 Rivers and Harbors Committee Document No. 35, 73d Cong., 2d
Sees;, p. 5.
.2 Act Xug. 30, 1935, 49 Stat. 1028, 1038.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
369

Opinion of the Court.

for it and in 1937 $12,500,000. In August 1937 the project
was again authorized by Congress.'
In his report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1937, the
Secretary of the Interior stated that Shasta, California,
had been selected for the site of the Sacramento River dam.
Its construction involved relocation of some thirty miles
of the line of the railroad.
Portions of respondents' lands were required fdr the
relocated right-of-way. Alternate routes were surveyed
by March 1936 and staked at intervals of 100 feet. Prior
to. the authorization of the project, the area of which
respondents' tracts form a part was largely, uncleared brush
land. In the years 1936 and 1937 certain parcels were
purchased with the intention of subdividing them and, in
1937, subdivisions were plotted and there grew up a settlement known as Boomtown, in which the respondents'
lands lie. Two of the respondents were realtors interested in developing the neighborhood. By December
1938 the town had been built up for business and residential purposes.
December 14, 1938, the United States filed in the District Court for Northern California a complaint in eminent
domain against the respondents and others whose lands
were needed for the relocation of the railroad. On that
day the Government also filed a declaration of taking.'
In this declaration the estimate of just compensation to be
paid for a tract belonging to three of the respondents as
co-tenants was estimated at $2,550, and that sum was
deposited in court. On the application of these owners,
the court directed the Clerk to pay each of them one-third
I Act June 22, 1936, 49 Stat. 1597, 1622; Act Aug. 9, 1937, 50 Stat.
564, 597. An additional appropriation of $9,000,000 was made by Act
of May 9, 1938, 52 Stat. 291, 324.
Act Aug. 26, 1937, § 2, 50 Stat. 844, 850.
5Pursuant to Act of Feb. 26, 1931, 46 Stat. 1421, 40 U. S. C
§§ 258a-258e.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of the deposit, or $850, on account of the compensation
they were entitled to receive.
The action in eminent domainwas tried to a jury. The
respondents offered opinion evidence as to the fair market
value of the tracts involved and also as to severance damage to lots of which portions were taken. Each witness
was asked to state his opinion as to market value of the
land taken as at December 14, 1938, the date of the filing
of the complaint. Government counsel objected to the
form of the question on the ground that, as the United
States was definitely, committed to the project August 26,
1937, the respondents were not entitled to have included
in an estimate of value, as of the date the lands were
taken, any increment of value due to the Government's
authorization of, and commitment to, the project. The
trial court sustained the objection and required the question to be reframed so as to call for market value at the
date of the taking, excluding therefrom any increment of
value accruing after August 26, 1937, due to the authorization of the project. Under stress of the ruling, and over
objection and exception, questions calling for opinion
evidence were phrased to comply with the court's
decision. The jury rendered verdicts in favor of various
respondents.
The three respondents who had received $850 each on
account of compensation were awarded less than the total
paid them. The court entered judgment that title to the
lands was in the United States and judgment in favor
of respondents respectively for the amounts awarded them.
Judgment was entered against the three respondents and
in favor of the United States for the amounts they had
received in excess of the verdicts with interest. They
moved to set aside the money judgments against them on
the ground that the court had no jurisdiction to enter
them. The motions were overruled. All of the respondents apoealed, assigning error to the trial judge's ruling

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
369

373

Opinion of the Court.

with respect to the questions to be asked the witnesses, to
his charge which had instructed the jury that, in arriving
at market value as of the date of taking, they should dis-:
regard increment of value due to the initiation of the
project 6 and arising after August'26, 1937, and three of
them to his entry of money judgments for the United
States.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the judgment,
holding, by a divided court, that the trial judge erred in
his rulings and in his charge, and unanimously that the
District Court was without jurisdiction to award the
United States a judgment for amounts overpaid." A majority of the court were of opinion the witnesses should
have been asked to state the fair market value of the lands
as of the date of taking, without qualification, and the
judge should have charged that this value measured the
compensation to which the respondents were entitled.
1. The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution provides
that private property shall not be taken for public use
without just compensation. Such compensation means
the full and perfect equivalent in money of the property
taken.8 The owner is to be put in as good position pecuniarily as he would have occupied if his property had not
been taken.'
It is conceivable that an owner's indemnity should be
measured in various ways depending upon the circum6 The majority of the court below were in error in characterizing the
ruling of the trial judge. They said: "To put it simply, the Court
ruled that no evidence could come in as to sales- of similar properties
after August 26, 1937, and that qualified witnesses testifying as to
the value of the land on the date of the taking must subtract from
this valuation any increment in value after August 26, 1937." 125
F. 2d 78.
125 F. 2d 75.
8Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U,S. 312; 326.
9 Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. Ungtfd States, 261 U. B ,,299, 304;
United States v. New River Collieries. Co.262 U. . 341, 343."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion Qf the Court.

317 U. S.

stances of each case and that no general formula should be
used for the purpose. 'In an effort, however, to find some
practical standard* the courts early adopted, and have
retained, the concept of market value. The owner has
been said to be entitled to the ',value," 10 the "market
value," 11 and the "fair market value" 12 of what is taken.
The term "fair" hardly adds anything to +he phrase "market value," which denotes what "it fairly may be believed
that a purchaser in fair market conditions would have
given," 18 or, more concisely, "market value fairly
determined." 14
Respondents correctly say that value is to be ascertained as of the date of taking. 5 But they insist that no
element which goes to make up value as at that moment is
to be- discarded or eliminated. We think the proposition
is too broadly stated. Where, for any reason, property
has no market, resort must be had to other data to ascertain its value ;1" and, even in the ordinary case, assessment
of market value involves the use of assumptions, which
make it unlikely that the appraisal will reflect true value
with nicety. It is usually said that market value is what
a willing buyer would pay in cash, to a willing seller.
Where the property taken, and that in its vicinity, has not
'0 Bauman v. Ross, i67 U. S. 548, 574.
ii Boom Co. v. Pattersonl 98 U. S. 403, 408; United States v. New
River
Collieries Co., supra, 344.
2
2 .0rgel, "Valuation 'under Eminent Domain" (p. 5b)4 "The owner
must be compensated for what is taken from him, but that is done
when he is paid its fair market value for all available uses and purposes." United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 81.
18 New York v. Sage, 239 U. S. 57, 61.
1, Olson v. United States, 292 U. S. 246, 255.
15 2 Lewis, Eminent Domain, 3d Ed., § 705; Kerr v. South-Park
Commissioners, 117 U. S..379, 386; Shoemaker v. United States, 147
U. S. 282,304.
16 See. Monpngahela Navigation Co. v. United States, supra, 312,
328-9, 337-8; HansonLumber Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 581, 589.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
369

375

Opinion of the Court.

in fact been sold within recent times, or in significant
amounts, the application of this concept involves, at best,
a guess by informed persons.
Again, strict adherence to the criterion of market value
may involve inclusion of elements which, though they
affect such value, must in fairness be eliminated in a condemnation case, as where the formula is attempted to be
applied as between an owner who may not want to part
with his land because of its special adaptability to his own
use, and a taker Who needs the land because of its peculiar
fitness for the taker's purposes. These elements must be
disregarded by the fact finding body in arriving at "fair"
market value.
'Since the owner is to receive no more than indemnity for
his loss, his award cannot be enhanced by any gain to the
taker. 7 Thus, although the market value of the property
is to be fixed with due consideration of all its available
uses,' 8 its special value to the condemnor as distinguished
from others who may or may not possess the power to condemn, must be excluded as an element of market value. 9
The district judge so charged the jury, and no question is
made as to the correctness of the instruction.
There is, however, another possible element of market
value, which is the bone of contention here. Should the
owner have the benefit of any increment of value added to
the property taken by'the action of the public authority in
previously condemning adjacent lands? If so, were the
lands in question so situate as to entitle respondents to the
benefit of this increment?
Courts have had to adopt working rules in order to do
substantial justice in eminent domain proceedings. One
S17Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548,-574; Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195; Olson v. United States, supra, 256.
"Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403, 408; United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53, 81.
19United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., supra, p. 76.

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

of these 'is
that a parcel of land which has been used and
treated as an entity shall be so considered in assessing compensation for the taking of part or all of it.
This has begotten subsidiary rules. If only a portion of
a single tract is taken, the owner's compensation for that
taking includes any element of value arising -out of the
relation of the part taken to the entire tract."0 Such damage is often, though somewhat loosely, spoken of as severance damage. On the other hand, if the taking has in fact
benefited the remainder, the benefit may be'set off against
the value of the land taken.2'
As respects other property of the owner consisting of
separate tracts adjoining that affected by the taking, the
Constitution has never been construed as requiring payment of consequential damages; 2 2 and unless the legislature so provides, as it may,23 benefits are not assessed
against such neighboring tracts for increase in their
value.
If a distinct tract is condemned, ih whole or in part,
qother lands in the neighborhood may increase in market
value due to the proximity of the public improvement
erected on the land taken. Should the Government, at
a later date, determine to take these other lands, it must
pay their market value as enhanced by this factor of
proximicy. If, however, the public project from the be20

Lewis, Eminent Domain, 3d Ed. 686; Nichols, Eminent Domain,

2d Ed. § 236; Bauman v. Ross, supra, 574; Sharp v. United States, 191
U. S. 341, 351-2, 354; cf. United States v. Welch, 217 U. S. 333; United
States v. Grizzard, 219 U. S. 180; Campbell v. United States, 266 U. S.
368.
21 Bauman v. Ross, loc. cit.
Congress has provided that in takings
such as that here involved, benefits to the remainder of the tract shall
be considered by way of reducing the compensation for what is taken.
Act July 18, 1918, c.155, § 6, 40 Stat. 911, 33 U. S. C. § 595.
22
Sharp v. United States, supra; Campbell v. .United States, supra,
371-372."
28
Shoemaker v. United States, supra,302.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
369

Opinion of the Court.

ginning included the taking of certain tracts but only one
of them is taken in the first instance, the owner of the
other tracts should not be allowed an increased value for
his lands which are ultimately to be taken any more than
the owner of the tract first condemned is entitled to be
allowed an increased market value because adjacent lands
not immediately taken increased in value due to the projected improvement.
The question then is whether the respondents' lands
were probably within the scope of the project from the
time the Government was committed to it. If they were
riot, but were merely adjacent lands, the subsequent enlargement of the project to include them ought not to deprive the respondents of the value added in the meantime
by the proximity o2 the improvement. If, on the-other
hand, they were, the Government ought not to pay any
increase in value arising from the known fact that the
lands probably would be condemned. The owners ought
not to gain by speculating on probable increase in value
due to the Government's activities
In which category de the lands in question fall? The
project, from the date of its final and definite authorization
in August 1937, included the relocation of the railroad
right-of-way, and one probable route was marked out
over the respondents' lands. This being so, it was proper
to tell the jury that the respondents were entitled to no
increase in value arising after August 1937 because of the
likelihood of the taking of their property. If their lands
were probably to be taken for public use, in order to complete the project in its entirety, any increase in value due
to that fact could only arise from speculation by them, or
by possible purchasers from them, as to what the Government would be compelled to pay as compensation.
Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282, is directly
in point and supports this view, notwithstanding respondents' efforts to distinguish the case. There Congtess, in

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

1890, authorized commissioners to establish a park along
Rock Creek in the District of 'Columbia, and, for that purpose, to select not exceeding two thousand acres of land.
In 1891 the commissioners prepared a map of the lands to
be acquired, which was approved by the President as
required by the statute. Proceedings were brought to
condemn certain tracts lying within the mapped area. The
Supreme Court of the District instructed the appraisers,
whom the Act made the triers of fact, that .they "shall
receive no evidence tending to prove the prices actually
paid on sales of property similar to that included in said
park, and so situated as to adjoin it or to be within its immediate vicinity, when such sales have taken place since
the passage of the act . . . authorizing said park . .
The instruction was approved by this court.
The majority of the court below thought the case distinguishable in the view that the boundaries of the park
were fixed by the Act of Congress authorizing the project
and, therefore, it was known what land would lie inside,
and what outside, the park from the beginning, and that
land taken for the park should not have the benefit of an
increase in value which adjoining land might enjoy
through its proximity to the improvement. This, of
course, would be true if the lines of the park had, in the
beginning, been fixed, because property lying outside the
boundaries of the park, and not intended to be taken,
would be dissimilar from that lying within it, the one gaining value by proximity and the other gaining nothing from
the fact that itwas to be taken from its owner. Such was
the ruling of the court in Kerr v. South Park Commissioner8, 117 U. S. 379, 387. From the citation of that case in
the Shoemaker opinion, the majority below inferred that
the two presented like facts. But, in the Ke4 r case, the
lines of the park had been determined, whereas, in the
Shoemaker case, the Act authorized the appropriation of a
fixed* acreage within a larger area. Consequently any

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.

379

Opinion of the Court.

369

land lying within that area was likely to be taken.. If a
tract happened not to be taken, because not within the
limits finally fixed, it might show an increase in readily
realizable market value by reason of proximity to the improvement. In the Shoemaker case, the court excluded
any increment of value arising out of the fact that Congress had authorized the location and condemnation of
land for the park, for the very reason that Shoemaker's
property lay in the area within which the park was to be
laid out. If, in the instant case, the respondents' lands
were, at the date of the authorizing Act, clearly within the
confines of the project, the respondents were entitled to
no enhancement in value due to the fact that their lands
would be taken. If they were within the area where they
were likely to be taken for the project, but might not be,
the owners were not entitled, if they were ultimately taken,
to an increment of value calculated on the theory that if
they had not been taken they would have been more valuable by reason of their proximity to the land taken. In
so charging the jury the trial court was correct.
The respondents assert that a different rule should have
been applied in respect of severance damage, even if the
court's rulings were correct as to the valuation of land
taken. In the light of what has already been said, we find
no merit in the contention.
The respondents also say that, whatever the criterion
of value adopted by the federal courts, Congress has
adopted the local rule followed in the state where the
federal court sits; and they claim that the California rule
is settled that fair market value at the date of taking is the
standard of value, without elimination of any increment
attributable to the action of the taker. We need not determine what is the local law, for the federal statutes
upon which reliance is placed require only that, in con24

Act of Aug. 1, 1888, c. 728, 25 Stat. 357, §§ 1 and 2, 40 U. S. C.
§§ 257, 258; Act of Apr. 24, 1888, c.194, 25 Stat. 94, 33 U. S. C. § 591.

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of -the Court.

317 U. S.

demnation proceedings, a federal court shall adopt the
forms and methods of procedure afforded by the law of
the State in which the court sits. They do not, and could
not, affect questions of substantive right-such as the
measure of compensation-grounded upon the Constitution of the United States."
The respondents urge, further, that the reversal by the
Circuit Court of Appeals is justified by the District Court's
disregard of the practice of the CalifQrnia courts with
respect to the production of opinion evidence as to market
value, even though it was right as to the elements which
must be excluded. They allege that, in California courts,
an opinion witness must state his valuation as at the date
of taking and the opposing party is at liberty, upon crossexamination, to elicit the facts on which the witness relied
in arriving at that value. Counsel insist that if the Government was entitled to have the witnesses disregard any
increment of value due to the Government's intention to
construct the project, it could have developed, on crossexamination, how far the inclusion of any such element had
affected the value stated. We think that probably under
California procedure this would have been the better and
more appropriate way to develop the basis of the witnesses' opinions. We do not feel, however, that if there
'vas a disregard of the local practice in this aspect the
ftror is substantial or worked injury to the respondents.
2.*"We think the court below erred in holding the District doivrt without power to enter a judgment against
three of tie respondents to whom payments in excess of
the jury's verdicts had been made out of the funds deposited with the Court.
Examination of the Act of February 26, 1931," discloses
that the declaration of taking is to be filed in the proceeding for condemnation at its inception, or at any later time.
21 Chappell v. United States, 160 U. S. 499, 512-13;' Brown v. United
263 U. S. 78,86.
States,
26
Supra, Note 5.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
369

Opinion of the Court.

When the declaration is filed the amount of estimated
compensation is to be deposited with the court, to be paid
as the court may order "for -or on account" of the just
compensation to be awarded the owners. Thus the acquisition by the Government of title and immediate right
to possession, and the ,deposit of the estimated compensation, occur as steps in the main proceeding.
The purpose of the statute is two-fold. First, to give
the Government immediate possession of -the property
and to relieve it of the burden of interest accruing on the
sum deposited from the date of taking to the date of judgment in the eminent domain proceeding. Secondly, to
give the former owner, if his title is clear, immediate cash
compensation to the extent of the Government's estimate
of the -value of the property. The Act recognizes that
there may be an error in the estimate, and appropriately
.provides that, if the judgment ultimately awarded shall be
in excess of the amount deposited, the owner shall recover
the excess with interest. But there is no correlative provision for repayment of any excess by the. owner to the
United States. The necessary result is, so the' respondents
say, that any sum paid them in excess of the jury's.award is
their property, which the United States may not recover.
All the provisions of .the Act taken together require a
contrary conclusion." The paymen't is of estimated compensation; it is intended as, a provisional and not a final
settlement with the owner; it is a payment "on account
of" compensation and not a final settlement of the amount
due. To hold otherwise would defeatthe policy of the
statute and work injustice; would be to encourage federal
officials to underestimate the value of the property with
the result that the Government would be saddled with
interest on a larger sum from date of taking to final award,
and would be to deny the 'Qwner the immediate use of
cash approximatin' the value of his land.
2T

See Garrow v. United States, 131 F. 2d 724.,

OCTOBER -TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Respondents assert that whatever the substantive right
of the United States to repayment of the surplus, the District Court in rendering judgment against them deprived
them of property without due process of law. We think
the contention is unsound.
TheDistrict Court was dealing with money deposited
in its chancery to be disbursed under its direction in connection with an action pending before it. The situation
is like that in which litigants deposit money as security
or to await the outcome of litigation. Notwithstanding
the fact that the court released the fund to the respondents,
the parties were still before it and it did not lose control
of the fund but retained jurisdiction to deal with its retention or repayment as justice might require.
Denial of notice and hearing is asserted. But, while it
is true that the court included the judgment of restitution
in its general judgment in the condemnation proceedings
without notice to the parties or hearing, the respondents
made motions to set aside the judgment against them, and
the court heard and acted on the motions. The respondents had full opportunity to urge any meritorious reasons
why judgment of restitution should not be entered against
them. 8 We think they were entitled to no more.
State courts have proceeded as did the court below, under analogous statutes,29 and our decisions justify the
District Court's action."
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and-that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
In the judgment originally entered, the court added interest from
the date of payment of the moneys to the respondents. After hearing
on the motions, the court modified the judgment to impose interest only
28

from the date of the judgment in the eminent domain proceeding.
29 Lewis, Eminent Domain, 3d Ed., § 843; Carish v. County Highway Committee, 216 Wis. 375, 257 N. W. 11.
80 Compare Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S.
781; Northwestern Fuel Co. v. Brock, 139 U. S. 216.

