MARSHALL v. PLETZ.

383

Statement of the Case.

MARSHALL, DEPUTY COMMISSIONER, U. S.
EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION COMMISSION,
ET AL. v. PLETZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THF:
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 93. Argued November 19, 1942.-Decided January 4, 1943.
1. Under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act,
an order of a deputy commissioner dismissing a claim as barred under
§ 13 (a) because not filed within one year after the injury, is not
reviewable by the District Cou'rt where the question is factual and
when the order is supported by findings of fact which, in turn, are
supported by substantial evidence. P. 388.
2. A tender of compensation by the insurance carrier to an injured
employee, kept good to within less than a year of the filing of the
employee's claim, is not the equivalent of a payment within the
meaning of the exception in § 13 (a) of the Longshoremen's and
Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, which provides "that if pay-,
ment of compensation has been made without an award on account
of such injury . . .a claim may be filed within one year after the
date of the last payment." P. 388.
3. The furnishing of medical care to an injured employee up to a time
within one year of the presentation of his claim under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act is not "payment
of compensation" within- the exception in § 13 (a) of the Act.
P. 389.
4. The terms "payment" and "compensation" used in § 13 (a) of the
Act refer to the periodic money payments to be made by the employer. P. 390.
5. A ground for supporting the judgment below may be considered
by this Court though raised here for the first time. P. 390.
127 F. 2d 104, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 607, to review the affirmance of a

judgment of the District Court which set aside the order
made by a deputy commissioner under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Mr. Robert T. Mautz, with whom Messrs. Carl C.
Donaugh and E. K. Oppenheimer were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. William P. Lord, with whom Mr. Ben Anderson was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.
The importance of questions presented in this case in the
administration of the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compeiisation Act,1 as well as a conflict of decisions,'
impelled us to grant certiorari.
The respondent, a longshoreman and maritime worker
employed by the petitioner McCormick Steamship Company in loading a steamship, was injured November 12,
1935. He filed a claim before the petitioner Marshall, a
deputy commissioner, April 20, 1937. The petitioner
Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, which insured the
employer against liability arising under the Act, appeared
at the first hearing set by the deputy commissioner and
objected that the claim was untimely filed.' The respondent asserted that the insurer had, by conduct and negotiations with him, waived the right to object to the claim on
the-ground stated. After hearing witnesses the deputy
commissioner made findings of fact on which he based
'March 4, 1927, c. 509, 44 Stat. 1424, 33 U. S. C.
2Fulton v. Hoage, 77

c. 18.

F. 2d 110.

'Sec. 13 of the Act (33 U. S.C. 913) provides: (a) "The right to compensation for disability under this chapter shall be barred unless a
claim therefor is filed within one year after the injury, . . . except that

if' payment of compensation has been made without an award on
account of such injury . . . a claim may be filed within one year

after the date of the last payment"; and (b) that the bar shall not be
effective unless objection to the failure to file is made "at the first hearing of such claim in which all parties in interest are given reasonable
notice and opportunity to be heard." There are other exceptions in
paragraphs (c) and (d) which are here irrelevant.

MARSHALL v. PLETZ.
383

Opinion of the Court.

ultimate findings that the claim was not filed within one
year after the injury and that the respondent had not
been misled or overreached by the employer or the insurance carrier, and dismissed the claim.
The respondent filed his bill in the District Court, praying that the order be set aside as "not in accordance with
law." " A motion to dismiss was filed and, after hearing,
the court remanded the case to the deputy commissioner
with instructions to make findings of fact upon all the
issues involved and with leave to consider all the evidence
already taken and any other further evidence which might
be offered as a basis for such findings. Further evidence
was taken, the deputy commissioner made detailed findings of fact, and again concluded that neither the employer
nor the insurance carrier had misled the respondent and
that neither the carrier nor the employer had waived, or
estopped themselves to rely upon, the limitation set by the
statute. Thereupon the respondent supplemented his
bill and the petitioners moved to dismiss. The court heard
the case upon the record certified by the deputy commissioner, but upon that record made its own independent
findings of fact. Its conclusions, based on its findings, were
that the insurance carrier was estopped to assert that the
claim was not timely filed and had waived any defense on
that ground. The court set aside the orders of the deputy
commissioner and directed him to enter a further order
rejecting the objections to the claim and holding it to be
in all respects valid, and to proceed to ascertain the amount
of compensation due the respondent.
The insurance carrier, the employer, and the deputy
commissioner appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
That court affirmed the decision of the District Court, one
5
judge dissenting.
4 As permitted by § 21 (b) of the Act, 33 U. S. C. 921 (b).
5 127 F. 2d 104.
503873-43-----32

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

On the day of his injury respondent was sent to a hospital by the employer. He remained there until about'
Christmas 1935. A representative of the insurer called on
him there, received a statement of his injury, and, within
the time required by the statute, tendered him a check
for the first installment of compensation due him, calculated according to his weekly earnings as nearly as the same
could be ascertained from employment records. Respondent refused the check on the ground that it was not for as
much as his earnings justified. It was explained to him
that any deficiency could be adjusted as soon as the
insurer or he could ascertain the facts more accurately.
After leaving the hospital, respondent called on the att6rney of the insurer, was again tendered payment of compensation, and again refused it on the ground that it was
inadequate. At that time the insurer had some supplementary information and, as a result, advised respondent
that it was ready to pay him compensation at a rate
slightly in excess of that originally offered.
After refusing compensation, the respondent consulted
an attorney who advised him that he had a cause of action
against his employer for damages, notwithstanding the
provisions of the Compensation Act. He subsequently
told the insurer's attorney that he had been so advised.
The respondent's disability necessitated a return to the
hospital in February 1936. While there, his present counsel saw him, advised him'that he had no valid claims
against any third party or his employer, and that he ought
to take compensation. On leaving the hospital, respondent continued to receive medical aid which was furnished
by the insurer, as was all medical care theretofore.
Respondent repeatedly called upon the insurer's attorney, who consistently advised him that he ought to
accept compensation. There is dispute as to who.
broached the subject of a lump sum settlement in these
conversations. Respondent says the attorney did. The

MARSHALL v. PLETZ.
383

Opinion of the Court.

latter insists that the respondent demanded such a settlement; that he explained that no such settlement could be
made under the statute until all disability had terminated
and the consent of the deputy commissioner had been secured. It seems to be agreed that the respondent repeatedly said he wanted a lump sum settlement with medical
care for the indefinite future, and it appears that the attorney insisted that no such settlement could be made.
Sometime in the summer of 1936 the respondent again
discussed his case with his present counsel and was again
advised that he should accept compensation. There is
credible evidence that the respondent called on the deputy
commissioner within a year of his injury, was informed
that if the amount of compensation tendered him was not
the proper amount this could easily be adjusted by reference to the rolls at the employment office, and that he
then told the deputy commissioner a lawyer had advised
him he could disregard the compensation act and bring
an action to recover for his injuries. Respondent insisted,
however, that this conversation took place after the year
had expired.
The employer, or the insurer, promptly notified the
deputy commissioner of the injury, that medical treatment was being furnished and compensation would be
paid. Early in December of 1935 the insurer wrote the
deputy commissioner that respondent had refused to accept compensation. In answer to an inquiry of the deputy
commissioner, the insurer repeated this information in a
letter dated January 10, 1036. There was no further
"correspondence in the matter until November 5, 1936,
when the deputy commissioner inquired regarding the
status of the case and was advised by the insurer's attorney
that the respondent still claimed a disability, the existence
of which the attorney doubted, but that respondent was
receiving medical care, and seemed more interested in a

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

lump sum settlement and perpetual medical care than in
receiving compensation.
There seems to be no doubt that respondent and insurer's attorney talked repeatedly about the respondent's
physical condition and the disposition of his case. There
would seem to be little doubt on the evidence that he was
repeatedly tendered compensation and refused it.
These are the facts in broad outline. It is unnecessary
to recite the evidence in detail. What has been said indicates that issues of fact were presented and that there was
substantial evidence to support the findings of the deputy
commissioner.
First. The findings of the deputy commissioner supported his order. The District Court could not have set
aside the order without retrying the issues of fact and
making new and independent findings based upon its own
appraisal of the evidence. But, under the overwhelming
weight of authority in this and in the lower federal courts,
the statute granted 6no power to the District Court to try
these issues de novo.

Second. The Circuit Court of Appeals, in affirming the
District Court's judgment, did not rely upon that court's
resolution of the issues of fact raised before the deputy
commissioner. It based its decision on a matter of law.
In the light of the uncontradicted fact that the insurance
carrier had tendered compensation atid had kept its tender
good down to within less than a year before the filing of
respondent's claim, the majority of the court concluded
that a tender of compensation was the equivalent of
payment of compensation without an award within the
intent and meaning of § 13 (a)'of the statute.' It found.
oCrowell v. Ben8son, 285 U. S. 22, 46, 66-72; South Chicago Coal &

Dock Co. v. Bassett, 309 U. S. 251, 257. The cases in the lower courts
are collected in 33 U. S. C. A. § 921, Note 3, pp. 216-218.
7
Supa, Note 3.

MARSHALL v. PLETZ.
383

Opinion of the Court.

support for its view in the provisions of § 14 of the Act,8
which require an employer or insurer who denies liability
to file with the deputy commissioner a notice of controversy
so as to bring 'n the question of liability for decision.
We think this construction of the Act inadmissible.
Tender is not payment. The insurer at no time denied
liability but continuously admitted it and expressed its
desire to pay compensation. Laying aside, as the Circuit
Court of Appeals properly did, questions of waiver and
estoppel, there was nothing to prevent the respondent's
filing his claim as the Act contemplates I if the insurer
neglected to pay compensation. If he refused to accept
payment and refrained from filing a claim, whether because
he believed he had a cause of action against a third party
or against his employer, or for any other reason, he was
none the less bound to present his claim within the time
fixed by the statute. The fact that the insurer was willing
to pay compensation, which he refused, does not bring him
within 'the exception stated in § 13 (a).
Third. At the argument at our bar it was suggested that
the judgment below might be sustained on another ground,
namely, that the furnishing of medical care to the respondent up to a time well within a year of the presentation of
his claim was payment of compensation within the meaning of § 13 (a). On this theory it was urged that the one
year period within which a claim must be filed would run
from the date of the last rendition of medical care.
At the insistence of respondent's counsel, the deputy
commissioner took an opposite view. While he denied
compensation in the form of money payments to the
respondent, he ordered the continuance of medical care.
This was upon the theory that the Act treats the employer's
obligations to pay compensation and to render medical
aid as independent.
8 33

9

U. S. C. § 914.

S33 U. S. C. 914 (h), 919 (a) (c).

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

Although the point is raised for the first time in this
court, if we find it meritorious we may consider it as supporting the judgment below." We hold, however, that
the furnishing of medical aid is not the "payment of compensation" mentioned in § 13 (a). Section 2 of the Act"
is devoted to definitions, one of which is: "(12) 'Compen
sation' means the money allowance payable to an efi-ployee or to his dependents as provided for in this chapter,
and includes funeral benefits provided therein."
Section 6 provides "(a) No compensation shall be allowed for the first seven days of the disability, except the
benefits provided for in § 7 of this chapter." The benefits
covered in § 7 are the medical services which the employer
is bound to furnish, but that section significantly provides
that, if the employe refuses to submit to medical treatment, the deputy commissioner may, by order, "suspend
the payment of further compensation during such time as
such refusal continues, and no compensation shall be paid
at any time during the period of such suspension, unless the circumstances justified the refusal." Here compensation is contrasted with medical aid.
Section 8 is entitled "Compensation for disability."
The section deals solely with money compensation.
Section 10 states that, "except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, the average weekly wage of the injured employee at the time of the injury shall be taken as the basis
upon which to compute compensation . .
Section 14 deals throughout with what it terms "compensation." All of. its provisions have to do with the
periodic money payments to be made to the injured employe and make no reference to medical care.
10 Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S.531, 536, and authorities cited.
1 The sections referred to in the following discussion are found in
33 U. S. C. under the same section numbers as are used in the original
Act, except that each is prefixed with the figure "9"; e. g., section 2
appears in the code as section 902. In the interest of brevity we shall
refer to them as they appear in the Act as it is printed at 44 Stat. 1424.

MARSHALL v. PLETZ.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

383

Section 4 of the Act, it is true, refers "to the compensation payable under § § 7, 8, and 9." It may be argued
that as 7 is the section dealing with medical care, Congress
meant to include such care within the term "compensation." In the normal case, however, the insurer defrays
the expense of medical care but does not pay the injured
employe anything on account of such care. Only if the
employer and the insurer omit to furnish such care can
the employe procure it for himself and then obtain from
the deputy commissioner an award to reimburse him for
what he has spent.
In the light of all -the provisions of the Act, we are persuaded that the terms "payment" and "compensation"
used in § 13 (a) refer to the periodic money payments
to be made to the employe.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
to this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissenting, with whom MR. JUSTICE
JUSTICE. MURPHY concur.

DOUGLAS and MR.

It has been said that the Act under consideration
"should be construed liberally in furtherance of the purpose for which . . . enacted and, if possible, so as to
avoid incongruous or harsh results." Baltimore & Philadelphia Steamboat Co. v. Norton, 284 U. S. 408, 414.
The construction given the Act by the court below, which
I think was correct, avoids such a result. The result of
the construction here is todeprive an injured person of
the compensation which the law intended he should have
and which the insurance company, defendant, has admitted it owes. The only defense is a one-year statute
of limitations, and that defense was not set up under circumstances that square with the Act's purposes. What are
those circumstances?

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
'BLACK,

J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

These facts are undisputed: November 12, 1935, Pletz
was injured while working for a steamship company which
carried liability insurance with the Fireman's Fund Insurance Co., one of the petitioners here. November 26, 1935,
the insurance company's attorneys reported to the deputy
commissioner administering the Act that payments to
Pletz had begun and would continue until notice was
given the commissioner. The insurance company did
tender a check to Pletz while he was in the hospital which
he declined because he thought it insufficient, and on December 4, 1935, the insurance company advised the Commissioner of the refusal. Negotiations between Pletz and
the insurance company continued through repeated conversations for a year and five months. The company
lawyer testified that "I made the definite offer to him
very early in the case that I would pay him his compensation any time he wanted to take it . . . and I told him
that I made that offer and that he could take it any time
he wanted to. . . ." It is apparent that the controversy
throughout was not over the existence of a just claim, but
over its size.
November 5, 1936, while negotiations were still in progress, and only seven days before the expiration of the
year, the Commissioner wrote the attorney asking about
the status of the claim. The attorney responded six days
before the statute is said to have operated. He gave no
information that Pletz had never accepted compensation,
and reported only that he had put Pletz under a doctor's
care and that no report had been received from the doctor.
If the Commissioner had thought that the claim was
controverted, he would have been obligated under § 14 (h)
of the Act to hold hearings and take action "upon his own
initiative" to protect the rights of the parties. Under
that section such a course is required where payment has
been stopped or suspended. Instead, the insurance company attorney, according to his own testimony, continued

MARSHALL V. PLETZ.
383

BLAcx, J., dissenting.

to negotiate with Pletz until his 3laim was finally filed on
April 19, 1936. The claim itself was filled out in the
company lawyer's office without a hint of limitations.
Then, for the first time, the company "filed its controversial" with the Commissioner and pleaded in it the
statute of limitations.
The Commissioner found in substance that there had
been no over-reaching of Pletz by the company and that
therefore the company was not estopped from setting up
the statute. Accepting his finding of facts, I think that
the Commissioner's conclusion was based on an erroneous
'conclusion of the law concerning estoppel and limitations,
and that the continuous process of negotiation and communication between the company, Pletz, and the Commissioner, bar the defense made here. *
In Schroeder v. Young, 161 U. S. 334. 344, this Court
said:
"Defendant relies mainly upon the fact that the statutory period of redemption was allowed to expire before
this bill was filed, but the court below found in this connection that before the time had expired to redeem the
property, the plaintiff was told by the defendant Stephen"'
that he would not be pushed, that the statutory time to
redeem would not be insisted upon, and that the plaintiff
believed and relied upon such assurance. Under such
circumstances the courts have held with great unanimity
that the purchaser is estopped to insist upon the statutory
period, notwithstanding the assurances were not in writing
and were made without consideration, upon the ground
that the debtor was lulled into a false security."
Here, the insurance company's representative has sworn,
and his evidence is undisputed, that he promised to pay
Pletz "his compensation any time he wanted to take it,"
a statement which was never withdrawn, and which in
connection with the continued negotiations for a lump
sum settlement, even after the statutory period had ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

317 U. S.

pired, was more than an equivalent of an express promise
not to plead the statute of limitations. It is perhaps an
understatement to say that the company attorney's conduct was a tacit encouragement to Pletz to act on the
assumption that the company would never dispute its
constantly admitted liability. Swain v. Seamens, 9 Wall.
254, 274. The statement of the Supreme Court of Illinois
is in harmony with the general rule of law throughout
the country: "Where an insurance company leads a party
to delay the bringing of suit, or to dismiss a suit already
pending, by holding out hopes of adjustment, or by making promises to pay, it is estopped from taking advantage
of such delay or dismissal, by pleading the statute of
limitations." Railway Conductors' Benefit Assn. v.
Loomis, 142 Ill. 560, 572, 32 N. E. 424, 427; cf. Ennis v.
Pullman Palace Car Co., 165 Ill. 161, 178, 46 N. E. 439;"
O'Harav. Murphy, 196 Ill. 599, 63 N. E. 1081. See also
Howard v. West Jersey & Seashore R. Co., 102 N. J. Eq.
517, 522, 147 A. 755; Baker-Matthews Manufacturing Co.
v. Grayling Lumber Co., 134 Ark. 351, 354, 355, 203 S. W.
1021; McLearn v. Hill, 276 Mass. 519, 177 N. E. 617.
These cases illustrate the principle announced by this
Court "that where one party has by his representations
or his conduct induced the other party to a transaction
to give him an advantage which it would be against
equity and good conscience for him to assert, he would
not in a court of justice be permitted to avail himself of
:that advantage." Insurance Company v. Wilkinson, 13
Wall. 222, 233.

