HARRIS v. ZION'S BANK CO.
424

Syllabus.

privilege. Circumstances may establish such a claim.
But there must be some manifestation of surrender of the
privilege. The prosecutor's insistence upon disclosure
which, but for immunity from prosecution, could be withheld is that for which alone the immunity is given.
History and reason alike reject the notion that immunity
from prosecution is to be squandered by giving it gratuitously for responding to the duty, owed by everyone, to
appear when summoned as a witness.
Since the demurrers to the pleas should have been sustained, the case should be remanded to the district court
for appropriate disposition in accordance with the views
herein expressed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS joins in this dissent.
HARRIS, ADMINISTRATOR, v. ZION'S SAVINGS
BANK & TRUST CO.
CERTIORARI

No. 268.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH* CIRCUIT.

Argued December 17, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.

1. Without leave of the state court which appointed him and which
has jurisdiction over him, an administrator may not revive a proceeding instituted by his decedent under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act,
nor initiate proceedings to have the estate adjudged bankrupt and
for other relief under § 75 (s) of that Act. P. 449..
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 75 (c) of the Bankruptcy Act
providing that 'fa petition may be filed by any farmer" for the
extension and composition of his debts, and of § 75 (r) declaring
that "For the purposes of this section, . . . the term 'farmer' ...
includes the personal representative of a deceased farmer," where the
law of a State prohibits an awministrator from dealing with the
real estate, or conditions his power so to do, Congress did not intend
to overide that law and confer upon an administrator-a mandatory
of state power-a privilege at war with the law of his official being.
P. 450.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

3. Section 8 of the Bankruptcy Act is inapplicable. Order 50 (9) of
the General Orders in Bankruptcy held applicable. P. 452.

127 F. 2d 1012,-affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 609, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing the petition of an administrator to
revive a proceeding under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act, and
rejecting an amended petition for relief under § 75 (s).

Mr. J. D. Skeen, with whom Mr. E. J. Skeen was on the
-brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Hadlond P. Thomas for respondent.
MR. JuSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
December 20, 1937, Anna L. Harris filed her petition for
relief under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act' in the District
Court for Utah. She made an offer of composition and,
while this offer was pending, she died. January 16, 1939,
the bankruptcy court ordered the proceeding abated because of her death. March 30, 1939, the petitioner was
appointed administrator of her estate.
Thereafter the respondent instituted a foreclosure proceeding upon a mortgage on real estate of the decedent,
obtained a judgment, and, August 1, 1939, purchased the
mortgaged premises at foreclosure sale and received a
sheri'ff's certificate.
February 13, 1940, two days before the period of redemption expired, the petitioner, as administrator, secured
leave from the probate court to apply, as the decedent's
personal representative, for an order reviving the debtor
proceedings. The probate court's decree was stayed pending an appeal to the Supreme Court of Utah. Notwithstanding the stay, the petitioner applied to the bankruptcy
court for a revivor.
11 U. S. C. § 203.

HARRIS v. ZION'S BANK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

447

The Utah Supreme Court reversed the decree of the
probate court, holding that, under the probate code, the
court had no authority to authorize the administrator to
petition the federal court under § 75.2 This court granted
certiorari to review the judgment I but, after hearing, dismissed the writ on the ground that the decision rested
on an adequate non-federal ground.'
Pending hearing in this court, the petitioner, ,on September 18, 1940, lodged with the clerk of the bankruptcy
court an amended petition to be adjudged a bankrupt
under subsection (s) of § 75. The court ordered that the
paper be not filed and also ordered that the petitioner
show cause why his revivor petition should not be dismissed. August 29, 1941, the respondent moved to strike
both the original and amended petition. September 30,
1941, the district judge entered an order dismissing the
administrator's petition to revive and rejecting the
amended petition.
October 10, 1941, the petitioner sought leave of the
probate court to appeal 'from the bankruptcy court's order
of dismissal and rejection. The prayer was denied, and
the court held that the petitioner should not be authorized
to appeal. The petitioner, nevertheless, appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed the District
5
Court's action.
a petition
Subsection (c) of § 75 provides: "...
and
compoextension
may be filed by any farmer" for the
sition of his debts. Subsection (r) declares: "For the purpose of this section . . . the term 'farmer' . . . includes

the personal representative of a deceased farmer; . .
The question is whether an administrator may, in his
representative capacity, initiate such proceedings without
2

1n re Harris' Estate, 99 Utah 464, 105 P. 2d 461.
8 312 U. S. 670.
4 Harrisv. Zion's Savings Bank & Trust Co., 313 U. S. 541.
127 F. 2d 1012.
503878--48 -.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion -of the Court.

317 U.S.

leave of the court which appointed him and has jurisdiction over him, or may do so where, as here, he has applied
for leave and been denied it. The importance of this
question, and a diversity of views amongst the federal
courts,' led us to grant certiorari.
Put another way, the question is: if the law of a state
prohibits an administrator from dealing with the real
estate, or conditions his power so to do, did Congress intend to override that law and confer upon this mandatory
of state power a privilege at war with the law of his official
being? We must meet that question in this case, for the
Supreme Court of Utah has told us that, under the law of
that State, the petitioner has no such power. If such he
possesses, it derives from a law which overrides the law of
the petitioner's official creation.
Laying aside any issue of constitutional power, the question remains whether Congress intended so to override
the law of a state and confer on the state's appointee, as
persona designata, a function to be exercised not for the
deceased farmer, not for the decedent's estate, the entity
he represents under state law, not for the heirs who inherit
the realty, but in a vacuum?
When we reflect thai the settlement and distribution of
decedents' estates, and the right to succeed to the ownership of realty and personalty are peculiarly matters of
state law; that the federal courts have no probate jurisdiction and have sedulously refrained, even in diversity
cases, from interfering with the operations of state
tribunals invested with that jurisdiction, we naturally
incline to a construction of § 75 consistent with these
principles. We think the beneficent purpose of the legislation will not be defeated by such a construction.
Compare In re Buxton's Estate, 14 F. Supp. 616; In re Reynolds
21 F. Supp. 369; Lemm v. Northern California National Bank, 93 F.
2d 709; Hines v. Farkaa, 109 F. 2d 289.
6

HARRIS v. ZION'S BANK CO.
447

Opinion of the Court.

The section is a manifestation of the enlarged conception of the bankruptcy power as extending not alone to a
seizure of an insolvent debtor's assets in the interest of an
impartial application of them to his creditor's demands,
but also as a means of relieving his distress and rehabilitating him financially while rendering his creditors all for
which they may reasonably hope."
So the opportunity of resort to § 75 enures not to
creditors but to the debtor. His voluntary action, not
theirs, determines whether the law shall -be invoked.
Congress extended him a privilege which he could exercise
or renounce. By the provision that the term "farmer"
should include a personal representative, Congress extended that privilege to an administrator. But, clearly,
if that functionary elects not to avail himself of the
privilege, the section is, as to him, inoperative. Moreover, if his election depends, under the law of hisbeing,
not alone on his choice but upon the exercise of the choice
of his master, the state which gave him official life, and
under whose tutelage he is, then the door of the bankruptcy court is open to him only when that choice has
been exercised in the only way he can exercise it.
In this view, Congress has extended the benefits of the
act only to administrators who can lawfully elect to avail
of them. Thus conflict between federal, and state power
is avoided and the two are accommodated.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Utah points out
some of the many inconsistencies and difficulties an
opposite conclusion would entail. Under the law of the
State, realty descends directly to the heirs. The administrator does not represent them. In resorting to § 75 he
Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, 244; Continental Illinois
NationalBank & T. Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648,
667-675; United States v. Bekins, 304 U. S. 27, 47; Wright v. Union
Central Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 502, 514; Wtight v. Union CentralLife
Ins. Co., 311 U. S. 273, 279.
7

N452

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S.

may, or may not, be acting in their true interests. The
law of the State demands the speedy settlement of the
estate. If, independently of that law, the administrator
may apply under § 75, it may well happen that this state
policy will be nullified. In other states, an administrator
may succeed to the realty absolutely or in such measure
and for such purpose that no state policy would be contravened by resort to § 75. But, in any case, the interests
of those entitled to inherit ought to be considered before
choice of action is determined. The probate court, not
the bankruptcy court, is the appropriate forum for weighing the respective benefits or detriments to those who
share in the equity of the decedent's estate.
We cannot accept the view that § 8 of the Bankruptcy
Act 8 governs. That provision was part of the Act of 1898
and looked only to proceedings wherein title to the assets
was transferred from the bankrupt as of the date of petition and vested in a trustee, and wherein the assets were
to be liquidated promptly and the proceeds distributed
amongst creditors. In other words, the purpose and effect
of the proceeding in bankruptcy and that in the probate
court were the same. Under § 75 they are or may be at
war, the one preventing the liquidation which is the chief
aim of the other. In other respects § 8 is inapplicable.
Why, in a case like this, should the heirs, the owners of
the equity in real estate, be made parties against their
will? ,
Congress, when the matter has come to its attention,
has expressly recognized that if a moratorium proceeding
such as this is to be brought or revived by an administrator, he ought to obtain leave from the probate court. So
§ 74, as amended, provides.10 We think the same intent
should be implied as to § 75.
8 11U.

S. C. § 26.

9 See Shute V. Patterson, 147 F. 509.

10 11 U. S. C. §202.

HARRIS v. ZION'S BANK CO.
447

DOUGLAS,

453

J., dissenting.

We believe that it was with these considerations in mind
that this court adopted Order 50 (9) of the General
Orders in Bankruptcy." That order provides that the
personal representative of a farmer shall annex to his
petition filed under § 75, amongst other things, a copy of
the order of the probate court authorizing him to file the
petition. The court below thought the General Order
applicable and felt bound to apply it. It is suggested that
this portion of the Order is void as running counter to
the clear mandate of the statute. And so it would be if the
Act conferred upon the administrator the right, notwithstanding state law, to invoke the bankruptcy powers.
But the rule comports with what we have endeavored
to show is the natural and reasonable construction of § 75.
If the state law permits resort to the remedy afforded by
the section, no difficulty will be created by requiring the
obtaining of such an order. If it forbids, then no conflict
between the policies of state and nation will arise.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, dissenting:

Sec. 75 (r) includes "the personal representative of a
deceased farmer" within the definition of "farmer" as
that term is used in the Act. Sec. 75 (n) provides that in
these proceedings "the jurisdiction and powers of the
courts, the title, powers, and duties of its officers, the
duties of the. farmer, and the rights and liabilities of
creditors, and of all persons with respect to the property
of the farmer . . . shall be the same as if a voluntary
petition for adjudication had been filed and a decree of
adjudication had been entered on the day when the
faxmer's petition, asking to be adjudged a bankrupt" was
filed. Since that provision relates to the "jurisdiction
"General Orders in Bankruptcy of January 16, 1939, 305 U. S.
681, 11 U. S.C. A. following § 53.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DouLAms, J., dissenting.

317 U. S..

and powers" of the bankruptcy court as well as to the
"rights and liabilities" of creditors and "of all persons"
with respect to the property, I do not see how we can
escape the conclusion that it incorporates § 8 of the Bankruptcy Act. Practically identical provisions in old
§ 74 (in), dealing with compositions and extensions, were
held to have that effect. In re Morgan, 15 F. Supp. 52.
Cf. Benitez v. Anciani, 127 F. 2d 121. The function and
purpose of § 74 and § 75 are comparable. No reason is
apparent why a different result should obtain under § 75.
Sec. 8 of the Bankruptcy Act states that death of a bankrupt "shall not abate the proceedings, but the same shall
be conducted and concluded in the same manner, so far
as possible,, as though he had not died." That section
"makes no exception or qualification-after the proceedings have been commenced they are not to be abated by
death." Hull v. Dicks, 235 U. S. 584, 588. It has long
been considered mandatory. Shute v. Patterson, 147 F.
509; 1 Collier, Bankruptcy (14th ed.) § 8.02. On death
of a bankrupt where his personal representative succeeds
to the personalty and his heirs to the realty, the proper
procedure is to make them parties. Shute v. Patterson,
supra, p. 512; Benitez v. Anciani, supra,p. 125. And see In re Schwab, 83 F. 2d 526. And the death of a bankrupt
does not prevent his discharge (Collier, loc. cit.) at the instance of the administrator. In re Agnew, 225 F. 650.
If this had been an ordinary bankruptcy case, there
can be no doubt that the personal representative of this
decedent would have been entitled to come in, that the
heirs could have been joined, and that a discharge could
have been obtained, provided the requirements of § 14
were met. The fact that the proceeding is under § 75
should not make a difference. Congress has specifically
stated that a "personal representative" of a farmer may.
employ the machinery of § 75. The offer of composition
made by the decedent before her death might or might

HARRIS v. ZION'S BANK CO.
447

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

not have been accepted. But even though it were rejected, subsection (s) affords an alternative form of relief,
one benefit of which is a discharge. § 75 (s) (3); Wright
v. UnMion Central Life Ins. Co., 311 U. S.273. I think it
clear that § 75 was designed to afford to the estate the
opportunity to obtain these benefits. Those benefits may
be just as considerable as they would be in ordinary bankruptcy. The fact that the heirs would be held at bay is
no more significant in this instance than it is in other applications of § 8 of the Bankruptcy Act. To be sure, title
to the property vests in the trustee in ordinary bankruptcy. But that circumstance has no relevancy to the
scope of the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court under
§ 75 which is in issue here and which we recently tated
was "exclusive," carrying with it "complete and selfexecuting statutory exclusion of all other courts." Kalb
v. Feuerstein,308 U. S.433, 443. .Furthermore, Congress
has not made participation of the personal representative
dependent on authorization from the state probate court.
Under old § 74 it did. Thus § 74 as amended by the Act of
June 7,1934 (48 Stat. 922, 11 U. S. C. 202a), an Act which
also contained certain amendments to § 75 (48 Stat. 924,
925), included ".the personal representative of a deceased
individual for the purpose of effecting settlement or composition with the creditors of the estate: Provided, however, That such personal representative shall first obtain
the consent and authority of the court which has assumed
jurisdiction of said estate, to invoke the relief provided"
by that Act. No such qualification appears in §.75. Its
absence there and its presence in § 74 clearly indicate that,
-where Congress wished to,curtail the power of bankruptcy
courts over estates of decedents and to make the participation of a personal representative dependent on authorization from the state probate court, it said so. The view
I urge would of course result in a collision between the
Bankruptcy Act and state probate law. But that is no

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

317 U. S.

more important here than was the collision in Kalb v.
Feuerstein,supra. In this case, as in other situations (In
re Devlin, 180 F. 170, 172) it is the Bankruptcy Act, not
local probate law, which must control the administration
of the estate. The bankruptcy power is supreme. Sec.
8 is a valid exercise of that power. The result is that
General Order 50 (9) must give way insofar as it is inconsistent with this result. For those rules are intended
merely "to execute the act" (West Co. v. Lea, 174 U. S.
590, 599), not to "authorize additions to its substantive
provisions." Meek v. Centre County Banking Co., 268
U. S. 426, 434.
-MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in
this dissent.

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO ET AL.
UNITED FUEL GAS CO. ET AL.

V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 87.

Argued December 8, 1942.-Decided January 11, 1943.

Upon an appeal to the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio from a
municipal ordinance establishing, in 1932, rates for natural gas sold in
the city by a local utility, the Commission asserted jurisdiction to
fix the rates paid by the local utility to an unaffiliated company for
natural gas transported and sold in interstate commerce, and, in
1935, issued orders preliminary to fixing such rates. In a suit in
equity begun by the interstate company prior to, and decided subsequently to, the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the federal District Court
enjoined the enforcement of the orders. The state Commission had
held no hearing, and had made no findings, with respect to the lawfulness or reasonableness of the interstate rates. Held:
.1. Considerations of equity require the determination here of
the question of local law as to the power of the state Commission
to fix retroactively the rates to-be charged by the interstate company
for natural gas transported and sold in interstate commerce to the
local utility. _P. 462.

