OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE v. NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF LETTER CARRIERS, AFL-CIO
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-820.

Decided May 21, 1987

The United States Postal Service's application to stay the Court of Appeals' mandate enforcing an arbitrator's decision requiring the reinstatement of Edward Hyde as a postal worker is granted pending the filing
and disposition of a petition for certiorari. Although the District Court
set aside the arbitrator's reinstatement order following Hyde's discharge
for dereliction of duty upon his conviction for unlawful delay of the mail,
the Court of Appeals reversed, holding that a court may set aside an arbitrator's award as contrary to public policy only when the award itself
violates established law or compels unlawful conduct. There is a reasonable probability that four Justices will eventually grant certiorari in
this case, since the Court has already granted certiorari in Misco, Inc. v.
United Paperworkers International Union, 768 F. 2d 739 (CA5), cert.
granted 479 U. S. 1029, which raises the identical public policy issue.
Moreover, the stay equities favor the applicant, whose ability to impress
the seriousness of its mission upon its workers would be seriously impaired by even the temporary reinstatement of a convicted criminal,
whereas continuation of the status quo will not work an irreparable harm
on Hyde, who has not worked for the applicant for almost three years.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant United States Postal Service asks that I stay the
mandate of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit enforcing an arbitrator's decision that applicant reinstate Edward Hyde as a postal worker. In 1984, Hyde was
convicted of unlawful delay of the mail by a postal employee
after postal inspectors found more than 3,500 pieces of undelivered mail in his possession. The Postal Service dis1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

481 U. S.

charged Hyde for dereliction of duty. Respondent filed a
grievance against applicant on Hyde's behalf, seeking arbitration. The arbitrator ordered that applicant reinstate
Hyde after a 60-day medical leave of absence. Applicant
filed suit, seeking to set aside the award as contrary to public
policy. The District Court set aside the arbitrator's decision, finding that the Postal Service must retain the power to
remove employees who breach the public trust and hamper
the strong public interest in ensuring prompt delivery of the
mails. 631 F. Supp. 599 (DC 1986). The Court of Appeals
reversed, holding that a court may set aside an arbitrator's
award as contrary to public policy only when the award itself
violates established law or compels unlawful conduct. 258
U. S. App. D. C. 260, 810 F. 2d 1239 (1987).
The standards for granting a stay pending a petition for
certiorari are well settled: a Circuit Justice is required
"'to determine whether four Justices would vote to grant certiorari, to balance the so-called "stay equities," and to give
some consideration as to predicting the final outcome of the
case in this Court."' Heckler v. Redbud Hospital District,
473 U. S. 1308, 1311 (1985) (REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice),
quoting Gregory-Portland Independent School District v.
United States, 448 U. S. 1342 (1980).
In my view, the applicant has satisfied these requirements.
There is a reasonable probability that four Justices will eventually grant certiorari in this case. The Court has already
granted certiorari in Misco, Inc. v. United PaperworkersInternational Union, 768 F. 2d 739 (CA5 1985), cert. granted,
479 U. S. 1029 (1987), which raises the identical issue: the
scope of the public policy exception to enforcement of arbitration awards. Although that case presents the issue in
the context of a private employer, the applicant presents a
stronger case for setting aside the arbitrator's award because
it operates under a statutory mandate to ensure prompt delivery of the mails. See 39 U. S. C. ยง101(a). Moreover, I
find that the stay equities favor the applicant. Even the

USPS v. LETTER CARRIERS
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

temporary reinstatement of Hyde, a convicted criminal, will
seriously impair the applicant's ability to impress the seriousness of the Postal Service's mission upon its workers. While
Hyde does have some interest in returning to his position, he
has not worked for the applicant for almost three years.
Continuation of the status quo will not work an irreparable
harm on Hyde, but it will preserve the applicant's ability to
carry out its legal obligations.
The application for a stay of the Court of Appeals' mandate
pending the filing and disposition of a petition for certiorari is
granted.

