OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Per Curiam

472 U. S.

JENSEN, DIRECTOR, DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR
VEHICLES OF NEBRASKA, ET AL. v. QUARING
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 83-1944.

Argued January 7, 1985-Decided June 17, 1985

728 F. 2d 1121, affirmed by an equally divided Court.

Ruth Anne E. Galter, Assistant Attorney General of
Nebraska, argued the cause for petitioners. With her on
the brief was Paul L. Douglas, Attorney General.
Thomas C. Lansworth argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Burt Neuborne and Charles S.
Sims.*
PER CURIAM.

The judgment is affirmed by an equally divided Court.
JUSTICE POWELL

took no part in the decision of this case.

*Marc D. Stern and Ronald A. Krauss filed a brief for the American
Jewish Congress et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.
Solicitor General Lee, Deputy Solicitor General Geller, and Kathryn
A. Oberly filed a brief for the United States as amicus curiae.

McDONALD v. SMITH
Syllabus

McDONALD v. SMITH
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 84-476.

Argued March 20, 1985-Decided June 19, 1985

Respondent filed a libel action against petitioner in a North Carolina state
court under the common law of that State, alleging that while respondent was being considered for the position of United States Attorney,
petitioner wrote two letters to President Reagan (and sent copies
to other Government officials) containing "false, slanderous, libelous,
inflammatory and derogatory statements" concerning respondent, and
that petitioner knew that the statements were false and maliciously
intended to injure respondent by undermining his prospect of being
appointed United States Attorney. Seeking compensatory and punitive
damages, respondent also alleged, inter alia, that the letters had their
intended effect, resulting in his not being appointed, and that his reputation and career as an attorney were injured. Petitioner removed the
case to Federal District Court on the basis of diversity of citizenship and
then moved for judgment on the pleadings on the ground that the Petition Clause of the First Amendment-which guarantees "the right of the
people ... to petition the Government for a redress of grievances"-provided absolute immunity from liability. The District Court held that the
Clause does not grant absolute immunity, and the Court of Appeals
affirmed.
Held:
1. The Petition Clause does not provide absolute immunity to defendants charged with expressing libelous and damaging falsehoods in petitions to Government officials. Although the value in the right of petition as an important aspect of self-government is beyond question, it
does not follow that the Framers of the First Amendment believed that
the Petition Clause provided absolute immunity from damages for libel.
In 1845 this Court, after reviewing the common law, held in White v.
Nicholls, 3 How. 266, that a petition to a Government official was actionable if prompted by "express malice," which was defined as "falsehood
and the absence of probable cause," and nothing has been presented to
suggest that that holding should be altered. Nor do the Court's decisions interpreting the Petition Clause in contexts other than defamation
indicate that the right to petition is absolute. The Clause was inspired
by the same ideals of liberty and democracy that resulted in the First
Amendment freedoms to speak, publish, and assemble, and there is no

