OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

here presented. In view of the conclusions reached in
that case, we see no reason to disturb the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Oregon in the present case, and it
is accordingly
Affirmed.

MAcLEOD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 259.

Argued April 25, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

The local government of a conquered country being destroyed, the
conqueror may set up its own authority and make rules and regulations for the conduct of temporary government, and to that end may
collect taxes and duties to support the military authority and carry
on operations incident to the occupation.
An occupation giving the right to the conqueror to exercise governmental authority must be not only invasion but also possession of
\he enemy's country.
Messages and papers of the Presidents may be referred to by the courts
as matters (f public history.
The military occupation by the United States, during and after the war
with Spain, of the Philippine Islands, and the conduct of the military
government thereof, did niot extend to places which were not in
actual possession of the United States, until they were reduced to
such possession.
Executive orders regarding the collection of duties on goods imported
into the Philippine Islands during the military occupancy thereof
by the United States did not apply to any ports, such as Cebu, during
the time that they were not in the possession and under the control
of the United States.
The principles of international law were recognized by the Executive
in issuing orders concerning the government of the Philippine
Islands during military occupancy thereof, and this court will not
construe an order directing payment of duties on imports as relating
to goods brought into ports in the possession of the de facto government of the insurgents.

MAcLEOD v. UNITED STATES.
229 -U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The fact that the importer of goods brought into a port of the Philippine Islands which had not been reduced to possession by the United
States but was still under control of a de facto government of the
insurgents resided in Manila which was under military occupancy
did not make him subject to the executive order of July 12, 1898, to
pay duties on such goods.
A state of war, as to third persons, continued during and after the war
with Spain until the ratification of the treaty of peace.
The act of Jtme 30, 1906, c. 3912, 34 Stat. 636, ratifying executive acts
imposing duties, does not apply to duties collected at points which
the United States had not occupied and which were in possession of
insurgent d facto governments. United States v. Heinszen, 206 U. S.
370, distinguished.
Statutes relating to territory occupied.by the military forces of the
Government should be construed in the light of the purpose of the
Government to act within the principles of international law, the
observance of which is essential to the peace and harmony of nations.
Duties collected by the United States on cargoes imported at ports in
the Philippine Islands which had not been reduced to possession b~y
the United States but were in possession of the defacto government of
insurgents were an illegal and unwarranted exaction covered neither
by the order of the President nor the ratifying acts of Congress.
45 Ct. C1. 339, reversed.

THE appellant, William Stewart Macleod,. surviving
partner of MacLeod & Company, brought suit in the
Court of Claims to recover from the United States the
amount of certain duties paid by the fi-n under protest
upon a cargo of rice imported into the Island of Cebu at
the city and port of the same name, in the Philippine
Islands, on January 29, 1899. The Court of Claims decided in favor of the United States and rendered judgment dismissing the petition. 45 Ct. Cls. 339. The case
was then appealed to this court.
The Court of Claims made findings of fact, the substance of which is as follows:
The claimant firm, comprised of the appellant (the
survivor) and two others, all citizens of Great Britain,
had its head office at Manila and was engaged in doing a
VOL. ccxxix-27

,418

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

general mercantile business there and elsewhere in the
Orient. On January 13, 1899, the claimants chartered
an American steamship, the Venus, at Manila and cleared
her in ballast for Saigon, China, whence she sailed for the
port of Cebu with a cargo of rice on January 22nd, carrying the usual consular papers. Prior to that time it had
been the practice of the military authorities at Manila
to require importers, residing in that city and shipping
rice to points in the Philippines not actually occupied by
the United States forces, to present certified manifests
covering their cargoes and to pay the duties thereon to
the United States military collector of customs at Manila,
which practice was a matter of common knowledge and
discussion among the business men in that city, but there
is no other evidence charging the claimants with knowledge of the fact.
The collector at Manila was informed by competitors
of the claimants that the latter proposed to ship the cargo
to Cebu without paying duty at Manila and that, as they
complied with the requirements of the United States
authorities, they would be unable to compete, under such
unfair conditions, with the claimants; and the collector
received confirmation of such report from the consul at
Saigon on the twenty-first of January, and on the twentythird officially notified the claimants that a certified manifest must be presented and duties paid on the cargo at the
custom house at Manila. The next day one of the claimants presented in person to the collector a letter stating
that there had been no secret as to the movement of the
Venus; that she had been openly dispatched to Saigon to
load a cargo of rice for the Philippines, and that the captain
had instructions to secure consular papers, if ordered to
Cebu, in case that port should be in the possession of the
United States authorities upon his arrival, and that they
presumed his papers were in order; that according to
their advice Cebu was in the hands of the republican gov-

MAcLEOD v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ernment, whose authorities would exact the payment of
duties, the same in amount as under the Manila tariff;
that in selling the cargo they had been required to guarantee that the duties would not exceed those under the
Manila tariff; that the claimants protested against paying
the duties twice, as it was through no fault of theirs that
the duties went to the Cebu authorities, and that, desiring to respect the notification, they would, if instructed;
request their Cebu friends to protest against the' payment
in Cebu because, according to the notification, the Cebu
customs were under the control of the United States.
At the same time the collector was informed that a ship
of the claimants was about to leave Manila for Cebu,
which would arrive in time to head off the Venus (which
did in fact sail from Manila that day and arrived in Cebu
before the Venus); that their intention in so advising the
collector was that he might take the steps he thought most
expedient, but that the claimants, unless otherwise ordered by the United States, intended to carry out their
contract with the purchasers of the cargo, even if required
to pay double duties.
Upon the arrival of the Venus at Cebu, January 29,
1899, the native government demanded the payment
of duties on the cargo and refused to allow its discharge
until such payment was made. On February 4, 1899,
the duties were paid and the cargo delivered to the purchasers. Upon the arrival of the Venus thereafter at
Manila, with a cargo from Cebu, she was at first prevented
from discharging her cargo without paying the duties
involved in this case, but later was permitted to do so.
Subsequently the collector refused to receive further
business from the claimants until the duties in -question
were paid, and because of such refusal and in order to
transact further business with the collector, the claiinants, involuntarily and' under protest, paid the duties
demanded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U.S.

War was declared with Spain on April 25, 1898, and on
\lay 1, 1898, the forces of the United- States captured
Manila Bay and harbor. The following order of the
President was thereafter promulgated:
"Executive Mansion, July 12, 1898.
"By virtue of the authority vested in me as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United
States Of America, I do hereby order and direct that upon
the'occupalion and possession of any ports and places in
the Philippine Islands by the forces of the United States
the following tariff of duties and taxes, to be levied and
collected as a military contribution, and regulations for
the administration thereof, shall take effect and be in
force in the ports and places so occupied.
"Questions arising under said tariff and regulations
shall be decided by the general in command of the United
States forces in those islands.
"Necessary and authorized expenses for the administration of said tariff and regulations shall be paid from the
collections thereunder.
"Accurate accounts of collections and expenditures
shall be kept and rendered to the Secretary of War.
"WILLIAM

MCKINLEY."

The protocol of August 12, 1898, provided that "The
United States will occupy and hold the city, bay and harbor of Manila, pending the conclusion of a treaty of peace
which shall determine the control, disposition and government of the Philippines." Manila was opened as a port
of entry on August 20, 1898, and Cebu on March 14, 1899.
The executive order of July 12, 1898, was not proclaimeld
in Cebu until February 22, 1899, or later. The treaty of
peace was signed on December 10, 1898, but ratifications
,were not exchanged until April 11, 1899. The Spanish
forces evacuated the Island of Cebu on December 25, 1898,
having first appointed a provisioni-l governor. Shortly
thereafter the native inhabitants, formerly in insurrection

MAcLEOD r. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

against Spain, took possession of the Isldnd, formed a
so-called republic and administered the affairs of the
Island until possession was surrendered to the United
States on February 22, 1899, prior to which time no
authorities of the United States had been in the Island
and the United States had not been in possession or
occupation of the Island, it having been up to that time
in the actual physical possession of the Spanish and the
people of the Island.
Mr. Barry Mohun and Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom
Mr. J. N. Wolfson and Mr. P. G. Michener were on the
brief, for appellant:
The court has jurisdiction. Dooley v. United States,
182 U. S. 222, 230; Armstrong v. United States, 182 U. S.
243.

The title of the United States to the Island of Cebu
did not vest so far as the rights of individuals were concerned until the proclamation of the treaty of April 11,
1899. Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222, 230; Haver
v. Yaker, 9 Wall. 32.
The payment of duties by appellant to the de facto
g6vernment in Cebu was lawful. United States v. Rice,
4 Wheat. 246, 253; Coleman v. Tennessee, 97 U. S. 536; DeLima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 184; Downes v. Bidwell, 182
U. S. 303; Pearcy v. Stranahan, 205 U. S. 257, 272; 1
Moore's Digest Int. Law, pp. 41 et seq.
The doctrine of the case of United States v. Rice, supra,
has been uniformly recognized and enforced by the United
States through its Department of State. In Re Duties
Collected at Mazatlan, Mexico, 1 Wharton's Int. Law Dig.,
§ 7, p. 29; The Blueields Case, 1 Moore's Dig. Int. Law,
pp. 49, 51.
The order of the President of July 12, 1898, could only
be enforced at ports and places actually occupied by the
military forces of the United States and was only ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

229 U. S.

plicable to imports made at such ports and places. Lincoln v. United States, 197 U. S. 419, 428; DeLima v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1, 199; Hall's Int. Law, 5th Ed.,
p. 448.
If there should be doubt as to the meaning of the Executive Order of July 12, 1898, it should be resolved in favor
of appellant. Hartranft v. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609, 616:
American Net & Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S.
468, 474.
The temporary allegiance owed by appellant to the
United States as conqueror in possession of Manila did
not justify the exaction of these moneys from him as
duties upon an importation into Cebu.
The military commander at Manila while above the
laws of the Philippine Islands was not above the laws of
his own country, Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222,
234, and was further restricted by the order of the Presi(dent dated July 12, 1898, which was in accordance with
the rules -of International Law. United States v. Rice,
supra; Hall's Int. Law, 5th Ed., supra.
The ratification act of June 30, 1906, 34 Stat. 636, is
not applicable to this case. United States v. Heinszen &
Co., 206 U. S.370; Dooley v. United States, supra; Fourteen Diamond Rings N-. United States, 183 U. S. 176;
Warner, Barnes & Co., Ltd., v. United States, 197 U. S.
419; on re-hearing 202 U. S. 484; The Charming Betsy,
2 Cranch, 64, 118, The Hague Convention, 32 Stat. 18031826. See Article 42.
The legislative history of the ratification act, negatives
Ian
intention on the part of Congress to have ratified
this
collection. Senate Bill, 6362, 59th Cong. 1st Sess.Mr. Frederick De C. Faust, Acting Assistant Attorney
General, for the United States:
The collection of the duties in question at Manila was,
a valid and lawful exercise of the war power vested in the

MAcLEOD v. UNITED STATES.
229 U.. S.

Argument for the United States.

military commander of the United States forces in the
Philippine Islands.
The general right of a military commander, under the
war power, to govern territory of the enemy after its
conquest and prior to the ratification of a treaty of peace
is not open to question. Cross v. Harrison, 16 How. 164;
Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222; De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 1; Fourteen Diamond Rings, 183 U. S.
176.
The conquering power has the right to displace the
prexisting authority and to assume to such extent as it
may deem proper the exercise by itself of all the powers
Mli d functions of government. There is no limit to the
powers that may be exerted in such cases save those which
are found in the laws and usages of war. These principles
havo the sanction of all publicists who have considered
the subject. New Orleans v. Steamship Company, 20
Wall. 387, 394. See also Thirty Hogsheads of Sugar v.
Boyle, 9 Cr. 191; Fleming v. Page, 9 How. 603; American
Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511.
It is conceded that the military forces of the United
States did not take actual possession of the island of Cebu
until after the first payment of the duties had been made
to the native insurgents, but that fact does not affect the
point at issue in this case.
The question here is as to the right of the military
commander, under the war power, to prescribe rules and
regulations governing importations of merchandise, not
by inhabitants of Cebu, but by residents of Manila, claiming the prQtection of the United States, into the enemy's
territory.
While it is true that the treaty of peace between the
United States and-Spain was signed December 10, 1898,
the war did not cease nor title to the Island of Cebu vest
in the United States, in so far as the rights of third parties
were affected, until the exchange of ratifications on tdie,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

eleventh of April, 1899. Haver v. Yaker, 9 Wall. 32;
Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S. 222.
Until such ratification the Island of Cebu continued
to be hostile territory, and all commercial intercourse
between its inhabitants and the inhabitants of Manila,
then under military occupation of the United States, was
prohibited by the rules of international law. Wheaton's
Int.. Law, 422; Montgomery v. United States, 15 Wall. 395.
The only recognized belligerents in the Philippine
Islands, prior to the ratification of the treaty, were the
United States and Spain.
Appellants landed their cargo and paid the alleged
duties demanded by the native inhabitants of Cebu at
their peril, well knowing that duties in the same amount
would be exacted thereon by the military authorities at
\anila. United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246, 255, upon
which appellants rely, directly supports the Government's
contention in this case.
The importers were residents, not of the island of Cebu,
but of the city of Manila, conducting their business under
the protection of the United States military authorities.
Their obligation to comply with the law was due, therefore, not to the Kingdom of Spain nor to the rebellious
natives of Cebu, but to the United States. As to the
executive order of July 12, 1898, see Lincoln v. United
States, 202 U. S. 499.
Any doubt that might possibly exist as to the authority
of the military collector at Manila to collect the duties
here in question is completely removed by the terms of
the ratification act of June 30, 1906. See United States v.
Heinszen, 206 U. S. 381.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
When the Spanish fleet was destroyed at Manila, May 1,
1898, it became apparent that the Government of the

M.xcLE(1) v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

United States might be required to take the necessary
steps to make provision for the government and control
of such part of the Philippines as might come into the
military occupation of the forces of the United States.
The right to thus occupy an enemy's country and temporarily provide for its government has been recognized
by previous action of the executive authority and sanctioned by frequent decisions of this court. The local
government being destroyed, the conqueror may set up
its own authority and make rules and regulations for the
conduct of temporary government, and to that end may
collct taxes and duties to support the military authority
and carry on operations incident to the occupation. Such
was the course of the, Government with respect to the
territory acquired by conquest and afterwards ceded by
the Mexican Government to the United States. Cross
v. Harrison, 16 How. 164. See also in this connectior.
Fleming v. Page, 9 How. 603; New Orleans v. Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387; Dooley v. United States, 182 U. S.
222; 7 Moore's International Law Digest, §§ 1143 et seq.,
iii which the history of this Government's action following the Mexican War and during and after the SpanishAmerican War is fully set forth: and also Taylor on Interi'ational Public Law, chapter IX, Military Occupation
and Administration, §§ 568 et seq., and 2 Oppenheim on
International Law, §§ 166 et seq.
There has been considerable discussion in the cases and
in works of authoritative writers upon the subject of what
constitutes an occupation which 'Will give the right to
exercise governmental authority. Such occupation is not
merely invasion, but is invasion plus possession of the
enemy's country for the purpose of holding it temporarily
at least. 2 Oppenheini, § 167. What should constitute
military occupation was one of the matters before The
Hague Convention in 1899 respecting laws and' customs
of wai on land, and the following articles were adopted

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

by the nations giving adherence to that Convention,
among which is the United States (32 Stat. II, 1821):
"Article XLII. Territory is considered occupied when it
Js actually placed under the authority of the hostile army.
"The occupation applies only to the territory where
such authority is established, and in a position to assert
itself.
"Article XLIII. The authority of the legitimate
power having act'ially passed into the hands of the occupant, the latter shall take all steps in his power to reestablish and insure, as far as possible, public order and
safety, while respecting, unless absolutely prevented, the
laws in force in the country."
A reference to the Messages and Papers of the Pre;;idents, to which we may refer as matters of public history,
shows that the President was sensible of and disposed to
conform the activities of our Government to the principle:,
of international law and practice. See 10 Messages and
Papers of the Presidents, 208, executive order of the
lPresident to the Secretary of War, in which the President
said (p. 210):
"While it, is held to be the right of a conqueror to levy
contributions upon the enemy in their seaports, towns, or
provinces which .may be in his military possession by
Conquest, and to apply the proceeds to defrai the expenses of the war, this right is to be exercised within
such limitations that it may not savor of confiscation.
As the result of military occupation the taxes and duties
payable' by the inhabitants to the former government
become payable to the military occupant, unless he sees
fit to substitute for them other rates or modes of contributions to the expenses of the government. The moneys
so collected are to be used for the purpose of paying the
expenses of government under the military occupation,
such as the salaries of the judges and the police, mnd for
the payment of the expenses of the arny."

M&cLEO)D v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

To the same effect, executive order of the President to
the Secretary of the Treasury, in which the President
said (p. 211):
"I have determined to order that all ports or places in
the Philippines which may be in the actual possession of
our land and naval forces by conquest shall be opened,
while our military occupation may continue, to the commerce of all neutral nations, as well as our own, in articles
not contraband of war, upon payment of the rates of
duty which may be in force at the time when the goods are
imported."
And the like executive order of the President to the
Secretary of the Navy (p. 212).
In pursuance of this policy, the order of July 12, 1898,
was framed. By its plain terms the President orders and
directs the collection of tariff duties at ports in the occupation and possession of the forces of the United States.
More than this would not have been consistent with the
principles of international law, nor with the practice of
this Government in like cases. While the subsequent
order of December 21, 1898, made after the signing of the
treaty of peace, is referred to in the brief of counsel for
the Government, it was not alluded to in the findings of
fact of the Court of Claims; but we find nothing in that
order indicating a change of policy in respect to the collection of duties. While the signing of the treaty of peace
between the United States and Spain on December 10,
1898, was stated, the responsible obligations imposed upon
the United States by reason thereof were recited and
acknowledged and the necessity of extending the government with all possible dispatch to the whole of the ceded
territory was emphasized, no disposition was shown to
enlarge the number of ports and places in the Philippine
Islands at which duties should be collected so as .o include
those not occupied by the United States, and the President said (p. 220):

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

"All ports and places in the Philippine Islands in the
actual possession of the land and naval forces of the United
States will be opened to the commerce of all friendly
nations. All goods and wares not prohibited for military
reasons, by due announcement of the military authority,
will be admitted upon payment of such duties and other
charges as shall be in force at the time of their importation.''
The occupation by the United States of the city, bay
and harbor of Manila pending the conclusion of a treaty
which should determine the control, disposition and government of the Philippines was provided for by the protocol of August 12, 1898, and the necessity of further
occupation, until the exchange of ratifications by the
Government of Spain and the United States, was recognized by the President in the order of December 21, 1898.
We have been unable to find anything in the executive or
congressional action prior to the importation of the cargo
now in question having the effect to extend the execut ive
order as to the collection of duties during the military
occupation to ports and places not within the occupation
and control of the United States.
The statement, of the facts shows that the insurgent
government was in actual possession of the custom-house
at Cebu, with power to enforce the collection of duties
th:e, as it did. Such government was of the class of de
facto governments described in 1 Moore's International
Law Digest, § 20, as,follows:
"But there is another description of government,
called also by publicists a government de facto, but which
might, perhaps, be more aptly denominated a government of paramount force. Its distinguishing characteristies are (1) that its existence is maintained by active
military power within the territories, and against the
rightful authority of an established and lawful government; and (2) that while it exists it must necessarily, be

MAcLEOI) v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opi ion of the Court.

obeyed in civil matters by private citizens who, by acts
of obedience rendered in submission to such force, do
not become responsible, as wrongdoers, for those acts,
though not warranted by the laws of the rightful government. Actual governments of this sort are established
over districts differing greatly in extent and conditions.
They are usually administered directly by military authority, but they may be administered, also, by civil authority, supported more or less directly by military force."
Thorningtonv. Smith, 8 Wall. 1, 9.
The attitude of this Government toward such de facto
governments was evidenced
in the Bluefields case, a full
account of which is given in 1 Moore's International Law
Digest, pp. 49 et seq. In that case General Reyes had
headed an insurrectionary movement at Bluefields and
acquired actual control of the Mosquito Territory in
Nicaragua. His control continued for a short time only,
February 3 to February 25, 1899, and after the reistablishment of the Nicaraguan Government at Bluefields
it demanded of Anerican merchants the payment to it
of certain amounts of duty which they had been compelled
to pay to the insurgent authorities during the period of
their de facto control. The American Government remonstrated, and the duties demanded by the Nicaraguan
Government were by agreement deposited in the British
consulate pending a settlement of the controversy. The
Department of State of the United States, upon receiving
sworn statements of the American merchants to the
effect that they were not accomplices of Reyes, that the
money actually exacted was the amount due on bonds
which then matured for duties levied in December, 1898,
payments being made to the agent of the titular government who was continued in office by General Reyes,
that payment was demanded under threat of sinspension
of importations, and that from February 3 to February 25
General Reyes was in full control of the civil and mili-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

tary agencies in the district, expressed the opinion that
to exact the second payment would be an act of international injustice; and the money was finally returned
to the American merchants with the assent of the Government of Nicaragua.
A similar case appears in 1 Moore's International Digest, p. 49, in which our Government was requested by
Great Britain to use its good offices to prevent the exaction by the Mexican Government of certain duties at
Mazatlan, which had been previously paid to insurgents.
The then Secretary of State, \Ir. Fish, instructed our
Minister to Mexico as follows:
"It is difficult to understand upon what, ground of
equity or public law such duties can be claimed. The
obligation of obedience to a government at a particular
place in a country may be regarded as suspended, at
least, when its authority is usurped, and is due to the
usurpers if they choose to'exercise it. To require a repayment of duties in such cases is tantamount to the
exaction of a penalty on the misfortune, if it may be so
called, of remaining and carrying on business in a port
where the authority of the government had been annulled.
The pretension is analogous to that upon which vessels
have been captured and condemned upon a charge of
violating a blockade of a port set on foot by a proclamation only, without force to carry it into effect."
See also Colombian Controversy, 6 Moore's International Law Digest, pp. 995 et seq.
While differing somewhat in its circumstances, the case
of United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246, is an instructive
ease. In that case, during the War of 1812, the port of
Castine, Maine, was captured by the British forces and
during its occupation the British Government exercised
civil and military authority over the people, established
custom-houses and collected duties on goods. After
peace and the reestablishment of the American Govern-

MAcLEOD v. UNITED STATES.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ment at Castine the collector of customs claimed the
right to collect duties upon the goods, and this court held
that the duties could not be collected a second time.
Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of the- court,
after stating that the British Government was in full
control of the port and authorized to collect duties, said
(p. 254):
"Castine was, therefore, during this period, so far as
respected our revenue laws, to be deemed a foreign port;
and goods imported into it by the inhabitants, were subject to such duties only as the British Government chose
to require. Such goods were, in no correct sense, imported
into the United States. The subsequent evacuation by
the enemy, and resumption of authority by the United
States, did not, and could not, change the character of
the previous transactions. The doctrine respecting the
jus postliminii are wholly inapplicable to the case. The
goods were liable to American duties, when imported,
or not at all. That they were not so liable at the time of
importation, is clear from what has been already stated;
and when, upon the return of peace, the jurisdiction of
the United States was reassumed, they were in the same
predicament as they would have been if Castine had been
a foreign territory ceded by treaty to the United States,
and the goods had been previously imported there. In
the latter case, there would be no pretence to say that
American duties could be demanded; and, upon principles
of public or nunicipal law, the cases are not distinguishable. The authorities cited at the bar would, if there
were any doubt, be decisive of the question. But we
think it too clear to require any aid from authority."
We observe that the learned justice puts the case of the
importation of goods into a foreign territory afterwards
ceded to the United States as one which under no pretense
would afford an authority to collect duties upon goods
previously imported there. We do not think that it was

432

OCTOBER TERAM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the purpose of the executive order under which the government at Manila was instituted and maintained at the
time of this importation to direct the collection of duties
at ports not in the occupation of the United States, and
certainly not at one actually in the possession of a de facto
government, as is shown in this case.
It is said, however, that the claimants resided and
were doing business at Manila and therefore were subject to the military authority there, and the authority
of a conquering power, recognized in New Orleans v.
Steamship Company, supra, 394, to regulate trade with
the enemy and in its country is cited in support of the
proposition. That there is such general authority, there
can be no doubt. It is, however, not without limitation,
and a local commander is certainly bound by the orders
of the President as commander in chief, which in this
case had limited tariff collections to ports and places occupied by the United States. And such authority is subject
to the laws and usages of war (New Orleans v. Steamship
Co., supra, p. 394) and, we may add, to such rules as are
sanctioned by established principles of international law.
A state of war as to third persons continued until the
exchange of treaty ratifications (Dooley v. United States,
182 U. S. 222, 230), and, although rice, not being contraband of war, might have been imported (7 Moore's International Law Dig., pp. 683, 684), the authority of the
military commander, until the exchange of ratifications,
may have included the right to control vessels sailing
from Manila to trade in the enemy's country and to
penalize violations of orders in that respect. But whatever the authority of the commander at Manila or those
acting under his direction to control shipments by per.sons trading at Manila and in vessels sailing from there of
American registration, such authority did not extend
to the second collection of duties upon a cargo -from a
foreign port to a port occupied by a de facto government

MAcLEOD v. UNITE)
229 U. S.

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

which- had compulsorily required the payment of like
duties.
It is further contended that, if the collection of duties
was originally without authority, it was ratified by the
act of June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 634, 636, c. 3912), which
provides:
"That the tariff duties both import and export imposed
by the authorities of the United States or of the provisional
military government thereof in the Philippine Islands prior
to March eighth, nineteen hundred and two, at all ports
and places in said islands upon all goods, wares, and
merchandise imported into said islands from the United
States, or from foreign countries,. or exported from said
islands, are hereby legalized and ratified, and the collection of all such duties prior to March eighth, nineteen hundred and two, is hereby legalized and ratified and confirmed as fully to all intents and purposes as if the same
had by prior act of Congress been specifically authorized
and directed."
The history of this act and others growing out of the
Spanish-American War is fully set forth in United States
v. Heinszen & Co., 206 U. S. 370. This court had held
that the President had no authority to order the imposition of duties subsequent to the ratification of the treaty,
with reference to Porto Rico (Dooley v. United States,
supra), and with reference to the Philippine Islan(s (Fourteen Diamond Rings v. United States, 183 U. S. 176). The
act of July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 691, c. 1369), was then passed
by Congress, ratifying the action of the President in
making the order of July 12, 1898, whereby duties had
been collected at "all ports and places in the Philippine
Islands upon passing into the occupation and possession

of the forces of the, United States," and amendments of
that order, and ratifying such action of the aithoritics
in, the Philippines as was done in accordance with the
orders of the President. In Lincoln v. United States, and
Voi,. ccxxix-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Warner, Barnes & Co., Ltd., v. United States, 197 U. S.
419, affirmed on rehearing in 202 U. S. 484, the act of
July 1, 1902, was construed to apply only to duties collected prior to April 11, 1899 (when the treaty became
effective). In this situation, the month following the
decision of this court in 202 U. S. 484, supra (affirming
the Lincoln and Warner, Barnes & Co., Ltd., cases) Congress passed the ratifying act now in question. United
States v. Heinszen & Co., supra, 381.
Conceding that the act is broad enough in terms to
cover tariff duties exacted under the authority of the
President's orders before the ratification of the treaty,
it is expressly limited to tariff duties, import and export,
imposed by the authorities of the United States and of the
provisional government of the Islands prior to March 8,
1902 (the date of the act of Congress temporarily providing revenue for the Philippine Islands, 32 Stat. 54,
c. 140); and there is no expression of purpose in the statute to enlarge the executive orders of the President, which
limited the collection of duties during our military occupation to ports and places actually held 'and occupied
by the forces of the United States, or to ratify collections
made where goods had been entered at a port not under
American control and in possession of a de facto insurrectionary government, as is here shown.
The statute should be construed in the light of the purpose of the Government to act within the limitation of
the principles of international law, the observance of
which is so essential to the peace and harmony of nations,
and it should not be assumed that Congress proposed to
violate the obligations of this country to other nations,
which it was the manifest purpose of the President to
scrupulously observe and which were founded upon the
principles -f international law.
The act has the scope given to it in the case of United
States v. Heinszen & Co., 206 U. S. 370, namely, to ratify

CONTINENTAL TRUST CO. i. CH1.
229 lJ.S.

TITLE CO.

435

Syllabus.

"the collection of the duties levied under the order of the
President," which, as we have seen, werb tariff duties
imposed at ports in the occupation and possession of
the United States. The tariff duties upon the cargo of
rice here in question were paid to the de facto authorities
at Cebu, where the cargo was entered, and the payment
made At Manila was not a tariff duty but an illegal and
unwarranted exaction in the nature of a penalty, covered
by neither the orders of the President nor the ratifying
acts of Congress.
We think the Court of Claims was in error in holding
the duties'collectible at Manila under the circumstances
related, and in adjudging that the act of June 30, 1906,
ratified the conduct of, the military authorities at Manila
in compelling such payment. Its judgment will therefore
be reversed and the case remanded to the Court of Claims
with instructions to enter judgment for the claimant.
Reversed.

CONTINENTAL & COMMERCIAL TRUST & SAVINGS BANK v. CHICAGO TITLE & TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF PRINCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 741. Argued January 6, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.
To constitute a preferential transfer within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 there must be a parting with the bankrupts'
property for the benefit of the creditor and a consequent diminution
of the bankrupt's estate. Newport Bank v. IHerkimer Bank, 225 U. S.
178.
In determining whether there has been a preferential payment, the

