UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.

53

Syllabus

229 U. S.

retained from money due under a later contract. The
liability might have been asserted by the Government in
an action; but it might, as it did, charge it up as a set-off
against its, own liability. It would be folly to require the
Government to pay under the one contract what it must
eventually recover for a breach of the other.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR WATER
POWER COMPANY.

CHANDLER-DUNBAR WATER POWER COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
ST. MARYS POWER COMPANY
STATES.

v. UNITED

BROWN, RECEIVER OF THE MICHIGAN LAKE

SUPERIOR

POWER

COMPANY,

v.

UNITED

STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

Nos. 783, 784, 785, 786. Argued April 28, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.
The technical title to the beds of navigable rivers of the United States
is either in the States in which the rivers are situated, or in the
riparian owners, depending upon the local law.
Upon the admission of Michigan as a State into the Union the bed of
the St. Marys River passed to the State; under the law of Michigan
a conveyance of land bordering upon a navigable river carries the
title to the middle thread.
The title of the riparian owner to the bed of a navigable. stream is a
qualifie'd one, and subordinate to the public right of navigation and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

subject to the absolute power of Congress over the improvement of
navigable rivers.
Under the Constitution, Congress can adopt any means for the improvement of navigation that are not prohibited by that instrument
itself.
Connerce includes navigation and it is for Congress to determine
when and to what extent its powers shall be brought into activity.
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713.
The judgment of Congress as to whether a construction in or over a
navigable river is or is not an obstruction to navigation is an exercise of legislative power and wholly within its control and beyond
judicial review; and so held as to the determination of Congress that
the whole flow of St. Marys River be directed exclusively to the
improvement thereof by the erection of new locks therein.
The flow of the stream of a navigable river is in no sense private property, and( there is no room for judicial review, at the instance of a
private owner of the banks of the stream, of a determination of
Congress that such flow is needed for the improvement of navigation.
One placing obstructions in a navigable stream under a revocable
permit of the Secretary of War does.not acquire any right to maintain
the same longer than the Government continues the license; and an
act of Congress revoking the permit does not amount to a taking of
private property so far as exclusion from what was covered by the
permit is concerned.
Private ownership of running water in a great navigable stream is inconceivable.
Every structure in the water of a navigable river is subordinate to the
right of navigation and must be removed, even if the owners sustain
a loss thereby, if Congress, in assertion of its power over navigation
so determines.
The act of Congress of March 3, 1909, declaring that a public necessity
existed for absolute control of all the water of St. Marys River excludes forever all structures necessary for commercial use of the
water power, regardless of whether there may be any surplus in the
flow beyond that required for purposes of navigation.
Even if the act declaring that the entire flow of a navigable stream is
necessary for navigation provides for the sale of surplus power, the
act is still a taking for the purposes of navigation and not for a commercial use.
If the primary object is a legitimate taking there is no objection to the
usual disposition of what may be a possible surplus of piower. Kaakauna Co. v. Green Bay Canal, 142 U. S. 254.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

55

Statement of the Case.

An objection to selling excess water power resulting from construction of works for the improvement of navigation cannot be made
by one who has no property right in the water which has been
taken.
An owner of upland bordering on a navigable river which is taken
under condemnation by the Government for the purpose of improving navigation is entitled to compensation for the fair value of
the property, but not to any additional values based upon private
interest in the potential water power of the river.
The Fifth Amendment is satisfied by payment to the owner of what he
actually loses; it does not demand what the taker has gained. Chanber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189.
One whose property is taken by the Government for improvement of
the navigation of the river on which it borders is not entitled to the
probably advanced value by reason of the contemplated improvement. The value is to be fixed as of the date of the proceedings.
One whose land is taken by the Government for a particular purpose is
entitled to have the fact that the land is peculiarly available for such
purpose considered in the appraisal. Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S.
403.
Where a survey of a town site has not been carried out the title of the
streets does not pass out of the United States and the value of the
street cannot be added to that of the abutting property in condemnation proceedings at the instance of the United States.
The owner of a separate parcel is not entitled to additional value resulting as part of a comprehensive scheme of improvement, requiring
the taking of his and other property. Chamber of Commerce v.
Boston, 217 U. S. 189.
"Strategic value" cannot be allowed in condemnation proceedings;
the value of the property to the Government for a particular use is
not the criterion. The owner is compensated when he is allowed full
market value.
Where the state' of the title and pending litigation affecting it is set
up in the pleadings, the fact that the Government seeks condemnation of the property does not amount to conceding that the title is in
the party claiming it and against whom the proceeding is directed.
In this case all rights were reserved.

THESE writs of error are for the purpose of reviewing a
judgment in a condemnation proceeding instituted by
the United States under the eleventh section of an act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

Congress of March 3, 1909, 35 Stat., pp. 815, 820, c. 264.
The section referred to is set out in the margin. 1
,_ The notice of condemnation required by the statute
was duly given by the Secretary of War and this proSic. 11. That the ownership in fee simple absolute by the United
States of all lands and property of every kind and description north of
the present Saint Marys Falls Ship Canal throughout its entire length
and lying between said ship canal and the international boundary line
at Sault Sainte Maric, in the State of Michigan, is necessary for the purposes of navigation of said waters and the waters connected therewith.
The Secretary of War is hereby directed to take proceedings inmediately for the acquisition by condemnation or otherwise of all of
said lands and property of every kind and description, in. fee simple
absolute. He shall proceed in such taking by filing in the office of the
register of deeds of Chippewa County, in the State of Michigan, a
writing, stating the purpose for which the same is taken under the
provisions of this sectionrand giving a full description of all the lands
and property of every kind and description thus to be taken. After
the filing of said writing, and ten days after publication thereof in one
or more newspapers in the city of Sault Sainte Marie, in the State of
Michigan, the United States shall be entitled to, and shall take, inmediate possession of the property described, and may at once proceed with such public works thereon as have been authorized by Congress for the uses of navigation.
The Circuit Court of the United States for the western district of
Michigan is hereby given exclusive jurisdiction to hear condemnation
proceedings and to determine what compensation shall be awarded for
property taken under authority of this section. After the taking of
any property by the Government of the United States, as herein provided for, the United States, by its proper officials, shall begin condemonation proceedings in the aforesaid court, and the practice shall
be in accordance with the practice in the courts of the State of Michigan for the condemnation of lands by the State for public buildings of
such State so far as the same may be followed without conflicting with
the provisions hereof. Possession may be taken by the United States
prior to a determination by a court of any necessity of taking, and prior
to any determination of the amount of compensation.
Any money payable by the Government under the provisions of
this section shall be payable out of any money heretofore authorized
or appropriated for the purpose of improving Saint Marys River at
the falls, Michigan.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

57

Statement of the Case.

ceeding was instituted against all the corporations and
persons supposed to have any interest in the property

sought to b& condemned.

A jury was waived and the

All that part of "An Act making appropriations for the construction,
repair, and preservation of certain public works on rivers and harbors,
and for other purposes,' approved March second, nineteen hundred
and seven, beginning with the words "and all lands and waters north
of the present Saint'Marys Falls ship canal throughout its length,"
and ending with the words "to comply with the provisions of the river
and harbor Act of nineteen hundred and two, but such lands, if so
acquired, shall be obtained without expense to the United States," is
hereby repealed.
Every permit, license, or authority of every kind, nature, and description, heretofore issued or granted by the United States, or any
official thereof, to the Chandler-Dunbar Water Power Company, the.
Edison Sault Light and Power Company, the Edison Sault Electric
Company, or the Saint Marys Power Company, shall cease and determine and become null and void on January first., nineteen hundred
and eleven, and the Secretary of War is hereby authorized and instructed to revoke, cancel, and annul every such permit, license or authority, to take effect on January first, nineteen hundred and eleven.
The Secretary of War may, in his discretion, permit the ChandlerDunbar Water Power Company and the Edison Sault Electric Con-.
pany to maintain their present works and utilize the water power in
said river at said rapids, in so far as the sane does not interfere with
navigation, or retard the construction of government works in said
river, under such rules or regulations as have been or hereafter shall
be imposed by the Secretary of War, until they shall be paid the coinpensation awarded by the court for their property condemned under
the provisions of this section; but said permit shall not extend beyond
January first, nineteen hundred and eleven.
The President of the United States is respectfully requested to open
negotiations with the Government of Great Britain for the purpose of
effectually providing, by suitable treaty with said Government, for
maintaining ample water levels for the uses of navigation in the Great
Lakes and the waters connected therewith, by the construction of such
controlling and remedial works in the connecting rivers and channels
of such lakes as may be agreed upon by the said governments under
the provisions of saiq treaty.
The Secretary, of War is further authorized and instructed to cause
to be made a preimin'ary exanination and survey to ascertain and

OCTO3ER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

evidence submitted to the court, which, at the request
of all the parties, made specific findings of fact and law.
By an agreement, the property of the International
Bridge Company required by the Government was acquired by dee.d, and later in the progress of the case the
property of the Edison-Sault Electric Company involved
in the proceeding was acquired by stipulation. This
eliminates from the cases every question except those
arising in respect of the compensation to be awarded to
the Chandler-Dunbar Water Power Company, the St.
Marys Power Company and Clarence M., Brown, Receiver of the Michigan Lake Superior Power Company.
The final judgment of the court was:
1. That the ownership in fee simple absolute by the
United States of all lands and property of every kind and
description north of the present St. Marys Falls Ship
Canal, throughout its entire length and lying between
the said ship canal and the international line at Sault
St. Marie, in the State of Michigan, was necessary for the
purposes of navigation of said waters and the waters connected therewith as declared by the act of March 3, 1909.
The compensation awarded was as follows:
a. To the Chandler-Dunbar Company, $652,332. Of
this $550,000 was the estimated value of the water power.
b. To the St. Marys Falls Power Company, $21,000.
c. To the Edison-Sault Electric Company, $300,000,
which has, however; been settled by stipulation.
d. To the Michigan Lake Superior Power Co., nothing.
From these awards the Government, the ChandlerDunbar Company, the St. Marys Falls Power Company,
and the Michigan Lake Superior Power Company, have
sued out writs of error.
determine a proper plan and the probable expense for constructing i
the rapids of the Saint Marys Riverafilling basin orforebay, from which
the ship locks shall be filled: Provided, That such survey shall in no way
delay or interfere with the plans for construction already under way.

UNITED STATES v. CIIANDLER--I)UNBAI
229 U. S.

CO.

59

Counsel for Parties.

The errors assigned by the United States challenge the
allowance of any compensation whatever on account of
any water power right claimed by any of the owners of
the condemned upland, and also the principles adopted
by the District Court for the valuation of the upland
taken. The several corporations, who have sued out
writs of error, complain of the inadequacy of the award
on account of water power claimed to have been taken,
and also of the valuation placed upon the several parcels
of upland condemned.
The errors assigned by the United States deny that
any water power in which the defendants below had any
private property right has been taken, and also deny the
claim that riparian owners must be compensated for
exclusion from the use of the water power inherent in
the falls and rapids of the St. Marys River, whether the
flow of the river be larger than the needs of navigation
or not. The awai'd of $550,000 on account of the claim
of the Chandler-Dunbar Company to the undeveloped
water power of the river at the St. Marys rapids in excess
of the supposed requirements of navigation constitutes
the prime question in the case, and its importance is increased by the contention of that company that the assessment of damages on that account is grossly inadequate
and should have been $3,450,000.
Each of the several plaintiffs in error also challenge the
awards made on account of the several parcels of upland
taken,-the Government insisting that the awards are
excessive, and the owners, that they are inadequate.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler, with whom Mr.
Reeves T. Stricklandwas on the brief, for the United States.'
Mr. Wiiliam L. Carpenter for St. Marys Power Company, plaintiff in error in No. 785, submitted.'
See note oil nlext page.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Mr. Moses Hooper, with whom Mr. John H. Goff and
Mr. A. B. Eldredge were on the brief, for Chandler-Dunbar
Water Power Company, defendafnt in error in No. 783
and plaintiff in error in No. 784.1
MR.JUSTICE LURTON, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

From the foregoing it will be seen that the controlling
questions are, first, whether the Chandler-Dunbar Company has any private property in the water power capacity
of the rapids and falls of the St. Marys River which has
been "taken," and for which compensation must be made
under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution; and,
second, if so, what is the extent of its water power right
and how shall the compensation be measured?
That compensation must be made for the upland taken
is not disputable. The measure of compensation may in
a degree turn upon the relation of that species of property
to the alleged water power rights claimed by the ChandlerDunbar Company. We, therefore, pass for the present
the errors assigned which concern the awards made for
such upland.
The technical title to the beds of the navigable rivers of
the United States is either in the States in which the
rivers are situated, or in the owners of the land bordering
upon such rivers. Whether in one or the other is a question of local law. Shively v. Bowlby, 152-U. S. 1, 31;
Philadelphia Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605, 624,
632; Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S.229. Upon the admission
of the State of Michigan into the Union the bed .of the
St. Marys River passed to the State, and under the law
1 The briefs in this case were very elaborate and exhaustive, several
hundred authorities bearing on the issues involved are collated and reviewed. This renders it impossible to make abstracts of them.

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

61

Opinion of the Court.

of that State the conveyance of a tract of land upon a
navigable river carries the title to the middle thread.
Webber v. The Pere Marquette &c., 62 Michigan, 626;
Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 163; United States v.
Chandler-DunbarWater Power Co., 209 U. S. 447.
The technical title of the Chandler-Dunbar Company
therefore, includes the bed of the river opposite its upland
on the bank to the middle thread of the stream, being the
boundary line at that point between the United States
and the Dominion of Canada. Over this bed flows about
two-thirds of the volume of water constituting the falls
and rapids of the St. Marys River. By reason of that
fact, and the ownership of the shore, the company's claim
is, that it is the owner of the river and of -the inherent
power in the falls and rapids, subject only to the public
right of navigation. While not denying that this right
of navigation is the dominating right, yet the claim is
that the United States in the exercise of the power to
regulate commerce, may not exclude the rights of riparian
owners to construct in the river and upon their own submerged lands such appliances as are necessary to control
and use the current for commercial purposes, provided
only that such structures do not impede or hinder navigation and that the flow of the stream is not so diminished
as to leave less than every possible requirement of navigation, present and future. This claim of a proprietary
right in the bed of the river and in the flow of the stream
over that bed to the extent that such flow is in excess of
the wants of navigation constitutes the ground upon
which the company asserts that a necessary effect of the
act of March 3, 1909, and of the judgment of condenmation in the court below, is a taking from it of a property
right or interest of great value, for which, under the Fifth
Amendment, compensation must be made.
This is the view which was entertained by Circuit Judge
Denison in the court below, and is supported by most

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

careful findings of fact and law and an elaborate and able
opinion. The question is, therefore, one which from every
standpoint deserves careful consideration.
This title of the owner of fast land upon the shore of a
navigable river to the bed of the river, is at best a qualified
one. It is a title which inheres in the ownership of the
shore and, unless reserved or excluded by implication,
passed with it as a shadow follows a substance, although
capable of distinct ownership. It is subordinate to the
public right of navigation, and however helpful in protecting the owner against the acts of third parties, is of
no avail against the exercise of the great and absolute
power of Congress over the improvement of navigable
rivers. That power of use and control comes from the
power to regulate commerce between the States and with
foreign nations. It includes navigation and subjects
every navigable river to the control of Congress. All
means having some positiye relation to the end in view
which are not forbidden by some other provision of the
Constitution, are admissible. If, in the judgment of
Congress, the use of the bottom of the river is proper
for the purpose of placing therein structures in aid of
navigation, it is not thereby taking private property for
a public use, for the owner's title was in its very nature
subject to that use in the interest of public navigation.
If its judgment be that structures placed in the river and
upon such submerged land, are an obstruction or hindrance to the proper use of the river for purposes of navigation, it may require their removal and forbid the use
of the bed of the river by the owner in any way which
in its judgment is injurious to the dominant right of navigation. So, also, it may permit the construction and
maintenance of tunnels under or bridges over the river,,
and may require the removal of every such'structure
placed there with or without its license, the element of
contract out of the way, which it shall require to be re-

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

63

Opinion of the Court.

moved or altered as an obstruction to navigation. In
Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 724, this court said:
"Commerce includes navigation. The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for that purpose,
and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable waters,
of the United States which are accessible from a State
other than those in which they lie. For this purpose
they are the public property of the nation, and subject
to all the requisite legislation by Congress. This necessarily includes the power to keep them open and free from
any obstructions to their navigation, interposed by the
States or otherwise; to remove such obstructions when
they exist; and to provide, by such sanctions as they may
deem proper, against the occurrence of the evil and for
the punishment of offenders. For these purposes,, Congress possesses all the powers which existed in the States
before the adoption of the national Constitution, and
which have always existed in the Parliament in England.
"It is for Congress to determine when its full power
shall be brought into activity, and as to- the regulations
and sanctions which shall be provided."
In Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, it is said
(p. 271):
"All navigable waters are under the control of the
United States for the purpose of regulating and improving
navigation, and although the title to the shore and submerged soil is in the various States and individual owners
under them, it is always ,subject to the servitude in respect
of navigation created in favor of the Federal Government
by the Constitution."
Thus in Scranton v. Wheeler, supra, the Government
constructed a long dyke or pier upon such submerged
lands in the river here involved, for the purpose of aiding
its navigation. This cut the riparian owner off from direct
access to deep water, and he claimed that his rights had

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S,

been invaded and his property taken without compensation. This court held that the Government had not
"taken" any property which was not primarily subject to
the very use to which it had been put, and, therefore,
denied his claim. Touching the nature and character of a
riparian owner in the submerged lands in front of his upland bounding upon a public navigable river such as the
St. Marys, this court said (p. 163):
"The primary use of the waters and the lands under
them is for purposes of navigation, and the erection of
piers in them to improve navigation for the public is
entirely consistent with such use, and infringes no right
of the riparian owner. Whatever the nature of the interest of a. riparian owner in the submerged lands in front
of his upland bounding on a public navigable water, his
title is not as full and complete as his title to fast land
which has no direct connection with the navigation of
such waters. t is a qualified title, a bare technical title,
not at his absolute disposal, as is his upland, but to be
held at all times subordinate to such use of the submerged
lands and of the.waters flowing over them as may be consistent with or demanded by the public right of navigation."
So unfettered is this control of Congress over the navigable streams-of tjhg country that its judgment as to whether
a construction inor over such a river is or is not an obstacle 'anda hindrance to navigation, is conclusive. Such
judgment and determination is the exercise of legislative
power in respect ofa subject wholly within its control.
In Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Company, 18 How.
421, 430, this court, upon the facts in evidence, held that
a bridge over the Ohio River, constructed under an act of
the State of Virginia., created an obstruction to navigation,
and was a nuisance which should be removed. Before
the decree was executed Congress declared th6. bridge a
lawful structure and not an obstruction. This court there-

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

65

Opinion of the Court.

upon refused to issue a mandate for carrying into effect
its own decree, saying:
"Although it still may be an obstruction in fact, it is
not so in the contemplation of law. We have already said,
and the principle is undoubted, that the act of the legislature of Virginia conferred full authority to erect and maintain the bridge, subject to the exercise of the power of
Congress to regulate the navigation of the river. That
body having in the exercise of this power, regulated the
navigation consistent with its preservation and continuation, the authority to maintain it would seem to be complete. That authority combines the concurrent powers
of both governments, State and Federal, which, if not
sufficient, certainly none can be found in our system of,
government.'
In Philadelphiav. Stimson, supra, and in Union Bridge
Company v. United States, 204 U. S. 364, many of the
cases are cited and reviewed and we need add nothing
more to the discussion.
The conclusion to be drawn is, that the question of
whether the proper regulation of navigation of this river
at the place in question required that no construction of
any kind should be placed or continued in the river by
riparian owners, and whether the whole flow of the stream
should be conserved for the use and safety of navigation,
are questions legislative in character; and when Congress
determined, as it did by the act of March 3, 1909, that
the whole river between the American bank and the international line, as well as all of the upland north of the
present ship canal, throughout its entire length, was
"necessary for the purposes of navigation of said waters
and the waters connected therewith," that determination
was conclusive.
So much of the zone covered by this declaration as consisted of fast land upon the banks of the river, or in islands
which were private property, is, of course, to be paid for.
VOL. CCXXIX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

BuL the flow of the stream was in no sense private property, and there is no room for a judicial review of the
judgment of Congress that the flow of the river is not in
excess of any possible need of navigation, or for a determination that if in excess, the riparian owners had any private
property right in such excess which must be paid for if
they have been excluded from the use of the same.
That Congress did not act arbitrarily in determining
that "for the purposes of navigation of said waters and
the waters connected therewith," Lhe whole flow of the
stream should be devoted exclusively to that end, is most
evident when we consider the character of this stream and
its relation to the whole problem of lake navigation. The
river St. Marys is the only outlet for the waters of Lake
Superior. The stretch of water called the falls and rapids
of the river is about 3,000 feet long and from bank to
bank has a width of about 4,000 feet. About two-thirds
of the volume of the stream flows over the submerged
lands of the Chandler-Dunbar Company, the rest over
like lands on the Canadian side of the boundary. The fall
in the rapids is about 18 feet. This turbulent water,
substantially unnavigable without the artificial aid of
canals around the stream, constitutes both a tremendous
obstacle to navigation and an equally great source of
water power, if devoted to commercial purposes. That
the wider needs of navigation might not be hindered by
the presence in the river of the construction works necessary to use it for the development of water power for commercial uses under private ownership was the judgment
and determination of Congress. There was also present
in the mind of Congress the necessity of controlling the
outflow from Lake Superior, which averages some 64,000
cubic feet per second. That outflow has great influence
both upon the water level of Lake Superior and also upon
the4.evel of the great'system of lakes below, which receive
that outflow.. A difference of a foot in the level of Lake

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

67

Opinion of the Court.

Superior may influence adversely access to the harbors on
that lake. The same fall in the water level of the lower
lakes will perceptibly affect access to their ports. This
was a matter of international consideration, for Canada,
as well as the United States, was interested in the control
and regulation of the lake water levels. And so we find
in the act of 1909 a request that the President of the
United States will open negotiations with the Government
of Great Britain, "for the purpose of effectually providing,
by suitable treaty, for maintaining ample water levels
for the uses of navigation in the Great Lakes and the
waters connected therewith, by the construction of such
controlling and remedial works in the connecting rivers
and channels of such lakes as may be agreed upon by the
siid governments under the provisions of said treaty."
The falls and rapids are at the exit of the river from
the lake. Millions of public money have already been
expended in the construction of canals and locks, by this
government upon the American side, and by the Canadian Government upon its own side of the rapids, as
a means by which water craft may pass around the falls
and rapids in the river. The commerce using these facilities has increased byleaps and bounds. The first canal
had hardly been finished before it became inadequate.
A second upon the American side was constructed parallel with the first. The two together are insufficient,
though the canal upon the Canadian side accommodates
much of the commerce. The main purpose of the act
of 1909 was to clear the way for generally widening and
enlarging facilities for the ever growing commerce of
the Great Lakes. The act, therefore, looks to the construction of one or more canals and locks, paralleling
those in use, and directs a survey "to ascertain and do.termine the proper plan.
f....6tr
constructing in
the rapids...
a filling basin or forebay from which
the ship locks may be filled."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

The upland belonging to the Chandler-Dunbar Company consists of a strip of land some 2,500 feet long and
from 50 to 150 feet wide. It borders upon the river on
one side, and on the Government canal strip on the other.
Under permits from the Secretary of War, revocable at
will, it placed in the rapids, in connection with its upland
facilities, the necessary dams, dykes and forebays for the
purpose of controlling the current 'and using its power for
commercial purposes, and has been for some years engaged in using and selling water power. What it did was
by the revocable permission of the Secretary of War, and
every such permit or license was revoked by the act of
1909. (See act of September 19, 1890, 26 Stat., pp. 426,
454, c. 907, forbidding the construction of any dam, pier
or breakwater in any navigable river without permission
of the Secretary of War, or the creation of any obstruction
not affirmatively authorized by law, "to the navigable
capacity of such rivers." See also the later act of March 3,
1899, 30 Stat., pp. 1151, 1155, c. 425, and United States v.
Rio Grande Irrigation Company, 174 U. S. 690, construing
and applying the act of 1890). That it did not thereby
acquire any right to maintain these constructions in the
river longer than the Government should continue the
license, needs no argument. They were placed in the
river under a permit which the company knew was likely
to be revoked at any time. There is nothing in the facts
which savors of estoppel in law or equity. The suggestion
by counsel that the act of 1909 contemplates that the
owner should be compensated not only for its tangible
property, movable or real, but for its loss and damage by
the discontinuance of the company's license and its exclusion from the right to use the water power inherent in
the falls and rapids, for commercial purposes, is without
merit. The provisions of the act in respect of compensation apply only to compensation for such "property
described" as shall be held private property taken for

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

69

Opinion of the Court.

public uses. Unless, therefore, the water power rights
asserted by the Chandler-Dunbar Company are determined to be private property the court below was not
for such rights.
authorized to award compensation
It is a little difficult to understand the'basis for the claim
that in appropriating the upland bordering upon this
stretch of water, the Government not only takes the land
but also the great water power which potentially exists
in the river. The broad claim that the water power of
the stream is appurtenant to the bank owned by it, and
not dependent upon ownership of the soil over which the
river flows has been advanced. But whether this private
right to the use of the flow of the water and flow of the
stream be based upon the qualified title which the company had to the bed of the river over which it flows or
the ownership of'land bordering upon the river, is of no
prime importance. In neither event can there be said to
arise any ownership of the river. Ownership of a private
stream wholly upon the lands of an individualf is conceivable; but that the running water in a great navigable stream is capable of private ownership is inconceivable.
Whatever substantial private property rights exist in
the flow of the stream must come from some right which
that company has to construct and maintain such works
in the river, such as dams, walls, dykes, etc., essential to
the utilization of the power of the stream for commercial
purposes. We may put out of view altogether the class
of cases which deal with the right of riparian owners upon
a non-navigable stream to the use and enjoyment of the
stream and its waters. The use of the fall of such a stream
for the production of power may be a reasonable use consistent with the rights of those above and below. The
necessary dam to use the power might completely obstruct the stream, but if the effect was not injurious to the
property of those above or to the equal rights of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

below, none could complain, since no public interest would
be affected. We may also lay out of consideration the
cases cited which deal with the rights of riparian owners
upon navigable or non-navigable streams as between each
other. Nor need we consider cases cited which deal with
the rights of riparian owners under state laws and private
or public charters conferring rights. That riparian owners
upon public navigable rivers have in addition to the rights
common to the public certain rights to the use and enjoyment of the stream which are incident to such ownership
of the bank, must be conceded. These additional rights
are not dependent upon title to the soil over which the
river flows, but are incident to ownership upon the bank.
Among these rights of use and enjoyment is the right, as
against other riparian owners, to have the stream come
to them substantially in its natural state, both in quantity
and quality. They have also the right of access to deep
water, and when not forbidden by public law may construct for this purpose, wharves, docks, and piers in the
shallow water of the shore. But every such structure in
the water of a navigable river is subordinate to the right
of navigation, and subject to the obligation to suffer the
consequences of the improvement of navigation, and must
be removed if Congress in the assertion of its power over
navigation shall determine that their continuance is detrimental to the public interest in the navigation of the
river. Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269; Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635. It is for Congress to
decide what is and what is not an obstruction to navigation; Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18 How. 421;

Union.Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; PhilaCo. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605.
delphia
To utilize
the rapids and fall of the river which flows
by the upland of the Chandler-Dunbar Company, it has
been and will be necessary to construct and maintain in
the river the structures necessary to control and direct

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUN3AR CO.
229 U. S.

71

Opinion of the Court.

the flow so that it may be used for commercial purposes.
The thirty-fourth finding of fact includes this:
"For about twenty years the Chandler-Dunbar Company, or its predecessors or someone claiming under it,
has been developing power at this part of the rapids'.
This was accomplished by a short transverse dam near
the lower boundary of its land extending out a short
distance into the stream and then extending up along the
bed of the stream (substantially) parallel to the bank up
to the head of the rapids. This dam or wall toward its
upper end diverged out into the stream the better to
divert water into the headrace and into the forebay
formed by its lower part. Earlier structures of this character were replaced about 190t by those more extensive ones
which existed when this condemnation was made. While
considerable in extent and cost, they are inconsiderable
as compared with the structures now proposed to utilize
the whole power, and they were, comparatively speaking,
along the bank rather than across the stream."
The seventy-first finding of fact was in these words:
"All the development works ever constructed upon
the Chandler-Dunbar submerged lands by anyone, have
been constructed after obtaining from the Secretary of
War a permit therefor, and each such permit has been
expressly revocable by right of revocation reserved on its
face, to be exercised with or without cause. Each such
permit was revoked before the commencement of this
proceeding."
Upon what principle can it be said that in requiring
the removal of the development works which were in the
river upon sufferance, Congress has taken private property for public use without compensation? In deeiding
that a necessity existed for absolute control of the river
at the rapids, Congress has of course excluded, until it
changes the law, every such construction as a hindrance
to its plans and purposes for the )etterment (if naviga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

tion. The qualified title to the bed of the river affords
no ground for any claim of a right to construct and maintain therein any structure which Congress has by the act
of 1909 decided in effect to be an obstruction to navigation, and a hindrance to its plans for improvement. That
title is absolutely subordinate to the right of navigation
and no right of private property would have been invaded if such submerged lands were occupied by structures in aid of navigation or, kept free from such obstructions in the interest of navigation. Scranton v. Wheeler,
supra; Hawkins Light House Case, 39 Fed. Rep. 77, 83.
We need not consider whether the entire flow of the river
is necessary for the purposes of navigation, or whether
there is a surplus which is to be paid for, if the ChandlerDunbar Company is to be excluded from the commercial
use of that surplus. The answer, is found in the fact that
Congress has determined that the stream from the upland
taken to the international boundary is necessary for the
purposes of navigation. That determination operates to
exclude from the river forever the structures necessary for
the c.ommercial use of the water power. That it does
not deprive the Chandler-Dunbar Company of private
property rights follows from the considerations before
stated.
It is said that the twelfth section of the act of 1909
authorizes the Secretary of War to lease upon terms
agreed upon, any excess of water power which results
from the conservation of the flow of the river, and the
works which the Government may construct. This it
is said is a taking of private property for commercial uses
and not for the improvement of navigation. But aside
from the exclusive public purpose declared by the eleventh
section of the act, the twelfth section declares that the
conservation of the flow of the river is "primarily for the
benefit of navigation, and incidentally for the purpose of
having the water power developed, either for the direct

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

73

Opinioh of the Court.

use of the United States, or by lease

.

.

. through

the Secretary of War." If the primary purpose is legitimate, we can see no sound objection to leasing any excess of power over the needs of the Government. The
practice is not unusual in respect to similar public works
constructed by state governments. In Kaukauna Co. v.
Green Bay &c. Canal, 142 U. S. 254, 273, respecting a
Wisconsin act to which this objection was made, the
court said:
"But, if, in the erection of a public dam for a recognized public purpose, there is necessarily produced a surplus of water, which may properly be used for manufacturing purposes, thereis- no sound reason why the State
may not retain to itself epower of ontrolling or disposing of such watef as an incident of its right- to7-imake
such improvement. Indeed, 'it might ,bepomevery necessary to retain the disposition of it in its own hands, in
order to !lieserve at all times a sufficient supply for the
purposes of navigation. If the riparian owners were allowed to tap the pond at differant places, and dyaw off
the water for their own use, serious consequences might
arise, not only in connection with the public demand for
the purposes of navigation, but between the riparian
owners themselves as to the proper proportion each was
entitled to draw controversies which could only be
avoided by the State reserving to itself the immediate
supervision of the entire supply. As there is no need of
the surplus running to waste, there was nothing objectionable in permitting the State to let out the use of it
to private parties, and thus reimburse itself for the expenses of the improvement."
It is at best not clear how the Chandler-Dunbar Company can be heard to object to the selling of any excess of
water power which may result from the construction of
such controlling or remedial works as shall be found advisable for the improvement of navigation, inasmuch as

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U.

it had no property right in the river which has been
"taken." It has, therefore, no interest whether the Government permit the excess of power to go to waste or
made the means of producing some return upon the great
expenditure.
The conclusion therefore is that the court below erred
in awarding $550,000, or any other sum for the value of
what is called "raw water," that is the present money
value of the rapids and falls to the Chandler-Dunbar
Company as riparian owners of the shore and appurtenant
submerged land.
Coming now to the award for the upland taken:
The court below awarded to the Chandler-Dunbar Company on this accounta. For the narrow strip of upland bordering on the
river, having an area of something more than 8 acres,
excluding the small parcels described in the pleadings and
judgment as claims 95 and 96, $65,000, less 7%,/ of that
sum on account of Portage Street, which the court later
found belonged to the United States and not to that company ....................................... $60,450
b. For the small parcels covered by claims 95
and 96 .................................. 25,000
338
c. For a half interest in lot on bridge property.
for
special
values:
These awards include certain sums
The value of the upland strip fixed at $60,450 was arrived
at, in this mannera. For its value, including railroad side tracks, buildings
and cable terminal, including also its use, "wholly disconnected with power development or public improvement, that is to say, for all general purposes, like residences, or hotels, factory sites, disconnected with water
power etc., $20,000."
b. "For use as factory site in connection with the development of 6,500 horse poyer, either as a single site
or for several factories to use the surplus of 6,500 horse

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

75

Opinion of the Court.

power not now used in the city, an additional value of
$20,000.
c. For use for canal and lock purposes, an oadditional
value of $25,000.
The small parcels constituting claims 95 and 96 were
valued at $25,000.
These two parcels seem to have been connected by a
costly fill. They fronted upon deep water above the head
of the rapids. They had therefore a special value for
wharfs, docks, etc., and had been so used. The gross sum
awarded included the following elements:
a. For general wharfage, dock and warehouse purposes,
disconnected with development of power in the rapids,
$10,000.
b. For its special value for canal and lock purposes an
additional sum of $10,000.
c. In connection with the canal along the rapids, if used
as a part of the development of 4,500 (6,500) horse power,
an additional value of $5,000.
The United States excepted to the additional value
allowed in consequence of the availability of these parcels
in connection with the water power supposed to be the,
property of the Chandler-Dunbar Company, and supposed
to have'been taken by the Government in this case. It
also excepted to so much of tile awards as constituted
an additional value by reason of availability for lock and
canal purposes.
These exceptions so far as they complain of the additional value to be attached to these parcels for use as
factory sites in connection with the development of horse
p)ower by the Chandler-Dunbar Company, must be sustained. These "additional" values were based upon the
erroneous hypothesis that that company had a private
p)roperty interest in the water power of the river, iiot
possibly needed now or in tile future fol purposes of nzavigaiion, and that that excess or surplus water was a)able,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 (T.S.

by some (,xt(tision of thewir works already in tthe river, of
1 )roduiing 6,500 horse power.
Having -decided that the Chandler-Dunbar Company
as riparian owners had no such'vested property right in the
water power inherent in the falls and rapids ofjhe river,
and no right to place in the river the works essential to
any practical use of the flow of the river, the Government
cannot be justly required to pay for an element of value
which did not inhere in these parcels as upland. The
Government had dominion over the water power of the
rapids and falls and cannot be required to pay any hypothetical additional value to a riparian owner who had
no right to appropriate the current to his own commerci:l
use. These additional values represent, therefore, no actual loss and there would be no justice in paying for a
loss suffered by no one in fact. "The requirement of the
Fifth Amendment is satisfied when the owner is paid for
what is taken from him. The question is what has the
owner lost, and not what has the taker gained-'
Boston Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 194,
195.
Neither can consideration be given to probable advancement in the value of such riparian property by reason of
the works to be constructed in the river by the Government, or the use to which the flow of the stream might be
directed by the Government. The value should be fixed
as of the date of the proceedings and with reference to the
loss the owner sustains, considering the property in its
condition and situation at the time it is taken and not as
enhanced by the purpose for which it was taken. Kerr
v. Park Commissioners, 117 U. S. 379, 387; Shoemaker v.
United States, 147 U. S. 282, 304, 305.
The exception taken to the inclusion as an element of
value of the availability of these parcels of land for lock
and canal purposes must be overruled. That this land
had a prospective value for the purpose of constructing

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUINBAR CO.
229 U. S.

77

Opinion of the Court.

a canal and lock parallel with those in use had passed
beyond the region of the purely conjectural or speculative.
That one or more additional parallel canals and locks
would be needed to meet the increasing demands of lake
traffic was an immediate probability. This land was the
only land available for the purpose. It included all the
land between the canals in use and the bank of the river.
Although it is not proper to estimate land condemned for
public purposes by the public necessities or its worth to
the public for such purpose, it is proper to consider the
fact that the property is so situated that it will probably
be desired and available for such a purpose. Lewis on
Eminent Domain,  707. Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S.
403, 408; Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S.282; Young
v. Harrison,17 Georgia, 30; Alloway v. Nashville, 88 Tennessee, 510; Sargent v. Merrimac, 196 Massachusetts, 171.
Boom Company v. Patterson was this: A boom company
sought to condemn three small islands in the Mississippi
river so situated with reference to each other and the river
bank as to be peculiarly adapted to form a boom a mile in
length. The question in the case was whether their adaptability for that purpose gave the property a special value
which might be considered. This court held that the
adaptability of the land for the purposes of a boom was an
element which should be considered in estimating the value
of the lands condemned. The court said, touching the rule
for estimating damages in such cases:
"So many and varied are the circumstances to be taken
into account in determining the value of property condenmed for public purposes, that it is perhaps impossible
to formulate a rule to govern its appraisement in all cases.
Exceptional circumstances will modify the most carefully
guarded rule; but, as a general thing, we should say that
the compensation to the owner is to be estimated by reference to the uses for which the property is suitable, having
regard to the existing business or wants of the community,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

or such as may be reasonably expected in the immediate
future."
In Shoemaker v. United States, supra, lands were condemned for park purposes. In the court below the commissioners were instructed to estimate each piece of land
at its market value and that, "the market value of the
land includes its value for any use to which it may be put,
and all the uses to which it is adapted, and not merely
the condition in which it is at the present time, and the
use to which it is now applied by the owner;
that if, by reason of its location, its surroundings, its
natural advantages, its artificial improvement or its intrinsic character, it is peculiarly adapted to some particular use-e. g., to the use of a public park-all the
circumstances which make up this adaptability may be
shown, and the fact of such adaptation may be taken into
consideration in estimating the compensation."
The
court approved this instruction.
The Chandler-Dunbar Company has also assigned as
error the denial of any award on account of a portion of
Portage Street to which it claimed title. The title to that
parcel has never passed out of the United States. It was
part of a street laid off by a survey made of the village of
Sault Sainte Marie, a town which had grown up on public
land of the United States. But that survey was never
carried into a patent and the village never accepted this
part of the street. Thus abandoned, it was occupied for a
time by the Chandler-Dunbar Company, but not long
enough to acquire title. The court did not err in holding
that the company had acquired no title, and that title was
already in the United States.
The award to the St. Marys Power Company, as
owner of island No. 5 is excepted to. The value of
that island was fixed at $21,000. That amount was
reached, as shown by the 70th finding of fact, in this
manner:

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER,-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

79

Opinion of the Court.

a. As a base value, for general purposes, as for
$1,000
a cottage or fishing station...... ......
b. As a strategic value, growing out of the extent to which it may control or block
the most available development by up
$15,000
stream owners .......................
c. As an additional value, by reason of its
special suitability for lock or canal pur$5,000
poses . ............................
This island No. 5, otherwise known as Oshawano
Island, is on the American edge of the rapids and below
the Chandler-Dunbar property, and opposite that part
of the shore belonging to the United States. It has an
area of about one-third of an acre. The court found that
it had no appreciable water power which was in any sense
appurtenant, and so no allowance was made on that
account. Because none was made the St. Marys Power
Company sued out a writ of error. The reasons which
have induced us to deny such an allowance in respect of
upland upon the bank of the river, require the assignment
referred to to be held bad. The court below held, however, that the island had value in other ways, being those
mentioned above. In respect to the allowance of $15,000
as its "strategic value," the court below in its opinion
said:
"Owing to its location, this property has, and always
has had, a strategic value with reference to any general
scheme of water development in the river and because it
must be included as a tail race site, if not otherwise, in
any completely efficient plan of development by any
owner, private or public. This value is denied, because
it is, as Government counsel say, of the 'hold up' character. It should not be permitted to assume the latter
character, nor should the fair strategic value b-- denied
because there might be an attempt at exaggeration or
abuse. I fix this so-called strategic value at $10,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

(afterwards raised to $15,000), and it should be awarded
under the circumstances of this case to whomsoever the
owner may be."
This allowance has no solid basis upon which it may
stand. That the property may have to, the public a
greater value than its fair market value affords no just
criterion for estimating what the owner should receive.
It is not proper to attribute to it any part of the value
which might result from a consideration of its Value as a
necessary part of a comprehensive system of river improvement which should include the river and the upland
upon the shore adjacent. The ownership is not the same.
The principle applied in Boston Chamber of Commerce v.
Boston, 217 U. S. 189, is applicable. In that case it appeared that one person owned the land condemned subject to servitudes to others. It was sought to have damages assessed upon a bill in which all of the interests
joined for the purpose of having a lump sum awarded to
be divided as the parties might or had agreed. If this
could be done it was agreed that the estate, considered
as the sole unencumbered estateof a single person, was
worth many times more than if the damage should be
assessed according to the condition of the title at the
time. This court held that the requirement of compensation when land is taken for a public purpose "does not
require a disregard of the mode of ownership. It does not
require a parcel of land to be valued as an unencumbered
whole."
The "Strategic Value" for which $15,000 has been
allowed is altogether speculative. It is based not upon
the actual market value for all reasonable uses and demands, but the possible worth of the property to the
Government.
A "strategic value" might be realized by a price fixed
by the necessities of one person buying from another, free
to sell or refuse as the price suited. But in a condenina-

UNITED STATES v. CHANDLER-DUNBAR CO.
229 U. S.

81

Opinion of the Court.

tion proceeding, the value of the property to the Government for its particular use is not a criterion. The owner
must be compensated for what is taken from him, but
that is done when he is paid its fair market value for all
available uses and purposes. Lewis Eminent Domain,
3d ed.,  706; Moulton v. Newburyport Water Co., 137
Massachusetts, 163, 167; United States v. Seufert Bros.
Co., 78 Fed. Rep. 520; Alloway v. Nashville, 88 Tennessee,
510, 514; United States v. Honolulu Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 581.
The exception must be sustained.
One other assignment by the St. Marys Power Company
needs to be specially noticed. The title to Oshawano
Island is in ligitation between the United States and the
St. Marys Power Company. For this reason the award
to that company was ordered to remain in the registry
of the court until that litigation was. ended. The St.
Marys Power Company contends that when the United
States sought the condemnation of the property in this
proceeding it thereby conceded the title to be in it. But
the pleadings show that no such concession was made.
The state of the title and of the pending litigation was
set up and we think all rights were thereby reserved.
The assignments of error by the Michigan Lake Superior Power Company must be overruled. No property,
real or hypothetical, has been taken from it.
Other assignments of error by one or another of the
several plaintiffs in error need not be specially noticed.
They are all overruled as either covered by the views we
have expressed, or as having no merit.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and the
cases remanded with direction to enter a judgment in
accordance with this opinion.

VOL. CCXXIX-6

