CONTINENTAL TRUST CO. i. CH1.
229 lJ.S.

TITLE CO.

435

Syllabus.

"the collection of the duties levied under the order of the
President," which, as we have seen, werb tariff duties
imposed at ports in the occupation and possession of
the United States. The tariff duties upon the cargo of
rice here in question were paid to the de facto authorities
at Cebu, where the cargo was entered, and the payment
made At Manila was not a tariff duty but an illegal and
unwarranted exaction in the nature of a penalty, covered
by neither the orders of the President nor the ratifying
acts of Congress.
We think the Court of Claims was in error in holding
the duties'collectible at Manila under the circumstances
related, and in adjudging that the act of June 30, 1906,
ratified the conduct of, the military authorities at Manila
in compelling such payment. Its judgment will therefore
be reversed and the case remanded to the Court of Claims
with instructions to enter judgment for the claimant.
Reversed.

CONTINENTAL & COMMERCIAL TRUST & SAVINGS BANK v. CHICAGO TITLE & TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF PRINCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 741. Argued January 6, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.
To constitute a preferential transfer within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898 there must be a parting with the bankrupts'
property for the benefit of the creditor and a consequent diminution
of the bankrupt's estate. Newport Bank v. IHerkimer Bank, 225 U. S.
178.
In determining whether there has been a preferential payment, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellee.

229 U. S.

nature of the property transferred is not as essential as the facts
showing exactly what transpired between tho parties.
The arrangement involved in this action, made between a bank and a
grain broker, in regard to transferring ccrtificate's of deposit held as
collateral for dealings in grain on the Chicago Board of Trade, do not
appear to have in any way diminished the estate and held not to
have amounted to an illegal preference.
The purpose of § 68a of the Bankruptcy Act is to prevent debtors of
the bankrupt from acquiring claims against him for use by way of
set-off and reduction of their indebtedness by way of set-off; but the
transaction in this case does not come under § 68a. Western Tie
Timber Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502, distinguished.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
provisions of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, relating to preferential payments are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Horace Kent Tenney, with whom 3lfr. Roger Sherman was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edwin Terwilliger, Jr., with whom Mr. William J.
Pringle was on the brief, for appellee"
As to preferences. The transfer of the bankrupt's "open
trades" to Anderson was a transfer of property for the
benefit of the bank. Nat. Bank of Newport v. Nat. Herkimer Bank, 225 U. S. 178; Bank Act, ch. 1, § 1.
A preferential transfer includes every mode of disposing of property for the benefit of a'creditor, and circuity
of arrangement will not avail to save it. Nat. Bank v.
Nat. Herkiner Co. Bank, supra; Western Tie Co. v. Brown,
196 U. S. 502; Hackney v. Hargra'es, 99 N. W. Rep.
675.
The endorsement and delivery of the margin certificate
to the bank was a transfer 'of the amounts of the margin
securities held by the bank as a Board of Trade depository,
to the bank as a creditor, and was a payment. Traders'
Nat. Bank v. Campbell, 14 Wall. 87; Ridge Ave. Bank v.
Studheim, 145 Fed. Rep. 798; Lowell v. Trust Co., 158

('UNTNI,-NTAL TRUST Co.
229 U. S.

(,.1I. TITLE CO:

437

Argument for Appellee.

Fed. Rep. 781; Irish v. Citizens' Trust Co., 163 Fed. Rep.
880.

The deposit of more than enough to pay the specified
checks under the special deposit arrangement was a preferential transfer. N. Y. County Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S.
138; Western Tie Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502.
As to the right of set-off. There was no right of set-off
as to the margin securities, because the same were deposited, as security, with the bank in its capacity as a
Board of Trade depository, and not according to the custom of banks. They were special or specific deposits, and
not general deposits, and created a trust relation and not
a relation of debtor and creditor. Bolles on Banking, § 3;
Morse on Banking, § 185; Woodhouse v. Crandall, 197 Illinois, 104; Montague v. Pacific Bank, 81 Fed. Rep. 602;
Moreland v. Brown, 86 Fed. Rep. 257; Peck v. Ellicott, 30
Kansas, 156, 1 Pac. Rep. 499; People v. Bank, 96 N. Y.
92; Anderson v. Pacific Bank, 112 California, 598; Libby
v. Hopkins, 104 U. S. 303; Collins v. State, 33 Florida,
439.
A bank has no lien or right of set-off against special
deposits or money deposited for a specific purpose, as for
collateral security or for the payment of a particular debt.
3 Am. & Eng. Ency., 2d Ed., 822, 837; 5 Cyc. 552;
Morse on Banking, § 325; Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S.
390; Wagner v. Citizens' Trust Co., 122 S. W. Rep. 245;
Smith v. Sanborn State Bank, 126 N. W. Rep. 779; Dolph v.
Cross, 133 N. W. Rep. 667; In re Davis, 119 Fed. Rep. 950;
Germania Say. Bk. v. Loeb, 188 Fed. Rep. 285; Western
Tie Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502; Scott v. Armstrong, 146
U. S. 499; G-tay v. Rollo, 18 Wall. 632; M unger v. Albany
City Bank, 85 N. Y.589; Rawleigh v. Rawleigh, 35 Illinois,
512.
There was no right of sat-off as to the $575.79, because
it was not treated by the parties as a general deposit, but
was made "under special circumstances " amounting to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

special deposit. N. Y. County Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S.
138; Western Tie Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502; Germania
Sac. Bank v. Loeb, 188 Fed. Rep. 285.
The bank and bankrupt were in collusion to turn all
the bankrupt's available assets over for the benefit of the
bank. The alleged right of set-off was acquired with a
view to such use. Western Tie Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S.
502; National Security Bank v. Butler, 129 U.' S. .223;
Yardly v. Phi1er,167 U. S. 344, 359.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding
and involves questions of the right to certain property,
as between the appellant, the Continental & Commercial
Trust & Savings Bank, and the Chicago Title & Trust
Company, as trustee in bankruptcy of Earl H. Prince,
Bankrupt. Two items are involved, first, the sum of
$4,250, the amount of certain margin certificates issued
by the predecessor of the appellant Bank to the bankrupt
Prince; and second, a balance of $575.79 remaining in
Prince's checking account with the bank of the predecessor
of the appellant, therein deposited by the bankrupt. The
trustee brought the suit to recover the amount of the
margin certificates and the bank balance as having been
preferentially transferred within the terms of the Bankruptcy Act. The District Court held the trustee entitled
to recover,, and this decree was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 199 Fed. Rep. 704, and the case comes
here.
There .is no controversy as to the facts. A petition in
bankruptcy was filed against Prince, February 15, 1905.
He had been for several years a member of the Board of
Trade of Chicago, buying and selling on the Board and
subject to its rules. The Federal Trust & Savings Bank,
the predecessor of the appellant, was engaged in the gen-

CONTINEN'TAL TIUST CO. v. (m f. TITLE CO.
229 U. S.

439

Opinion of the Court.

eral banking business in the City of Chicago, and Prince
did his banking business at that bank, and had a general
deposit and checking account therein. By the rules of
the Board of Trade purchasers and sellers might require
of the other party to the trade a deposit of ten per cent.
of the contract price of the property bought or sold, and
further security from time to time as the margin might
require. Certain banks, of which the Federal Trust &
Savings Bank was one, were authorized to issue margin
certificates, which were in the following form:
"Federal Trust and Savings Bank
Chicago No .......
"Deposited by E. H. Prince,
$........
............................ Dollars.
As security on a contract or contracts between the depositor and ......................., which amount is
payable on the return of this certificate, or the duplicate
of the same (one of which being paid, the other shall
become void), duly endorsed by both of the above named
parties, or on the order of the President of the Board of
Trade of the City of Chicago, endorsed on either of the
original or duplicate hereof, as provided by the rules of
the Board of Trade under which the above named deposit
has been made.
, Original
Not negotiable or transferable
Cashier."
Margin certificates on various days from September 15,
1904, to February 9, 1905, in the form above set forth
had been issued to Prince, to procure which he had drawn
his check against his checking account with the Bank or
deposited with it the requisite sum of money. Each of
the said certificates evidenced a liability of the Bank to
Prince for the amount stated in the certificate, unless,
because of the default by Prince on the contract for which

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the certificate was held by the other party as security,
it was paid to such other party. The record of certificates
was kept in the margin register of the Bank.
On the fourteenth of February, 1905, the Vice President
of the Bank and Prince had a conference concerning the
financial troubles of Prince, and one W. P. Anderson,
of W. P. Anderson & Company, was called to the Bank.
A conference was had as to the best way of closing out
Prince's open trades, with the result that Anderson agreed
to act in the premises, and on the same day, February 14,
and the day following, Prince transferred all his open
trades in accordance with the rules of the Board to Anderson, for his company, and the latter agreed to carry
out Prince's contracts, and proceeded to do so. Anderson
& Company on February 15, 1905, substituted its own
securities for Prince's trades, and thereby recovered
the certificates deposited by Prince, which were turned
over to the Federal Trust & Savings Bank. Prince was
at that time indebted to the Bank in the sum of about
837,000, and the Bank, upon the return of the certificates
1roii1 Anderson & Company, applied the money secured
by the certificates to Prince's indebtedness to the Bank.
The Master found:
"That taking the said open trades so iransferred as a
whole, the condition of the market at the time of the
transfer was such that the aggregate sum of the amounts
due thereon to Earl 11. Prince from members of the Board
of Trade, if he had then settled the trades, would have
been greater than the aggregate sums of the amount then
due thereon from Prince to others of said members of the
Board; that among the open trades so transferred and
settled were trades with the said members of the Board
who held securities or margin certificates furnished by
the said Prince.
"That on February 15, 1905, the market was constantly
changing. If the trades with the members holding Prince's

CONTINENTAL TRUST CO. v. CHI. TITLE CO.
229 U. S.

441

Opinion of the Court.

margin certificates had been closed at the opening of the
Board on that day by the members holding them, there
wuld have been due from them to Prince in the aggregate
a balance of approximately one-third of the amount of
the certificates after deducting therefrom the amount
that would have been due to them from Prince. If the
trades had been closed later in the day, the balance coniiug to Prince would have been considerably less. However, if Prince had carried out all of these contracts, the
profits which he would have made upon some of them
would have been about balanced by the losses which he
would have sustained on others."
Furthermore:
"That the plan adopted at the conference between
Mr. Prince, Mr. Anderson and Mr. Castle was doubtless
the best plan that could have been adopted to avoid serious loss to Prince, or to his creditors. The condition of
the rnarket was such at that time that had Anderson
& Company not taken charge of Prince's trades and carried them through a . panic might have ensued on the
Board, and the market so fluctuated that the amount of
all of the margin certificates, and quite likely a considerable
more, would have been lost to Prince and his creditors."
The facts with respect. to the bank balance of $575.79
are: On February 10, 1905, the Bank called the loans of
Prince, and, such loans not being paid, the Bank applied
to them the sum of $3,095 then on deposit in Prince's
checking account, leaving the sum of $3.25 in that account. On the same day the Bank agreed with Prince
that, if he would thereafter make deposits for such purpose, it would pay certain salary and payroll checks of
Prince and checks issued to the Board of Trade Clearing
House. Checks were paid on divers days between the
fourth and fourteenth of February, 1905, to the amount
of $2,506.46, and Prince deposited with the Bank between
the tenth and fourteenth of February a total of $3,079,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 IT.S.

all such items being entered upon the books of the Bank
as of February 14, 1905. The amount deposited exceeded
the amount checked, out by $572.54, and this amount,
with the $3.25 remaining to the credit of Prince, as above
set forth, left a balance of $575.79, which the Bank on
February 14 applied to Prince's general indebtedness to it.
The Bank had reasonable cause to believe that Prince
was insolvent from and after February 10, and during the
transactions from that date to and including February 15.
The trustee relies upon certain sections of the Bankruptcy Act, which he claims make the transaction withPrince by which the Bank acquired the certificates and
the bank deposit a preferential one, and therefore void
within the terms of the act. The act provides:
"SEC. 60a. A person shall be deemed to have given a
preference, if, being insolvent, he has
. .
made a
transfer of any of his property, and the effect of the enforcement of such . . . transfer will be to enable
any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage
of his debt than any other of such creditors of the same
class.
"SEC. 60b. If a bankrupt shall have given a preference,
and the person receiving it . . . shall have had reascnable cause to believe that it was intended thereby to
give a preference, it shall be voidable by the trustee, and
he may recover the property or its value from such person. . .
On the other hand the Bank claims the right to set off
the amount of the certificates and bank balance against
the indebtedness of Prince to it by reason of § 68a of the
Bankruptcy Act:
"SEC. 68a. In all cases of mutual debts or mutual
credits between the estate of a bankrupt and a creditor
the account shall be stated and one debt shall be set off
against the other, and the balance only shall be allowed
or paid."

CONTINENTAL TRUST CO. v. CIII. TITLE C'0.
229 U. S.

443

Opinion of the Court.

This case must be dealt with in the light of certain principles, established by decisions of this court, in determining the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.
To constitute a preferential transfer within the meaning
of the Bankruptcy Act there must be a parting with
the bankrupt's property for the benefit of the creditor
and a consequent diminution of the bankrupt's estate.
New York County National Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138,
147; Newport Bank v. Herkimer Bank, 225 U. S. 178,
184.
Much discussion appears in the briefs of counsel as to
whether the deposits evidenced by the margin certificates
were general deposits, creating between the Bank and
the depositor the relation of debtor and- creditor, or were
special deposits which the Bank had no authority to
mingle with its general funds. We do not deem it necessary to enter into a discussion of this question, with a
view to determining the technical question as to the nature of the relation thus created between the Bank and
the depositor. In cases of this character it is essential
to learn just what has taken place between the parties,
with a view to ascertaining whether a preferential transfer
of property to a creditor has resulted.
The statement of facts already made shows that these
certificates were payable to Prince, unless they were required to be paid to the party holding them as security
for Prince's dealings upon the Board of Trade. It is
further evident from the facts stated that without the
co6peration of Anderson & Company, who took the place
of Prince upon the Board of Trade, substituted their
securities for those of Prince and carried out his obligations, the certificates would have had no value to the
estate. By the arrangement made, Anderson & Company took hold of the situation, and, carrying out the
deals upon which Prince was bound, cleared the certificates of any obligation to others, and they thereby be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

came payable to Prince. What was done did not in fact
diminish the estate of Prince otherwise available to the
creditors in the bankruptcy administration, for the traders
holding them would have had the benefit of the deposits
under the terms of the certificates and the rules of the
Board of Trade. It therefore appears that this essential
element of a preferential transfer within the meaning of
the Bankruptcy Act, diminution of the bankrupt estate,
is wanting. The fact that what was done worked to the
benefit of the creditor and in a sense gave him a preference is not enough, unless the estate of the bankrupt was
thereby diminished. New York County National Bank v.
Massey, supra.
It is contended, however, that the set-off canlot be
allowed because of the provisions of § 68b of the Bankruptcy Act, which provides:
"Section 68b. A set-off or counter-claim shall not be
allowed in favor of any debtor of the bankrupt which (1)
is not provable against the estate; or (2) was purchased
by or was transferred to him after the filing of the petition,
or within four months before such filing, with a view to
such use and with knowledge or notice that such bankrupt was insolvent, or had committed an act of bankruptcy."
It is the main purpose of this statute, as its terms show,
to prevent debtors of the bankrupt from acquiring claims
against the bankrupt for use by way of set-off and reduction of their indebtedness to the estate. There is no
question of the solvency of Prince when he deposited the
money to secure the certificates, and what was done was
not the acquisition of a claim against Prince with a view
to setting it off against the Bank's indebtedness on the
certificates, but was-the satisfaction, without diminution
of the estate of the bankrupt, of possible claims of others
who, in the event of Prince's default, would have been
entitled to the deposits represented by the certificates.

CONTINENTAL TRUST CO. v. CHI. TITLE CO.
229 U. S.

445

Opinion of the Court.

We do not think such transaction. comes within the language or reason of § 68b.
It is said, however, that the case of Western Tie &
Timber Co. v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502, holds to the contrary.
In that case, it appears, one Harrison, a bankrupt, was
a debtor of the Tie Company, which presented a claim
against the bankrupt estate of $24,358; that for some
years prior to the bankruptcy it had been engaged with
Harrison in removing timber from certain lands of the
Tie Company and converting it into ties. Harrison had
conducted stores in the vicinity and gave laborers groceries and other supplies. The Tie Company received a
payroll on which the name of each laborer was entered,
together with the amount he earned and the value of the
supplies he had received from Harrison, and it deducted
from the earnings of the laborer the value of the supplies,
a check for which was sent to Harrison, and a check
for the balance was sent to the laborer. Four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy Harrison owed
the Tie Company $20,000 and more. Within that time
the Company refused to pay Harrison and retained and
credited on its claim against, him $2,210.73, which was
due him for supplies he had furnished the laborers subsequent to November 30, 1902. Harrison was then insolvent, as the Tie Company knew, and it was found that
it intended by retaining the amounts to secure to itself a
preference over other creditors, but Harrison had no such
intention. This court found that the application of the
amounts advanced to the laborers did not amount to a
voidable preference, since the agreement mentioned
brought about no preference whatever, and, upon the
question as to whether the Tie Company was entitled
to set off the deductions from the payroll due Harrison,
held that from the facts found- it appeared that the Tie
Company was obligated to remit to Harrison the amount
of such deductions irrespective of the condition of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

22) U. S.

account between itself and Harrison, and that therefore
the Company stood to Harrison in the relation of trustee
and the case was not one of mutual credits and debts
within the provisions of § 68a. And furthermore that
to allow the set-off would be in violation of § 68b, because,
whether a trust relation existed or not, the result would
be the same, for the Company's knowledge of Harrison's
insolvency when it acquired the claims of the latter against
the laborers with a view to using them by way of set-off
was to enable it thus to obtain an advantage over the
other creditors, which it could not lawfully do.
In that case there was a specific finding that the Tie
Company had appropriated money which it really held
in trust for Harrison and that it had acquired the claims
of Harrison against the laborers with a view to the prohibited set-off. In the case at bar there was no finding
that the Bank held the money in trust for a specific purpose so as to deny it the right of set-off or that it acquired
any claim against the bankrupt with a view to making it
a set-off. It is not shown that when Prince made the
deposits for the margin certificates he was insolvent, and
the deposits created no preference. What was done here,
as we have said, consisted in procuring a broker to take
up the trades of Prince so that the certificates became
clear of the rights of any third persons and to do this
without any diminution of the bankrupt estate. We
think-such a case as this is distinguishable from the case
of Western Tie & Timber Company v. Brown, supra, and
does not come within the obvious reason and purposes
of the prohibitions against acquiring set-offs contained in
§ 68b.
As to the $575.79, we think the right to set off this
deposit is established by the principles laid down in New
York County National Bank v. Massey, supra. Here
there was a deposit subject to be checked out by the bankrupt for specific purposes. The money was not placed

CHtARIIT)N v. KELLY.
229 IT. S.

Syllabus.

in the bank with a view to giving it a benefit, except
indirectly, because of the deposit. It was subject to
Prince's check, and all of it might have been checked out
for the purposes intended.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
District Court are reversed, and the case remanded to the
District Courtfor further proceedingsin conformity with
this opinion.

CHARLTON v. KELLY, SHERIFF OF HUDSON
COUNTY, NEW JERSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 232.

Argued April 18, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

The rule that a writ of habeas.corpuscannot be used as a writ of error
applies to extradition proceedings; and if the committing magistrate
had jurisdiction and there was competent evidence as to commission
of the crime his decision may not be reviewed on habeas corpus.
The accused in an extradition proceeding has not the right to introduce
evidence simply because it would be admissible on the trial on plea of
not guilty, nor is this right given by § 3 of the act of August 3, 1882.
Section 3 of the act of August 3, 1882, does not make evidence relevant,
legal or competent which would not theretofore have been competent
on a proceeding in extradition.
The proceeding in extradition before the examining magistrate is not
a trial, and the issue is not the actual guilt, but whether there is a
prime facie case sufficient to hold the accused for trial.
There is not, nor can there be, a uniform rule as to admission of evi(ence for the accused-in an extradition proceeding.
An examining m.agistrate may exclude evidence as to insanity of the
accused; ;-11,,eh
evidence is in the nature of defense and should be
he'ar' at the trial o il preli il ira ry exami mat ion in the jurisdiction
of the (rime.
Coast ruing the sui lhl nt a ry treaty of extradlition wil h It'ly of 1884

