PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

397

Syllabus.

inality or not is unimportant, took such certificates, thus
authenticated with evidence of title, to one who in the
ordinary course of business sold them to parties who paid
full value for them. In such case we think the principles
which underlie equitable estoppel place the loss upon him
whose misplaced confidence has made the wrong possible.
Applying this principle, we think the Court of Appeals
was right in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court,
and its judgment, is

Affirmed.

PORTLAND RAILWAY, LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.

No. 119. Argued May 1, 2, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.
A construction by the state court that the equality provisions of a state
statute regulating railway fares applies to localities as well as to
individuals is binding upon this court, and the constitutionality of the
statute will be determined as so construed.
The authority of the States to control by appropriate legislation rates
of fare to be charged by street railways and other common carriers
wholly within their borders and subject to their laws is unquestioned.
A State may, without violating the Fourteenth Amendment, prohibit
any unjust discrimination by a domestic railroad company against
any localities upon its lines; and it may leave it to the Railroad Commission to determine whether the rates are or are not discriminatory,
provision being made for notice and judicial review.
It is only in exceptional cases that this court does not accept the facts
as found by the 'state Supreme Court; and where, as in this case,
those facts are supported by competent testimony it will not retry

issues of fact already properly heard and determined by courts of
competent jurisdiction.
Where the record does not clearly disclose all facts necessary on which
to base conclusions, this court will not overrule the state tilbunal and
declare rates fixed by it within its jurisdiction to be confiscatory a .d
violative of rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

A rate may be per se reasonable and lawful and yet illegal as discriminatory against a shipper or a locality.
56 Oregon, 468, affirmed.

THIS case originated in a complaint made by the municipal corporation of Milwaukie, in the State of Oregon,
before the Railroad Commission of that State, seeking
an order restraining the Portland Railway, Light & Power
Company, the plaintiff in error, operating a system of
street railways in the City of Portland, Oregon, and certain suburban roads in connection therewith, from practicing certain alleged discriminations in rates of fare, and
fixing reasonable fares between the City of Portland and
the town of Milwaukie. Upon hearing, the Railroad
Commission found that the fares charged by the Railway
Company were unjustly discriminatory against the inhabitants of Milwaukie and ordered a reduction between
Milwaukie and Portland from ten cents to five cents, and
ordered the Railway Company to furnish to the passengers
traveling between such points the same transfer privileges
as were given to passengers on the Mt. Scott Line of the
plaintiff in error. The Circuit Court refused to enjoin
the enforcement of the order of the commission, and this
judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Oregon.
56 Oregon, 468. The case was then brought to this court
upon writ of error.
An idea of the physical situation of this railroad may
'be had by an inspection of the attached plat which may
be used for illustration, and which is reproduced from one
appended to appellant's brief (the city limits of Portland
being represented by the dotted line).
The Circuit Court made the following findings of
fact:
"1. That the plaintiff Portland Railway Light &
Power Company is a corporation duly organized and
existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

399

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

Oregon, and owns and operates by electric power a suburban and interurban railroad as a common carrier in this
state, between First and Alder Streets in the City of
Portland, and Canemah, Clackamas County, Oregon,
known as the 'Oregon City Division,' and also a line of
railroad from said First and Alder Streets to Lents and
Lents Junction, Multnomah County, Oregon, known as
the 'Mount Scott Division,' and also a line of railroad
from a point known as Golf Junction on the first mentioned
linle of railroad easterly and southerly through Multnomah
County to Nickum, Gates and Cazadero, in Clackamas
County, Oregon, said Nickum, Gates and Lents being
points outside of the City of Portland, Oregon.
"2. That the defendant is the duly appointed, organized
and acting Railroad Commission of Oregon, under the
provisions of Chapter 53 of the Laws of Oregon for the
year 1907.
"3. That the town of Milwaukie is a municipal corporation duly organized under and existing by virtue of the
laws of the State of Oregon.
" 4. That the Portland Railway Company is a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of Oregon. That its street cars are
operated by electric power within the City of Portland
and to the City of St. Johns, Multnomah County, Oregon,
and that itis a common carrier. That a majority of the
capital stock of the said Portland Railway Company is
owned by the plaintiff herein; and that the said Portland
Railway Company and the plaintiff herein are operated
und~r a common management.
"5. That plaintiff has established rates of fare for the
transportation of persons traveling as passengers traveling
upon its said line of railway and between different points
upon its said railways and its said terminus at First and
Alder Streets in said City of Portland, and between Golf
Junction and the places and' points named below, the

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

401

Statenient of the Case.

fol!,.wing rates, fares and charges being those so established
-nd the distances being as given below:
Between Portland and
On Oregon City Division.
Golf Junction (within City of Port5.36 miles 5 cents.
land) .......................
Lambert ......................

5.93

"

K night....

10

6.29

"

10

Hendee ....................... 6.44

"

10

M ilwaukie .....................

6.71

"

10

Island ......................
.
Milwaukie Heights
Courtney ......................

7.05
7.70
8.30

"
"

10
1515

Oak Grove ....................

8.48

"

15

Center....

8.68

"

15

9.26
Risley ............... .........
Oregon City................... 14.47
Canemiah ...................... 15.47
On Mt. Scott Division.
Reservoir (within City of Port4.69
land) ........ ...............
7.69
Lents ........................

"
"

15
25
25

"

5

"

-8.31

"

5
10

...................

...................

Lents Junction .................

"

"

On Springwater Division.
Golf Junction (within City of Port5.35

"

6.51
7.26
8 .51
9.32
Tendall ......................
Lents Junction .................. 10.71
............... 11.65
Gilbert ..
G ates ......................... 12.38

"

Wilson .........................

13.00

"

..
Sycamore .............
Jenne .........................

13.48
14.42

"
"

land) ...................

N ickum .......................
Kerrigan ......................
B ell ...........................

VOL. ccxxrx-26-

"
"
"
"

"
"

5
5
10
10
10
10
10
10
15
15
15

"
"

"
"
"

"
"

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

Between Golf Junction and
On Oregon City Division.
Lambert ...................... . .57 miles 5 cents.
K night ........................
.93 "
5
Hendee ..................... :. 1.08 "
5
M ilwaukie .....................
1.35 "
5 "
Island ........................ 1.69 "
5
Milwaukie Heights.............. 2.34 " 10
Courtney ......................
2.94 " 10
Oak Grove .................... 3.12 " 10
Center ........................
3.32 " 10
Risley .........................
3.90 " 10 "
Oregon City................... 9.21 " 20
Canemah ......................

10.21

"

20

"

On Springwater Division.
Nickum ....................... .1.15

"

5

"

5 "
Bell .........
................
3.15 "
5
K endall ....................... . 3.96 "
5
Lents Junction ................. 5.35 "
5
Gilbert ........................ 6.29 " 10 "
Gates ........................ 7.02 " 10
W ilson ........................ 7.64 " 10
Sycamore ...................... 8.12 " 10
Jenne ......................... 9.07 " 10
"6. That the distance between Lents and the limits of
the City of Portland on said plaintiff's line of railroad is
3.50 miles. That the station of Hazelwild on plaintiff's
said Mt. Scott line, is a mile and one half from Lents, and
two miles outside the limits of the City of Portland.
That the distance on the line of the said Portland Railway Company from the terminus of said Company near
First and Alder Streets in the said City of Portland, to
the terminus in the City of St. Johns, Oregon, is to-wit:
nine miles. The distance from the said terminus in the
City of Portland, Oregon, to the city limits of the said.
Kerrigan ......................

1.90

"

PORTLANI) ttY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

403

Statement of the Case.

city of St. Johns is about seven miles, and from there to
the terminus in the said City of St. Johns proper is about
two miles.
"7. That the aforesaid places are suburbs of the City
of Portland.
"8. That plaintiff's predecessor acquired about four
miles of track and right of way which extended from
Mt. Tabor Junction and Lents, on the 13th day of April,
1901, by and pursuant to an agreement wherein and
whereby it was agreed in consideration thereof that not
more than a five cent fare should je charged by plaintiff's
said predecessor, its successors and assigns, for any ride
between Lents and Portland, the plaintiff is carrying out
said agreement. The said track and right of way are
facilities, among other facilities, used by the plaintiff
in the transportation of passengers between Lents and
Portland.
"9. That before and at the time said Lents contract
was entered into, the population of the territory contiguous to said railroad was small. That now the population of said territory is about 10,000; and the value of
real estate in Lents and said territory has in creased
rapidly. That the said increase in population and land
values has been and is due in a great measure to the fact
that the plaintiff has charged and is charging but five
cents for transportation of passengers between First and
Alder Streets in the City of Portland, and Lents, and
intermediate points.
"10. That at the time said Lents contract was entered
into the town of Milwaukie had a population of about
500 people; that at all times since said Lents contract
was entered into the plaintiff and its predecessor companies has charged ten cents for the transportation of
passengers betweei First and Alder Streets in the City
of Portland and the town of Milwaukie. That since the
five cents fare between Lents and Portland has been in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

operation it has caused the said Lents and Lents territory to increase in population as aforesaid, and said land
values in said Lents and Lents territory to increase in
value as aforesaid, and has stagnated the growth and population of the town of Milwaukie territory and its business has not appreciably increased.
"11. That by reason of the fact that the inhabitants
of the town of Milwaulde are charged double the fare
charged the inhabitants of Lents for transportation between their respective residence., and the City of Portland,
the inhabitants of the town of Milwaukie have paid to
the plaintiff large sums of money in the aggregate for
transportation from the town of Milwaukie in excess of
the charges made inhabitants of Lents for transportation
from Lents to First and Alder Streets in the City of Portland, to the great injury to the said inhabitants of Milwaukie; and that a just and reasonable rate, not discriminatory to be charged to persons between First and
Alder Streets in the City of Portland and the town of
Milwaukie, Oregon, is five cents.
"12. That the bulk of the inhabitants of the town and
territory of Milwaukie are employed in the City of Portland, and go to and from their homes on the lines of plaintiff's said railroad to work mornings and evenings daily.
"13. That the population and territory between and
including Lents and Hazelwild a distance of one and
one-half miles, on plaintiff's Mt. Scott line, are substantially the same territory and population between Golf
Junction on the City Limits of Portland and Milwaukie,
a distance of 1.31 miles, on plaintiff's Oregon City Division. That the conditions and circumstances under
which plaintiff transports passengers between First and,
Alder Streets in said City of Portland, and the stations
on the Mount Scott line from Hazelwild to Lents inclusive, are substantially the same as the circumstances and
conditions under which plaintiff transports passengers

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. It. COMM.
229 U. S.

405

Statement of the Case.

from said First and Alder Streets to stations on the Oregon
City line from said Golf Junction to Milwaukie inclusive,
except as to the rate of fare chaiged and the giving of
transfer privileges as hereinafter set forth, which fares
and transfer privileges are in favor of the inhabitants of
the territory from Hazelwild to Lents inclusive.
"1 4. That Nickum is a station on the plaintiff's Springwater Division, 1.15 miles easterly from Golf Junction,
and about 3,000 feet outside the city limits of the city
of Portland, Oregon. That the plaintiff operates but
seven trains per day through Nickum, between Cazadero
and Portland, in either direction. That otherwise, except as to the rates of fare charged and the giving of
transfers, and conditions and circumstances as to tletransportation of passengers between Nickum and ti e
plaintiff's terminus at First and Alder Streets aforesaid,
are substantially the same as between said terminus and
iliilwaukie, and except also that the travel between Milwaukie and Portland is greater than between Nickum
and Portland.
"15. That from points on the Mt. Scott Division withou t the City of Portland, and Nickum on the Springwater
Division, and other points on said division, the plaintiff
furnishes to passengers who pay fare to First and Alder
Streets in the City of Portland, transfers, entitling the
holder thereof to transportation over the lines of the strcot
railway of said Portland Railway Company in the City
of Portland, and the City of St. Johns, and that such
transfers are not furnished to the citizens of Milwaukie
traveling and paying fare from Milwaukie to said First
and Alder Streets.
"16. That the evidence does not show that, considered
by themselves, or in comparison with other lines of travcl,
the charges of the plaintiff upon the Oregon City Division
are unreasonable, but that compared with the charges
made by the plaintiff upon the Springwater and Mt. Scott

OCTOBER TERiM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

Divisions, the charges of the plaintiff for the transportation of passengers between said First and Alder Streets
and the town of Milwaukie are unjust and unreasonable,
discriminatory and give undue preference.
"17. That the evidence is not sufficient to show the
value of the property of the plaintiff used in the operation
of its road or the value of any of the divisions thereof,
heretofore mentioned; and that the evidence does not
show the income, or expenditures, or profits or loss if
any, from the operation of the respective divisions of the
plaintiff's line above mentioned, or the cost of transporting passengers upon any of such divisions.
"18. That the plaintiff operates its cars and transports passengers between First and Alder Streets and
Milwaukie either wholly over the Oregon City division,
from the junction at the east end of the Madison Street
bridge, or from said junction over what it terms its Sellwood division to Golf Junction, and then over the Oregon City division to Milwaukie. The plaintiff credits
all of the Milwaukie business transported by way of the
Sellwood division to that division, and no credit or account is taken of it as in part earned by the Oregon
City division. That the evidence does not disclose the
length of haul of any of the passengers transported by
the plaintiff. That the court is therefore unable to find
as to the triffic density to and from Milwaukie, or on the
Oregon City division or any of the plaintiff's other divisions.
"19. That on to-wit: January 30th, 1908, the defendant, after due notice and full hearing, made and entered,
and caused to be served upon the plaintiff, the certain
order and finding set out as 'Exhibit A' attached to the
plaintiff's complaint. That upon the resubmission of
the said matter to the said defendant, as aforesaid, the
said defendant made a certain amendment to the said
order, and returned the same into this court, and that

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM. 407
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the same is now on file herein. That the defendant has
caused to be filed in this court a certified transcript of
all its proceedings leading up to and including its said
order and amendment. That the said order, amendment
and transcript are hereby made a part of these findings."
Itsh.ould be noticed that by the laws of Oregon, Portland being a city exceeding fifty thousand in population,
a greater fare than five cents cannot be demanded for a
continuous trip in one general direction between any two
points in the city. B. & C. Comp., § 2096.
Mr. Franklin T. Griffith and Mr. Joseph S. Clark, with
whom Mr. Frederick V. Holman was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. M. Crawford, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, and Mr. Clyde B. Aitchison, with whom Mr. R. R.
Gillner and Mr. R. M. Sewell were on the brief, for defendant in error.
M1R. JUSTICE DAY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The contentions of violation of Federal right alleged
to have been set up and denied in the state court and
therefore to be reviewable here arise under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, securing due
process of law and equal protection of the laws as against
state action.
The statute under which the Railroad Commission
acted in this case provides:
"The tern 'railroad' as used herein shall mean and
embrace all corporations . . . that now, or may
hereafter, own, operate by . ... electric .
power, manage or control, any . . . interurban railas a common carrier in this State." Laws
-road

of Oregon, 1907, chap. 53, § 11, p. 70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

"Upon complaint of any
tion, that any of the . .

.

.

229 U. S.

municipal organiza. . .' are in any

.

fares,

.

respect unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory,
the commission may notify the railroad complained of
that complaint has been made, and ten days after such
notice has been given the commission may proceed to
investigate the same. ...
If upon such investigation
the

.

.

fares,

.

.

. complained of shall be found

to be unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, . . .
the commission shall have power to fix and order substituted therefor such

. . . fares,

.

.

.

as it shall

have determined to be just and reasonable and which
shall be charged, imposed and followed in the future."
Id., § 28, p. 82.
"Whenever, upon an investigation made under the
provisions of this Act, the commission shall find any existing . . . fares,
justly "discriminatory,
by order fix a reasonable

.

.

are unreasonable or unit shall determine and
.
fare . . . to be

imposed, observed, and followed in the future in lieu of
that found to be unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory."
Id., § 30, p. 86.
"It shall be unlawful for any railroad to demand, charge,
collect, or receive from any person, firm or corporation
a less compensation for

.

.

any service rendered

.

or to be rendered by said railroad, in consideration' of
said person, firm or corporation furnishing any part of
the facilities incident thereto." Id., § 48, p. 93.
"If any railroad shall make or give any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular
person, firm, or corporation, or shall subject any particular person, firm, or corporation

.

.

.

to any undue

or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect
whatsoever, such railroad shall be deemed guilty of unjust discrimination." Id., § 49, p. 94.
"The provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

t09

Opinion of the Court.

with a view to the public welfare, efficient transportation
facilities, and substantial justice between . . . passengers and railroads." Id., § 59, p. 98.
"The duties and liabilities of the railroads defined in
Section 11 of this Act, shall be the same as are prescribed
by the common law, and the remedies against them the
same, except where otherwise provided by the constitution or statutes of this State, and the provisions of this
Act are cumulative thereto." Id., § 61, p. 98.
Section 32 of the Act provides that the railroad or the
other party interested in any order of the Commission
fixing fares may commence a suit in the Circuit Court of
Marion County against the Commission to vacate any
such order on the ground that the fares fixed are unlawful. Provision is made for the service of summons, the
filing of an answer by the Commission and precedence
of -such'a case, and that it shall be tried and determined
as a suit in equity.
By § 34, if different or additional evidence is introduced
by the plaintiff upon the trial, the court, before rendering
judgment, is required, unless the parties stipulate otherwise, to transmit a copy of the evidence to the Commission,
which may alter, modify, amend or rescind its order and
report its action to the court. If the order is rescinded,
the suit shall be dismissed; if it is changed, judgm6nt
shall be rendered on the modified order, and if it is not
changed, judgment shall be rendered upon the original
order.
Section 35 authorizes an appeal by either party to the
Supreme Court, where also such a case shall have precedence.
The Supreme Court of Oregon held that the statute
applied to localities as well as individuals and that fares
that were unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory as
against a given locality came within its terms. This construction of the statute is binding upon this court, and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

is to be considered as thus construed by the Supreme
Court of Oregon.

The authority of the States to control by appropriate
legislation the rates of fare to be charged by street railway companies and other common carriers wholly within
their borders and subject to their laws is unquestionable.
In the legitimate exercise of such authority we see no
reason why a State may not consistently with due process
of law prohibit any unjust discrimination by a-domestic
railroad company against certain localities upon its lines.
If the State may not thus legislate as to its domestic

corporations they, by merely arbitrary action, may so
exercise their rate-fixing power as to build up one community and destroy another, and prevent that equality
of treatment which it has been the object of many statutes
of this kind, passed under state and Federal authority,
to secure. The statute does not define unjust discrimination, but leaves it to the Commission, upon hearing, to
determine what rates are unjust and discriminatory, and
to make orders for other fares, which in its judgment are
not open to such objection. The statute expressly provides for a judicial review by the courts of the orders of the
Commission to test the lawfulness of the fares fixed and the
reasonableness of regulations prescribed by the Commission. We find nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment
which prevents a State from making provision for such relief to communities unjustly discriminated against by com-

panies subject to the laws of the State in which they operate and from which they derive their powers as common

carriers and public service corporations.
Nor do we understand the Supreme Court of Oregon to
have construed the statute as permitting no consideration,
in determining the question of discrimination, of the circumstances and conditions which may justify difference3
in rates, other than the number of miles which passengers
are carried, as contended by the plaintiff in error. For,

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. ORPGUN N. 11. COMM.
229 U. S.

411

Opinion of the Court.

upon rehearing, this contention was noticed and the Sxpreme Court remarked that in the opinion in the case, notwithstanding it was said that the fares were not unreasonable when compared with the charges made by other
railway companies for similar services, the court had held
that the law extended to charges which were" unreasonable
or unjustly discriminatory;" and it was said (56 Oregon,
487):
"' The fact that a rate is per se reasonable does not disprove the charge that it is unlawful,' say Messrs. Beale '
and Wyman in their work on Railroad Regulation, at
§ 839. 'If rates are relatively unjust, so that undue
preference is afforded to one locality or undue prejudice
results to another, the law is violated and its penalties
incurred, although the higher rate is not in itself excessive.'
The question, presented for consideration is not the
reasonableness per se of the charge, but its reasonableness
considered in relation to charges made by plaintiff at
other localities on its system for like and contemporaneous
service; for the statute, as we have construed it, forbids
undue preference or discrimination between localities.
Circumstances, however, may so explain the difference
between rates compared as to deprive the lower rate of
any bearing on the higher, but the discrimination, without
an excuse recognized by the law, would be in and of itself
unjust and unreasonable. Beale and Wyman, § 838."
In the light of this consideration of the statute, we will
consider the contention that in this particular case, there
has been a deprivation of due process of law Within the
meaning of the Federal Constitution.
Ordinarily, in cases which come before us for review,
this court accepts the facts as found by the state Supreme
Court. An examination of the record in this case convinces us that the conclusions. reached by the court do
not bring the case within that exceptional class where this
court will reexamine the facts found, with a view to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

ascertaining the correctness of the conclusions reached.
Kansas City Southern Railroad Co. v. Albers Con rruission
Co., 223 U. S. 573; Cedar Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapid. ,
223 U. S. 655; Oregon R.. R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild, 224
U. S. 510; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S. 246;
Wood v. Chesborough, 228 U. S. 672. In this case the facts
found by the lower court and adopted in the Supreme
Court are supported by competent testimony; and this
court does not sit to retry issues of fact thus heard and
determined by the properly constituted tribunals of the
State having jurisdiction of the subject.
The findings show that the Railway Company carried
passengers upon the Mt. Scott line between Portland and
Lents for five cents each and gave them a free transfer for
carriage upon the lines of the Portland Railway Company
in the City of Portland and the adjacent City of St. Johns,
but charged a ten-cent fare to _Milwaukie and gave no
transfers. The effect of such discrimination is found to
have been the building up and development of Lents and
the country along the line to Lents and the retarding cf
the settlement and growth of the localities and commnunities situated upon the less favored division. Finding>
are made showing the conditions and circumstances under
which transportation is made upon the divisions of li e
road, and the similarity of circumstances and conditions
except as to the charging of the different rates and t!'e g ,
ing Df transfer privileges to the one and the withholding of
such privileges from the other. In view of these findings,
based upon evidence, we, cannot say that the determination of the Commission, confirmed by the courts, that the
rates of fare were discriminatory, was in deprivation of
due process of law.
The contract set up by which the fares from Lcnts were
required to be not greater than five cents cannot be held
to justify the discrimination, as such contracts must be
taken to have been made in view of the continuing power

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

413

Opinion of the Court.

of the State to control the transportation rates of common
carriers subject to its jurisdiction. Armour Packing Co.
v. United States, 209 U. S. 56; Louisville & Nashville R. R,
v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
It is also argued that the rates established by the order
of the Commission are such as to be of a confiscatory
nature and therefore within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment. Upon this branch of the case the
Circuit Court found that there was not evidence sufficient
to show the value of the property or its divisions used in
the operation of the road, nor sufficient to show the
income or expenditures, or profit or loss from the operation of the different divisions, or the cost of transporting passengers upon any such divisions. An examination of the testimony does not satisfy us that the court
below was without substantial proof in reaching this
conclusion. The Supreme Court of Oregon, in view of
its findings upon the discriminatory character of the rates
established, did not find it necessary to consider by itself
the. reasonableness of the charge, and ,the record before
it did not present a case of confiscatory rates so clear that
this court should interfere because of the piotection af-forded by the Federal Constitution.
We find no violation of the Fourteenth Amendment in
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon.
Afimed.

