OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

229 U. S.

PEDERSEN v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA &
WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 698.

Argued January 14, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Under the Employers' Liability Act a right of recovery exists only
where the injury is suffered while the carrier is engaged in interstate
commerce and while the employ6 is employed in such commerce;
but it is not essential that the co-employ6 causing the injury be also
employed in such commerce.
One engaged in the work of maintaining tracks, bridges, engines or
cars in proper condition after they have become and during their
use as instrumentalities of interstate commerce, is engaged in interstate commerce, and this even if those instrumentalities are used in
both interstate and intrastate commeFce.
One carrying materials t6 be used in repairing an instrumentality of
interstate commerce is engaged in such commerce; and so held, that
a railroad employ carrying bolts to be used in repairing an interstate
railroad and who was injured by an interstate train is entitled to sue
under the Employers' Liability Act of 1908.
A Federal court is without authority to reverse a judgment in favor of
one party and direct a judgment in favor of the other non obstante
veredicto. Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co., 228 U. S. 364.
197 Fed. Rep. 537, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908 and the determination of
what constitutgs being engaged in interstate commerce,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin Patterson, with whom Mr. George Bell
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. James F. Campbell, with whom Mr. William S.
Jenney was on the brief, for defendant in error:

PEDERSEN v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
229 U. S.

147

Argument for Defendant in Error.

An attempt is made in this case to stretch to the utmo,,A
limit the scope of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
as to what employes of a railroad company are entitled
to its benefits.
The injured employ6 had nothing at all to do with transportation, but was merely a helper in and about the
building of new bridges or. the repair of old ones; he had
nothing to do with the operation of trains, the repair or
maintenance of track or cars or anything in connection
with intercourse between the States.
If this employ6 comes within the terms of the act then
practically every other employ6 of a railroad does, no
matter how remote their services may be in connection
with interstate commerce.
One of the chief objections to the act of 1906, which
was declared unconstitutional in the Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 498, was that it included employ6s
who were not actually employed in interstate commerce.
There was nothing real or substantial in plaintiff in
error's employment in.connection with interstate commerce that would include him within the terms of the
act. He had nothing whatever to do with operation of
trains; nor with anything in connection with intercourse
or traffic; nor with tracks, roadbed or the other instrumentalities of commerce. He was a laborer in and about
the construction of a new bridge or carrying supplies
that were to be used in the repair or remodeling'of an old
one. The mere fact that he was using the railroad track
as a path to go to or from his work certainly would not
make him engaged in commerce, or the fact that his
carrying bolts or rivets which were to be used in the construction of a railroad bridge, give him any real or substantial connection with interstate commerce, traffic or
intercourse.
Commerceis a term of the largest import, Welton y.Missouri, 91 U. S. 275; P. & R.R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,15 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

229 U. S.

232; New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102; Kidd v. Pearson,
128 U. S. 1, 20; Judson on Interstate Commerce, §§ 6, 7;
7 Cyc. 413; but giving the words their proper construction
means that the employe must be engaged in commerce;
that is, traffic or intercourse between the States, and that
an employ6 not engaged in transportation, traffic or intercourse between the States is not engaged in such commerce.
Congress has power under the commerce clause to regulate
the instrumentalities of commerce, but if Congress meant
to take care of employ6s not engaged in traffic or commerce, but simply abouit the instrumentalities of commerce, it would so have said. Hooper v. California, 155
U. S. 648; Williams v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270.
The distinction, therefore, is between acts of commerce
and subjects of commerce which include anything that
may be transported and the instrumentalities thereof.
The plaintiff was engaged about some construction work,
that is, manufacturing something new, although it is true
such creation or result was afterwards to be used as a
means whereby interstate commerce was to be carried on.
These acts are not such interstate commerce as is contemplated by the statute. United States v. Knight, 156
U. S. 1; Int. Com. Comm. v. Detroit &c. R. Co., 167 U. S.
633; Penn. R. R. v. Knight, 192 U. S. 21.
If plaintiff in error was engaged in interstate commerce,
then the man chopping down trees in the forest in order
to make railroad ties is equally employed in interstate commerce, and even the miner working in mines to furnish the
railroad with coal, which is to be used on its interstate
engines, is so engaged. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States,
222 U. S. 20, does not apply.
For cases in the Federal courts deciding what employes
come under the act, see Taylor v. Southern Ry. Co., 178
Fed. Rep. 380; Johnson v. Gt. Nor. Ry. Co., 178 Fed. Rep.
643; Zikos v. Oregon Nav. Co., 179 Fed. Rep. 893; Colasurdo v. Cent. R. R. of N. J., 180 Fed. Rep. 832, aff'd 192

PEDERSEN v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. I'. It.
229 U. S.

149

Opinion of the Court,

Fed. Rep. 901; Van Brimmer v. Tex. ,- Pa,. tly. Co., 190
Fed. Rep. 394; Behrens v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 192 Fed.
Rep. 581; Lamphere v. Oregon Nay. Co., 196 Fed. Rep. 336;
Bennett v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 197 Fed. Rep. 578;
Heimbach v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 197 Fed. Rep. 579;
Feaster v. Phila. & Read. Ry. Co., 197 Fed. Rep. 580; Nor.
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Maerkl, 198 Fed. Rep. 1.
In every one of these cases where a recovery was allowed
under the act, the railroad employ6 had some direct connection with interstate commerce, either as part of a crew
upon a train engaged in interstate commerce, or about
the tracks and switches which were in active use in conducting interstate commerce, but in the case at bar the
employ 6 was engaged merely in duties tending towards
the manufacturing of something which was afterwards
to be used in interstate commerce and therefore his connection is entirely too remote to be covered by the act.
MR. JusTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action under the Employers' Liability
Act 1 of April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149, to recover for
personal- injuries sustained by the plaintiff through the
negligence of a co-employ6 while both were in the defendant's service. At the trial the Circuit Court refused
to direct a verdict in the defendant's favor, and the jury
returned a verdict for the plaintiff, assessing his damages
at $6,190. Subsequently the court, following a local
statute (Penn. Laws, 1905, p. 286, c. 198), entered judgment for the defendant notwithstanding the verdict, on
the ground that the latter was not sustained by the evidence. 184 Fed. Rep. 737. The judgment was affirmed
The act and the amendment of April 5, 1910, are printed in full in
223 U. S., p..6.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 197 Fed. Rep. 537, and
the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
The evidence, in that view of it which must be taken
here, was to the following effect: The defendant was
operating a railroad for the transportation of passengers.
and freight in interstate and intrastate commerce, and
the plaintiff was an iron worker employed by the defendant in the alteration and repair of some of its bridges
and tracks at or near Hoboken, New Jersey. On the
afternoon of his injury the.plaintiff and another employ6,
acting under the direction of their foreman, were carrying
from a tool car to a bridge, known as the Duffield bridge,
,some bolts or rivets which were to be used by them that
night or very early the next morning in "repairing that
bridge," the repair to consist in taking out an existing
girder and inserting a new one. The bridge could be
reached only by passing over an intervening temporary
bridge at James Avenue. These bridges were being
regularly used in both interstate and intrastate cominerce. While the plaintiff was carrying a sack of bolts or
rivets over the James Avenue bridge, on his way to the
Duffield bridge, he was run down and injured by an
intrastate passenger train, of the approach of which its
engineer negligently failed to give any warning.
The Circuit Court ruled that an injury resulting from
the negligence of a co-employ6 engaged in intrastate commerce was not within the terms of the Federal act, and
the Circuit Court of Appeals, although disapproving that
ruling, held that under the evidence it could not be said
that the plaintiff was employed in interstate commerce and
therefore he was not entitled to recover under the act.
Considering the terms of the statute, there can be no
doubt that a right of recovery thereunder arises only
where the injury is suffered while the carrier is engaged
in interstate commerce and while the employ6 is employed
by the carrier in such commerce; but it is not essential,

PEDERSEN v. DE.L., LACK. & WEST 11.RI.
229 U. S.

151

Opinion of'the Court.

where the causal negligence is that of a co-employ6, that
he also be employed in such commerce, for, if the other
conditions be present, the statute gives a right of recovery
for injury or death resulting from the negligence "of any
.
.
employ6s of such carrier," and this inof the
cludes an employ6 engaged in intrastate commerce.
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 51.
That the defendant was engaged in interstate commerce
is conceded, and so we are only concerned with the nature of the work in which the plaintiff was employed at
the time of his injury. Among the questions which naturally arise in this connection are these: Was that work
being done independently of the interstate commerce in
which the defendant was engaged, or was it so closely
connected therewith as to be a part of it? Was its performance a matter of indifference so far as that commerce
was concerned, or was it in the nature of a duty resting
upon the carrier? The answers are obvious. Tracks and
bridges are as indispensable to interstate commerce by
railroad as are engines and cars, and sound economic
reasons unite with settled rules of law in demanding that
all of these instrumentalities be kept in repair. The
security, expedition and efficiency of the commerce depends in large measure upon this being done. Indeed,
the statute now before us proceeds upon the theory that
the carrier is charged with the duty of exercising appropriate care to prevent or correct "any defect or inin its cars, engines, appliances, masufficiency . .
chinery, track, roadbed, works, boats, wharves, or other
equipment" used in interstate commerce. But independently of the statute, we are of opinion that, the work
of keeping such instrumentalities in a proper state of
repair while thus used is so closely related to such commerce as to 'be in practice and- in legal contemplation a
part of it. The contention to the contrary proceeds upon
the assumption that interstate commerce by railroad can

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

be separated into its several elements and the nature of
each determined regardless of its relation to others or

to the business as a whole. But this is an erroneous assumption. The true test always is: Is the work in quesIion a part of the interstate commerce in which the carrier
is engaged? See McCall v. California,136 U. S. 104, 109,
111; Second Employers' Liability Cases, supra, 6, 59;
Zilkos v. Oregon R. & Navigation Co., 179 Fed. Rep. 893,
897, 898; Central R. Co. of N. J. v. Colasurdo, 192 Fed.
Rep. 901; Darr v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 197 Fed. Rep.
665; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Maerkl, 198 Fed. Rep. 1.
Of course, we are not here concerned with the construction of tracks, bridges, engines or cars which have not
as yet become instrumentalities in such commerce, but
only with the work of maintaining them in proper con-

dition after they have become such instrumentalities and
during their use as such.
True, a track or bridge may be used in both interstate
and intrastate commerce, but when it is so used it is none
the less an instrumentality of the former; nor does its
double use prevent the employment of those who are
engaged in its repair or in keeping it in suitable condition
for use from being an employment in interstate commerce.
The point is made that the plaintiff was not at the
time of his injury engaged in removing the old girder and
inserting the new one, but was merely carrying to the
place where that work was to be done some of the matcrials to be used therein. We think there is no merit
in this. It was necessary to the repair of the bridge that
the materials be at hand, and the act of taking them there
was a part of that work. In other words, it was a minor
task which was essentially a part of the larger one, as
is the case when an engineer takes his engine from the
roundhouse to the track on which are the cars he is to
haul in interstate commerce. See Lamphere v. Oregon

PEDERSEN v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
229 U. S.

LAMAR, HOLMES, LURTON,

153

JJ., dissenting.

R. & Navigation Co., 196 Fed. Rep. 336; Horton v' Oregon,
&c. Co., 130 Pac. Rep. 897; Johnson v. Southern Pacific
Co., 196 U. S. 1, 21.
What has been said shows that there was evidence to
sustain a finding that at the time of the plaintiff's injury
the defendant was engaged, and he was employed by
it, in interstate commerce, and, as in other respects the
case was one for the jury, the court rightly denied the defendant's request that a verdict in its favor be directed.
A motion for a new trial was interposed by the defendant,
but no ruling was had upon it, doubtless because the court
concluded that it could and should render judgment for
the defendant on the evidence notwithstanding the verdiet. In this the court was in error, first, because it was
without authority so to do (Slocum v. New York Life
Insurance Co., 228 U. S. 364), and, second, because the
evidence did not warrant such a judgment. Unless the
motion for a new trial was well taken, judgment should
have been given for the plaintiff on the verdict, and, subject to that qualification, the plaintiff is now entitled to
such a judgment.
The judgments of the Circuit Court and the Circuit
Court of Appeals are reversed, and the case is remanded
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE LURTON, dissenting:
I am unable to assent to the proposition that a man
carrying bolts to be used by him in repairing a railroad
bridge was employed in interstate commerce.
Transportation has been defined as commerce, and
those engaged in transportation are employed in commerce. But in building the bridge originally the carrier
was not "engaging in commerce between the States,"
and the plaintiff, in subsequently repairing it, was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
LAMAR, HOLMES, LURTON,

JJ., dissenting.

229 U. S.

employed in such commerce. Such work was not a part
of commerce, but an incident which preceded it.
The act provides that "every common carrier by railroad, while engaging in commerce between any of the
States or Territories

.

.

.

shall be liable in damages

to any person suffering injury while employed by such
carrier in such commerce."
The defendant, though engaged in both interstate
and
intrastate commerce was also engaged in many other
incidental activities which were not commerce in any
sense.

The railroad had to be surveyed and built, bridges
had to be constructed and renewed, cars had to be manufactured and repaired, warehouses had to be built and
painted, wages had to be paid'and books kept; but. these
transactions, though incident to it were not transportation, and, therefore, not within the purview of the statute
limited to persons employed in commerce. Otherwise
the law would embrace "all of the activities in any way
connected with trade between the States and exclude
staie control over matters purely domestic in their nature." Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648, 655. Acts
burdening interstate commerce can, of course, be prohibited by Congress. But when Congress itself limits the
operation of the statute to persons injured while employed
in interstate commerce the statute does not- extend to
its incidents and is confined to transportation. It does
not include manufacturing, building, repairing, for they
are not commerce, whether performed by a private person, a railroad, or its agents.
It is conceded that a line must be drawn between those
employ6s of the carrier who are employed in commerce
and those engaged in other departments of its business.
It must be drawn so as to take in on one side those engaged in transportation, which is commerce, otherwise
there is no logical reason why it should not include every

PEDERSEN v. DEL., LACK. & WEST. R. R.
229 U. S.

LAMAR, HOLMES, LURTON,

155

JJ., dissenting.

agent of the company; for there is no other test by which
to determine when he must sue under the state statute
and when under the act of Congress; for if a man on his
way to repair a bridge is engaged in interstate commerce,
then the man in the shop who made the bolts to be used
in repairing the bridge is likewise so engaged. If they
are, then the man who paid them their wages, and the
bookkeeper who entered those payments in the accounts,
are similarly engaged. For they are all employed by
the carrier, and the work of each contributes to its success in hauling freight and passengers.
This view is supported by the two cognate statutes.
The Hours of Service Law applies only to those "engaged
in the movement of trains" and the Safety Appliance
Law refers, not to machines in the shop, but to cars and
locomotives, which are the immediate instruments of
transportation. The Employers' Liability Act in like
manner applies to those engaged in transportation and
not to those employed in building, manufacturing or
repairing.
The plaintiff was carrying- bolts to be used in repairing a bridge. That was not interstate commerce, and in
my opinion the court below properly held that his rights
were to be determined by the laws of the State of New
Jersey and not by the act of Congress.
MR.

JUSTIcE

in this dissent.

HoLMEs and MR. JusTICE LURTON concur

