OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

NATIONAL HOME FOR DISABLED VOLUNTEER
SOLDIERS v. PARRISH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 678.

Submitted May 5, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

The exemption of the United States from payment of interest on
claims in the absence of authorized engagement to pay it does not
extend to subordinate governmental agencies.
While no rule is now laid down for all governmental agen(.i, this
court holds that the National Home organized under statute now
§ 4825, Rev. Stat., is not exempt from payment of interest.
194 Fed. Rep. 940, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the liability of governmental
agencies for payment of interest, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Adkins, Mr. Assistant
to the Attorney General Fowler and Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey
for appellant.
Mr. R. E. L. Mountcastle for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the Opinion of

the court.
This appeal brings under review a decree allowing
interest on the amount found due a contractor upon two
contracts for the construction of buildings for the Mountain Branch of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer
Soldiers.
The Home is a Federal corporation created by legislation now embodied in Rev. Stat., §§ 4825 et seq. as "an
establishment for the care of disabled volunteer soldiers

NAT'L VOLUNTEER HOME v. PARRISH.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States Army." The erection of the buildings
was undertaken by the Home in pursuance of express
Congressional authority and after an appropriation for
that purpose had been made from the National treasury.
January 28, 1901, 31 Stat. 745, c. 184. The contracts
called for the completion of the work by the contractor
on or before designated dates, which were extended. At
the expiration of the last extension the contractor was
in default, although the work was largely performed,
and the Home, under power reserved in the contracts,
proceeded with the completion of the buildings.
In a bill exhibited by the Home against the contractor,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, and in a cross-bill by the contractor,
the parties presented for judicial determination various
matters of difference arising out of the contracts and
what was done under them. A hearing resulted in a
decree awarding the contractor, upon the contracts, the
sum of $21,139.12, to which interest was added from the
date when the buildings were fully completed and occupied by the Home. From so much of the decree as allowed
interest the Home appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which rendered a' decision of affirmance, 194 Fed.
Rep. 940; and then the Home appealed here. The sole
error assigned challenges the allowance of interest. It
is not insisted, nor could it reasonably be, that this allowance was inequitable or an abuse of discretion in the
particular circumstances; so, the only question is, whether
in law there was an insuperable obstacle to allowing interest.
The Home is without capital stock, shares or shareholders; is an eleemosynary institution created by the
Government to mnanife-t and discharge its sense of gratitude towards those who rendered service in its defense;
is under the ultima te supervision of Congress; is supported and maint'ined from the National treasury, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 T. S.

is essentially a governmental agency. In defining its
powers the statute declares that it shall "have perpel al
succession, with powers to take, hold, and convey real
and personal property, establish a common seal, and
to sue and be sued in courts of law and equity; and to
make by-laws, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent
with law, for carrying on the business and government
of the home, and to affix penalties thereto" (§ 4825);
a....nd to 'have
also "to procure . . . sites,
the necessary buildings erected" (§ 4830).
It is not questioned that the Home was empowered
to make the contracts upon which the recovery was had,
or that it was suable thereon; but it is urged that interest
is not recoverable against the United States in the absence of some statutory provision or authorized stipulation, and that, as the Home is a governmental agency,
a like exemption applies to it.
It is quite true that the United States cannot be subjected to the payment of interest unless there be an authorized engagement to pay it or a statute permitting
its recovery. Angarica v. Bayard, 127 U. S. 251, 260;
United States v. North Carolina, 136 U. S. 211, 216. But
this exemption has never as yet been applied to subordinate governmental agencies. On the contrary, in
suits against collectors to recover moneys illegally exacted as taxes and paid under protest the settled rule is,
that interest is recoverable without any statute to that
effect, and this although the judgment is not to be paid
by the collector but directly from the treasury. Erskine v.
Van Arsdale, 15 Wall. 75; Redfield v. Bartels, 139 U. S. 694.
Without now attempting to lay down a rule for all
governmental agencies, we think the exemption of the
United States is not applicable to the Home. It is a
distinct corporate entity, invested with powers, duties
and responsibilities which, in the judgment of Congress,
required that it be given power to sue in its own name

NAT'L VOLUNTEER HOME v. PARRISH.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and be subjected to liability to be sued. Although under
the ultimate supervision of Congress, it has a board of
managers which exercises a general control over its affairs, and has a corps of other officers of its own, who are
in immediate charge of its activities. It makes contracts
and incurs contractual liabilities in its own name, expends
and disburses the moneys available for its support and
maintenance, and in general occupies a position which
takes it without the reasons underlying the Government's
exemption from interest. It is significant that the statute
permitting suits in the Court of Claims against the Government contains a provision expressly restricting the allowance of interest (Rev. Stat., § 1091), while the statute
authorizing suits against the Home contains no such
restriction. And it is also significant that the latter authorization is not confined to any particular court, but
extends generally to "courts of law and equity." It
may be, as has been held elsewhere, that such authorization does not embrace suits for tortious acts of the officers of the Home (see Overholser v. Nalional Home,
68 Ohio St. 236; Lyle v. National Home, 170 Fed. Rep.
842), but, if so, this does not prove or indicate that in
suits to enforce contractual obligations the amount of
the recovery is not to be determined by the standards
applicable to other litigants.
We think the courts below took the right view of the
question, and the decree is accordingly
Affirmed.
THE CHE' JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

VOL. ccxxix-32

