OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

LEM WOON v. STATE OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 261.

Submifted April 25, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

The "due process of law" clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does
not require the State to adopt the institution and procedure ef a
grand jury;-nor does it require an examination, or the opportunity
for one, prior to a formal accusation by the district attorney by
information. Held that the Information Law of 1S99 of Oregon
is not unconstitutional as denying due process of law.,
Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S.150, followed to the effect that the subsequent
amendment to the constitution of Oregon affecting prosecutions
affected only prosecutions thereafter instituted and had no effect on
those which had already been instituted although based on information.
57 Oregon, 482, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
" Information Act" of 1899, of the State of Oregon and
the validity of a conviction thereunder, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. James E. Fenton, Mr. John F. Logan, Mr. Frank
F. Freeman and Mr. Ralph E. Moody for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. A. M. Crawford, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, Mr. Walter H. Evans aid Mr. Dan J. Malarkey
for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

On March 9, 1908, Lem Woon, the plaintiff in error,
was accused by a sworn complaint, made before a comnitting magistrate of the City of Portland, of the crime

LEM WOON v. OREGON.
229 U. S.

Opinion' of the Court.

of murder in the killing of Lee Tai Hoy, and, being arra'igned before the magistrate, waived examination, and
was held to answer the charge. On April 1, 1908, the
district attorney of the proper district filed in the proper
circuit court an information charging him with the crime of
murder in the first degree in respect of the same homicide.
The institution of the prosecution by such an information
was at that time authorized by § 1 of an act of February 17,
1899, known as the "Information Law," Sess. Laws 1899,
p. 99, Bellinger and Cotton's Codes, § 1258, which reads
as follows:
"Hereafter it shall be lawful for the district attorney
of any judicial district of this state, and it is hereby
made his duty, to file in the proper circuit court an information charging any person or persons with the commission of any crime defined and made punishable
by any of the laws of this state, and which shall have
been committed in the county where the information is
filed."
The constitution and laws of Oregon at that time in
force did not require any examination, or commitment by
a magistrate, as a condition precedent to the institution
of a prosecution by an information filed by the district
attorney, nor require any verification other than his
official oath. State v. Belding, 43 Oregon, 95, 99; State v.
Guglielmo, 46 Oregon, 250.
On June 12, 1908, the plaintiff in error, having pleaded
not guilty, was placed on trial before the Circuit Court and
a jury, and, being found guilty as charged in the indictment, was afterwards sentenced to death.
On June 1, 1908, after the filing of the information,
and before his trial thereunder, § 18 of Article VII of the
constitution of Oregon, under which, as it previously
stood, prosecutions by information were permit-ted, was
amended so as to provide as follows: "No person shall be
charged in any .circuit court with the commission of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

crime or misdemeanor defined or made punishable by
any of the laws of this State, except upon indictment found
by a grand jury."
Plaintiff in error appealed to the supreme court of the
State, which affirmed the judgment of conviction (107
Pac. Rep. 974), and denied a petition for a rehearing (112
Pac. Rep. 427), and the case comes here under § 709, Rev.
Stat., Judicial Code, § 237.
Two Federal questions were raised in the state courts
and there decided adversely to the plaintiff in error and
are here assigned for error.
'First, that the "Information Act" of February 17,
1899, is in contravention of the "due process of law"
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States.
Second, that the adoption of the amendment of the
state constitution after the plaintiff in error was charged
with the crime, operated to repeal all laws in conflict
therewith immediately upon its adoption, and therefore
he could not be tried, convicted, and sentenced without
indictment by grand jury.
The second point was abandoned upon the argument,
doubtless because it was considered to be foreclosed by
the decision of this court in the recent case of Ross v.
Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 164. In that case the plaintiff in
error was tried and convicted in a prosecution instituted
by information, and his case was pending on appeal in the
state court at the time of the adoption of the constitutional
amendment. He advanced the contention that the amendment had the effect of repealing the "'Information Law,"
and made it impossible to enforce the judgment against
him because of the due process of law clause. But the
state court ruled (55 Oregon, 450, 479), that the amendment of the -state constitution was prospective, and did
not affect pending cases. This court held that this decision

involved nothing more than the construction of the amend-

LEM WOON v. OREGON.
229 U. S.

Opinion'of the Court.

ment, which was a question of local law, not reviewable
here.
The case of the present plaintiff in error is not distinguishable upon the ground that he had not yet been put
upon trial when the amendment was adopted; for the
construction placed by the Supreme Court of Oregon upon
the amendment is that it had no effect upon the "Information Law" except with respect to prosecutions thereafter instituted. So it was held in State v. Ju Nun, 53
Oregon, 1, 9; 98 Pac. Rep. 513, 514, the court saying: "It
will be observed that the amendment does not provide
that a person shall not be 'tried' or 'prosecuted' for a
criminal offense, except upon indictment, but simply that
he shall not be charged therewith. . . . When we
speak of charging a person with the commission of a
crime, we ordinarily mean the commencement of the proceeding, by the filing of a written complaint or accusation,
and in our opinion it was in this sense that the words were
used in the constitutional amendment in question." The
decision of this point in the Ross Case was rested by the
state court upon the authority of the Ju Nun decision;
and it was upon the same authority that in the present
case the court set aside the contention that the "Information Law" was repealed by the constitutional amendment.
Therefore our decision in Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150,
164, is controlling.
And so the only question is whether the Information
Law is in conflict with the "due process of law" clause.
This would seem to be sufficiently set at rest by repeated
decisions. Iurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 532, 538;
McNulty v. California, 149 U. S. 645; Hodgson v. Vermont,
168 U. S. 262; Bolln v. Nebraska,'176 U. S. 83; Maxwell
v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581; Davis v. Burke, 179 U. S. 399;
Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S. 325.
The Supreme Court of Oregon has upheld the validity of
the Information Law in several decisions, based upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

authority of the Hurtado Case; State v. Tucker, 36 Oregon,
291; State v. Guglielmo, 46 Oregon, 250, 251, 262; State v.
Ju Nun, 53 Oregon, 1.
The distinction sought to be drawn between the present
case and that of Hurtado, on the ground that the Oregon
system did not require that the information be preceded
by the arrest or preliminary examination of the accused,
is untenable.
Although the plaintiff in error waived examination, we
prefer not to rest upon that circumstance as a ground of
decision. For if (as seems to be conceded) the preliminary
examination had no lawful status under the laws of Oregon,
it is not easy to see how his position was altered for the
worse by his waiving such examination.
But since, as this court has so often held, the "due
process of law" clause does not require the State to adopt
the institution and procedure of a grand jury, we are unable to see upon what theory it can be held that an examination, or the opportunity for one, prior to the formal
accusation by the district attorney, is obligatory upon
the States.
The matter is so clearly settled by our previous decisions
that further discussion is unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.

WILKINSON v. McKIMMIE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 273. Argued May 1, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.
A court of equity looks to substance rather than to form. Whether the
contract of the principal has been so altered as to discharge the
--surety is to be decided according to the essentials.
In this case held that an arrvangciientas to a reservation in a convey-

