OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

22R U. S.

we have for reasons already given ceased generally to
make requisition upon the Government of Italy for the
surrender of Italian subjects under the treaty, would
not require of necessity that we should, as a matter of
logic or law, regard ourselves as free from the obligation
of surrendering our citizens, we laboring under no such
legal inhibition regarding surrender as operates against
the government of Italy. Therefore, since extradition
treaties need not be reciprocal, even in the matter of the
surrendering of citizens, it would seem entirely sound
to consider ourselves as bound to surrender our citizens
to Italy even though Italy should not, by reason of the
provisions of her municipal law be able to surrender its
citizens to us."
The executive department having thus elected to waive
any right to free itself from the obligation to deliver
up its own citizens, it is the plain duty of this court to
recognize the obligation to surrender the appellant as
one imposed by the treaty as the supreme law of the land
and as affording authority for the warrant of extradition.
Judgment affirmed.

CITY OF PADUCAH, KENTUCKY, v. EAST TENNESSEE TELEPHONE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 246.

Argued April 22, 1913.-Decided June '10, 1913.

The test of finality of a decree for the purposes of appeal to this court
is the face of the decree itself, and unless it is final the appeal will not
lie.
A decree which continues an injunction againat a municipality unless

PADUCAH v. EAST TENN. TEL. CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

it adopts an ordinance specified therein held not final prior to the
passage of the ordinance or declaration not to do so, and appeal
dismissed as premature.
THE facts, which involve determining whether a decree
of the Circuit Court of the United States is final and
whether an appeal will lie therefrom to this court, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. James Campbell, Jr., with whom Mr. W. F. Bradshaw, Jr., Mr. A. Y. Martin and Mr. H. S. Corbett were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. William L. Uranbery, with whom Mr. Hunt Chipley
was on the brief, for appellee.
AMR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion ofthe court.

The appellee has raised a question as to the finality of
the decree from which this appeal was taken, and has
moved that the appeal be dismissed as premature.
The motion must be granted.
From the bill it appears that a controversy had arisen
concerning the legality of a "tax" in the nature of an
annual rental for the privilege of maintaining upon the
streets the poles which had been placed there by "permission" of the city, many years before, and also as to
the character and duration of the "permission" under
which the Telephone Company, or its predecessors, had
placed and maintained the poles and wires upon the
streets for the conduct of a telephone system. It also
appeared from the bill and its exhibits that for the purpose
of settling every question at issue an agreement was made
between the parties, whereby the terms of anew ordinance
were settled upon, under which ordinance the Telephone
Company was to purchase a franchise at public sale, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

it should be the highest bidder, the terms of which should
be according to those arranged between the city and the
company, which terms were to be enacted into an ordinanee
by the council. The company upon its part agreed to pay
to the city in full settlement of the controversy, as to the
pole rentals which had been imposed and of all other
questions, a certain sum, and to dismiss its litigation concerning the same. The company made the payment and
it was accepted by the city. An ordinance was thereupon
passed, which granted to the company the right to maintain its poles and wires upon the streets for a term of
twenty years, and imposed conditions as to the maximum
charge for telephone service which the company claims
were radically different from those which had been agrecd
upon, and which, the bill avers, were so unreasonably low
as to prevent a profitable conduct of its business. For
this reason it refused to accept the ordinance and reverted
to its original rights under t!he permission heretofore referred to, and such other rights as had resulted from its
long occupation of the streets with its poles and wires
with the acquiescence of the city. Thereupon, the city
council passed certain ordinances and resolutions and
gave certain notices which the bill claims constituted an
impairment of the company's contract and property
rights in the streets, in contravention of the contract and
due process clauses of the Constitution of the United
States. A temporary injunction was granted against
any action by the city interfering with the continuance
of the company's poles and wires upon the streets and the
conduct of its business as it had theretofore been carried
on.
The city answered, denying, in substance, that it had
entered into any such agreement as .charged, and also its
authority to make such an agreement. It-admitted the
receipt of the payment as charged and tendered its return,
with interest. Upon a final hearing the contention of the

PADUCAH v. EAST TENN. TEL. ,CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Telephone Company was upheld. That part of the judgment appealed from is in these words:
"And the defendant, City of Paducah, having, as
shown by the record, failed to carry out the agreement of
compromise entered into between it and the complainant,
though receiving parts of the proceeds of said compromise,
the said City of Paducah, its officers, agents, employ6s
and all other persons are hereby enjoined and restrained
from interfering with or obstructing the complainant in
operating a telephone exchange in said city and in connection therewith erecting poles and stringing wires thereon
until the defendant city shall duly enact and put into force
an ordinance in the exact form and of the exact substance
agreed upon between the parties as set forth in the bill of
complaint, and also until, under such ordinance, the
franchise therein referred to has been fairly and in good
faith offered at public sale and has fairly and in good faith
been sold in the way therein provided for; but nothing
herein shall be deemed or taken to interfere with the
power of the defendant, City of Paducah, in all reasonable
and proper ways to regulate such setting of poles and
stringing of wires in the legitimate exercise of the police
power of said city as affecting said telephone exchange and
its appliances, nor shall anything herein be construed as
prohibiting the said city from making rates for telephone
service lower than those named in said ordinance, if it
shall hereafter result that said rates yield to the complainant, or any other person who may purchase the
franchise at the sale made pursuant to such ordinance,
more than a fair return upon the reasonable value of the
property at the time it is being used. It is the intention
of this judgment to give to the City of Paducah the option
of permitting the present status to remain perpetually or
else to enact the agreed-upon ordinance and fairly to put
it into force, and the court now reserves the right and the
power to make any orders that may be'needful not only

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

to enforce the injunction but also to meet any emergency
that may arise should the city, in the exercise of such
option, enact and put into force the ordinance referred to,
and the case is held open for these purposes."
Thereupon the city, without exercising its option or
making any declaration of a purpose not to enact the
ordinance, appealed.
No time within which the city was to elect to pass the
ordinance, carrying out the contract, which the court
held it had made with the Telephone Company, was fixed
by the decree. If that had been done the mere failure to
take action within that time might well be held as a conclusive rejection of the option to carry out the agreement,
and would have the effect of making final the decree
maintaining the pre-contract status. Tuttle v. Claflin, 66
Fed. Rep. 7. This decree on its face is not final, and the
test of finality for the purposes of review by this court
by appeal is the face of the decree appealed from. If the
city had elected to carry out its agreement, and had
passed an ordinance in supposed accord with the decree,
it must be accepted by the court as a compliance. Judge
Evans foresaw that there might arise many questions out of
an attempt to exercise the option, and therefore, reserved
power to deal with them when they should arise. An
affirmance of the decree by this court would require that
the cause be remanded for further proceedings to make
the decree final. The right to elect will remain open, and
until exercised or renounced by the city will leave both
parties in a state of suspension as to their rights and
duties until further action is had. Such a -decree' being
interlocutory, is not final for the purposes of appeal.

Grant v. Insurance Co., 106 U. S. 429; Jones v. Craig,
127 U. S. 213.

This appeal must be dismissed as premature and the cause
remandedfor further proceedings.

