SWIGART v. BAKER.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SWIGART v. BAKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH

No. 944.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 9, 10, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

A statutory provision for charging cost of construction of an improvement against property benefited may include the cost of maintenance as well as of actual construction; and in determining the
scope of the provision the court may arrive at the legislative intent
by examining the history of the statute.
The history of the Reclamation Act of 1902 shows that it was the intent
of Congress that the cost of each irrigation project should be assessed against the property benefited and that the assessments as
fast as collected should be paid back into the fund for use in subsequent projects without diminution. This intent cannot be carried out without charging the expense of maintenance during the
Government-held period as well as the cost of construction.
Subsequent legislative construction of a prior act may properly be
examined as an aid to its interpretation: and so held that statutes
passed since the Reclamation Act of 1902 indicate that Congress has
construed the provisions of that act as authorizing the Secretary of
the Interior to assess cost of maintenance as well as of construction
of irrigation projects upon the land benefited.
Where the executive officer charged with its enforcement annually reports to Congress the same construction of a statute, it is significant
if Congress never has taken any adverse action in regard to such construction.
Quwre whether Congress may not by legislation construe a prior statute
so that as to all matters subsequently arising the action is legislative
in character.
The repeated and practical construction of the Reclamation Act of
1902 by both Congress and the Secretary of the Interior, in charging
cost of maintenance as well as construction, accords with the provisions of the act taken in its entirety and is followed by this court.
199 Fed. RcP. 865, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Reclamnation Act of 1902 and whether the purchaser was

OCTOBER TERM, 1012.
Argument for Appellee.

229 U. S.

required thereunder to pay the annual charges for maintaining the irrigation -project by which his lands are
irrigated, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams and Mr. W. W. Dyar were on the
brief, for appellant.
Mr. W. T. Dovell for appellee:
The unambiguous language of the act requires the
charges for operation and maintenance to be paid out of
the "Reclamation Fund" until such time as the major
portion of the lands under a project shall have been paid
for, when the management shall pass to the water users,
and then to be maintained at their expense. The contention of the Government that the act is to be so construed as to permit the Secretary of the Interior to keep
the "Reclamation Fund" intact without diminution- on
account of maintenance charges, and arbitrarily levy and
collect by coercive measures of his own invention the
charges of operation and maintenance, prior to the time
When the major portion of the lands have been paid for
as provided for in § 6 of the act, cannot be maintained.
In § 4 of the act, in directing how charges should be
apportioned to the acreage under-the ditch for the purpose
of fixing the price at which water is to be sold, it is expressly provided that the charges shall be fixed so as to
return to the fund the cost of construction. Nowhere is
there a provision made for the return to the fund of any
of the cost except the cost of construction. Had Congress
intended that the fund should never be diminished by
maintenance charges, here would have been an apt place
to express such an intention.
Sections 5 and 6 also support appellee's contefition. It
is contemplated that during all this time the management
and operation of the works shall remain, as they still are

SWIGART v. BAKER.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

in our case, with the officers of the Reclamation Department; but when the time shall be reached that the major
portions of the lands under the ditch shall have been paid
for, the management and operation shall be taken over
by the water users themselves under some form of organization and under rules to be approved by the Secretary
of the Interior, and then the works shall be maintained
at the water users' expense.
This is the act as the law-making body saw fit to write
it. As it is clear in its meaning there is no function for
this tribunal to perform except to interpret it as written
and enforce the clearly expressed design of Congress. If
there be no ambiguity in the act, there is no room for
construction. Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 421;
United States v. Goldenberg, 168 U. S. 102; Lake County
v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 670.
The contemporaneous and practical construction which
the Interior Department has for some time placed upon
this act, and which appellant contends should be now followed by the judicial department, is incorrect. The Interior Department has disobeyed the express mandate of
the law, and appellants now insist that the statute has
been in effect modified by this disobedience. Malfeasance, however, cannot ripen into an amendment of the
law. Cooley Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 105; Houghton v.
Payne, 194 U. S.99; United States v. Graham, 110 U. S.
219; United States v. Alger, 152 U. S. 384; Webster v.
Luther, 163 U. S. 3.1; St. Paul &c.Ry. Co. v. Phelps, 137
U. S.528; Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S.
1; Fairbankv. United States, 181 U. S.310; United States
v. United Verde Copper Co., 196 U. S.207.
As to interpretation by subsequent legislation, if any
words used in statutes passed subsequently thereto indicate that Congress interpreted the "Reclamation Act"
as providing for the payment of maintenance and operation charges otherwise than out of the "Reclamation

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellee.

229 U. S.

Fund" prior to the time this period was reached, an all
sufficient answer is if the subsequent Congress put such
an interpretation upon the act it was and is a wrong
interpretation, as the words of the act itself indisputably
demonstrate. See in this respect Hamilton v. Rathbone,
175 U. S. 419; Koshkong v. Burton, 104 U. S. 678; Sutherland on Stat. Constr.; and see 2 Lewis' Stat. Cons., 2d
ed., § 447.
Appellants may not resort to the doctrine of construction by statutes in pari materia. This rule, like the other,
has no application except where an actual ambiguity
exists in the statute, and does not obtain where the intention of the law-making body has been clearly expressed.
Barnes v. Railroad, 17 Wall. 307, Lamp Chimney Co. v.
Brass & Copper Co., 91 U. S. 662.
The well defined principle announced by all the courts
and text writers is that prior or subsequent legislation
may be resorted to to solve but never to create an ambiguity.
When a law making body designs to repeal or amend
previous legislation, it has a well recognized method of
doing so, so that the purpose cannot easily be mistaken,
but no attempt to amend this act in that way has ever
been made by Congress.
While the Attorney General in 27 Op. Atty. Gen'l, 374,
approved the practice of the Interior Department in
assessing charges for maintenance and operation against
the water users, under our form of government even one
so high in official life as the Attorney General has not the
power to change existing law. Courts do not yield their
functions out of deference to the opinion of officers of
other departments. Deming v. M'Claughry, 113 Fed. Rep.
639; aff'd 186 U. S. 49.
There is no presumption that Congress would require
water users to pay the cost of maintenance. It was the
policy of the American Government to recognize the

SWIGART v. BAKER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reclamation of arid lands as a public measure. United
States v. Burley, 179 Fed. Rep. 1.
The Government maintains lighthouses upon the coast,
yet the suggestion has never been made that the support
thereof should be paid for wholly by those who navigate
the sea.
The reports of committee and debates in Congress
make the purpose clear that the users shall not pay any
charges until after the work is turned over to them, and
that the cost of operation and maintenance of reservoirs
and irrigation works shall be paid from the irrigation fund.
See Cong. Rec., Vol. 35, pt. 3, p. 2276.
Reports of committees may be used as an aid to construction, where there is any ambiguity. Johnson v.
Southern Pacific Ry. Co., 196 U. S. 20. See also Cong.
Rec., Vol. 35, pt. 7, pp. 6683, 6753.
Where the intent is plain, nothing is left to construction.
Where the mind labors to discover the design of the legislature, it seizes everything from which aid can be derived.
United States v. Fisher,2 Cr. 386.
While courts have said that resort is not to be had to
the debates in legislative bodies to determine the construction of an act, courts do repeatedly resort to that very
source for enlightenment. Wadsworth v. Boysen, 148
Fed. Rep. 771; Binns v. United States, 194 U. S. 486;
Roberts v. Pac. Co., 186 Fed. Rep. 938; Jennison v. Kirk,
98 U. S. 453; United States v. Wilson, 58 Fed. Rep. 768;
Ex parte Farley, 40 Fed. Rep. 66; Simonds v. St. Louis
&c., 192 Fed. Rep. 353.
MR.JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

The Sunnyside Unit of the Yakima Irrigation Project
was so far completed in 1909 that the Secretary of the
Interior gave notice that water would be furnished for
irrigation purposes and that "the charges would be in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

two parts: 1. Building of the irrigation system, $52 per
acre . . . 2. For operation and maintenance, 95 cents
per acre per anfnum." The appellee, Baker, applied for a
water right and paid the assessed charges until 1911, when
he refused to pay the 95 cents per acre for maintenance and
operation, on the ground that the Secretary had no authority to make such an assessment. The Reclamation officers
thereupon threatened to cut off the supply of water and
Baker at once filed, in the United States Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Washington, a Bill against them,
alleging that the charge for maintenance was illegal, that
his crops, would be destroyed if water was not furnished
and praying that the Reclamation officers should be
perpetually enjoined from cutting off the supply of water
because of his failure to pay the illegal assessment.
The defendants in their answer set up that the charge
of 95 cents per acre, per annum, for maintenance and
operation had been lawfully made by the Secretary of the
Interior under the power conferred upon him by statute.
The case was heard on Bill and Answer and the Bill dismissed. 196 Fed. Rep. 569. Baker took the case to he
Circuit Court of Appeals, where, one judge dissenting,
the decree was reversed (199 Fed. Rep. 865) on the ground
that the Secretary of the Interior could not assess irrigable
land with the cost of maintenance and operation.
Since its adoption in 1902 (32 Stat. 388, c. 1093) the act
has always been differently construed by the Secretary of
the Interior who, in granting water-rights, has uniformly
assessed the landowners with the cost of maintenance.
The contrary construction by the Circuit Court of Appeals raises a question of great importance to the owners
of the land now irrigated. It is of. equal importance to
the Government and to that part of the public interested
in the reclamation of those portions of the arid region
which can be irrigated as soon as funds are available.
For, by so much as the fund is depleted in the payment ol

SWIGART v. BAKER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

operating charges at one place, by so much is the reclamation of arid lands elsewhere postponed.
The statute provides that the cost of construction of the
Project shall be charged against 'the land within the
irrigable limits. The phrase is not expressly defined and
being general in its terms is not necessarily limited to
building, but may include the preservation and maintenance of what has been built. For example, a statute
authorizing the levy of a tax to construct a sewer was
held to empower the city to levy taxes for its maintenance.
Power to construct a dock imposed the duty of operating
it. Permission to "construct internal improvements" warranted the purchase of a plant already built, and authority
to construct a road conferred power to maintain it. In re
Fowler, 57 N. Y. 60; Seymour v. Tacoma, 6 Washington,
138; Attorney General v. Boston, 142 Massachusetts, 200;
Pelham v. Woolsey, 16 Fed. Rep. 418; Atchison &c. Ry. v.
McConnell, 25 Kansas, 370; Bell v. Maish, 137 Indiana,
226; Weston v. Hancock County, 98 Mississippi, 800, 54 So.
Rep. 307. So, in the present case the statute provides that
the Secretary may assess "the cost of construction of the
project" without defining the term, and it may assist in
arriving at the legislative intent to refer briefly to the
facts leading up to the passage of the Reclamation Act.
The official reports show that, in 1902, there were in
sixteen States and Territories 535,486,731 acres of public
land still held by the Government and subject to entry.
A large part of this land was arid, and it was estimated
that 35,000,000 acres could be profitably reclaimed by
the construction of irrigation works. The cost, however,
was so stupendous as to make it impossible for the development to be undertaken by private enterprise, or, if
so, only at the added expense of interest and profit private
persons would naturally charge. With a view, therefore,
of making these arid lands available for agricultural
purposes by an expenditure of public money, it was prp
VOL. ccxxix-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

posed that the proceeds arising from the sale of all public
lands in these sixteen States and Territories should constitute a Trust Fund to be set aside for use in the construction of irrigation works-the cost of each Project
to be assessed against the land irrigated, and as fast as the
money was paid by the owners back into the Trust, it
was again to be used for the construction of other works.
Thus the fund, without diminution except for small and
negligible sums not properly chargeable to any particular
Project would be continually invested and reinvested
in the reclamation of arid land. See H. R. Report,
No. 1468, 57th Congress, 1st session.
The general outline of this plan was approved by Congress, which, on June 17, 1902, passed "An Act appropriating the receipts from the sale and disposal of public lands
in certain States and Territories to the construction of
irrigation works for the reclamation of arid lands." 1 32
Stat. 388, c. 1093.
'The proceeds of the public land less certain deductions, were, sec. 1,
"reserved, set aside, and appropriated as a special fund in the Treasury
to be known as the 'Reclamation Fund,' to be used in the examination
and survey for and the construction and maintenance of irrigation
works for the storage, diversion, and development of waters for the
reclamation of arid and semiarid, lands in the said States and Territories, and for the payment of all othdr expenditures provided for in
this Act."
See. 5. The entryman upon lands to be irrigated by such works shall,
in addition to compliance with the homestead laws, reclaim at least
one-half of the total irrigable area of his entry for agricultural purposes,
and bef6re receiving patent for the lands covered by his entry shall
pay to the Government the charges apportioned against such tract,
as provided in section four. . . . The annual installments shall
be paid tQ the receiver of the local land office of the district in which
the land is situated, and a failure to make any two payments when
due shall render the entry subject to cancellation, with the forfeiture
of all rights under this Act, as well as of any moneys already paid
thereon. All moneys received from the above sources shall be paid
into the reclamation fund. . .

SWIGART v. BAKER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The statute provided that the money arising from the
sales of the public lands in these States and Territories
was to be known as the Reclamation Fund and was to
be used for the purpose of reclaiming arid lands. Provision was made for preliminary surveys, and when the
Secretary determined that a Project was practicable, he
was authorized to make contracts for its construction,
if there were funds available. The land capable of being
irrigated was to be open only to homestead entry and
(see. 4) the Secretary was then to give notice "of the
charges which should be made per acre and the number
of installments, not exceeding ten, in which the charges
should be paid; these charges to be determined with a
view of returning to the Reclamation Fund the estimated
cost of the construction of the project . . . and all
moneys received from the above sources shall be paid
into the Reclamation Fund.

.

.

.

The Secretary of

the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to use the
reclamation funds for the operation and maintenance of
all reservoirs and irrigation works constructed under the
Sec. 6. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to use the reclamation fund for the operation and maintenance
of all reservoirs and irrigation works constructed under the provisions
of this Act: Provided, That when the payments required by this Act
are made for the major portion of the lands irrigated from the waters
of any of the works herein provided for, then the management and
operation of such irrigation works shall pass to the owners of the lands
irrigated thereby, to be maintained at their expense under such form
of organization and under such rules and regulations as may be acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior: Provided, That the title to
and the management and operation of the reservoirs and the works
necessary for their protection and operation shall remain in the Government until otherwise provided by Congress.
Sec. 10. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to perform any and all acts and to make such rules and regulations as may
be necessary and proper for the purpose of carrying the provisions of
this Act into full force and effect."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

provisions of this act; provided that when the payments
required by this act are made for the major portion of
the lands irrigated from the waters of any of the works
herein provided for, then the management and operation
of such irrigation works shall pass to the owners of the
lands irrigated thereby to be maintained at their expense;
.
provided that the title to and management and operation of the reservoirs and. works necessary for their protection and operation shall remain in
the Government until otherwise'provided by Congress."
In pursuance of this act, various Works, including that
of the Sunnyside Unit of the Yakima Project, were constructed and notice was given of the charges that would
be made. At first they were stated in a lump sum, cost
of building, maintenance and operation making up the
total. After 1906, the charges were separately stated
substantially thus: "1. For building, $per acre;
2. For maintenance and operation, $per acre per
annum." 1
1. The contention that this last item could not be assessed against the irrigated land is based upon the fact
'Examples of the form of Notice showing such division of charges, are

to be found in ,"
Report of Reclamation Service, 1908-1909," pp. 124,
130, 136, 163, 200. The Notice for the Sunnyside Project recites that
water "will be furnished from the Sunnyside- Project under the provisions of the Reclamation Act

. . . and the charges which shall

be made per acre of irrigable land which can be irrigated by the waters
from said irrigation project are in two parts, as follows:
1. The building of the irrigation system, $52 per acre of irrigable
land, payable in not more than 10 annual instalments. .
2. For operation and maintenance, which will as soon as the data
are available, be fixed in proportion to the amount of water used, with
the minimum charge per acre of irrigable land whether water isused
or not. The operation and maintenance charge for the irrigation season of 1909, and until further notice, will be 95 cents per acre of ir-rigable land, for which water is ready in the irrigation season of 1909,
whether wnwt i4 used thereon or not.

SWIGART v. BAKER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that § 4 authorizes the Secretary to make the estimated
charges "with a view of repaying the cost of construction of the Project." But an analysis of the act shows
that the charges were not limited to the building of the
dam or the digging of the canals, but included the purchase of land needed for reservoirs and everything chargeable to "the cost of construction of the project," which
Project was later to be turned over as a going concern
to the landowners. The cost to the United States represented not only the expense of building but of maintenance up to the time it was surrendered to the water
users. And as the Government collected no interest,
the result would be that if the cost of maintenance was
not returned there would be a constant and heavy diminution of the Reclamation Fund. That fund was the proceeds of public land and was not intended to be diminished
for the benefit of any one project, but, without increase
by interest and undiminished by local exp'enses, was
again to be used for constructing other works. The cost
of surveying those projects which were not developed
and the administrative expenses not chargeable to any
particular Project might not be repaid, but these sums
were so small as to be negligible as against the fundamental idea of the Bill, that the proceeds of public land
as a Trust Fund should be kept intact and again invested
and reinvested for constructing new irrigation works.
But if it should be taxed with cost of maintenance, it
follows as a mere matter of mathematics that the Reclamation Fund would be greatly depleted if not entirely consumed and the proceeds of the public domain be thus
diverted to the payment of local 'expenses.
2. If there could be any doubt as to the meaning of
the statute, it disappears in the light of congressional
construction which may properly be examined as an aid
in its interpretation. Burridge v. Detroit, 117 Michigan,
557. The Secretary of the Interior annually made re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

ports to Congress in which these charges of maintenance
and operation~were shown. No adverse action was taken
as to these assessments by the Secretary. On the contrary, Congress in several instances showed that it construed the act in the same way. This distinctly appears
in statutes providing a method by which irrigable lands
in Indian reservations might be opened to entry and
brought within the limits of an irrigation project. In
these cases it was provided that the person taking up
such land should pay the amount due to the Indians "in
addition to the charges for construction and maintenance of
the irrigation system made payable into the reclamation
fund by the provisions, of the Reclamation Act." (Act
March 6, 1906, 34 Stat. 53, c. 518, § 2.) A similar recital
is found in the statute relating to the acquisition of irrigable land in the Blackfeet Reservation, where it was
provided that if any such lands were "deemed practicable
for an irrigation Project under the provisions of the Reclamation Act, said lands shall be 'disposed of under the provisions of said act and settlers shall pay, in addition to the
cost of construction and maintenance provided therein, the
appraised value of the Indian land." (March 1, 1907, 34
Stat. 1037, c. 2285.) See also 35 Stat. 85, c. 153; Id., 558,
562, c. 237; 36 Stat. 835, c. 407.
3. It is argued that though these expressions show
that Congress, in 1906 and 1907, thought that the cost
of maintenance was chargeable under the Reclamation
Act of 1902, yet no effect should be given to such legislative interpretation since Congress is not authorized to
exercise the judicial function and has no power to construe existing statutes. But these acts of 1906 and 1907
were passed before the appellee, Baker, applied for his
water-rights in 1909, and there are cases (State v. Orphans'
Home, 37 Oh. St. 275; Dequindre v. Williams, 31 Indiana, 444), Which would support a holding that this Ianguage, as to future transactions, was legislative in charac-

DILL v. EBEY.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

ter and incorporated these provisions into the original
act. We refer to them, however, as we do to the notices
given and charges made by the Secretary of the Interior,
as showing the repeated and practical construction which
has been given the statute from the beginning, and in

the light of which many water-rights have been granted
and many hundreds of thousands of dollars for maintenance paid to the Government as a part of "the cost of
construction of the project." This practical interpretation by Congress and the Secretary of the Interior accords
with the provisions of the act taken iujts entirety.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
that of the District Court is affirmed and the case remanded to the District Court.
Reversed.

DILL v. EBEY, RECEIVER OF THE CITIZENS'
BANK AND TRUST COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 191.

Argued March 17, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Section 723, Rev. Stat., declaring that suits in equity shall not be sustained where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at
law, by its own terms applies only to courts of the United States;
and does not apply to a territorial court, the procedure of which has
been prescribed according to the law of an adjoining State, and to
c. 18, Rev. Stat., which does not include § 723.
Even if a demurrer in an action in the United States Court of Indian
Territory, on the ground that the action should be at law instead of
in equity, does amount to an assertion of right under § 723, Rev.
Stat., that section is so plainly inapplicable to the practice in such
court that no substantial Federal question is raised that would war-

