OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

229 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, SAN FRANCISCO & TEXAS RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SEALE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 857.

Argued May 5, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Where the Federal Employers' Liability Act is applicable, the state
statute on the same subject is excluded by reason of the supremacy
of the former.
Where the Federal Employers' Liability Act applies, no one but the
injured employ6 or, in case of his death, his personal representative,
can maintain the action.
Whether the Federal or state statute is applicable depends upon
whether the injuries of the employd were sustained while the company was engaged and the employ6 was employed in interstate
commerce.
An employ6 whose duty is to take the numbers of, and seal up and
label, cars, some of which are engaged in interstate, and some in
intrastate, traffic, is directly and not indirectly engaged in interstate
commerce.
Interstate transportation is not ended by the arrival of the train at the
terminal. The breaking up of the train and moving the cars to the
appropriate tracks for making up new trains for further destination
or for unloading is as much a part of interstate transportation as the
movement across the state line.
Where plaintiff's petition states a case under the state statute, but on
the evidence it appears that the case is controlled by the Federal
statute, and the defendant has duly excepted, the state court is
bound to take notice of the objection and dismiss if plaintiff is not
entitled to recover under the Federal statute.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Employers' Liability Act of 1908, and its effect on actions
for personal injuries of employ6s brought in the state
courts, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Cecil H. Smith, with whom Mr. W. F. Evans was

on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RY. v. SEALE.
229 U. S.

157

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Judson H. Wood, with whom Mr. John P. Haven
was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action against a railroad company, by the
widow and parents of one of its employ6s, to recover
damages for his death while in its service in its railroad
yard at North Sherman, Texas, the death being caused,
as was alleged, by the negligence of other employ6s. The
action was begun in one of the courts of the State and resulted in a judgment for the plaintiffs, which was affirmed
by the 'Court of Civil Appeals. 148 S. W. Rep. 1099.
A petition for a writ of error was denied by the Supreme
Court of the State, and the present writ of error to the
Court of Civil Appeals was then allowed. See Bacon v.
Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 215; No7folk & Suburban Turnpike
Co. v. Virginia, 225 U. S. 264, 269.
A motion to dismiss the writ is interposed, but the
grounds of the motion are plainly untenable, and it is
denied.
In the trial court and again in the Court of Civil Appeals the railroad company contended that the injuries
which caused the death of the deceased were received
while the company was engaged, and while he was employed by it, in interstate commerce; that its liability
for his death was exclusively regulated and controlled
by the Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35
Stat. 65, c. 149; and that, if liable, it was liable only to
his personal representative and not to the plaintiffs or
any of them. This contention was denied by both courts,
and the correctness of that ruling is the matter now to be
considered.
The cause of action sought to be enforced was not
recognized at common law. Michigan CentralRailroad Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

v. Vreeland, 227 U. S.. 59, 67. It was essential, therefore,
that it be based on some applicable statute. There was a
Texas statute on the subject and also the Federal one.
Both could not occupy the same field, and they were
unlike. The Texas statute gave the right of action to the
"surviving husband, wife, children and parents" and
provided that it might be enforced by all of them or by
one or more for the benefit of all, while the Federal statute
vested the right of action in the deceased's "personal
representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow
or husband and children of such employ6; and, if none,
then of such employd's parents; and, if none, then of the
next of kin dependent upon such employ6." There were
other points of dissimilarity, but they need not be noticed.
If the Federal statute was applicable, the state statute
was excluded by reason of the supremacy of the former
under the National Constitution. $ econd Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, -53; Michigan Central Railroad
Co. v. Vreeland, supra. And if the Federal statute was
applicable, the right of recovery, if any, was in the personal representative of the deceased, and no one else
could maintain the action. Briggs y. Walker, 171 U. S.
466, 471; American Railroad Co. v. Birch, 224 U. S. 547,
557; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Co. v. Wulf, 226
U. S. 570, 576; Troxell v. Delaware,Lackawanna & Western
RailroadCo., 227 U. S. 434, 443. The real question, therefore, is, whether the Federal statute was applicable, and
this ,turns upon whether the injuries which caused the
death of the deceased were sustained while the company
was ,engaged, and while he was employed by it, in interstate commerce. Second Employers' Liability Cases,
supra; Pedersen v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
Railroad Co. (decision announced with this, ante, p. 146).
The plaintiffs' petition was altogether silent upon that
subject, arid the defendant, by appropriate special exceptions; called attention to the two statutes, insisted

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RY. v. SEALE.
229 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

that whether one or the other applied depended upon
facts not stated, and asked that the plaintiffs be required
so to state the facts as to enable it to perceive which
statute was relied upon. The exceptions were overruled,
and when that matter came before the Court of Civil
Appeals it said: "The action was brought under the
state law, and the petition stated a good cause of action
and was not subject to the exceptions presented." By
its answer the defendant put in issue the allegations of
the petition, and the evidence adduced upon the trial
established without dispute the following facts:
The defendant was a Texas corporation owning and
operating a railroad extending from the boundary between Oklahoma and Texas southward through North
Sherman. This railroad connected at the Oklahoma
boundary with another one extending northward through
Madill, and the two were so operated that trains were
run through from North Sherman to Madill and from
Madill to North Sherman. The defendant was engaged
in both intrastate and interstate commerce, much the
larger part of the traffic handled in its North Sherman
yard being interstate. The deceased was employed by
the defendant as a yard clerk in that yard, 'and his principal duties were those of examining incoming and outgoing trains and making a record of the numbers and
initials on the cars, of inspecting and making a. record
of the seals on the car doors, of checking the cars with
the conductors' lists, and of putting cards or labels on the
cars to guide. switching crews in breaking up incoming,
and making up outgoing, trains. His duties related to
both intrastate and interstate traffic, and at the time of
his injury and death he was on his way through the yard
to one of the tracks therein to meet an incoming freight
train from Madill, Oklahoma, 'composed of several cars,
ten of which were loaded with freight. The purpose with
which he was going to the train was that of taking the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

numbers of the cars and otherwise performing his duties
in respect. of them. While so engaged he was struck and
fatally injured by a switch engine, which, it is claimed,
was being negligently operated by other employs in the
yard.
At the conclusion of the evidence the defendant requested the court to direct a verdict in its favor on the
ground that the undisputed evidence disclosed that the
case was one in which the defendant's liability was controlled by the Federal statute, and that, if liable, it was
liable only to the personal representative of the deceased,
and not to the plaintiffs. The request was denied, and
the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, in which the
damages were apportioned among them conformably
to the state law.
In its original opinion the Court of Civil Appeals took
the view (A)that by not interposing a plea in abatement
the defendant waived any right it had to object that the
plaintiffs were not personal representatives of the deceased,
(b) that the plaintiffs were the real beneficiaries and it
Was immaterial that they were not the deceased's personal representatives, and (c) that the state statute authorized a recovery by the plaintiffs on the case stated
in the petition, and as the Federal statute was not pleaded
as a defense it could not be invoked to defeat a recovery,
no matter what may have been its effect on the state
statute. In its opinion on the motion for rehearing the
court recognized the supremacy of the Federal statute,
if applicable, and held that the evidence did not bring
the case within that statute. While recognizing that the
train which the deceased was proceeding to examine was
an interstate train, having just come from Oklahoma,
the court said: "The North Sherman yards were the
terminal for that train, that is, that was the end of the
run of that train. If any trains went south, they were
made up in the yards, new trains, and sent south, or other

ST. L. & SAN FRANCISCO RY. v. SEALE.
229 U. S.

161

Opinion of the Court.

trains made up and sent north. The evidence does not
show that any of the cars in the train coming in were
destined for other points."
In our opinion the evidence does not admit of any other
view than that the case made by it was within the Federal
statute. The train from Oklahoma was not only an interstate train but was engaged in the movement of interstate freight, and the duty which the deceased was
performing was connected with that movement, not indirectly or remotely, but directly and immediately. The
interstate transportation was not ended merely because
that yard was a terminal for that train, nor even if the
cars were not going to points beyond. Whether they
were going further or were to stop at that station, it still
was necessary that the train be broken up and the cars
taken to the appropriate tracks for making up outgoing
trains cr for unloading or delivering freight, and this
was as much a part of the interstate transportation as
was the movement across the state line. McNeill v.
Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543, 559. See also Johnson
v. Southern Pacific Company, 196 U. S. 1, 21.
It comes then to this: The plaintiffs' petition, as ruled
by the state court, stated a case under the state statute.
The defendant by its special exceptions called attention
to the Federal statute and suggested that the state statute
might not be the applicable one. But the plaintiffs,
with the sanction of the court, stood by their petition.
It was to the case therein stated that the defendant was
called upon to make defense. A plea in abatement would
have been unavailing, because the plaintiffs were the
proper parties to prosecute that case. When the evidence
was adduced it developed that the real case was not controlled by the state statute but by the Federal statute.
In short, the case pleaded was not proved and the case
proved was not pleaded. In that situation the defendant
interposed the objection, grounded on the Federal statute,
VOL. CCXXIX-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

that the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover on the
case proved. We think the objection was interposed in
due time and that the state courts erred in overruling it.
Two of the plaintiffs, the father and mother, in whose
favor there was a separate recovery, are not even beneficiaries under the Federal statute, there being a surviving
widow; and she was not entitled to recover in her own
name, but only through the deceased's personal representative, as is shown by the terms of the statute and the decisions before cited. See also Tiffany on Death by Wrongful Act, 2d ed., §§ 80, 109, 116.
The judgment is accordingly reversed and the case
is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion, but without prejudice to such rights as
a personal representative of the deceased may have.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR dissents.

-DEGGE v. HITCHCOCK, POSTMASTER GENERAL.
MAURY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

Nos. 157, 158.

Argued January 31, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

This is apparently the first case in which a Federal court has been
asked to issue a writ of certiorari to review a ruling by an executive
officer of the United States Government.
Constant failure to apply for a particular remedy suggests that it is
due to 'conceded want of power in the courts to grant it.
Tlhe scope of the writ of certiorari as it exists at common law has not
been enlarged by any statute in the Federal jurisdiction, and cases

