OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

tenant Jerome E. Morse." This is invoked as an aid in
interpreting the meaning of the enactment. The query
propounded is, "What was the relief that Congress intended to grant the claimant unless it was relief from the
consequences of the wrong and injustice that had been
done him by the Retiring Board in 1874?" But this
query begs the whole question. There is nothing in the
record- to show that any wrong or injustice was done by
the action of the Retiring Board. The answer to the query
is, we think, written in unmistakable terms in the act
itself, and in § 1588, Rev. Stat., to which it refers. The
intended relief consisted in an increase of pay, measured
by the difference between half-pay and three-quarters
pay, for the rank that he held at the time of his retirement; that is to say, for the rank of lieutenant.
The case differs widely from McLean v. United States,
226 U. S. 374, and is not controlled by it.
Judgment affirmed.

CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF ROSWELL, NEW
MEXICO, v. DAVISSON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 551.

Argued December 4, 1912.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2, the review by this court of
judgments of the Supreme Court of a Territory is confined to determining whether the facts found by the court below sustain the judgment.
The facts found are certified to this court by the territorial Supreme
Court either by adopting the findings of the trial court or by making
separate findings of its own,

CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

One holding in escrow an agreement and money to be paid to one of
two parties according to the terms of the agreement, acts at his peril
in dealing with either party without the consent of the other; and
if the party to whom he pays the amount deposited is not entitled
thereto he is liable to the other party.
An endorsement on the outside of the envelope containing the escrow,
made by an officer of the bank acting as escrow-holder, does not
protect the bank if it is not in accordance with the escrow agreement
itself.
One cannot plead ignorance of a fact of which he has notice as an excuse
for violating rights of parties whom he is bound to protect.
The fact that no officer of the bank has read an escrow agreement does
not relieve the bank of responsibility for its action based on a separate memorandum made by one of its officers and which does not
express the terms of the agreement.
An extension verbally agreed to for completing the record title to the
property where the contract to convey expressly provides for such
an extension without specifying its length in case defects are developed, is not a parol variation or modification (f a written contract.
In this case a bank acting as escrow-holder with notice of the contract, having by paying over to one party failed in its duty to act
impartially, it is liable to the other party who was entitled to the
money under the contract.
16 N. Mex. 689, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William C. Reid, with whom Mr. James M. Hervey
was on the brief, for appellants:
The holder of papers deposited with a bank in escrow can
redeliver the paper deposited by one of the parties, to
him, after the other party to the escrow agreement is in
default in the performance of everything he was bound
to perform,-without the consent of such other party in
default, or order of court. 16 Cyc. 576, 584; 11 Am. &
Eng. Enc. of Law, 352; Humphrey v. Richmond R. R. Co.,
13 S. E. Rep. 985; Burlington R. R. Co. v. Palmer, 42
Iowa, 222; Bodwell v. Webster, 13 Pick.. 411; Hayton v.
Meeks (Ark.), 14 S. W. Rep. 864; Equity Gaslight Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Argument for Appellants.

229 U. S.

McKeige (N. Y.), 34 N. E. Rep. 898; Riggs v. Trees (Ind.),
5 L. R. A: 696; Hoyt v. McLagan, 87 Iowa, 146.
The court below erred in holding that the appellant
bank's liability in this action is not limited by the escrow
agreement and also erred in holding that the liability of
the bank is to be determined by the contract of Owens and
Berryman, to which contract the bank was not a party,
and the terms of which were not brought to its knowledge.
The court below erred in holding that the contract between Berryman and Owens did not become unenforceable
under the statute of frauds.
The bank was a stranger to any alleged parol contract,
but if, as assumed by the court, it is bound by it, it could
only be so bound as a privy of Berryman and the statute
of frauds is available by parties to the contract, their
representatives and privies. 29 Am. and Eng. Enc. of
Law, 807.
The contract in question being for the sale of land, is
within the statute of frauds, and the agreement that the
estate should have further time in which to secure an order
of the court, was. a subsequent and non-permissible variation of the contract in writing by parol. Emerson v. Slater,
22 How. 42; Swain v. Seeman, 9 Wall. 254, 274.
The effect of changing the time for performance of a
written contract that was in escrow with the bank would
be to make the entire contract a paroll contract. Kirchner
v. Laughlin, 5 N. Mex. 394; Hasbrouckv. Tappen, 15 Johnson, 200; Hersley v. Savanstrom, 41 N. W. Rep. 1027;
Athe v. Bartholomew, 33 N. W. Rep. 110; Abel v. Munson,
18 Michigan, 305; Cook v. Bell, 18 Michigan, 389; 29 Am.
and Eng. Enc. of Law, 8"24.
Oral promises to convey land gain no validity at law by
reason of the taking possession of land by the proposed
purchaser. 20 Cyc: 289.
Unless the contract expressly provides that a deed shall
be made by a third person, it must be made by the vendor

,CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

himself, even though the words of the contract are that
the vendor shall execute the deed or cause it to be executed. 29 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 701; Warvelle on
Vendors, § 419.
Mr. W. A. Dunn, with whom Mr. G. A. Richardson and
Mr. Ed. S. Gibbany were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought in the first instance in the
District Court of Chaves County, in the then Territory
of New Mexico, by Davisson, as plaintiff, against the
Citizens National Bank of Roswell and Mrs. Owens, as
defendants. He set up a claim to be paid $5,000 as commissions on a sale of real and personal property made by
him as broker in her behalf to one C. C. Berryman, claiming a right to recover against the Bank on the ground that
Mrs. Owens had given to him a written order directed to
the Bank for payment of the $5,000 out of money of hers
that was in the hands of the Bank. Mrs. Owens answered
for herself and others as Executors of Solon B. Owens,
deceased, denying liability to Davisson, 6n the ground
that the sale in question had not been consummated; and,
by a cross-complaint against the Bank, she set up that a
contract of sale was made by her in behalf of the Executors
of Solon B. Owens, deceased, with Berryman, and, upon
its execution, the sum of $9,173.32 was by agreement of
the parties deposited in the Bank together with a copy
of the agreement; that after examination of the title by
Berryman he required the Executors to procure an order
of court authorizing them to sell and convey the land,
whereupon it was agreed that the time for the conveyance
of the title should be extended until such date as the
Executors should be able to obtain the order so required,
and that in the meantime Berryman should enter into

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

possession of the land, and he did go into possession
thereof; that afterwards Berryman abandoned the possession of the land and removed to his former home in Arkansas, and because of his not being within the jurisdiction of
the Territory the Executors could not obtain service of
process upon him nor sue him for specific performance "of
the contract of sale; that under the provisions of the contract the Executors had elected to declare said $9,173.32
forfeited by the failure and refusal of Berryman to carry
out the contract; wherefore judgment was prayed against
the Bank as trustee for the Executors with respect to the
money in question. The Bank answered both the coniplaint and the cross-complaint, not denying the making of
the contract between Mrs. Owens and Berryman, but
denying that it was a party thereto or had any knowledge
thereof or concern therewith, and asserting that the
$9,173.32 was deposited with the Bank by Berryman in
escrow, and subject only to the terms of a written memorandum or agreement signed by the Bank's cashier; and
that because these terms had not been complied with
by Mrs. Owens the responsibility of the Bank to her had
been terminated, and therefore the Bank had paid the
whole of the sum of $9,173.32 to Berryman, in compliance
with his demand.
Upon the issues thus joined, the parties proceeded to
trial before the judge of the District Court, without a
jury, who rendered judgment in favor of the Bank, dismissing both the complaint and the cross-complaint.
Davisson and Mrs. Owens appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, which court reversed the judgment
and remanded the record to the District Court with instructions to reinstate the action and proceed in accordance with the views expressed in the opinion. 15 N. Mex.
680. The grounds of decision, briefly, were that by the
escrow agreement the Bank became agent for both parties,
that the memorandum did not authorize it to pay over

CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the money to either party, and that in taking sides and
making payment to Berryman it acted at its peril, and
should be held responsible to Davisson and Mrs. Owens
if upon a retrial they should sustain their right to the
money as against Berryman.
The case was accordingly brought on again to trial
before the District Court, without a jury, with the result
that judgment was rendered against the Bank, in favor
of Davisson for $5,000 and interest (the amount of his
commissions), and in favor of Mrs. Owens and the other
Executors of the Estate- of Solon B. Owens, deceased,
for the residue of the $9,173.32. Upon appeal by the Bank
to the Supreme Court of the Territory this judgment was
affirmed, 16 N. Mex. 689, and the Bank appealed to this
court.
Under the act of April 7, 1874, c. 80, § 2, 18 Stat. 27, 28,
our review is confined to determining the question whether
the facts found by the court below sustain the judgment.
And these facts are to be certified to us by the territorial
Supreme Court, either by adopting the findings of the
trial court, or by making separate findings of its own.
Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610, 613, 614; O'Reilly v.
Campbell, 116 U. S. 418, 421; Haws v. Victoria Copper
Mining Co., 160 U. S. 303, 312; Gildersleeve v. New Mexico
Mining Co., 161 U. S. 573, 577; Apache County v. Barth,
177 U. S. 538, 542, 547; Crowe v. Trickey, 204 U. S. 228,
235; Eagle Mining Co. v. Hamilton, 218 U. S. 513; Zeckendorf v. Steinfeld, 225 U. S. 445, 448; Rosaly v. Graham,
227 U. S. 584, 590.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, in affirming the
judgment of the District Court resulting from the second
trial, adopted the findings of that court, and supplemented
them with certain findings of its own. From these findings,
and from the admissions of the pleadings, the essential
facts of the case may be summarized as follows:
On August 21, 1908, Mrs. Owens, residing at Roswell,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Chaves County, New Mexico, acting for herself and in
behalf of others who were her co-executors of the estate
of her deceased husband, Solon B. Owens, made an agreemerit in writing with C. C. Berryman of Arkadelphia,
Arkansas, for the sale to him of certain lands, belonging
to the Estate, situate in Chaves County, containing 360
acres, with the live stock and other personal property
thereon. Davisson negotiated the sale as broker, and was
entitled to a commission of $5,000 for his services if the
sale should be finally consummated. The price agreed
to be paid by the purchaser was $80,000, payable $10,000
in cash upon the making of the agreement (receipt whereof
was acknowledged), $12,000 by assuming payment of a
note for that amount held by an insurance company in
Ohio and not yet due, and the balance to be secured by
five notes of $11,600 each, falling due September 10, 1909,
and in the four successive years thereafter. The property
was to be clear of all encumbrance excepting the $12,000
mortgage. By the terms of the agreement the party of
the first part, within ten days from its date (that is, on or
before August 31), was to furnish the party of the second
part, at Roswell, a complete abstract of title showing a
good merchantable title in the party of the first part; the
purchaser was to have until September 10th to examine
the abstract, and if it showed a good title the transaction
was to be closed at Roswell on or before September 10th,
by the delivery of a warranty deed -to the purchaser, he
paying the consideration according to the terms of the
agreement. There were the following additional clauses,
which should be quoted in full:
"6th. If, upon examination of the said abstract of
title, it is found that the title is not a good merchantable
title, then any objections made to said title, shall be
pointed out by the party of the second part, and then
the party of the first part shall have ten (lays in which
to cure said objections. Should it prove, upon examina-

CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of said abstract, that the said title is not good, and
same cannot be made good within such reasonable time,
then it shall be the duty of the party of the first part to
perfect said title at their expense, promptly in accordance
with the requirements of the party of the second part,
within the time stated, and if the party of the first part
fails, neglects, or refuses to perfect said title in accordance
with the requirements of the party of the second part,
then the party of the second part shall have the right to
perfect said title at the expense of the party of the first
part who shall repay at Roswell, New Mexico, such sum
of money as is expended by the party of the second part
in perfecting said title, and if upon examination of said
title it shall be shown that the title to the said property
is not good and cannot be made good, then in such event
this sale shall be annulled and the said $10,000.00 paid
as purchase money hereinbefore provided for shall be
returned by the party of the first part to the party of the
second part.
"7th. Now, if the party of the first part complies with
this contract and furnishes the abstract as provided for
and the title is shown to be good or can be made good,
and tenders to the party of the second part at Roswell,
New Mexico, a warranty deed as provided for, and the
party of the second part shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with this contract, shall fail to accept deed and
execute the said notes as provided for, then in such
event, the party of the second part shall forfeit the said
$10,000.00 paid, at the option of the party of the first
part, or at his option and the party of the first part shall
have a cause of action against the party of the second
part, enforceable in the courts of Chaves County, New
Mexico, for a specific performance of contract.
"8th. Should the party of the second part, upon examination of said abstract, find the title to the said property good and within the time stated, stand willing and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

able to consummate this deal, to pay the balance of purchase money and execute the notes as above provided
for and the party of the first part shall fail, neglect or
refuse to execute said warranty deed in accordance with
this contract, then in such event, the party of the second
part shall have a cause of action against the party of the
first part, enforceable in the courts of Chaves County,
New Mexico, for a specific performance of contract.
"9th. Possession of said property shall be given on or
before the 10th day of September, 1908."
Upon the making of this written contract, it was folded
and placed in an envelope, together with a check made by
Berryman and payable to 'Mrs. Owens for the sum of
$9,173.32, and the envelope and its contents were taken
by Mrs. Owens, Davisson and Berryman to the Citizens
National Bank of Roswell, to be held by the Bank "in
escrow" until September 10th, pending the furnishing
an abstract of title, a favorable report thereon, and final
settlement. With the consent and approval of all the
parties a memorandum was indorsed upon the envelope
in the following terms: "Check enclosed to be held in
escrow until September 10, when final settlement is to be
made. Deed and abstract to be placed in escrow with
this. Abstract to be forwarded to Citizens Bank & Trust
Company, Arkadelphia, Arkansas, for examination. No
money to be paid over until abstract is approved by purchaser's attorneys. (Signed) J. J. JAFFA, Cashier."
Up to September 10th the Owens Estate had not made
good title to Berryman, and on or about that date it was
orally agreed between them that the Estate should have
thirty or forty days time in which to secure an order of
court, and in consideration of this, Berryman, who was
stopping on expense at the hotel in Roswell, was put in
possession of the property on September 10th, and he
remained in possession thereof, exercising acts of ownership thereon until September 22d, on which date (the

CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.,
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

time agreed upon for securing an order of sale through
the courts, not having yet expired) Berryman, without
just cause, repudiated and abandoned the contract and
departed from the Territory. Meanwhile, and in consideration of the verbal arrangement of September 10th,
the Estate took immediate steps at considerable expense
to secure the required order of court, and did in fact
secure it on October 5th. But at some time after September 10th (the precise date does not appear) Berryman demanded of the Bank the return of his check. The
Bank had been notified by Davisson of the verbal agreement of September 10th extending the time in which
to perfect the title to the land, but had no other knowledge
of this, and the granting of this extension was denied by
Berryman. The Bank complied with his demand and
returned to him the check of $9,173.32, or its equivalent.
It appears that no officer of the Bank ever read the contract of sale or knew of its terms; and the Bank so far
as appears, had no knowledge of what had taken place
between Mrs. Owens and Berryman after the contract
and check were left with it except for Davisson's notification respecting the verbal arrangement made on September 10th. After the Bank had turned over to Berryman
the check or its equivalent, Mrs. Owens and Davisson
demanded from the Bank their respective shares of the
money, and the demands not being complied with, the
present action resulted. Berryman, being absent from the
Territory, was not joined as a party.
The fundamental proposition that underlies the whole
argument for the appellants is that the Bank had no
concern with anything beyond the terms of the escrow
as manifested in the written memorandum endorsed upon
the envelope. But this memorandum is evidently not a
complete expression of the agreement between the parties,
and indeed is unintelligible except by reference to the
contract of sale. It does not mention the names of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

parties or either of them; does not specify what "settlement" is to be made, nor' where; does not state by whom
'deed and abstract" are to be placed in escrow, nor
when, nor for what purpose. Above all, and more important, for the present purpose, it does not either state
or intimate what is to be done with the check or money if
settlement is not made on September 10th, or if abstract
is not "approved by purchaser's attorney."
It is clear that the instrument of August 21st came into
existence as a binding contract between the parties thereto
at, if not before, the time it was lodged with the Bank.
We say this, notwithstanding the ambiguity of the findings in this regard; for the Supreme Court, after having
stated that the parties "entered into" the contract, afterwards stated that "the contract itself was never delivered
to either of the parties, other than being placed in escrow." Since the making of the contract was clearly
averred in both the complaint and the cross-complaint,
and was not denied by the Bank in its answer, it followed,
under the local practice (Comp. Laws, N. M. 1897, § 2685,
sub-see. 67), that for the purposes of this action the averment must be taken as true. And, on general principles,
the findings are to be interpreted in the light of the issue.
Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254, 268, and cases cited.
Therefore the. deposit of the agreement and check with
the Bank was not technically an "escrow," in the sense
that the agreement was not to take effect until performance of the condition. In the light of all the facts of the
transaction, as shown by the findings, it is clear that the
parties treated the agreement as in force between them.
And the terms of the memorandum endorsed on the
envelope are consistent with this.
The contract of August 21, 1908, being in force as a contract between the parties, it is plain that the memorandum
endorsed upon the envelope was not intended to modify
its provisions.

CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the whole case, we are clear that the effect of
the deposit of the contract and check with the Bank was
to constitute it a custodian or stakeholder for the benefit
of both parties, holding the money without right or interest in it, bound above all things not to take sides between the parties, and answerable ultimately to the one
or the other, according to their respective rights as between themselves.
The endorsement upon the envelope was a mere memorandum, not containing any clear expression respecting
the agreement of the parties, and evidently unintelligible
unless read in connection with the contract of sale. Quite
as manifestly the deposit had no reason for existence
except in aid of that contract and as a protection to both
contracting parties.
The fact that no officer of the Bank read this contract
or knew of its terms is of no avail to the Bank. By the
very circumstances of the deposit it was put upon notice
that it was assuming a duty that could not be fully understood or fairly performed without a knowledge of the
contents of the contract; it had possession of that instrument, with full opportunity to examine it; except for
its own negligence it would have known the terms thereof.
To permit it now to set up its own ignorance as an excuse
or justification of its conduct in violating the rights of
one of the parties to the contract would be to permit it
to take advantage of its own wrong.
Berryman's check to the order of Mrs. Owens for
$9,173.32, having been deposited as a substitute for the
cash payment of $10,000, called for by the agreement of
August 21, was of course subject to be forfeited under
the terms of the agreement as above recited, in the event
that Berryman failed to comply with his contract.
The facts found show that while the vendors were
doing what he had required them to do, and, so far as
appears, all that they were called upon to do, to make a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

good title under the contract, he repudiated and abandoned it, without just cause, gave up possession of the
property and departed from the Territory. On familiar
principles, this absolved the Owens' Estate from any
further performance of conditions precedent on their
part. Roehm v. Horst, 178 U. S. 1, 8, 16, and cases cited;
O'Neill v. Supreme Council, 70 N. J. Law, 410; Holt v.
United Security Life Ins. Co., 74 N. J. Law, 795,, 801; 76
N. J. Law, 585, 590.
It is contended that the verbal arrangement made between the Owens' executors and Berryman on or about
September 10th, for an allowance of time within which
to procure the court order, was an attempt to vary the
written contract, and that this could not be done without writing, because of the statute of frauds. Emerson v.
Slater, 22 How. 28, 42; Swain v. Seamens, 9 Wall. 254, 272.
Without stopping to inquire as to the bearing of the
statute, a sufficient answer to this point is that the verbal
arrangement of September 10th was not variant from,
and therefore did not have the effect of modifying, the
written agreement of August 21st. That agreement
did not call for the passing of title on or before September 10th, unless the abstract showed a. good title; if it
did not, and objections were pointed out by the purchaser,
the vendors were to have at least ten days in which to
cure his objections, and if the title could not be made
good "within such reasonable time" (evidently referring
to the ten days) "then it shall be the duty of the party
of the first part to perfect said title at their expense,
promptly in accordance with the requirements of the
party of the second part, within the time stated, and if
the party of the first part fails, etc., to perfect said title
in accordance with the requirements of the party of the
second part, then the party of the second part shall have
the right to perfect said title at the expense of the party
of the first part, who shall repay," etc.

CITIZENS BANK v. DAVISSON.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The contract did not fix any specified time, upon the
expiration of which Berryman was entitled to treat it
as being at an end. It foresaw possible delays respecting
the perfection of the title, and contemplated a verbal
agreement allowing to the vendors a reasonable time for
this purpose. The verbal arrangement, allowing to the
Executors "thirty or forty days time in which to procure
an order of court," was in effect a "stating of time" by
Berryman, within which his "requirements" should be
complied with, as provided by the sixth paragraph of
the written agreement.
That instrument stated what should be deemed sufficient ground for an annulment of the sale, and a return
to Berryman of the $10,000, paid on account of the purchase money, and did not set any time limit, the language
being: "And if upon examination of said title it shall be
shown that the title to the said property is not good and
cannot be made good, then in such event this sale shall
be annulled and the said $10,000 paid as purchase money
hereinbefore provided for shall be returned by the party
of the first part to the party of the second part." Berryman, having himself repudiated the contract before any
defaul{ was made by the vendors, thereby dispensed with
a tender or further performance on their part, and forfeited to them the money deposited.
The Bank, with fair notice of this, and in violation of
its duty of acting impartially between the parties, paid
the money over to Berryman, and thereby became liable
to respond to the Executors, in whose behalf the contract
was made by Mrs. Owens, and who were represented by
her in this action.
It follows that the facts fairly sustain the judgment of
the court below. Upon this appeal no controversy is
raised as between Davisson and the Executors.
Judgment affirmed.
VOL. ccxxix-15

