DILL v. EBEY.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

ter and incorporated these provisions into the original
act. We refer to them, however, as we do to the notices
given and charges made by the Secretary of the Interior,
as showing the repeated and practical construction which
has been given the statute from the beginning, and in

the light of which many water-rights have been granted
and many hundreds of thousands of dollars for maintenance paid to the Government as a part of "the cost of
construction of the project." This practical interpretation by Congress and the Secretary of the Interior accords
with the provisions of the act taken iujts entirety.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
that of the District Court is affirmed and the case remanded to the District Court.
Reversed.

DILL v. EBEY, RECEIVER OF THE CITIZENS'
BANK AND TRUST COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 191.

Argued March 17, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Section 723, Rev. Stat., declaring that suits in equity shall not be sustained where a plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had at
law, by its own terms applies only to courts of the United States;
and does not apply to a territorial court, the procedure of which has
been prescribed according to the law of an adjoining State, and to
c. 18, Rev. Stat., which does not include § 723.
Even if a demurrer in an action in the United States Court of Indian
Territory, on the ground that the action should be at law instead of
in equity, does amount to an assertion of right under § 723, Rev.
Stat., that section is so plainly inapplicable to the practice in such
court that no substantial Federal question is raised that would war-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

rant this court in reviewing, under § 709, Rev. Stat., the judgment
of the state court to which the case was transferred on Statehood.
Demurrer in the territorial court, on the ground that the action should
be at law and not in equity, is not such a demand for a jury trial as
to amount to specially setting up a right under the trial by jury provision of the Federal Constitution.
In order to entitle plaintiff in error to have this court review a judgment of the state court in an action transferred to that court from
the territorial court after Statehood, the Federal question should
be specially set up in the state court at the proper time; he cannot
rely on a premature assertion of the right in the territoria l court.
Writ of error to review, 27 Oklahoma, 584, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the state court under § 709, Rev.

Stat., and Judicial Code, §.237, and whether a Federal
question exists and was properly and specially set up in
the state court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Burford, with whom Mr. John H. Burfornl
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Clinton
A. Galbraithwas on the brief, for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings before us a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of Oklahoma, affirming a
judgment rendered by the District Court of Okfuskee
County, holding the plaintiff in error liable for the amount

of an unpaid subscription made by him to the capital
stock of a bank of which the defendant in error is the
Receiver.
The case is brought here under § 709, Rev. Stat.,

Judicial Code, § 237, and the jurisdictional question is
raised.
The action was commenced in the United States court

DILL v. EBEY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the Western District of the Indian Territory on September 17, 1906, by Ebey, as receiver of the Citizens
Bank and Trust Company, against Dill, the plaintiff in
error, and four others, by' the filing of a complaint irf
equity setting forth that the defendants had organized
the Bank and caused it to be incorporated for the purpose
of transacting a general banking and trust business at
Stonewall, in the Indian Territory; that the articles of incorporation and certificate required by law were properly
filed, setting forth the objects and purposes of the corporation, and reciting that the capital stock was $25,000,
divided into shares of $25 each, and that $10,000 thereof
had been actually paid in by the subscribers, who were the
defendants, and that they had severally taken certain
shares of stock, of which 80 shares, of the par value of
$2,000 were issued to Dill; that he had not paid any part
of this par value, or anything of value, for the stock subscribed for by and issued to him; that defendants organized the Bank without any purpose or intent to pay for its
capital stock, except $2,000 paid in by one of the other
defendants, and that this latter sum was paid in with the
distinct understanding that it should be returned, and it
was returned, after the corporation became a going
concern; that the Bank was and is insolvent, and on the
petition of one of its creditors the plaintiff was appointed
by the United States court for the Southern District of
the Indian Territory, Receiver to take charge of all its
property and effects and administer them for the benefit
of its creditors; that the liabilities as shown by its books
were $15,179.02; that a great deal of its paper was worthless, and a very small sum could be realized from the
same and the rest of its assets; that hfter six months"
effort the plaintiff had only been able to collect on notes
$60.50, and to realize on other property the sum of $100;
that all of the capital stock represented as paid, naniely,
$10,000, and the assets in the hands of the-dVaintiff as

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Receiver, would not be sufficient to pay the creditors;
that on a partial presentation of these facts to the judge,
an order was made directing the plaintiff as Receiver to
institute proper proceedings against the defendants as
subscribers to the capital stock, to recover the respective
amounts- remaining unpaid on said subscription, or for
the stock issued to them, for the benefit of all the creditors
of the bank, and that this suit was commenced in compliance with that order. "That the plaintiff has no ade(luate remedy at law, and unless this court takes jurisdiction of this suit in equity he will be driven to a multiplicity
of actions in trying to enforce the liability of said defendants at law, and the funds of said estate will be greatly
depleted in paying the additional costs and expenses
necessary in filing and prosecuting such actions."
November 4, 1907, Dill filed a demurrer to the complaint, upon the following grounds: (a) That it did not
state sufficient facts to authorize a court of equity to
assume jurisdiction; (b) That it showed upon its face that
plaintiff had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at
law; and (c) That defendant was entitled to a trial by jury
under the laws and Constitution of the United States, of
which he would be deprived should the cause be tried in
equity. The demurrer was overruled, and he took an
exception.
Thereafter, and on November 16, 1907, by proclamation
of the President (35 Stat. 2160), the State of Oklahoma,
including the former Territory of Oklahoma and Indian
Territory, was admitted into the Union by virtue of the
Enabling Act of June 16, 1906, 34 Stat. 267, c. 3335. By
§ 20 of this act (34 Stat. 277), as amended by act of
March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1286, c. 2911, it was provided that
all causes pending in the District Courts of Oklahoma
Territory and in the United States courts in the Indian
Territory at the time said Territories should become a
State, not transferred to the United States Circuit or

DILL v. EBEY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

District Courts under previous sections, should be "proceeded with, held and determined by the courts of said
State, the successors of said district courts of the Territory of Oklahoma, and the United States Courts in the
Indian Territory; with the right to prosecute appeals or
writs -of error to the supreme or appellate court of said
State, and also with the same right to prosecute appeals
or writs of error from the final determination in such cases
made by the supreme or appellate court of such State to
the Supreme Court of the United States, as is provided
by law for appeals and writs of error from the supreme or
final appellate court of a State to the Supreme Court of
the United States."
Upon Statehood, the present action was transferred to
the District Court of Okmulgee County, and the defendant Dill, now plaintiff in error, obtained its transfer from
that court to the District Court of Okfuskee County.
There he answered upon the merits, admitting the organization and incorporation of the Bank, and that he subscribed for eighty shares of its capital stock, but alleging
that he paid the consideration therefor to the Bank at the
time, and denying any indebtedness to the plaintiff on the
stock.
If any of the other defendants pleaded to the action,
the transcript presented here does not show it. The
cause, however, came on for trial before the court without
a jury, the plaintiff, the defendant Dill, and another defendant named Malott, appearing respectively in person
and by attorney. The issue as between the plaintiff and
Malott was declared to be, whether the latter had in fact
subscribed for eighty shares of the stock of the Bank, for
the par value of which the plaintiff sought to hold him
liable. The trial court found in favor of the defendant
Malott, and against the -defendant Dill, and rendered a
decree against the latter for $2,000, together with interest
and costs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Dill moved for a new trial on several grounds, the only
one here significant being-"Error of the court in trying
the said cause without submitting the same to a jury,
when the parties thereto had not waived a jury trial."
This motion having been denied, he appealed to the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma, renewing there the insistence that the cause of action alleged in the complaint was
cognizable at law and not in equity, and that under the
Constitution and laws of the United States he was entitled to a trial by jury. The court overruled this contention and on rehearing adhered to the same view, so that the
judgment of the District Court was affirmed (27 Oklahoma, 584), and the case comes here.
It is insisted that whatever rights or immunities, under
the laws of the United States, had been asserted by defendant in the course of the litigation prior to Statehood,
were preserved to him after Statehood by the clause above
quoted from § 20 of the Enabling Act, together with § 1
of the schedule to the state constitution (Okla. Comp.
Laws, 1909, p. 137), the language of which is: "No existing rights, actions, suits, proceedings, contracts, or claims
shall be affected by the change in the forms of government,
but all shall continue as if no change in the forms of government had taken place."
Without passing upon the soundness of this proposition,
we may, for present purposes, assume it to be sound.
Blanchard v. Ezell, 106 Pac. Rep. 960; Garnsey v. State,
112 Pac. Rep. 24; Pacific Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Adams,
112 Pac. Rep. 1026; Choctaw Electric Co. v. Clark, 114
Pac. Rep. 730; St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Cundieff, 171
Fed. Rep. 319, 322.
Next, the insistence is that by his demurrer, filed before
Statehood, and specifying, as one of the grounds, that the
plaintiff had "a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at
laW," the defendant clearly asserted a right or immunity
under § 723, Rev. Stat., which declares that-"Suits in

DILL v. EBEY.
229 U. S.

Opini3n of the Court..

equity shall not be sustained in either of the courts of the
United States in any case where a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy may be had at law." This section, however, by. its own terms applies only to "courts of the
United States;" -and when afterwards a United States
Court was established in the Indian Territory by the act
of March 1, 1889, c. 333, 25 Stat. 783, it was by the sixth
section enacted'-"That the provisions of chapter eighteen, title thirteen, of the Revised Statutes of the United
States shall govern such court, so far as applicable; Provided, That the practice, pleadings, and forms of proceeding in civil causes shall conform, as near as may be, to the
practice, pleadings, and forms of proceeding existing at the
time in like causes in the courts of record of the State of
Arkansas, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." Chap. 18 of Title 13, Rev. Stat., includes some
sections prescribing the forms of procedure, but not § 723.
However, the proviso making the practice, pleadings, and
fol'ms of procedure conformable to those existing in the
State of Arkansas must of course be given effect. Moreover, in the act of May 2, 1890, enlarging the jurisdiction
of the court (c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 95), it was in § 31 enacted
that certain provisions of the Arkansas statutes, as contained in Mansfield's Digest of 1884, should be extended
over and put in force in the Indian Territory, among them
being chapter 119, relating to pleadings and practice.
That chapter (Mans. Dig., §§ 4914, etc.) abolishes forms
of action; provides that there shall be but one form of
civil action; enacts that the proceedings therein may be
of two kinds, at law or in equity: (§4925), that "An error
of the plaintiff as to the kind of proceedings adopted
shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action,
but merely a change into the proper proceedings by an
amendment in the pleadings and a transfer of the action
to the proper docket;" and (§ 4926), that such error may
be corrected on motion. Section 5028 provides that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

defendant may demur to the complaint for want of jurisdiction of the court over the person or the subject-matter,
the plaintiff's want of legal capacity, the pendency of
another action, a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant,
or "Fifth, That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action." Evidently, under
this mode of pleading, the objection that the action\ is in
equity, whereas it ought to be in law, is not a ground of
demurrer. The liberality of the system is illustrated in
Zufall v. United States, 1 Ind. Terr. 638, 643; Sparks v.
Childers, 2 Ind. Terr. 187, 198; Hampton v. Mayes, 3 Ind.
Terr. 65, 72; Rogers v. Nidiffer, 5 Ind. Terr. 55, 58. In
Indian Land & Trust Co. v. Shoenfelt, 135 Fed. Rep. 484,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in an
action commenced by bill in equity in the United States
Court in the Indian Territory, seems to have held that
§ 723, Rev. Stat., was applicable. But see a later decision
by the same court in St. Louis & S. F. R. Co. v. Cundieff,
171 Fed. Rep. 319, 321.
Upon this question, we hold that if the demurrer may
be deemed an assertion by the defendant of a right,
under § 723, Rev. Stat., to have the case determined in
equity, yet that section was so plainly inapplicable to
the practice in the territorial court that no substantial
Federal question is raised, such as would warrant a review
here under § 709, Rev. Stat.
It is, however, next insisted that the demurrer amounted
also to a demand for a trial by jury, and an assertion of a
right thereto under the Federal Constitution (extended
to the Territory by c. 182, § 31, 26 Stat. 96); and that
this right was denied by the subsequent decision of the
state court sustaining the judgment notwithstanding the
demurrer.
We deem this untenable, for two reasons, viz., (a)
because the demurrer was not a proper demand for trial
by jury; and (b) the right to such a trial, if it existed, and

DILL v. EBEY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was properly demanded prior to Statehood, was subsequently waived.
(a) We have already pointed out that under the Code
as contained in Mansfield's Digest the grounds of demurrer are limited, and the contention that defendant
will be deprived of a jury trial is not one of them. Indeed,
since a demurrer has the necessary effect of admitting
the facts alleged in the complaint, a demand for a trial
by jury is quite incongruous; for a jury has no function to
perform where the facts are admitted. It is evident
that, under the local practice, the court of the Territory
was warranted in overruling this ground of demurrer,
and that no question of Federal right is raised by its
action in doing so.
(b) As already pointed out, the defendant afterwards
answered in the state court, denying the facts set up in
the complaint. But he did not in his answer, nor at any
other time so far as the record discloses, demand a jury
trial until after the court had found against him on the
facts and rendered judgment accordingly. He did. then
move for a new trial upon the ground, among others,
that there was error in trying the cause without submitting
it to the jury, "when the parties thereto had not waived
a jury trial."
While it is conceded that under Mansfield's Digest,
§ 5105, and also under § 5785 of the State Code (Comp.
Laws Okla. 1909, p. 1256), a jury might be waived, it is
insisted that since the case was tried after Statehood,
and pursuant to the procedure prescribed by the state
law, § 5808 (Okla. Comp. Laws 1909, p. 1258) applied,
which prescribes the manner in which trial by jury may
be waived, viz., "By the consent of the party appearing,
when the other party fails to appear at the trial by himself or attorney. By written consent, in person or by
attorney, filed with the clerk. By oral consent, in open
court, entered on the journal."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

The record shows no written consent, nor any entry
upon the journal of oral consent. It does show that the
action was in form an action in equity, normally triable
without jury, and it further shows a trial of the issues
before the court without a jury, in which trial the now
plaintiff in error participated in person and by attorney,
without taking any exception to the mode of trial.
The state courts did not pass upon the question whether
under the local practice this amounted to a waiver of a
demand for jury trial; both courts having entertained
the view that the cause was properly brought in equity,
in which case there was no right to trial by jury.
We deem it clear that in order to entitle himself to a
review here under,§ 709, Rev. Stat., on the ground of a
deprivation of the right to trial by jury, plaintiff in error
should have "specially set up" his alleged right in proper
time in the state court, and should not have relied upon
a premature assertion of that right, contained in a demurrer where it had no proper place, and not reiterated at any time when there was an issue of fact to be
tried.
Writ of errordismissed.

MORSE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

No. 274.

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Argued May 2, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

A naval officer who had been retired under § 23 of the act of 1861 for
disability not originating in the line of duty and afterwards transferred to the three-quarter pay list under § 1558, 1Rev. Stat., by authority of a special act of Congress, held, not entitled to advanced
pay to which officers retired on account of wounds or disabil-

