CHI., B. & Q. R. R. v. HALL.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD
CO. v. HALL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEBRASKA.
No. 249.

Submitted April 21, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Property exempted under the laws of the State of the bankrupt cannot
be garhisheed in another Statewhere similar property is not exempted
under a judgment obtained within four months of the filing of the
petition; and, after notice of the bankruptcy proceedings, the garnishee is not protected in paying over under the judgment by the
full faith and credit provision of the Federal Constitution.
A state law relating to debts which is contrary to the provisions of the
Federal Bankruptcy Act is nullified thereby, and when so nullified
is not entitled to full faith and credit in the courts of other States
under the Federal Constitution.
While title to property exempted under § 70f does not vest in the
trustee, it does pass to him as part of the bankrupt's estate for the
purposes named elsewhere in the statute, including the duty of
segregation, identification and appraisal.
Section 67f'does not defeat rights in exempt property acquired by' contract or waiver of exemption; but where, as in this case, there has
been no waivei, no rights can be acquired. Lockwood v. Exchange
Bank, 190 U. S. 294, distinguished.
The decisions of the state and lower Federal courts in regard to annulment of liens on exempt property have been conflicting, and this
court now holds that § 67f annuls all such liens obtained within four
months of the filing of the petition, both as against the property
which the trustee takes for benefit of creditors and that which may
be set aside to the bankrupt as exempt. In re Forbes, 186 Fed. Rep.
76, approved.
88 Nebraska, 20, affirmed.

a resident of Douglas County, Nebraska, was
employed by the Railroad as switchman in its yards in
Omaha. His wages were exempt from garnishment by the
laws of Nebraska. In July, 1907, he was insolvent, and
HAIL,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

in that month while temporarily in theState of Iowa, two
proceedings were instituted against him, in which he was
personally served, and the Railroad, which owed him $122
as wages, was garnisheed. In one of these cases Rawles
sued on an open account for $54.20, the Railroad being
required to answer on August 10th. In the other, Torrey,
holding a judgment for $22.40 rendered in 1894, served a
summons of garnishment on the Railroad requiring it to
answer on August 27, 1907.
While these proceedings were pending in the Iowa
courts, Hall returned to Nebraska, and, on August 7,
1907, he was, on his own application, adjudged a bankrupt,
his wages being claimed as exempt, and the two Iowa
plaintiffs included in his list of creditors. Notice of the
bankruptcy proceeding was given to them and to the
Railroad.
Thereafter, on August 10 the Railroad answered in the
Rawles suit admitting that it owed Hall $122, and a
judgment was accordingly entered against the Railroad as
garnishee for $61.60. On August 27, it answered in the
Torrey suit and the court entered judgment against it as
garnishee for $56.91. Hall, in the bankruptcy proceedings had asked that, as allowed by the laws of Nebraska,
his wages be set apart as exempt and filed a petition praying that the Railroad should be summarily ordered to pay
him the amount due for work done in June and July, 1907.
The application was resisted by the Railroad and was
denied by the court, which held, on the authority of
Ingram v. Wilson, 125 Fed. Rep. 913, that the Bankruptcy
Court could determine that the property was exempt but
had no jurisdiction to compel its payment.
In view of that ruling Hall made a further application
to have the $122 set off to him as exempt. An order to
that effect. was passed by the Referee. Hall was discharged as a bankrupt in April, 1908, and then sued the
Railroad and recovered judgment, which was affirmed

CHI., B. & Q. R. R. v. HALL
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Supreme Court (88 Nebraska, 20), and the case
was brought here.
Mr. T. Byron Clark and Mr. Arthur R. Wells for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. J. 0. Detweiler for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, after making the foregoing statement of facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
Hall, a married man, head of a family and insolvent,
worked as a switchman for the railroad company in
Nebraska, his wages being exempt from garnishment by
the laws of that State. While temporarily absent in Iowa,
two suits were there brought against him, summons of
garnishment being served upon the Railroad's agent in
Iowa where it had been held that the Nebraska exemption
statute had no extra-territorial effect.
While these two suits were pending in Iowa, Hall
returned to Nebraska, was adjudged a bankrupt, and
claimed his wages as exempt. No defense was made to the
Iowa suits, and in both cases judgment was entered against
the Railroad as garnishee. For this reason it refused to
pay Hall when he demanded the money, which had been
set apart to him as exempt by the Referee. He then sued
the company and recovered a judgment, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska. The Railroad
sued out a writ of error to test its liability in this class of
cases, which it insists are constantly arising, because of the
employment of many persons on its lines, extending into
different States, with varying garnishment laws. It contends that the laws of Iowa do not recognize the Nebraska
exemption of wages from garnishment; that Hall was
personally served in the Iowa suits, and that the judgments therein -entered against the Railroad as garnishee
voL. ccxxix-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

are unreserved and binding; that to compel it to pay Hall
and these Iowa plaintiffs also is to impose upon it a double
liability and to deny to the judgments of the Iowa courts
the full faith and credit to which they are entitled under
the Federal Constitution.
But if they were nullified by § 67f of the Bankruptcy
Act they are entitled to no faith and no credit. That they
were so nullified is Hall's contention; for he insists that
if there was a lien against his wages it was obtained by
garnishment served within four months of his bankruptcy
and discharged by virtue of the provisions of § 67f, which
declares that "all

.

.

.

liens obtained through legal

proceedings against a person who is insolvent, at any time
within four months prior to the filing of a petition in
bankruptcy against him, shall be deemed null and void
in case he is adjudged a bankrupt, and the property
affected by the levy, judgment, attachment, or other lien
shall be deemed wholly discharged and released from the
same and shall pass to the Trustee as a part of the estate
of the bankrupt."
The Railroad on the other hand, contends that under
§ 70 the trustee acquires no title "to property which is exempt," and that liens thereon are not discharged by § 67f,
since that section has reference only to liens on property
which can "pass to the trustee as a part of the estate of
the bankrupt."
On this question there is a difference of opinion, some
state and Federal courts holding that the Bankruptcy
Act was intended to protect the creditors' trust fund and
not the bankrut's own property and that, therefore, liens
against the exempt property were not annulled even
though obtained by legal proceedings within four months
of filing the petition. In re Driggs, 171 Fed. Rep. 897; In
re Durham, 104 Fed. Rep. 231. On the other hand, In re
Tune, 115 Fed. Rep. 906 and In re Forbes, 186 Fed. Rep.
79, hold that § 67f annuls all such liens, bothas against the

CHI., B. & Q. R. R. v. HALL.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

property which the trustee takes and that which may be
,set aside to the bankrupt as exempt.
This view, we think, is supported both by the language
of the section and the general policy of the act which was
intended not only to secure equality among creditors, but
for the benefit of the debtor in discharging him from his
liabilities and enabling him to start afresh with the property set apart to him as exempt. Both of these objects
would be defeated if judgments like the present were not
annulled, for otherwise the two Iowa plaintiffs would not
only obtain a preference over other creditors, but would
take property which it was the purpose of the Bankruptcy
Act to secure to the debtor.
Barring exceptional cases, which are specially provided
for, the policy of the act is to fix a four months period in
which a creditor cannot obtain an advantage over other
creditors nor a lien against the debtor's property. "All
liens obtained by legal proceedings" within that period
are declared to be null and void. That universal language
is not restricted by the later provision that "the property
affected by the . . . lien shall be released from the
sane and pass to the Trustee as a part of the estate of the
bankrupt." It is true that title to exempt property does
not vest in the trustee and cannot be administered by him
for the benefit of the creditors. But it can "pass to the
Trustee as a part of the estate of the bankrupt" for the
lprposes niamed elsewhere in the statute, included in
wlhili is thie duty to segregate, identifygad appraise what
is claililed to be exempt. lie must make a report "of the
nrtic!es set off to the bankrupt, with the estimated value
of each article" and creditors have 20 days in which to
except to the Trustee's report. Section 47 (11) and General
Orders in Bankruptcy, 17. In other words, the property
is not. autonatically exempted but must "pass to the
Trustee as a iart of the estate"-not to be administered
for the benefit of creditors, but to enable him to perform

OCTOBER TERMI, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the duties incident to setting apart to the bankrupt what,
after a hearing, may be found to be exempt. Custody and
possession may be necessary to carry out these duties and
all levies, seizures, and liens, obtained by legal proceedings
within the four months, that may or d6 interfere with that
possession are annulled, not only for the purpose of preventing the property passing to the trustee as a part of
the estate, but for all purposes, including that of preventing their subsequent use against property that may ultimately be set aside to the bankrupt. This property is
withdrawn from the possession of the Trustee not for the
purpose of being subjected to such liens, but on the supposition that it needed no protection inasmuch as they
had been nullified.
The liens rendered void by § 67f are those obtained by
legal proceedings within four months. The section does
not, however, defeat rights in the exempt property acquired by contract or by waiver of the exemption. These
may be enforced or foreclosed by judgments obtained even
after the petition in bankruptcy was filed, under the principle declared in Lockwood v. Exchange Bank, 190 U. S.
294. But Hall did not waive his exemption in favor of the
Iowa plaintiffs and they had no right against his wages,
except that which was obtained by a legal proceeding
within four months of the bankruptcy. Those liens having
been annulled by § 67f of the Bankruptcy Act, furnished no
defense to the Railroad when sued by Hall for his wages,
earned in Nebraska, exempt by the laws of that State, and
duly set apart to him by the Referee in Bankruptcy. The
judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska is
Affirm ed.

