OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

authority of the Hurtado Case; State v. Tucker, 36 Oregon,
291; State v. Guglielmo, 46 Oregon, 250, 251, 262; State v.
Ju Nun, 53 Oregon, 1.
The distinction sought to be drawn between the present
case and that of Hurtado, on the ground that the Oregon
system did not require that the information be preceded
by the arrest or preliminary examination of the accused,
is untenable.
Although the plaintiff in error waived examination, we
prefer not to rest upon that circumstance as a ground of
decision. For if (as seems to be conceded) the preliminary
examination had no lawful status under the laws of Oregon,
it is not easy to see how his position was altered for the
worse by his waiving such examination.
But since, as this court has so often held, the "due
process of law" clause does not require the State to adopt
the institution and procedure of a grand jury, we are unable to see upon what theory it can be held that an examination, or the opportunity for one, prior to the formal
accusation by the district attorney, is obligatory upon
the States.
The matter is so clearly settled by our previous decisions
that further discussion is unnecessary.
Judgment affirmed.

WILKINSON v. McKIMMIE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 273. Argued May 1, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.
A court of equity looks to substance rather than to form. Whether the
contract of the principal has been so altered as to discharge the
--surety is to be decided according to the essentials.
In this case held that an arrvangciientas to a reservation in a convey-

WILKINSON v. McKIEMIE.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ance made simply to save expense of reconveyance and which did
not alter the position of the principal or his surety was not such a
material change as would discharge the surety.
36 App. D. C. 336, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve questions of liability of
sureties on a bond and what constitutes a variation of
contract sufficient to release them, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Charles Poe and Mr. Alfred D. Smith for plaintiffs
inerror.
Mr. John Ridout, with whom Mr. Win. E. Ambrose was
on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

By the judgment here under review the Court of Appeals
affirmed a judgment in favor of the Messrs. McKimmie
against Wilkinson and Kemp in an action upon a bond
they had signed as sureties for one Horton. By an agreement in writing, the McKimmies agreed with Horton to
convey to him four lots in Block 9 of Todd and Brown's
subdivision of Mount Pleasant and Pleasant Plains for
$11,500, which he agreed to take and pay for as follows:
To assume a mortgage of $3,000 and pay $1,000 on delivery of the deed; to reconvey to the Messrs. McKimmie two
lots, each '16 feet 8 inches front on Brightwood Avenue
(part of the land above described), free and clear of encumbrances, and erect on each of these lots a two-story
brick dwelling, according to approved plans and specifications, within eight months from the date of the agreement,
for which construction and completion, clear of mechanics'
liens or other encumbrances, Horton agreed to Furnish a
sufficient and satisfactory bond to the McKimmies; and
for the balance of the purchase price, $500, Horton was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

to give two notes, secured by a second deed of trust upon
two other lots in the tract, "upon which he is to erect
houses similar to those herein described." The agreement
expressly provided that "The said houses contracted for
to be constructed as aforesaid shall be delivered upon their
completion to the parties of the first part [the Messrs.
McKimmie] as their property in fee simple and shall be free
and clear of all encumbrances or liens."
The bond in suit recited the agreement, and was conditioned for its faithful performance by Horton.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals (36 App. D. C.
336) sets forth the full history of the controversy and the
course of the trial. We deem it necessary to mention
only one of several matters that were discussed in argument before us, and that is, the contention that the plaintiffs in error were discharged from responsibility as sureties
because of the fact that by arrangement made between
the Messrs. McKimmie and Horton, instead of their conveying to him the two lots that were to be theirs in the
outcome, and upon which he was to build the houses that
were to become their property, they had, with his consent,
reserved these two lots from the conveyance.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that while in form
the contract required the plaintiffs to convey the whole
of the land to Horton, who was to erect certain houses
upon the two lots and reconvey them to the plaintiffs free
and clear of encumbrances, the real purpose and effect of
the agreement was that Horton was to have title to the
remainder of the land in consideration of his erecting these
two houses for the plaintiffs; and that, notwithstanding
the form of the contract, its essence was such that if the
McKimmies had conveyed the whole plot to Horton they
would nevertheless have remained in equity the owners of
the two lots. For a court of equity looks to substance
rather than to form.
It is hardly necessary to say that the question whether

DIST. OF COLUMBIA v. PETTY.
229 U. S.

S9kllabus.

the contract of the principal has been altered so as to discharge the surety, is to be decided according to the csscntials, in whatever jurisdiction it may be raised. And so we
think the court correctly held that the arrangement that
was made between the McKimmies and Horton, of reserving the two lots from the conveyance in order to save the
expense of a reconveyance, was not a material change in
the contract; that it did not alter the position of either
Horton or his sureties, and therefore did not discharge
the latter. Read v. Bowman, 2 Wall. 591, 603; Reese v.
United States, 9 Wall. 13, 21; Cross v. Allen, 141 U. S.
528, 537.
Judgment affirmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. PETTY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 316.

Argued May 8, 1913.-Decided June 9, 1913.

Sureties on the official bond of a public officer are not, in the absence of
statutory provisions, responsible for his failure to account for moneys
received and held by him extra-officially and not specified in the
bond.
Moneys received by the Commissioner of the District of Columbia from
citizens for street improvements under the permit system were not
public moneys in any legal sense, but funds of private citizens held
extra-officially by the public officers.
Prior to the making of the order of June 13, 1888, establishing the
Permit Fund there was no law, rule or regulation making the Auditor
of the District of Columbia accountable for public moneys, nor is
there anything in that order or in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 2-16,
imposing responsibility on the Auditor for faults of the disbursing
clerk provided for therein or of tie pay clerk referred to in said order.
37 App. D. C. 156, affirmed.
IOL. ccx-..x----38

