CHtARIIT)N v. KELLY.
229 IT. S.

Syllabus.

in the bank with a view to giving it a benefit, except
indirectly, because of the deposit. It was subject to
Prince's check, and all of it might have been checked out
for the purposes intended.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of the
District Court are reversed, and the case remanded to the
District Courtfor further proceedingsin conformity with
this opinion.

CHARLTON v. KELLY, SHERIFF OF HUDSON
COUNTY, NEW JERSEY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 232.

Argued April 18, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

The rule that a writ of habeas.corpuscannot be used as a writ of error
applies to extradition proceedings; and if the committing magistrate
had jurisdiction and there was competent evidence as to commission
of the crime his decision may not be reviewed on habeas corpus.
The accused in an extradition proceeding has not the right to introduce
evidence simply because it would be admissible on the trial on plea of
not guilty, nor is this right given by § 3 of the act of August 3, 1882.
Section 3 of the act of August 3, 1882, does not make evidence relevant,
legal or competent which would not theretofore have been competent
on a proceeding in extradition.
The proceeding in extradition before the examining magistrate is not
a trial, and the issue is not the actual guilt, but whether there is a
prime facie case sufficient to hold the accused for trial.
There is not, nor can there be, a uniform rule as to admission of evi(ence for the accused-in an extradition proceeding.
An examining m.agistrate may exclude evidence as to insanity of the
accused; ;-11,,eh
evidence is in the nature of defense and should be
he'ar' at the trial o il preli il ira ry exami mat ion in the jurisdiction
of the (rime.
Coast ruing the sui lhl nt a ry treaty of extradlition wil h It'ly of 1884

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

in the light of the original treaty of 1882 and of § 5270, Rev. Stat.,
it is not obligatory thereunder that the formal demand should be
proven in preliminary proceedings within forty days after the arrest.
In this case it appears that every requirement of the law, whether
treaty or statute was substantially complied with.
The word "persons" etymologically considered includes citizens as
well as those who are not; and while it is the practice of a preponderant number of nations to refuse to deliver its own citizens under a
treaty of extradition silent on the point specifically, held, in view of
the diplomatic history of the United States,,there isno principle of
international law by which citizens are excepted from the operation
of a treaty to surrender persons where no such exception is made in
the treaty itself. The United States has always so construed its
treaties.
The donstruction Qf a treaty by the political department of the Government, while not conclusive upon a court called upon to construe
such a treaty in a matter involving personal rights, is of great weight.
While a- violation of the extradition treaties with Italy of 1882 11rd
1884 by that power might render the treaty denounceable by the
United States, it does not render it void and of no effect; and so
held that the refusal of Italy to surrender its nationals has not had
the effect of abrogating the treaty but of merely placing the Government in the position of having the right to denounce it.
A government can waive violations of g treaty by the other party, and
it remains in force until formally abrogated.
Where, as, in this case, the Executive has elected to waive any right to
free itself from the obligation to deliver its own citizens under an
existing extradition treaty, it is the duty of the court to recognize
the obligation to surrender a citizen thereunder as one imposed by
the treaty as the supreme law of the land.
185 Fed. Rep. 880, affirmed.

THIS is an appeal from a judgment dismissing a petition
for a writ of habeas corpus and remanding the petitioner to

custody under a warrant for his extradition as a fugitive
from the justice of the Kingdom of Italy.
The proceedings for the extradition of the appellant
were begun upon a complaint duly made by the Italian.
Vice;-Consul, charging him with the commission of a
murder in Italy. -A warrant was duly issued by the
Hon. John A. Blair, one of the judges of New Jersey,

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

qualified to sit as a committing magistrate in such a
proceeding, under § 5270, Rev. Stat. At the hearing,
evidence was produced which satisfied Judge Blair that
the appellant was a fugitive from justice and that he was
the person whose return to Italy was desired, and that
there was probable cause for holding him for trial upon
the charge of murder, committed there. He thereupon
committed the appellant, to be held until surrendered
under a warrant to be issued by the Secretary of State.
A transcript of the evidence and of the findings was duly
certified as required by § 5270, Rev. Stat., and a warrant
in due form for his surrender was issued by the Secretary
of State. Its execution has, up to this time, been prevented
by the habeas corpus proceedings in the court below and
the pendency of this appeal.
The, procedure in an extradition proceeding is that
found in the treaty under which the extradition is demanded, and the legislation by Congress in aid thereof.
Thus, Article I of the treaty with Italy of March 23,
1868 (vol. 1, Treaties, Conventions, etc., of the United
States, 1910, p. 966), reads as follows (p. 967):
"The Government of the United States and the Government of Italy mutually agree to deliver up persons who,
having been convicted of or charged with the crimes
specified in the following article, committed within the
jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall seek
an asylum or be found within the territories of the other:
Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence
of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where
the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would
justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial,
if the crime had been there committed."
One of the crimes specified in the section following, is
murder.
By Article V it is provided, that:
"When, however, the fugitive shall have been merely
VOL. ccxxix-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

charged with crime, a duly authenticated copy of the
warrant for his arrest in the country where the crime may
have been committed, or of the depositions upon which
such warrant may have been issued, must accompany the
requisition as aforesaid. The President of the United
States, or the proper executive authority in Italy, may
then issue a warrant for the apprehension of the fugitive,
in order that he may be brought before the proper judicial
authority for examination. If it should then be decided
that, according to law and the evidence, the extradition
is due pursuant to the treaty, the fugitive may be given
up according to the forms prescribed in such cases."
That article was amended by the additional treaty of
June 11, 1884 (vol. 1, Treaties and Conventions, pp. 985,
986), by a clause added in these words:
"Any competent judicial magistrate of either of the
two countries shall be authorized after the exhibition of
a certificate signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs
[of Italy] or the Secretary of State [of the United States]
attesting that a requisition has been made by the Government of the other country to secure the preliminary arrest
of a person condemned for or charged with having therein
committed a crime for which, pursuant to this Convention,
extradition may be granted, and on complaint duly made
under oath by a person cognizant of the fact, or by a
diplomatic or consular officer of the demanding Government, being duly authorized by the latter, and attesting
that the aforesaid crime was thus perpetrated, to issue a
warrant for the arrest of the person thus inculpated, to the
end that he or she may be brought before the said magistrate, so that the evidence of his or her criminality may
be heard and considered; and the person thus accused and
imprisoned shall from time to time be remanded to prison
until a formal demand for his or her extradition shall be
made and supported by evidence as above provided; if,
however, the requisition, together with the documents

CHARLTON v. KELLY
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

above provided for, shall not be made, as required, by the
diplomatic representative of the demanding Government,
or, in his absence, by a consular officer thereof, within
forty days from the date of thearrest of the accused, the
prisoner shall be set at liberty."
Mr. R. Floyd Clarke, with whom Mr. William D.
Edwards was on the brief, for appellant:
The admitted breach of the treaty presents a question
of law and not of diplomacy, as to the respective rights
of the Executive and citizen.
On such admitted breach the question is judicial not
diplomatic and the judiciary are not foreclosed by the
diplomatic construction to the contrary. United States
v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407; Chin Low v. United States,
208 U. S. 8; Wilson v. Wall, 6 Wall. 83, 89; In re Cooper,
143 U. S. 472, 499; The La Ninfa, 75 Fed. Rep. 513; 44
U. S. App. 648.
In the absence of a statute or treaty, there is no power
in the Executive to extradite criminals under the imperfect obligation of international law. 4 Moore on Int.
Law, §§ 580-581; citing numerous cases.
It isnot sufficient for a treaty to exist. Under this
rule there must be a legal obligation under the treaty
to extradite before the ExecUtive can act.
Where the treaty provides that'the contracting parties
are not bound to deliver citizens, the Executive has no
power to deport a citizen. Cases supra and The Trimble
Case, 1 Moore on Ext., § 35, p. 167; 4 Moore on Int. Law,
§§ 580 et seq.; The Benevides Case, 4 Moore's Int. Law,
p. 302; The Row Case, Id.; Ex parte McCabe, 46 Fed. Rep.
363.
The treaty, if "persons",is to be construed as a covenant to surrender citizens of the asylum country, has been
broken by Italy by the passage of the Italian Penal Code
prohibiting the extradition of Italian citizens. Treaties

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

229 U. S.

may be broken by inconsistent legislative action. The
Chinese Exclusion Cases, 130 U. S. 581, 599; The Chinese
Deportation Cases, 149 U. S. 730; 5 Moore's Dig., Int.
Law, p. 366, § 776.
We have exercised the right at least five times. See
French Act of 1798, 5 Moore's Dig. Int. Law, pp. 356,
357; Chinese Exclusion Cases, 130 U. S. 581, 599; Chinese
Deportation Cases, 149 U. 8. 698, 763; Edye v. Robertson,
112 U. 8. 580, 600 (Head Money Tax Cases); The Exchange Case, 7 Cranch, 116, 136; 5 Moore's Dig. Int. Law,
357.
Italy has also broken the treaty by inconsistent executive action in refusing to surrender Italian citizens.
A sovereignty is bound in its international relations by
the action of its executive independent of its legislative
powers. The Prize Cases, 2 Black, 635; Dana's Wheaton,
§ 543, note 250, citing 1 Kent, 165; Heffter, § 84, Vattell,
LIV, LV, c. 2, § 14; Wharton's Dig. Int. Law, § 131, a
11-20; 5 Moore's Dig. Int. Law, § 759, p. 231; 6 Id., p.
1017; Halleck, 854. See arguments of United States
in Mora's Case against Spain, 6 Moore's Dig. Int. Law,
1017.
Italy's breach of the covenant to extradite citizens of
the asylum country (the American construction assumed
to be the correct one for the purpose of this argument)
being thus established, there is no treaty obligation on
this sovereignty to surrender. There remains under international law an option or arbitrary discretion in the
premises. As to who has the option the sovereignty consisting of executive, judicial and legislative departmentsthe question is whether in all or in what part of these is
vested this option.
Italy having broken her entire and reciprocal covenant
in this treaty, the sovereignty of the United States has
the option to rescind the treaty for breach; and to insist
upon Italy's compliance iherewith; this can be done by

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

war, by arbitration or by acquiescence in the Italian construction.
The Executive cannot exercise the option of affirmiftg by
either war or arbitration but it can affirm the treaty, or
can disaffirm it, to the extent of refusing Italy's demand
as such action does not violate the constitutional rights
of anyone.
The Executive has no power of affirmance by deporting
a citizen in the absence of congressional authority.
The Executive has full power to suspend the treaty by
reason of the alleged breach until the action of Congress.
The Winslow Case, U. S. For. Rel. 1876, pp. 204-309;
For. Rel. 1877, 271-289; 5 Moore's Int. Law, pp. 321,'322;
United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407; The Prize Cases,.
2 Black, 635, 699.
See, also, 1 Willoughby on the Constitution, p. 223,
§ 518; Williams v. Suffolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415; Gelston v.
Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, 324; Kenneth v. Chambers, 14 How.
30; United States v. Trumbull, 48 Fed. Rep. 99, 104; The
Itata, 56 Fed. Rep. 505, 510; The Prize Cases, 2 Black,
635, 670; Pomeroy on Constitutional Law, §§ 669, 670,
672.
As to tfie power to recognize the independence of a new
foreign state, see Sen. Doe. No. 56, 54th Cong, 2d Sess.
See also precedent of the extension of the disarmament
on the Great Lakes between Great Britain and the United
States, 5 Moore on Int. Law, p. 322; Cross v. Harrison,
16 How. 164.
The act of a head of a department is in contemplation
of law the act of the President. Wolsey v. Chapman (1879),
101 U. S. 755; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 513;
Runkle v. United States (1887), 122 U. S. 557; McElrath's
Case (1876), 12 Ct. Cl. 202; Belt's Case (1879), 15 Ct.
Cl. 107.
The constitutional limitation of due process of law
,prevents the exercise by the Executive of the arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellant.

229 U. S.

discretion so as to deport the citizen. For meaning of
due process of law see Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S.
97; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Ekiu v. United States,
142 U. S. 651; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253; Chin

Low v. United States, 208 U. S. 8; Yick Wo v. Hopkins,
118 U. S. 356.
These cases show the strength of the "due process of
law" clause even as against a discretionary power expressly
and properly granted by Congress under the circumstances
arising in the matter.
The claim of the Government that the treaty, though
broken as acontract, exists as a law binding on the Secretary, cannot be sustained.
The objection is likewise against reason in that although
a treaty is a municipal law as well as an international
contract, it cannot when broken be any more binding on
the nation or the executive head of the nation having this
discretion, as a law, than it can be as a contract.
As to the Government's position that appellant's argument assumes that the breach by Italy has abrogated the
treaty so far as concerns this government, no such claim
is made.
The Executive, under the facts of this case, cannoi
affirm this Italian treaty in view of its admitted breach,
by deporting an American citizen, because in so doing he
exercises an arbitrary discretion resting in him to extradite or not to extradite under the circumstances. To.
allow the, Executive to so act is contrary to the constitutional provision protecting a citizen from the exercise
by executive officers of such arbitrary discretion, and
allowing his "life, liberty and property" to be only
affected by "the law of the land."
The demand in this case is not a demand under the
treaty, but a demand under international law.
When, in matters of this character, the treaty or statute
requires some act to be done based on the presence or

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

absence of certain formal documents, the existence of
such formal documents is jurisdictional-without them
the case falls. See Tucker v. Alexendroff, 183 U. S. 424;
Compton v. Alabama, 214 U. S. 46. Questions of this
kind are of law for this court and are not political.
The material part of this formal demand reads as
follows:
"Manchester, Mass., July 28, 1910.
Mr. Secretary of State:
Referring to previous communications and in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the Extradition
Convention of March 23, 1868, I have the honor to lay
before your Excellency a formal request for the extradition of Porter Charlton," etc.
"Montagliari."
By thus referring to former communications, it is seen
that Italy refers to communications in which she states
that she does not retreat from her position that the word
"persons" does not include citizens of the asylum country, and thus knowing Charlton is a citizen, of the asylum
country she is asking for the extradition on the basis of
the power this government has to grant it, but refuses to
be bound by any construction of the treaty to the effect
that she shall surrender her own citizens.
This word "request" is chosen with nice precision to
characterize a request under international comity which
this request is, but is the wrong term if, under the facts
of this case and the former dispute, rights are claimed by
Italy under the treaty.
The form of demand used in this case, a formal untruth
as a demand under the treaty and in substance a request under international comity, should not be allowed
by this court as the "formal demand" required by the
treaty.
Since the right of a citizen is involved and the facts
admitted, this is not a question to be foreclosed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

fiat of the diplomatic construction. United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407.
It follows that the formal request in this case is of no
more effect--not being of the bona fide kind required by
the treaty under the circumstances-than if none had
been made.
Mr. Pierre P. Garven for appellees.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

LURTON,

A writ of habeas corpus cannot be used as a writ of error.
If Judge Blair had jurisdiction of the person of the accused
and of the subject-matter, and had before him competent
legal evidence of the commission of this crime with which
the appellant was charged in the complaint, which,
according to the law of New Jersey, would justify his
apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime had
been committed in that State, his decision may not be
reviewed on habeas corpus. Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S.
270, 278; Bryant v. United States, 167 U. S. 104; McNamara v. Henkel, 226 U. S. 520.
By a stipulation filed in the case for the purpose of this
review, it is agreed that the evidence presented to Judge
Blair of the murder with which the accused was charged,
and of his criminality was sufficient to meet the treaty and
statutory requirements of the case, and the errors assigned
in this court questioning its legality and competency,
as well as those as to the alleged absence of a warrant or
deposition upon which such warrant was issued, have
been withdrawn. But neither this stipulation, nor the
withdrawal of the assignments of error referred to is to
affect any of the matters raised by other objections
pointed out in other assignments.
The objections which are relied upon for the purpose of

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defeating extradition may be conveniently summarized
and considered under four heads:
1. That evidence of the insanity of the accused was
of ered and excluded.
2. That the evidence of a formal demand for the
extradition of the accused was not filed until more than
forty days after the arrest.
3. That appellant is a citizen of the United States, and
that the treaty in providing for the extradition of "persons" accused of crime does not include persons who are
citizens or subjects of the nation upon whom the demand is
made.
4. That if the word "person" as used in the treaty includes citizens of the asylum country, the treaty, in so far
as it covers that subject, has been abrogated by the conduct
of Italy in refusing to deliver up its own citizens upon the
demand of the United States, and by the enactment of a
municipal law, since the treaty, forbidding the extradition
of citizens.
We will coisider these objections in their order:
1. Was evidence of insanity improperly excluded?
It must be conceded that impressive evidence of the
insanity of the accused was offered by him and excluded.
It is now said that this ruling was erroneous. But if so,
this is not a writ of error and mere errors in the rejection
of evidence are not subject to review by a writ of hiabeas
corpus. Benson v. ifcMalon, 127 U. S. 457, 461; Terlincn v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 278; McNamnara v. Henkel,
supra. In the McNamara Case, certain depositions had
been received for the prosecution over objection. This
court said that there was legal evidence on which to
base the action of the commissioner in holding the accused for extradition, irrespective of the depositions objected to.
But it is said that the act of August 3, 1882, 22 Statutes,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

215, c. 378, § 3, requires that the defendant's witnesses
shall be heard. That section is most inartificially drawn.
It reads as follows:
"That on the hearing of any case under a claim of
extradition by any foreign government, upon affidavit
being filed by the person charged setting forth that there
are witnesses whose evidence is material to his defense,
that he cannot safely go to trial without them, what he
expects to prove by each of them, and that he is not
possessed of sufficient means, and is actually unable to
pay the fees of such witnesses, the judge or commissioner
before whom such claim for extradition is heard may
order that such witnesses be subpoenaed; and in such
cases the costs incurred by the process, and the fees of
witnesses, shall be paid in the same manner that similar
fees are paid in the case of witnesses subpenaed in behalf
of the United States."
The contention is that the effect of this provision is to
give the accused the right to introduce any evidence which
would be admissible upon a trial under an issue of not
guilty. To this we cannot agree. The prime purpose of
the section is to afford the defendant the means for obtaining the testimony of witnesses and to provide for their
fees. In no sense does the statute make relevant, legal or
competent evidence which would not have been competent
before the statute upon such a hearing. True, the statute speaks of evidence "material for his defense, without
which he cannot safely go to trial," but we cannot discover that Congress intended to depart from the provisions of Article I of the treaty which requires that a
surrender shall be made "upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive
or person so charged shall be found, would justify his or
her apprehension and commitment, if the crime had been
there committed." The provision is common to many
treaties, and Congress, by § 5270, Rev. Stat., has, in aid

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of such treaties, prescribed the procedure upon such a
hearing in these words:
"Whenever there is a treaty or convention for extradition between the Government of the United States and
any foreign government, any justice of the Supreme Court,
circuit judge, district judge, commissioner, authorized so
to do by any of the courts of the United States, or judge
of a court of record of general jurisdiction of any State,
may, upon complaint made under oath, charging any
person found within the limits of any State, district, or
Territory, with having committed within the jurisdiction
of any such foreign government any of the crimes provided
for by such treaty or convention, issue his warrant for the
apprehension of the person so charged, that he may be
brought before such justice, judge, or commissioner, to the
end that the evidence of criminality may be heard and
considered. If, on such hearing, he deems the evidence
sufficient to sustain the charge under the provisions of the
proper treaty or convention, he shall certify the same,
together with a copy of all the testimony taken before
him, to the Secretary of State, that a warrant may issue
upon the requisition of the proper authorities of such
foreign government, for the surrender of such person,
according to the stipulations of the treaty or convention;
and he shall issue his warrant for the commitment of the
person so charged to the proper jail, there to remain until
such surrender shall be made."
Judge Blair made the certificate in form and substance
in conformity with i;,statute, and upon the receipt of
that, a warrant was duly issued for the surrender of the
appellant to the agents of the Italian Government.
In Benson v. McMahon, supra (p. 462) this court said
of a similar provision in the treaty with Mexico, in connection with Rev. Stat. § 5270
"Taking this provision of the treaty, and that of the
Revised Statutes above recited, we are of opinion that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the proceeding before the commissioner is not to be regarded as in the nature of a final trial by which the prisoner
could be convicted or acquitted of the crime charged
against him, but rather of the character of those preliminary examinations, which take place every day in this
country before an examining or committing magistrate
for the purpose of determining whether a case is made out
which will justify the holding of the accused, either by
imprisonment or under bail, to ultimately answer to an
indictment, or other proceeding, in which he shall be
finally tried upon the charge made against him. The
language of the treaty which we have cited, above quoted,
explicitly provides that 'the commission of the crime
shall be so established as that the laws of the country in
which the fugitive or the person so accused shall be found
would justify his or her apprehension and commitment
for trial if the crime had been there committed.' This
prescribes the proceedings in these preliminary examinations as accurately as language can well do it. The act of
Congress conferring jurisdiction upon the commissioner,
or other examining officer, it may be noted in this connection, says that if he deems the evidence sufficient to sustain
the charge under the provisions of the treaty he shill
certify the same, together with a copy of all the testimony,
and issue his warrant for the commitment of the person
so charged.
"We are not sitting in this court on the trial of the
prisoner, with power to pronounce him guilty and punish
hin or declare him innocent and acquit him. We are now
engaged simply in an inquiry as to whether, under the
construction of the act of Congress, and the treaty entered
into between this country and Mexico, there was legal
evidence before the commissioner to justify him in exercising his power to commit the person accused to custody
to await the requisition of the Mexican government."
To repeat, the act of 1882 does not prescribe the extent

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to which evidence thus obtained shall be admitted, and
we quite agree with the view expressed by Judge Brown,
in In re Wadge, 15 Fed. Rep. 864, who said (p. 866):
"The phrase in § 3 of the act of August 3, 1882 'that he,
(the accused) cannot safely go to trial without them,'
(witnesses,) cannot be construed as giving a right to a full
trial in violation of treaty stipulations; but it must be
confined to such a preliminary hearing only as was already
allowable under the existing practice, viz, such as is
appropriate to a hearing having reference only to a
commitment for future trial."
There is not and cannot well be any uniform rule determining how far an examining, magistrate should hear the
witnesses produced by an accused person. The proceeding
is not a trial. The issue is confined to the single question of
whether the evidence for the State makes a prima facie
case of guilt sufficient to make it proper to hold the party
for trial. Such committing trials, if they may be called
trials in any legal sense, are usually regulated by local
statutes. Neither can the courts be expected to bring
about uniformity of practice as to the right of such an
accused person to have his witnesses examined, since if
they are heard, that is the end of the matter, as the ruling
cannot be reversed.
In this case the magistrate refused to hear evidence of
insanity. It is claimed that because he excluded such
evidence, the judgment committing appellant for extradi
tion is to be set aside as a nullity, and the accused set at
liberty. At most the exclusion was error not reviewable
by habeas corpus. To have witnesses produced to contradict the testimony for the prosecution is obviously a very
different thing from hearing witnesses for the purpose of
explaining matters referred to by the witnesses for the
Government. This distinction was taken by Mr. Justice
Washington in the case of United States v. White, 2
Washington C. C. 29, when he said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

-"Generally spealdng, the defendant's witnesses are not
Lxamined upon an application to bind him over to answer
upon a criminal charge. The defendant's witfie.cs are
never sent to the grand jury, except where the attorney
for the prosecution consents thereto. But in this incipient
stage of the prosecution, the judge may examine witnesses
who were present at the time when the offence is said to
have been committed, to explain what is said by the witnesses for the prosecution; and the cross-examination of
the witnesses for the prosecution, is certainly improper."
We therefore conclude that the examining magistrate
did not exceed his authority in excluding evidence of
insanity. If the evidence was only for the purpose of
showing present insanity by reason of which the accused
was not capable of defending the charge of crime, it is an
objection which should be taken before or at the time of
his trial for the crime, and heard by the court having
jurisdiction of the crime. If it was offered to show insanity
at the time of the commission of the crime, it was obviously
a defense which should be heard at the time of his trial,
or by a preliminary hearing in the jurisdiction of the crime,
if so provided for by its laws. By the law of New Jersey,
insanity as an excuse for crime is a defense, and the burden
of making it out is upon the defendant. Graves v. State,
45 N. J. L,. 347; State v. Maioni, 78 N. J. L. 339, 341;
State v. Peacock, 50 N. J. L. 34, 36. A defendant has no
general right to have evidence exonerating him go before
a grand jury, and unless the prosecution consents, such
witnesses may be excluded: 1 'Chitty Crim. Law, 318;
United States v. White, supra; Respublica v. Shaffer,
1 Dallas, 236, 255; United States v. Palmer, 2 Cranch
Circuit Court, 11; United States v. Terry, 39 Fed. Rep.
355, 362.
2. It is next objected that no fornaal demand for the
extradition of the appellant was made within forty days
after his arrest, and that he was therefore entitled to be

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

set at liberty. The objection is founded upon the supplemental convention with Italy of 1884, heretofore set
out.
A "certificate," such as was indicated by that convention, was undoubtedly "exhibited" to the committing
magistrate, and was the basis of his action. The other
parts of the provision are not clear. What is referred to
by the phrase, "the requisition, together with the documents above provided," etc., which is required to be
made within forty days, or the person set at liberty? The
"certificate" attesting "that a requisition has been made,"
etc., was "exhibited" to Judge Blair; and we fail to find
in this clause of the treaty any requirement that the
subsequent "formal demand" for the extradition shall
be filed with the magistrate within forty days after the
arrest of the accused, or at any other time. The whole of
the convention should be read together and in connection
with, § 5270, Rev. Stat, which is applicable to all treaties.
Under § 5270 any one of the judicial officers named therein,
may, upon complaint, charging one of the crimes named
in the treaty, issue his warrant' of arrest and hear, the
evidence of criminality. This done, his duty is, if he
deems the evidence sufficient to hold the accused for extradition, to commit him to jail, and to certify his! conclusion, with the evidence, to the Secretary of State, who
may then, "upon the requisition of the proper authorities
of such foreign government, issue his warrant for the
surrender of the accused." Rev. Stat., §§ 5272, 5273. Of
course, the effect of the supplementary treaty of 1884, being later than the statutory requirements above referred
to, is to supersede the statute in so far as there is a necessary conflict in the carrying out of the qxtradition obligation between this country and Italy. But, as observed in
Grin v. Shine, 187.U. S.181, 191, "Congress has a perfect
right to prdvide fpr the extradition of criminals in its own
way, with or without a treaty to that effect, and to declare

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

that foreign criminals shall be surrendered upon such
proofs of criminality as it may judge sufficient. Castro
v. DeUriarte, 16 Fed. Rep. 93. This appears to have
been the object of § 5270, which is applicable to all foreign
governments with which we have treaties of extradition."
This section, by its very terms, applies "in all cases in
which there now exists or hereafter may exist, any treaty
or convention for extradition." Had there been no law
of Congress upon the subject, the method of procedure
prescribed by the supplementary treaty of 1884 would
necessarily have been the proper one, and the conmitting
magistrate could have proceeded only according to the
treaty, for that would have been the only law of the land
applicable to the case and the only source of his authority.
It was therefore competent for Judge Blair to act upon
the complaint made before him independently of any preliminary mandate or certificate, such as was in fact issued
and "exhibited" to him in this case, being plainly authorized so to do by the terms of § 5270. The personal rights
of the accused are saved by the provisions of the same
section, since he could only have been surrendered upon
the warrant of the Secretary of State, based upon the
evidence presented upon the hearing, and the conclusion
of the sufficiency of the evidence of criminality certified
to the Secretary of State, and upon a formal requisition
for extradition. Castro v. DeUriarte, 16 Fed. Rep. 93,
97; Grin v. Shine, supra.
Construed in the light of the original and supplementary conventions with Italy and of § 527O, Rev. Stat.,
we do not find that it was obligatory that the "formal
demand" referred to in the 1884 clause should be proven
in the preliminary proceeding within forty days after the
arrest. That is a demand made upon the executive authority of the United States by the executive authority of
Italy. Its presentation was not necessary to give the
examining magistrate jurisdiction. Such a formal demand

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was in fact made on July 28, 1910, less, than forty days
after the arrest. That, together with the certificate of the
magistrate and the evidence submitted to him, was the
authority of law under which the Secretary of State
issued his warrant of extradition. Every requirement of
the law, whether it appears in the treaty or in the act of
Congress, was substantially complied with. This was the
construction placed upon the treaty by Mr. Secretary
Knox in answer to the same objection made to him before
he issued his warrant, and also of Judge Rellstab, who
dismissed the petition for a writ of habeas corpus and from
whose decree this appeal comes.
3. By Article I of the extradition treaty with Italy the
two governments mutually agree to deliver up all persons,
who,- having been convicted of or charged with any of the
crimes specified in the following article, committed within
the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall
seek an asylum in the other, etc. It is claimed by counsel
for the appellant that the word "persons" as used in this
article does not include persons who are citizens of the
asylum country.
That the word "persons" etymologically includes
citizens as well as those who are not, can hardly be debatable. The treaty contains no reservation of citizens
of the country of asylum. The contention is that an
express exclusion of citizens or subjects is not necessary,
as by implication, from accepted principles of public law,
persons who are citizens of the asylum country are excluded from extradition conventions unless expressly
included. This was the position taken by the Foreign
Minister of Italy in a correspondence in 1890 with the
Secretary of State of the United States, concerning a
demand made by the United States for the extradition of
Bevivini and Villella, two subjects of Italy whose extradition was sought, that they might be tried for a crime
committed in this country. Their extradition was refused
voL. ccxxix-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the. Court.

229 U. S.

by Italy on account of their Italian nationality. The
Foreign Minister of Italy advanced in favor of the Italian
position these grounds: (a)'That the Italian Penal Code of
1890, in express terms provided that, "the extradition of a
citizen is not permitted;" (b) That a crime committed by
an Italian subject in a foreign country was punishable in
Italy, and, therefore, there was no ground for saying that
unless extradited the crime would go unpunished; and
(c) That it has become a recognized principle of public
international law that one nation will not deliver its own
citizens or subjects upon the demand of another, to be
tried foi a crime committed in the territory of the latter,
unless it has entered into a convention expressly so
contracting, and that the United States had itself recognized the principle in many treaties by inserting a clause
exempting citizens from extradition. (United States
Foreign Relations 1890, p. 555.) Mr. Blaine, then Secretary of State of the United States, protested against the
position of the Italian government and maintained the
view that citizens were included among the persons subject to extradition unless expressly excluded. His defense
of the position is full and remarkably able. It is to be
found in United States Foreign Relations for 1890, pp. 557,
566.
We shall pass by the effect of the Penal Code in preventing the authorities of Italy from carrying out its
international engagements to surrender citizens, for. that
has no bearing upon the question now under consideration,
which is, whether under accepted principles of international law, citizens are to be regarded as not embraced
within an extradition treaty unless expressly included.
That it has come to be the practice with a preponderant
number of nations to refuse to deliver its citizens, is true;
but this exception is convincingly shown by Mr. Blaine
in his reply to the Foreign Minister of Italy and by the
thorough consideration of the whole subject by Mr. John

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Passett Moore, in his treatise on extradition, ch. V, pp.
152, 193, to bo of modern origin. The beginning of the
exemption is traced to the practice between France and
the Low Countries in the eighteenth century. Owing to
the existence in the municipal law of many nations of
provisions prohibiting the extradition of citizens, the
United States has in several of its extradition treaties
clauses exempting citizens from their obligation. The
treaties in force in 1910 may, therefore; be divided into
two classes, those which expressly exempt citizens, and
those which do not. Those which do contain the limitation are by far the larger number. Among the treaties
which provide for the extradition of "persons," without
limitation or qualification are the following:
With Great Britain, August 9, 1842, extended July 12,
1889, United States Treaties, 1910, pp. 650 and 740.
With France, November 9, 1843, supra, p. 526.
With Italy, February 8, 1868, supra, p.931.
With Venezuela, August 27, 1860, supra, p. 1845.
With Ecuador, June 28, 1872, supra, p. 436.
With Dominican Republic, February 8, 1867, supra,
p. 403.
The treaty with Japan of April 29, 1886, supra, p. 1025,
contains a qualification in these words:
"Art. VII. Neither of the contracting parties shall be
bound to deliver up its own citizens or Subjects under the
stipulations of this convention, but they shall have the
power ,todeliver them up if in their discretion it be deemed
proper to do so."
The conclusion we reach is,
that there is'no principle of
international law by which citizens are excepted out of an
agreement to surrender "persons," where no such exception is made in the treaty itself. Upon the contrary, the
word "persons" includes all persons when not qualified as
it is in some of the treaties between this and other nations.
That this country has made such an exception in some of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

its conventions and not in others, demonstrates that the
contracting parties were fully aware of the consequences
unless there was a clause qualifying, the word "persons."
This interpretation has been consistently upheld by the
United States, and enforced under the several treaties
which do not exempt citizens. That Italy has not conforfled to this view, and the effect of this attitude will be
considered later. But that the United States has always
construed its obligation as embracing its citizens is
illustrated by the action of the executive branch of the
Government in this very instance. A construction of a
treaty by the political department of the Government,
while not conclusive upon a court called upon to construe
such a treaty in a matter involving personal rights, is
nevertheless of much weight.
The subject is summed up by Mr. John Bassett Moore in
his work on extradition, vol. 1, p. 170, § 138, where he says:
" 'Persons' includes citizens. In respect to the persons
to be surrendered, the extradition treaties of the United
States all employ the general term 'persons,' or 'all
persons.' Hence, where no express exception is made, the
treaties warrant no distinction as to nationality. Writing
on the general subject of the extradition treaties of the
United States and the practice thereunder, Mr. Seward
said: 'In some of the United States' extradition treaties
it is stipulated that the citizens or subjects of the parties
shall not be surrendered. Where there is no express
reservation of the kind, there would not, it is presumed,
be any hesitation in giving up a citizen of the United
States to be tried abroad.' Such has been the uniform and
unquestioned practice under the treaty with Great
Britain of 1842, in which the term 'all persons' is used."
The effect of y-elding to the interpretation urged by
Italy would have brought about most serious consequences
as to other treaties then in force. One of these was the
extradition treaty with Great Britain made as far back as

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1843. Inasmuch as under the law of that country, as of
this, crimes committed by their citizens within the jurisdiction of another country were punishable only where the
crime was committed, it was important that the Italian
interpretation should not be accepted.
4. We come now to the contention that by the refusal
of Italy to deliver up fugitives of Italian nationality, the
treaty has thereby ceased to be f obligation on the United
States. The attitude of Italy is indicated by its Penal
Code of 1900 which forbids -the extradition of citizens,
and by the denial in two or more instances to recognize
this obligation of the treaty as extending to its citizens.
During a -preliminary correspondence between the
Department of State and the Italian Charg6 d'Affaires,
in reference to the provisional arrest and detention of thq
appellant under articles I and II of the treaty, as extended
by article II of the additional convention of 1884, Mr.
Knox, the then Secretary of State, inquired, "whether or
.not the Department is to understand that by initiating
extradition proceedings for the surrender of this American
citizen accused of committing murder in Italy, your
Government wishes to be understood as surrendering its
view heretofore entertained and as being now willing to
adopt as to cases which may hereafter arise between the
two Governments, the view that the Extradition Treaties
of eighteen sixty-eight, eighteen sixty-nine and eighteen
eighty-four between the United States and Italy require
the surrender by each Government of any and all persons,
irrespective of the nationality, who having been convicted
for or charged with commission of any of the crimes
specified in the treaty within the jurisdiction of one of the
contracting parties shall seek an asylum or be found within
the territory of the other, and further and specifically to
inquire whether the Government of Italy now proposes as
to all cases arising in the future to deliver to the Government of the United States under and in accordance with

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the Treaty provisions those Italian subjects who committing crimes in the United States take refuge in Italy."
The reply to this was as follows:
"July 1, 1910.
"MR. SECRETARY OF STATE: By telegram of June 24,

last, your Excellency inquired whether in instituting
extradition proceedings in the case of Porter Charlton,
who confessed having committed murder at Moltrasio,
the King's Government intended to depart from the rule,
heretofore observed, not to surrender its own subjects
and whether it was to be inferred that Italians guilty of
an offense committed on American territory, who should
take refuge in Italy, should hereafter be delivered without
fail to the American Government.
"I now have the honor to inform your Excellency that
the King's Government cannot depart from the principle
established by our law that our nationals cannot be
surrendered to foreign powers. Furthermore, this principle does not conflict with the provisions of the Extradition Convention. Indeed it seems logical that so far as,
parity in the matter of extraditing their respective citizens
or subjects is concerned, each party should, in the absence
of specific provisions in the Convention itself, be guided
by the spirit of its own legislation.
"The Italian law does not consent to the extradition
of nationals, but the Italian courts are competent to try
on the request of a foreign Government, their nationals
who may have committed offenses on that Government's
Territory.
"Contrariwise, the laws of the United States by not
permitting local tribunals to try American citizens for
offenses cornmitted abroad seem to admit of their being
extradited. Otherwise an offender would, under the egis
of the law itself, escape the punishment hd deserves.
"I have the honor to inform your Excelency that the
requisite extradition papers in the case of Porter Charlton

CIiAINTON v. K'ELLY,
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

will be forwarded to me without delay and in the meanwhile I beg you kind!y to cause the prisoner to be held in
provisional detention."
On July 28, 1910, the following communication was
addressed to the Secretary of State, and was received on
July 30, 1910:
"MR. SECRETARY OF STATE: Referring to previous
communications and in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the Extradition Convention of March 23,
1868, I have honor to lay before your Excellency a formal
request for the extradition of Porter Charlton who has
confessed the crime of murder committed on the person of
his own wife at Moltrasio, Como, which crime is specified
in Article II, Section 1 of the said Convention.
"Your Excellency has already been so good as to forward to me, in note No. 834 of June 28 last, the preliminary certificate of arrest provided by Article II of the
Additional Convention of June 11, 1884, with a view to
the provisional arrest of the above named accused.
"In support of this request, I have the honor to transmit herewith to Your Excellency the record of proceedings
conducted by the Court of Como in the case of the aforesaid murder. The papers are regularly vised by the
Embassy of the United States at Rome.
"Awaiting the Federal 'warrant' and the kind return
of the enclosed papers for submisssion to the competent
court, I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your
Excellency, together with my thanks in advance, the
Assurance of my highest consideration."
To this the Secretary of State, after the conclusion of
the hearing before Judge Blair and the receipt by the
Department of his judgment and the evidence produced
before him, replied as follows:
" WASHINGTON, December 10, 1910.
"EXCELLENCY: In compliance with the request made
by your Embassy in its note of July 28 last, and in pursu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

ance of existing treaty stipulations between the United
States and Italy, I have the honor to enclose a warrant
of surrender in the case of Porter Charlton, charged with
murder committed within the jurisdiction of the Kingdom
of Italy, and examined and committed for surrender by
the Honorable John A. Blair, Judge of the Court of Common Pleas in and for the County of Hudson, in the State
of New Jersey.
"Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my
highest consideration."
The attitude of the Italian Government indicated by
proffering this request for extradition "in accordance
with Article V of the Treaty of 1868," is, as shown by
the communication of July 1st set out above, substantially this,First. That crimes committed by an American
in a
foreign country were not justiciable in the United States,
and must, therefore, go unpunished unless the accused
be delivered to the country wherein the crime was committed for trial.
Second: Such was not the case with Italy, since under
the laws of Italy, crimes committed by its subjects in
foreign lands were justiciable in Italy.
Third: That as a consequence of the difference in the
municipal law, "it was logical that so far as parity in
the matter of extraditing their respective citizens or subjects is concerned, each party should, in the absence of
specific provisions in the Convention itself, be guided
by the spirit of its own legislation."
This adherence to a view of the obligation of the treaty
as not requiring one country to surrender its nationals
while it did the other, presented a situation in which the
United States might do either of two things, namely:
abandon its ,own interpretation of the word "persons"
as including citizens, or adhere to its own interpretation
and surrender the appellant, although
the obligation had,

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to nationals, ceased to be reciprocal. The United
States could not yield its own interpretation of the treaty,
since that would have had the most serious consequence
on five other treaties in which the word "persons" had
been used in its ordinary meaning, as including all persons,
and, therefore, not exempting citizens. If the attitude
of Italy was, as contended, a violation of the obligation
of the treaty, which, in international law, would have
justified the United States in denouncing the treaty as
no longer obligatory, it did not automatically have that
effect. If the United States elected not to declare its
abrogation, or come to a rupture, the treaty would remain in force. It was only voidable, not void; and if
the United States should prefer, it might waive any breach
which in its judgment had occurred and conform to its own
obligation as if there had been no such breach. 1 Kent's
Comm., p. 175.
Upon this subject Vattel, page *452, says:
"When the treaty of peace is violated by one of the
contracting parties, the other has the option of either
declaring the treaty null and void, or allowing it still
to subsist; for a contract which contains reciprocal engagements, cannot be binding on him with respect to the
party who on his side pays no regard to the same contract. But, if he chooses not to come to a rupture, the
treaty remains valid and obligatory."
Grotius says (book 3, ch. 20, par. 38):
"It is honourable, and laudable to maintain a peace
even after it has been violated by the other parties:
as Scipio did, after the many treacherous acts of the
Carthaginians. For no one can release himself from an
obligation by acting contrary to his engagements. And
though it may be further said that the peace is broken
by such an act, yet the breach ought to be, taken in favour
of the innocent party, if he thinks proper to avail himself
of it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

In Moore's International Law Digest. Vol. 5, page 566,
it is said:
"A treaty is primarily a compact between independent
nations, and depends for the enforcement of its provisions on the honor and the interests of the governments
which are parties. to it. If these fail, its infraction becomes
the subject of international reclamation and negotiation,
which may lead to war to enforce them. With this judicial tribunals have nothing to do."
In the case of In re Thomas, 12 Blatchf. 370, Mr. Justice
]-atchford (then District Judge) said:
"Indeed, it is difficult to see how such a treaty as that
between Bavaria and the United States can be abrogated
by the action of Bavaria alone, without the consent of
the United States. Where a treaty is violated by one
of the contracting parties, it rests alone with the injured
party to pronounce it broken, the treaty, being, in such
case, not absolutely void, but voidable, at the election
of the injured party, who may waive or remit the infraction committed, or may demand a just satisfaction,
the treaty remaining obligatory if he chooses not to come
to a rupture."
In the case of Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 287,
the question was presented whether a treaty was a legal
obligation if the state with whom it was made was without power to carry out its obligation. This court quoted
with approval the language of Justice Blatchford, set
out above, and said (p. 285):
"And without considering whether extinguished treaties
can be renewed by tacit consent under our Constitution,
we think that on the question whether this treaty has
ever been terminated, governmental action in respect to it
must be regarded as of controlling importance."
That the political branch of the Government recognizes
the treaty obligation as still existing is evidenced by its
action in this case. In the memorandum giving the rea-

CHARLTON v. KELLY.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sons of the Department of State for determining to surrender the appellant, after stating the difference between
the two governments as to the interpretation of this
clause of the treaty, Mr. Secretary Knox said:
I "The question is now for the first time presented as to
whether or not the United States is under obligation
under treaty to surrender to Italy for trial and punishment citizens of the United States fugitive from the justice of Italy, notwithstanding the interpretation placed
upon the treaty by Italy with reference to Italian subjects.
In this connection it should be observed that the United
States, although, as stated above, consistently contending that the Italian interpretation was not the proper one,
has not treated the Italian practice as a breach of the
treaty obligation necessarily requiring abrogation, has not
abrogated the treaty or taken any step fooking thereto, and
has, on the contrary, constantly regarded the treaty as in
full force and effect and has answered the obligations imposed thereby and has invoked the rights therein granted.
It should, moreover, be observed that even though the action of the Italian Government be regarded as a breach of
the treaty, the treaty is binding until abrogated, and therefore the treaty not having been abrogated, its provisions
are operative against us.
"The question would, therefore, appear to reduce itself to one of interpretation of the meaning of the treaty,
the Govermnent of the United States being now for the
first time called upon to declare whether it regards the
treaty as obliging it to surrender its citizens to Italy,
notwithstanding Italy has not and insists it can not surrender its citizens to us. It should be observed, in the
first place, that we have always insisted not only with
reference to the Ita'ian extradition treaty, but with reference to the other extradition treaties similarly phrased
that the word 'persons' includes citizens. We are, therefore, committed to that interpretation. The fact that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

22R U. S.

we have for reasons already given ceased generally to
make requisition upon the Government of Italy for the
surrender of Italian subjects under the treaty, would
not require of necessity that we should, as a matter of
logic or law, regard ourselves as free from the obligation
of surrendering our citizens, we laboring under no such
legal inhibition regarding surrender as operates against
the government of Italy. Therefore, since extradition
treaties need not be reciprocal, even in the matter of the
surrendering of citizens, it would seem entirely sound
to consider ourselves as bound to surrender our citizens
to Italy even though Italy should not, by reason of the
provisions of her municipal law be able to surrender its
citizens to us."
The executive department having thus elected to waive
any right to free itself from the obligation to deliver
up its own citizens, it is the plain duty of this court to
recognize the obligation to surrender the appellant as
one imposed by the treaty as the supreme law of the land
and as affording authority for the warrant of extradition.
Judgment affirmed.

CITY OF PADUCAH, KENTUCKY, v. EAST TENNESSEE TELEPHONE COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 246.

Argued April 22, 1913.-Decided June '10, 1913.

The test of finality of a decree for the purposes of appeal to this court
is the face of the decree itself, and unless it is final the appeal will not
lie.
A decree which continues an injunction againat a municipality unless

