OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

PORTLAND RAILWAY, LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF OREGON
(NO. 2).
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 120.

Argued May 1, 2, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

57 Oregon, 126, affirmed, on the authority of the preceding case.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Franklin T. Griffith, and Mr. Joseph S. Clark, with
whom Mr. FrederickV. Holman was on the brief, for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. A. M. Crawford, Attorney General of the State of
Oregon, and Mr. Clyde B. Aitchison, with whom Mr. R. R.
Giltner and Mr. R. M. Sewell were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Oak Park Improvement Association, a. voluntary
organization of persons residing in and about the stations
on the Oregon City Division of the plaintiff in error, the
Portland Railway, Light and Power Company, known as
the Oak Grove District and comprising Milwaukie
Heights, Courtney, Oak Grove, Center and Risley, sought
by complaint filed with the Railroad Commission of
Oregon to have the Commission fix reasonable fares and
to order their substitutiou for those found to be unreasonable and unjustly discriminatory. The Commission, upon
hearing, found that the rate of fare of fiftoen cents charged

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. ORE. R. R. COMM. (NO. 2)
229 U. S.

415

Opinion of the Court.

by the Railway Company between the City of Portland
and the Oak Grove District was unreasonable and unjustly discriminatory, and ordered the Railway Company
to charge in lieu thereof a ten cent fare and to give the
same transfer privileges to passengers traveling between
Portland and the Oak Grove District that were accorded
to passengers on the Mt. Scott Division of the plaintiff in
error. The Supreme Court of Oregon, relying upon the
conclusions reached by it in the Milwaukie Case (Portland
Railway, Light & Power Co. v. Railroad Commission, 56
Oregon, 468), decided this day by this court, ante, p. 397,
affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court confirming the
order of the Commission, 57 Oregon, 126, and the case is
here on writ of error.
The findings of fact in the present case are practically
identical with those in the Milwaukie Case, ante, p. 397, except the exclusion of facts applying to Milwaukie alone
and the substitution of facts pertinent to the Oak Grove
District, and show that the circumstances and conditions
under which the plaintiff in error transports passengers
between Portland and certain stations named for a fare
of ten cents, with transfer privileges, are substantially
the same as the circumstances and conditions under
which the plaintiff in error transports passengers between
Portland and the Oak Grove District, except as to the
rate of fare and the giving oftransfers, and that, while the
charges of the Railway Company upon the Oregon City
Division are not in themselves unreasonable, they are
"unjust and unreasonable, discriminatory and give undue
preference."
This case, denominated the Oak Grove Case, and the Milwaukie Case were heard together in the Supreme Court
of Oregon and have been presented together in this court.
The contentions asserted in this case are the same contentions set up in the Milwaukie Case, and the opinion in
the latter case (ante, p. 397) has dealt with the controversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

here presented. In view of the conclusions reached in
that case, we see no reason to disturb the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Oregon in the present case, and it
is accordingly
Affirmed.

MAcLEOD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 259.

Argued April 25, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

The local government of a conquered country being destroyed, the
conqueror may set up its own authority and make rules and regulations for the conduct of temporary government, and to that end may
collect taxes and duties to support the military authority and carry
on operations incident to the occupation.
An occupation giving the right to the conqueror to exercise governmental authority must be not only invasion but also possession of
\he enemy's country.
Messages and papers of the Presidents may be referred to by the courts
as matters (f public history.
The military occupation by the United States, during and after the war
with Spain, of the Philippine Islands, and the conduct of the military
government thereof, did niot extend to places which were not in
actual possession of the United States, until they were reduced to
such possession.
Executive orders regarding the collection of duties on goods imported
into the Philippine Islands during the military occupancy thereof
by the United States did not apply to any ports, such as Cebu, during
the time that they were not in the possession and under the control
of the United States.
The principles of international law were recognized by the Executive
in issuing orders concerning the government of the Philippine
Islands during military occupancy thereof, and this court will not
construe an order directing payment of duties on imports as relating
to goods brought into ports in the possession of the de facto government of the insurgents.

