NATIONAL SAFE DEPOSIT CO. v. HIBBS.
229 t.

S.

391

Counsel for Parties.

NATIONAL SAFE DEPOSIT, SAVINGS AND TRUST
COMPANY OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
v. HIBBS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 79.

Argued April 14, 15, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

A bank's trusted agent, in gross breach of his duty, took certain stock
certificates belonging to the bank, endorsed and authenticated with
evidence of title, to a broker who, in ordinary course of business and
in good faith, sold them to third parties for full value and paid over
the proceeds to such agent. Held, in a suit by the bank against the
broker
that:
Where
one of two innocent persons must suffer by
the acts of a
third, he who has enabled such third person to occasion the loss
must sustain it.
Stock certificates are a peculiar kind of property; although,
strictly speaking, not negotiable paper, they are frequently the
basis of commercial transaction and bought and sold in open market as negotiable securities are. Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369.
-Thefact that principles affecting the matters involved are well
knowin 46"business men and are constantly acted upon by them
shouldl b5 gi7en du&weight in determining the rights of parties in a
transaction relating to the sale of stock certificates. Russellv.Am.
Bll Telephone Co., 180 Massachusetts, 467, approved.
Under the principles of equitable estoppel, the bank-is estopped
to make any claim against the broker.
32 App. D. C. 459, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the question of liability of a
broker for sale of stolen stock certificates, are stated in
the opinion.

Mr. Charles L. Frailey, with whom Mr. A. S. Worthington was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. W.
fendant in' error.

C. Sullivan for de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912,
Opinion of the Court.

229

.

MR. JUsTIbE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is in this court upon writ of error to the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia,
32 App. D. C. 459, affirming the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in an action brought
by the plaintiff in error, hereinafter called the Bank,
against the defendant in error for the alleged conversion
of certain shares of stock. The case was tried upon an
agreed statement of facts, from which it appears:
The plaintiff in error has been doing a general banking
business in the City of Washington, including the making
of loans to its customers on promissory notes secured by
stock collateral and, to a limited extent, the buying and
selling of stock for its customers and occasionally for itself.
On March 12, 1903, the Bank made a loan to one T. M.
Kelley of $12,500,, for which he gave his promissory note,
payable on demand, and deposited with the Bank certain
stock certificates of the Mergenthaler Linotype Company
as collateral security. Each of the certificates stood in
the name of T. M. Kelley and on its face recited that it
was transferable by him, in person or by proxy, only upon
the books of the company upon surrender of the certificate,
and each upon its back contained an assignment with
power of attorney to transfer the stock upon the books
of the company, signed in blank by Kelley, whose signature was duly attested.
One Willard H. Myers had been in the continuous employ of the Bank for over twenty years and had committed no acts inconsistent with his duty to the Bank
and was trusted as a faithful employ6. During the last
ten years of his employment he had been general bookkeeper and assistant note teller, a part of his duties being
to receive and enter upon the cash book of the Bank the
payment of loans by customers and to procure from one
of the officers of the Bank and deliver to such customers

NATIONAL SAFE DEPOSIT CO. v. HIBBS.
229 U. &

398

Opinion of the Court

the collateral security pledged for. the loans, it being
usual, in the ordinary course of business, for the Bank to
thus deliver certificates to him upon his request. He had
no authority and it was not a part of his employment to
dispose of, by sale, pledge or otherwise, any stock held
as collateral by the Bank or owned by it or any of its
customers.
On May 26, 1904, Myers requested the secretary of
the Bank to procure from the vault where such securities
were kept the certificates deposited by Kelley, whereupon
the secretary delivered the certificates to Myers, in the
usual course of business, for the purpose of having them
returned to Kelley, similar requests having been made
by Myers prior thereto. Kelley had not paid the loan or
asked for the delivery of the stock, and Myers made no
entry in the cash book.
The day following, May 27th, Myers delivered two of
such certificates to the cashier of the defendant in error,
sstock broker, for sale on his account, and at the request of the cashier, as was the usual custom where the
signatures of the assignor and attesting witness are unknown, Myers, as a further identification of such signa-,
tures, signed his name to the attestation clause of the
assignment. The defendant in error being out of the
city, the certificates were turned over to another broker,
by whom they were on that day sold on the Washingtoii
stock exchange, and on the same day Myers received
the -check of the defendant in error for the proceeds of
the sale, which he subsequently cashed.
i'Myers did not represent to the cashier of the defendant
in error that he was selling the stock for the Bank or that.
he was acting for it in any way, or indicate that he did
not own the stock, nor did the defendant in error or his
cashier know or have cause to suspect that the stock did
not belong to Myers. The stock was sold, however, without the knowledge or consent of the Bank or Kelley. By

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U; S.

the custom of banks, brokers and others dealing in stock,
which custom was known to the Bank, the possession of
stock certificates assigned in blank and attested, as were
the certificates here in controversy, has been recognized,
in the absence of knowledge or cause of suspicion to the
contrary, as evidence of ownership or of authority to sell,
pledge or otherwise deal with such certificates as the
owner might do.
Certain of the other certificates deposited by Kelley
were disposed of by Myers, some in like manner through
the defendant in error, for which Myers received the proceeds, others being hypothecated with The American
Security & Trust Company, while the rest were surrendered by Myers to the authorities.
In this case conflicting legal principles are invoked and
relied upon. For the defendant in error the familiar
principle "that where one of two innocent persons must
suffer by the acts of a third, he who has enabled such
third person to occasion the loss, must sustain it" is
advanced. The plaintiff in error invokes the principle
that where the owner of property, such as stock certificates, has lost it by the criminal or fraudulent act of another, the owner not voluntarily or negligently conferring
upon such another the indicia of ovnership or apparent
title, cannot be deprived of his property by the attempted
transfer of title to a third person for value, no matter how
innocent the purchaser may be of knowledge of the crime
or fraud by which the property was acquired.
In this case the diligence of counsel has called to the
attention of the court many cases more or less applicable
to the facts herein involved. We will not stop to pass
them in review. It is enough to say that they have been
attentively considered.
Stock certificates are a peculiar kind of property. Although not negotiable paper, strictly speaking, they are
the basis of commercial transactions large and small, and

NATIONAL SAFE DEPOSIT CO. v. HIBBS.
229 U..S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

are frequently sold in open market as negotiable securities are. In Bank v. Lanier, 11 Wall. 369, 877, 378, this
court said:
"Stock certificates of all kinds have been constructed
in a way to invite the confidence of business men, so that
they have become, the basis of commercial transactions
in all the large cities of the country, and are sold in open
market the same as other securities. Although neither
in form or character negotiable paper, they approximate
to it as nearly as practicable.

.

.

.

Whoever in good

faith buys the stock, and produces to the corporation the
certificates, regularly assigned, with power to transfer,
is entitled to have the stock transferred to him."
These principles are well known to business men and
are constantly acted upon by them. This circumstance
should be given due weight in determining the rights of
the parties in this case.
In Russell v. American Bell Telephone Co., 180 Massachusetts, 467, a certificate of stock signed in blank was delivered to an agent for the purpose of surrendering it to the
company in order to obtain a new certificate. He wrongfully obtained an advance on the strength of the certificate
by putting it in pledge. Dealing with the contention that
the case was like one where the certificate had been stolen
and therefore no title could be transferred, Mr. Justice
Holmes, delivering the opinion of the court, said: (p. 469)
"In Scollans v. Rollins it is admitted that the general
principle there laid down would not apply to an instrument indorsed in blank and stolen before it had been
transferred. We shall not examine the premises of this
defence because we cannot accept the conclusion. The
qualification of the rule, as not applying when the instrument is stolen, is not based upon the name of the agent's
crime but upon the fact that in the ordinary arid typical
case of theft the owner has not intrusted the agent with
the document and therefore is not considered to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

320 U. E

done enough to be estopped as against a purchaser in
good faith. He certainly has not done enough if the
estoppel is based upon the principle that when one of
two innocent persons is to suffer the sufferer should be
the one whose confidence put into the hands of the wrongdoer the means of doing the wrong. But in a case like
the present the agent has been intrusted with the converted property, and it is totally immaterial whether,
by a stretch which extends larceny beyond the true field
of trespass, his wrong has been brought within the criminal law or not. The ground of the estoppel is present
and the estoppel arises. The distinction is not new. On
the one side are cases like Knox v. Eden Musee Americain
Co., .148 N. Y. 441, where an agent or servant simply had
access to a document remaining in the possession of the
owner; on the other, cases like Pennsylvania Railroad's
Appeal, 86 Pa. St. 80, where possession is intrusted to
the agent for one purpose and he uses it for another. It
cannot matter in the latter class that the agent intended
the fraud from the outset."'
We think this case correctly states the
principle, and
applied to the case in hand is decisive of it. Here one of
two innocent persons must suffer and the question at
last is, Where shall the loss fall? It is undeniable that
the broker obtained the stock certificates, containing all
the indicia of ownership and'possible of ready transfer,
from one who had possession with the Bank's consent,
and who brought the certificates to him, apparently
clothed With the full ownership thereof by all the tests
usually applied by business men to gain knowledge upon
the subject before making a purchase of such property.
On the other hand, the Bank, for a legitimate purpose,
with confidence in one of its own employ6s, entrusted
the certificates to him, with every evidence of title and
transferability upon them. The Bank's trusted agent,
in gross breach of his duty, whether with technical, crim-

PORTLAND RY. CO. v. OREGON R. R. COMM.
229 U. S.

397

Syllabus.

inality or not is unimportant, took such certificates, thus
authenticated with evidence of title, to one who in the
ordinary course of business sold them to parties who paid
full value for them. In such case we think the principles
which underlie equitable estoppel place the loss upon him
whose misplaced confidence has made the wrong possible.
Applying this principle, we think the Court of Appeals
was right in affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court,
and its judgment, is

Affirmed.

PORTLAND RAILWAY, LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY v. RAILROAD COMMISSION OF OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.

No. 119. Argued May 1, 2, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.
A construction by the state court that the equality provisions of a state
statute regulating railway fares applies to localities as well as to
individuals is binding upon this court, and the constitutionality of the
statute will be determined as so construed.
The authority of the States to control by appropriate legislation rates
of fare to be charged by street railways and other common carriers
wholly within their borders and subject to their laws is unquestioned.
A State may, without violating the Fourteenth Amendment, prohibit
any unjust discrimination by a domestic railroad company against
any localities upon its lines; and it may leave it to the Railroad Commission to determine whether the rates are or are not discriminatory,
provision being made for notice and judicial review.
It is only in exceptional cases that this court does not accept the facts
as found by the 'state Supreme Court; and where, as in this case,
those facts are supported by competent testimony it will not retry

issues of fact already properly heard and determined by courts of
competent jurisdiction.
Where the record does not clearly disclose all facts necessary on which
to base conclusions, this court will not overrule the state tilbunal and
declare rates fixed by it within its jurisdiction to be confiscatory a .d
violative of rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.

