CHICAGO, R. 1. & PAC. RY. r. BROWN.
229 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 230.

Argued April 18, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

Where the case is within the class which it was the purpose of the
Judiciary Act of 1891 to submit to the final jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals, this court goes no further than to inquire
whether plain error is made out, Texas.& Pacific Railway v. Howell,
224 U. S. 577.
Under the Safety Appliance Acts the failure of a coupler to work at
any time sustains a charge of negligence on the part of the carrier.
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. United States, 220 U. S, 559.
Where the trial court and the Circuit Court of Appeals have, after
considering the evidence, confirmed the verdict, this court will
hesitate to say that their concurring judgments are not such as
could be reasonably formed or are without foundation as matter
of law.
One obliged to form a judgment in an emergency on the spot is not
to be held accountable in the same measure as one able to judge the
situation in cold abstraction. The Germanic, 196 U. S. 589.
The movement of trains requires prompt action, and one engaged
therein should not be held guilty of contributory negligence because
he did not anticipate that he might be injured if he selected one of
several ways of performing his duty even though he had knowledge
of the existence of that which caused his injury.
185 Fed. Rep. 80, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety
Appliance Acts and determination of what constitutes contributory negligence on the part of a switchman in a railway yard, are stated in opinion.

Mir. 31. L. Bell, with whom Mr. F. V. Dillard was on

the brief, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Mr. James C. McShane, for defendant in error submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Error to review a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirming a judgment of the Circuit Court for
the Northern District of Illinois for $8,000, in an action
brought by Brown, defendant in erxor, against the railway company for injuries received by him while working
as a switchman in the railway company's yards at Chicago.
The action was brought in the state court and removed
on the petition of the railway company to the Federal
court.
The first count of the declaration is based upon a violation of the Safety Appliance Act, and it also contains
allegations based upon the Employers' Liability Act.
The company was engaged and Brown was employed in
interstate commerce. The fourth count charges negligence in failing to fill up the space between a running rail
and a guard rail, in which space Brown's foot caught,
where it was run over and his leg cut off.
The case was tried to a jury, resulting in a verdict for
$8,000 for Brown upon two counts (a) for a Violation of
the Safety Appliance Law, (b) common law negligence ii
not blocking the switches. Judgment was entered upon
the verdict, which was subsequently affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, 185 Fed. Rep. 80.
For the purpose of the contentions which are made
here, the following facts must be accepted to be established, as summarized in the opinion of the Circuit Court
of Appeals (p. 82):
"The defendant in error, a switchman in a large switch
yard, was called upon, at night, to uncouple some cars.

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. BROWN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Not being in touch, by signal, with the engineer, he conveyed his signals to another switchman in advance of him,
who conveyed them to the engineer. The cars were in.
motion on a car track at the time. The uncoupling was
to be done by means of shoving the cars in motion. Had
the safety appliance been in order, this could have been
accomplished by defendant in error while walking at the
side of the train. But the safety appliance on the side
of the car on which he was working at the time would
not operate. He gave three or four jerks to .it, which
failed to open the coupler. He then reached in between
the cars and attempted to lift the coupler pin with his
fingers, which he was unable to do. He then attempted
to reach the pin onthe adjacent coupler, in order to lift
that with his fingers. During all this time he was walking beside the cars, which were moving slowly. The pin
lifting rod on the other car projected, not towards him,
but away from him; and as he was reaching for the coupler
pin on this adjacent coupler, his foot slipped, and a low
brake beam striking his foot, shoved it into an unblocked
guard rail, where it was run over and his leg cut off. Had
he, under these circumstances, abandoned the uncoupling
altogether until the car had come to a standstill, he would
have been saved the accident."
I These being the facts, the railway company asserts
error in the trial court in not directing a verdict for the
company, on the ground (1) that Brown, in leaning between the cars while they were in motion, was guilty of
contributory negligence as a matter of law, and (2) in
instructing the jury, in effect, that Brown was not chargeable with contributory negligence by the mere fact of
going between the cars.
The contentions are resolvable into one and may be
said to be covered by the charge to the jury which the
railway company attacks. The court, after stating that
the first count of the declaration is based on the failure

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

of the company to equip the car with such a coupling
device as that it could be operated without the switch:man going between the ends of the car, said:
"This first count charging the failure I have just referred to is based upon the Act of Congress imposing
certain requirements upon common carriers engaged in
interstate commerce, and this statute provides that a
carrier so engaged shall not move or permit to be moved
on its rails a car that is used in interstate commerce unless so equipped. This act also provides that if an employ6
engaged in the service of such a carrier sustains an injury
by reason of the carrier's failure to obey that law, the
employ6 shall not be held to have assumed the risk of
danger or injury resulting from such failure on the part
of the carrier. It is also the law, having in mind still
this first count, that if the employ6 goes between the cars
to effect an uncoupling, he is not chargeable with contributory negligence, that is, a failure to exercise ordinary care for his own safety, by the mere fact of going
in between the cars to effect the uncoupling, but he is
required before he can recover to exercise ordinary care
for his own safety after he goes between the cars and
while he is there endeavoring 'to effect an uncoupling,
that is, the separation of the cars."
The counsel for the company at the outset expressed
their realization that this case is one of those characterized
in Chicago Junction Railroad Company v. King, 222 U. S.
222, as of the class which it was the purpose of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, to
submit to the final jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and that this court under such circumstances
will "go no farther than to inquire whether plain error
is made out." Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Howell, 224
U. Si 577. And the concession is made that in the Taylor
Case, 210 U. S. 281, and in C., B..& Q. R. R. Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 559, this court settled that the failure

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. BROWN.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of a coupler to work at any time, sustains a charge of
negligence in this respect, no matter how slight the pull
on the coupling lever. And, further, "The mere fact that
the pin would not lift when plaintiff [Brown] endeavored
to lift it makes a case of negligence under the first count."
Contributory negligence is asserted because- Brown knew,
as it is contended, that he would have to pass over an
unblocked guard rail; that, besides, he controlled the
situation, it is contended, through signals to the engineer,
and that he had two safe methods in which to make the
cut of the cars but voluntarily and for his own purpose
chose the most dangerous method.
But all these facts and how far they should have affected
his conduct were submitted to the jury. The evidence
detailed the situation to them and whether the judgment
of Brown was prudently formed and exercised.
The trial court and the Circuit Court of Appeals, considering the evidence, confirmed the finding of the jury
expressed by its verdict. It would be going far to say
that these concurring judgments are not such as could
be reasonably formed but such as must be pronounced
to be without foundation as a matter of law.
The railway company starts its contentions with a concession of its own culpability in sending Brown to his
duty to encounter defective appliances and then seeks
to relieve itself from liability by a charge against him of
a careless judgment in its execution. But some judgment
was necessary, and whether he should have selected one
of the ways which counsel point out admits of debate.
It is one thing to judge of a situation in cold abstraction;
another thing to form a judgment on the spot. The
Germanic, 196 U. S. 589, 595, 596. The movement of
trains requires prompt action, and we cannot hold that
as a matter of law Brown, in leaning forward to remove
a pin which would have yielded to his effort, was guilty of
negligence because he did not anticipate that his foot
voi. ccxxix-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

might slip and be caught in an open frog rail of which 1.e
had or could be charged with knowledge. The case is
within the ruling in Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Harvey, 228
U. S. 319.
Judgment affirmed.

CITIZENS' TELEPHONE COMPANY OF GRAND
RAPIDS v. FULLER, AUDITOR-GENERAL OF
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN

No. 284.

DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

Argued May 2, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

Power of exemption from taxation seems to imply the power of discrimination; and in taxation, as in other matters of legislation,
classification'is within the legislative power-and it may be even to
a greater extent.
The numerous decisions of this court reviewed in this opinion illustrate
the power of the legislature of the State over the subjects of taxation
and the range of discrimination that may be exercised in classification.
Thd legislature, having the power of classification, has also the power
to select the differences on which to base the classification.
The State is not bound to rigid equality by the equal protection, provision of the Fourteenth Amendment: classification simply must not
be exercised in clear and hostile discrimination between particular
persons and classes.
There is a clear and reasonable distinction on which to base a classification for taxation between telegraph and telephone corporations con.ducting for profit large businesses and having offices and exchanges
in cities and villages, and those conducting a very small business
for mutual convenience of the incorporators; and so held that the
Michigan statute taxing such smaller corporations does not deny the
larger corporations the equal protection of the laws because it

