DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER v. NEW YORK
TRUST COMPANY.
CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER v. DENVER
UNION WATER COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH

Nos. 642, 643.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 28, 29, 1912.-Decided May 26, 1913.

The exceptional power of this court to review, upon certiorari, decisions
of the Circuit Court of Appeals on an appeal from an interlocutory
order is intended to be, and is, sparingly exercised; that power does
exist, however, in a case where no appeal lies from the final decision
of that court.
While the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in a case where diverse
citizenship exists may also rest upon the fact that the case is one
arising under the Constitution of the United States, in which case
there is an appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
that is not the case where the alleged infractions of the Constitution
are without color of merit, or are anticipatory -of defendant's defense.
A suit to enforce a contract between a municipality and a water company for the purchase, as is claimed, by the former of the water
plant of the latter and to enjoin the city from constructing another
plant, is not without more a case arising under the Constitution of
the United States. In such a case the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is final and the writ of certiorari may be exercised.
On a review of an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals granting an
injunction in an equity case, this court is not confined to considering
the act of granting the injunction, but if it determines 'that there is
any insuperable objection to maintaining the bill it may direct a
final decree dismissing it.
The various ordinances of the City of Denver, Colorado, granting and
relating to the franchise to the Denver Union Water Company considered and construed; and held that they did not require the city
at the expiration of twenty years to exercise either the option to
renew or the option to purchase reserved in the franchise ordinance,
nor did they preclude the city from erecting its own plant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
-Counsel for Petitioners.

229 U. S.

Where a municipal ordinance grants a franchise to such extent as the
city may lawfully grant it, the term is not in doubt, if the city charter
expressly limits the term of all such grants.
A limitation in the charter on grants by the municipality is as much
part of an ordinance subsequently passed as though written into
it.
An ordinance providing for appraisal of a water plant and for submitting
to the electors whether the contract shall be extended or the plant
purchased at the appraised value, does not amount to an election to
purchase the plant.
Where the franchise of a water company has expired and the city has
lawfully refused to purchase the plant at the appraised value, a
charter amendment permitting the municipal authorities to offer
the company less than such value and in case of non-acceptance to
,erect a municipal plant, does not violate the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment by subjecting the company to the alternative of accepting less than value for the plant or having it
ruined by construction and operation of the municipal plant.
The equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment does
not prevent a city from adopting a scheme of municipal ownership
as to a single public utility, and a charter provision which prohibits
franchises for that purpose does not violate the equal protection
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A provision in regard to the acquisition of a municipal water plant
held in this case not to be a revision in extenso of the city charter but
only an amendment thereto; and also held that none of the objections
to the adoption of the amendment to the charter of the City of
Denver providing for erection of a municipal water plant are tenable.
187 Fed. Rep. 890, reversed.

facts, which involve various elements of a controversy between the City of Denver, Colorado, the Denver
Union Water Company and the New York Trust Company, trustee of bonds of the said company, and the
construction and validity of the contracts and ordinances
and statutes relating to the water supply of Denver, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. William H. Bryant and Mr. Charles W. Waterman, with whom Mr. William P. Malburn and

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Mr. William A. Jackson were on the brief, for petitioners. I
Mr. Henry McAllister, Jr., with whom Mr. Joel F.
Vaile, Mr. William N. Vaile and Mr. J. Markham Marshall were on the brief, for the New York Trust Company, respondent in No. 642.1
Mr. Gerald Hughes and Mr. Clayton C. Dorsey for the
Denver Union Water Company, respondent in No. 643.'
MR.

JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This suit presents a threefold controversy, to which
the New York Trust Company (a New York corporation), the City and County of Denver (a municipal corportation in Colorado), and the Denver Union Water
Company (a Colorado corporation) are the principal
parties. They are respectively the successors of similar
corporations whose acts, together with their own, created
the situation out of which the controversy arose, but
it will be convenient to treat them as if they were the
original participants in all those acts. Although formerly
controlled by a charter enacted by the legislature of the
State, the city, in pursuance of an amendment of the
state constitution, came in 1904 to be governed ,by a
charter framed and adopted by the people of the city
and over which they possessed an exclusive power of
alteration and amendment. Laws 1889, p. 124; Laws
1893, p. 131; Const., Art. 20, Rev. Stat. 1908, p. 55.
By the charter from the state legislature (Laws 1889)
the city was given power (§ 9) "to construct or purchase
I The briefs in this case were very elaborate and exhaustive, several
hundred authorities bearing on the issues involved are collated and reviewed. This renders it impossible to make abstracts of them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

water works for the use of the city" and generally to do
whatever was "needful
. . . in order to supply the
city with water for fire, irrigating, domestic and other
purposes," subject to the qualification (§ 12) that "all
franchises or privileges" granted by the city should "be
limited to twenty, years from the granting of the same."
April 10, 1890, while that charter was in force, the city,
by an ordinance designated as No. 44 and duly accepted
by the water company, granted to the latter, its successors and assigns, the right and privilege of laying down,
continuing and maintaining pipes and other apparatus
for the conveyance and distribution of water along and
through designated streets, alleys and public places of
the city, "to such °extent as the city may lawfully grant the
same" and subject to termination as therein provided.
The ordinance contained various provisions regulatory
of,the right and privilege so granted, the duty of the water
company to supply water for private use and for fire
and other public purposes, the rates to be charged private
users, and the hydrant rentals to be paid by the city.
There were also the following sections:
"SEc. 11. At the expiration of the period of twenty
years from and after the date of the passage and approval of the ordinance, in case the city shall then elect
so to do, the said works may be purchased by the said city,
and in case the parties can not agree, after such election,
upon the price to be paid by the city for the water works
of the said company, its successors and assigns, then their
fair cash value shall be determined by arbitration, by
five disinterested/persons, none of whom shall be residents
of Denver, two of them to be chosen by the city, two
by the company, and the fifth by the four first chosen,
and in case of failure on the part of the company to name
arbitrators for the period of thirty days after the city
shall have named arbitrators and notified the company
so to do, the city may apply to any court having equity

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction in the county in which the city of Denver
shall then be situated for the appointment of two persons of the qualifications aforesaid as such arbitrators,
and the court may thereupon appoint two persons, who
shall act with the same force and effect as if appointed
by the company, and the decision of a majority of said
board shall be final and binding upon both parties, and
upon the payment, or tender of payment, by said city
the said company shall convey to said city all of its property, real or personal, easements, rights and privileges,
and thereafter all franchises, rights and privileges which
have been at any time theretofore granted said company,
its successors or assigns, and which it may then possess,
shall cease and be at an end.
"SEC. 12. At the expiration of the said period of twenty
years the said city may, at its election, renew the contracts
hereby made, by ordinance to that effect, for a like period
of twenty years, but at a price for hydrant rental 10 per
cent. less than mentioned in section 10 herieof, for the
period remaining after the ten years after May 1st, 1891,
and for successive periods of twenty years at the price
last aforesaid, as often and as long as the city may choose.,
This section is conditioned, however, upon the full performance by the city of the provisions of section 2 hereof.
"SEC. 19. This ordinance, when the same shall be in
writing accepted by The Denver Water Company, becomes a contract between the city of Denver and the said
The Denver Water Company, its successors and assigns,
and the same shall as to every provision herein contained
as fully bind and inure to the benefit of the successors and
assigns of the said The Denver Water Company as to
the said company. And it is expressly understood that
by the acceptance of this ordinance the said The Denver
Water Company loses no rights in regard to the occupation of the streets, alleys and public places, or as to the
rights of any other person or persons thereto which it now

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

possesses, but the same are hereby recognized and confirmed and are'to b6 deemed independent of and not
merged in any grant in this-ordinance elsewhere contained.
"SEC. 20. All mains, pipes, valves and other apparatus
now owned by said The Denver Water Company, and
composing its plant, and all such mains, pipes, valves,
hydrants and other apparatus as said The Denver Water
Company, its successors or assigns, shall hereafter lay
down or set in or upon any of the streets, alleys or other
public places within said city shall be and remain the sole
and absolute property of said The Denver Water Company, its successors and assigns, and the said The Denver
Water Company, its successors or assigns, shall forever
be considered and entitled to be in possession thereof,
except in case of purchase by said city under the terms of
this ordinance, or some agreement between said city and
said company, its successors or assigns, when all rights of
whatsoever nature of said company, its successors or
assigns, in and to the subject-matter hereof shall vest in
said city.
"SEC. 21. While the consideration for the respective
agreements of the city and the company are upon each
side the several agreements of the other, all of the several
grants, contracts and agreements in this ordinance contained are to be deemed independent agreements with the
same force and effect as if each section of this ordinance
was contained in a separate ordinance by itself."
By a written contract made in 1870 the city had granted
to the water company a sole and exclusive right to lay
pipes within the city for use in the distribution and sale of
water, but that contract had been expressly annulled by
another made in 1874, whereby the city granted to the
company a right of like character expressly limited to a
period of seventeen years from May 1 of that year. What
was said in §§ 19 and 20 of the ordinance of 1890 about
rights and a water plant already possessed by the water

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

company had reference to the rights then held and the
plant then operated under the 17-year contract, which
was within a year of expiration, and to some other rights
mentioned in the record and equally without material
bearing here.
By an amendment of the state constitution in 1902-it
being the amendment under which the home-rule charter
was framed and adopted two years later-the city was
empowered to construct, purchase, maintain and operate
water works for the use of itself and its inhabitants, and
to issue bonds, after an approving vote of the taxpaying
electors, in any amount necessary to carry out that power;
and this amendment declared that "No franchise relating
to any street, alley, or public place of the said city and
county shall be granted except upon the vote of the
qualified'taxpaying electors." Article XX, §§ 1 and 4.
October 2, 1907, about two and one-half years before
the expiration of the 20-year period specified in the ordinance of 1890, the city adopted and the water company
accepted an ordinance designated as No. 163, providing,
first, for an immediate appraisement, by appraisers
selected conformably to § 11 of the ordinance of 1890, of
the fair cash value of all the property of the water company and its auxiliary companies then used in supplying
the city and its inhabitants with water; second, for the
immediate fixing by the appraisers of a schedule of reasonable rates for water for private and public purposes for a
further period of 20 years; third, that the decision of any
three of the appraisers should be binding as to the questions submitted to them for determination; fourth, for
the submission to the electors of the city, at a single
special election, of the questions (a) whether the city
should purchase the property at the value fixed by such
appraisement, and (b) whether a new contract or franchise
should be granted to the water company for a further
period of 20 years on the basis of the rates fixed by the
VOL. CCXXIX-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

appraisers; fifth, for carrying into effect either of said
propositions if approved by the electors; and, sixth, that
if the electors should "'refuse to accept either proposition"
no prejudice should result to the rights of either party
under the ordinance of 1890, but such rights should remain as if the ordinance of 1907 had not been adopted or
accepted. That ordinance recited that the water company would agree with the city to put in new temporary
rates to be charged private consumers of water after
November 1, 1901, for the remainder of the term specified
in the then existing contract or ordinance of 1890, "in the
event that the city . . . shall not at said election
determine to purchase said plant or to extend or renew said
contract for a further period of twenty years."
March 20, 1909, the appraisers, acting under the ordinance of 1907, appraised the property at $14,400,000,
but they failed to fix the schedule of rates which was to
be a part of the proposition to renew the existing contract
or franchise of 1890 for a further period of 20 years, and
this failure operated, without fault on the part of the city
or the water company, to prevent any further action under
the ordinance of 1907, which called for the submission of
both propositions at a single special election.
May 17, 1910, over a month after the expiration of the
20-year period specified in the ordinance of 1890, the
people of the city amended its charter by adding a new
section, known as § 264a. Briefly described, this amendment created a public utilities commission, named its
first members and transferred to it the authority theretofore given to the board of public works as to all public
utilities; particularly invested it with large powers in
respect of the construction, acquisition, maintenance and
operation of a water plant; declared that the city should
never exercise any option to purchase such a plant, or to
renew any contract with reference thereto, otherwise
than through an approving vote of -the qualified electors;

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229-U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authorized the issuance of bonds in the sum of $8,000,000,
if sanctioned by a vote of the taxpaying ) lectors, to provide a municipal water plant; provided for the use, subject to the approving vote of such electors, of $7,000,000
of these bonds in the purchase of the plant of the water
company, if it should, on or before July 1, 1910, elect to accept that sum, and for the use of the remaining $1,000,000
of bonds in improving, repairing and adding to the plant;
and directed that, if the water company did not so elect,
a special election should be held on the first Tuesday in
September, 1910, to enable the taxpaying electors to vote
upon the question of issuing the $8,000,000 of bonds for
the purpose of constructing and putting filto operation a
municipal plant.
The water company did not elect to accept the $7,000,000
for its plant, and the city officers took the necessary preliminary steps to hold the special election called for by the
charter amendment.
There was at no time an election by the city to purchase
the water company's plant pursuant to the option reserved
in § 11 of the ordinance of 1890, unless the ordinance of
1907, the charter amendment of 1910, or the failure to'
renew the contract or franchise pursuant to the option
reserved in § 12 operated as such an election; and there
was no election by the city to renew the contract or franchise pursuant to the latter option, unless the failure to
exercise the other one was such an election.
The positions of the city and the water company in that
regard came to be as follows: The city was insisting that
the contract or franchise granted by the ordinance of 1890
was limited to 20 years in duration by the legislative
charter in force when the ordinance was adopted; that
the options reserved in §§ 11 and 12 of that ordinance
were not alternative in the sense that one or the other
must be exercised, but were independent in the sense that
there was no obligation to exercise either; that neither,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

was exercised, and therefore that, the 20-year limitation
having expired, the contract or franchise was at an end.
The water company, on the other hand, although not conceding the 20-year limitation, was insisting that the options were alternative in that the city was bound to exercise one or the other, that it had elected not to purchase
the company's plant, and that in so doing it necessarily
had elected and become obligated to renew the contract
or franchise for anothe period of 20 years.
In this situation the trust company, being the trustee
in a subsisting mortgage given in 1894 by the water company upon all of its property, including franchises, contracts, rentals and the right to receive the purchase price
in the event of a purchase by the city, brought this suit
against the city, certain of the city officers, the water
company, and the South Platte Canal and Reservoir
Company, a subsidiary of the latter holding the title to
an important part of its property, to obtain a decree which
should, among other things, declare that the city had
elected and become obligated to purchase the property,
direct a specific performance of that obligation and of
the correlative obligation of the water company to sell,
compel the payment of the purchase price to the trust
company under the mortgage, and restrain and enjoin the
city and its officers from meanwhile constructing a new
municipal water plant, as also from taking any steps
towards issuing bonds for that purpose. A cross-bill
against the other defendants and the trust company was
interposed by the water company, wherein it prayed,
among other things, that its right to a renewed contract
or franchise for another term of 20 years be established
and that the city and its officers be directed to take such
steps as might be necessary to effect the renewal. Upon
applications submitted upon the bill, cross-bill and divers
proofs the Circuit Court granted interlocutory orders,
upon both bills, temporarily enjoining the city and its

DENVER i. NEW YORK TRUTST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

officers from taking any steps towards the construction
of a municipal. water plant or issuing bonds for that purpose, and, in the instance of the cross-bill, from interfering
with the water company in the exercise and enjoyment of
the rights asserted by it under the contract or franchise of
1890. Appeals were taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where the interlocutory orders were affirmed, 187 Fed.
Rep. 890, and the case is now here upon certiorari.
The exceptional power to review, upon certiorari, a
decision of a Circuit Court of Appeals rendered on an
appeal from an interlocutory order is intended to be and
is sparingly exercised. But there can be no doubt that
the power exists where no appeal would lie from a final
decree of that court, as is the case where the suit is one
in which the jurisdiction of the court' of first instance
depended entirely upon diverse citizenship. Judicial Code,
§§ 128, 240; American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville
Co., 148 U. S. 372, 385; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S.
506. We think this is such a suit. The bill states that
the trust company is a citizen of New York, that all the
defendants are citizens of Colorado, and that "this is a
controversy wholly between citizens of different States."
True, it also alleges that the suit is one arising under the
Constitution of the United States and attempts to support
this general allegation by others referring to supposed and
conjectured infractions of the contract and due process of
law clauses of that instrument; but, when the true nature
of the trust company's cause of action is considered, it is
apparent that these allegations must be disregardedsome because they are without color of merit, and others
because they are not a necessary part of the statement of
that cause of action, but are in anticipation of defenses
which it is thought the defendants may possibly interpose.
See Colorado Central Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138,
143; Tennessee v. Union & Planter's' Bank, 152 U. S. 454,
459; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411, 424; Boston

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Co.rt.

229 U. S.

&c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632, 638, 639;
Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. "184, 191; Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561, 576;
Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U. S. 313, 333; Shulthis v.
McDougal, 225 U. S. 561, 569.
The gravamen of the trust company's cause of action
is that the ordinance of 1890 restricted the city to a choice
between two options, one to purchase the water plant and
the other to renew the contract or franchise; that by the
ordinance of 1907, -and again by the charter amendment
of 1910, the city made a binding election to purchase,
which it now disregards and refuses to carry into effect;
that the city is authorized by law to acquire a water plant
by purchase or to construct one of its own, but not to do
both; that, having elected and become obligated to purchase the existing plant, it is without authority to construct a new one; that the water company erroneously
maintains that it is entitled to a renewal of the existing
contract or franchise, and wrongfully refuses to insist
upon a purchase by the city; and that in this situation
the trust company is entitled, in virtue of its mortgage,
to enforce the city's election and obligation to purchase
and meanwhile to have the city enjoined from placing an
obstacle in the way of the purchase by constructing a new
plant. It is not asserted that the contract or franchise of
1890 was exclusive or contained any stipulation restraining
the city from constructing and operating a plant of its
own, or that the trust company is a property holder or
taxpayer of the city; and so, the company can have no
legal concern with what is done by the city in the premises,
if only it performs its. alleged obligation to purchase. It
hardly needs statement that a suit to enforce such a cause
of action is not one arising under the Constitution of
the United States. "As has been stated, the rule is a
reasonable -and just one that the complainant in the first
instance shall be confined to a statement of his cause of

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action, leaving to the defendant to set up in his answer
what his defense is, and, if ankthing more than a denial of
plaintiff's cause of action, imposing upon the defendant
the burden of proving such defense." Joy v. St. Louis,
201 U. S. 332, 341.
But if we go beyond the trust company's statement of
its cause of action and consider the attitude which it
attributes to the city the result is still the same, for the
bill expressly shows that the city puts its refusal to purchase upon the ground that it was not restricted by the
ordinance of 1890 to a choice between the two options but
left free to exercise either or neither; that it did not, by the
ordinance of 1907, the charter amendment of 1910, or
otherwise, exercise the option to purchase; and therefore
that it has incurred no obligation in that regard. In other
words, the bill discloses that the city's position is, that the
trust company's claim is refuted by the very ordinances
and charter amendment which are relied upon to sustain it.
Of course, if this were the city's defense the controversy
would be solved by merely ascertaining the proper construction of the ordinances and charter amendment, and
there would be no occasion to consider the Constitution of
the United States at all.
That the cross-bill may be broader than the original
and seek relief on a Federal ground does not affect the
question of the Circuit Court's jurisdiction, for a cross-bill
is a mere auxiliary or dependency of the original and is
entertained and disposed of in the exercise of the jurisdiction invoked by the latter. Ayres v. Carver, 17 How.
591, 595; Ex parte Railroad, 95 U. S. 221, 225; Rouse v
Letcher, 156 U. S. 47, 50; Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S.
561, 568.
It follows that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
depended entirely upon diverse citizenship, and therefore
that the suit is one in which no appeal would lie from 'a
final decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

OCrOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

We come, then, to the objections made to the orders
granting the temporary injunctions, and as these objections are addressed, not merely to the injunctions, but to
the merits of both the bill and the cross-bill, it is well to
observe at the outset that our power of review, like that
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, is not confined to the act
of granting the injunctions, but extends as well to determining whether there is any insuperable objection, in
point of jurisdiction or merits, to the maintenance of
either bill, and, if so, to directing a final decree disnmissing
it. Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, 525;
Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Manufacturing Co., 177 U. S.
485, 494; Harriman v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S.
244, 287; United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Bray,
225 U. S. 205,.214.
Whether the trust company is merely an assignee seeking
to recover the contents of a chose in action, and whether
its interest in the litigation is so far identical and in accord
with that of the water company as to require that they be
aligned on the same side, are questions upon which the
record is not entirely clear, and it therefore will be assumed, as is expressly or impliedly affirmed by both companies, that these questions should be resolved favorably
to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. See act August 13,
1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, § 1; Dawson v. Columbia Trust
Co., 197 U. S. 178, 181; Shoecraft v. Bloxam, 124 U. S. 730,
735.
What is the proper construction of the ordinance of
1890? Was the contract or franchise granted by it limited
to 20 years? Did the city obligate itself thereby to purchase the plant or to renew the contract or franchise at the
end of that period, or did it merely reserve the privilege of
doing one or the other or neither, as to it should seem best
at the time? These are the questions which must first be
considered. It is not asserted that the ordinance granted
an exclusive franchise or restrained the city from con-

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

structing a plant of its own, nor would such an assertion,
if made, have any support in the terms of the ordinance.
But it is said that no time was fixed for the duration of the
franchise. This may be taken as true so far as the actual
terms of the ordinance are concerned, although it ought
not to be overlooked that it contained some recognition of
a limitation elsewhere imposed, for the granting clause was
qualified by the words "to such extent as the city may
lawfully grant the same," and §§ 11 and 12, before set
forth, proceeded as if the period would be 20 years. But
the term of the franchise was not left undefined or in
doubt, for the charter of the city explicitly declared that
"all franchises and privileges" granted by it should "be
limited to twenty years from the granting of the same,"
and the context made it perfectly plain that this limitation
was intended to apply to rights to occupy and use the
streets, alleys and public places of the city such as were
granted in this instance. The limitation became a part of
the ordinance quite as much as if written into it. No
doubt it was intended that the franchise should endure
for the full period of 20 years. The qualifying words in the

granting clause and the reference to that period in §§ 11
and 12 leave no doubt of this, but it was not intended,
because it could not be, that it should endure longer.
True, some of the provisions in §§ 19 and 20, if taken by
themselves, might possibly make for a different conclusion,
but they must be read with other parts of the ordinance,
and all must be read with and subordinated to the charter
limitation.
The principal controversy is over the purpose and effect
of §§ 11 and 12 of that ordinance. As before shown, § 11
states that at the expiration of the period of 20 years the
plant "may be purchased" by the city, if it "shall then
elect so to do," and § 12 says that at the expiration of that
period, the city "may, at its election, renew the contract
hereby made," with a reduction of 10 per cent. in the

OCTOBER -TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

229 U. S.

rental for hydrants. The word "contract" is used here, as
elsewhere in the ordinance, as inclusive of the franchise to
occupy and use the streets. Each section reserves or gives
to the city a pure option. Under one it may purchase the
plant, if it so elects, and under the other it may, at its
election, renew the contract; but neither imposes any
duty or obligation upon it, unless it exercises the privilege
therein given. Such is the natural import of the terms
employed, and they are plain and unequivocal. But it is
said that the presence of the two options imposes on the
city the duty of accepting one. Indeed, it is said in support
of the bill that a failure to renew is an election to purchase,
and in support of the cross-bill that a failure to purchase is
a.n election to renew. We are clearly of opinion that these
claims are ill-founded. In the absence of some stipulations
to that end the city would be under no obligation to purchase or to renew, nor would it be entitled to do either.
There is no stipulation purporting to impose such an
obligation. All that is done is to reserve or give to the
city the right to purchase or to renew,. if it so elects. In
other words, it is given a privilege to do either, but with
no obligation to exercise it. Its situation is not unlike
that of one who has sold real property, with a reserved
privilege of repurchasing it or of taking a lease upon it
after the expiration of a term of years. Although entitled
to avail himself of either phase of the privilege, he is free
to reject both.
As suggesting that the purpose of §§ 11 and 12 is different from what we hold it to be, we are referred to an
ordinance of December 15, 1894, leasing to the water company a water plant formerly owned by the town of South
Denver and acquired by the city through the annexation
of that town. At most this ordinance has only an indirect
bearing here, and the inferences drawn from it by counsel,
even if justified, are quite inadequate to overcome the
plain and unequivocal terms of those sections.

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whether, consistently with the powers conferred and the
limitations imposed by the city charter then in force, the
city could have bound itself, when the ordinance of 1890
was adopted, to purchase the plant or to renew the franchise at the expiration of the 20-year period is a question
extensively discussed by counsel; but as we are fully persuaded that there was no attempt or purpose to create
such an obligation by that ordinance, the point may be
passed without further notice..
The trust company relies upon the ordinance of 1907 as
showing an election by the city to purchase, or at least to
purchase if the franchise was not renewed. That ordinance, we have seen, provided for an appraisement of the
water company's property in advance of the expiration of
the existing franchise, for the fixing of a reasonable schedule of rates to be charged during a further period of 20
years, and for submitting to the electors of the city, at a
single special election,. the questions, (a) whether the city
should purchase at the appraisement, and (b) whether a
new franchise should be granted to the water company for
a furtlrer period of 20 years on the basis of the rates so
fixed. The Appraisers chosen for the purpose made an
appraisement but failed to fix the schedule of rates, and
so, without any fault of the city or the water company,
nothing further was done under that ordinance. It did
not purport to make an election to purchase or to renew,
either conditionally or otherwise. On the contrary, it
affirmatively contemplated that the election, if any, was to
be by the electors of the city, and that they might reject
both propositions. Besides, Article 20, § 4, of the state
constitution then in force provided that no franchise
relating to the streets of the city should be granted except
upon a vote of the electors, and Article 9 of the city charter then in force made a like vote a prerequisife to the
acquisition by the city of any public utility. So, had the
council Attempted by the ordinance of 1907 to make an

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
)pinion of Ohw Court.

229 U. S.

election to purchase or to renew, the attempt would have
gone for nothing. No doubt, the difficulty arising from
lie failure to fix a schedule of, rates could have been adjusted between the city and the water company and the
two propositions (the second in a modified form) submitted
to the electors at an election called through a new ordinance. But this was not done, possibly because, as the
record discloses, both parties were dissatisfied with the
appraisement, the city claiming that it proceeded upon
erroneous principles and was grossly excessive and the
water company that it was inadequate and insufficient.
But, however this may have been, it is plain that the
ordinance of 1907 was not an election to purchase, either
conditionally or at all.
The trust company also relies upon the charter amendment of May 17, 1910, § 264a, as showing an election'to
purchase under the option reserved in the ordinance of
1890. The amendment did not contemplate a purchase in
accordance with that option, but independently of it
and upon altogether different terms. Instead, therefore,
of being an exercise of the option, it was a rejection of it.
Minncapolis & St. Louis Railway Co. v. Columbus Rolling
Mill, 119 U. S. 149, 151.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, having stated the conflicting claims of the trust company and the water company, the one that the city had elected to purchase, and
the other that it had elected to renew, said: "The facts
are stated upon which these claims are based, ind it does
not appear to us that the city has done either." With that
conclusion we fully agree. In so far, then, as the bill and
cross-bill are founded upon the contractual relations
claimed to have arisen out of the ordinance of 1890, they
must fail, and as the bill has no other basis it manifestly
cannot be maintained.
As an additional ground for enjoining the issuing of
bonds and the construction of a municipal water plant

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST''
229 U. S.

tO.

Opinion of the Court.

under-the charter amendment, § 264a, the cross-bill, after
stating that the water company isa large property holder
and taxpayer of the city and must share in the burdens
which will be placed upon all its property holders and
taxpayers by issuing the bonds and constructing the

municipal plant, challenges the validity of the amendment,
and therefore the authority of the city to carry it into
effect. It remains to consider the objections uponwhich
this challenge is rested.
Two objections named in the cross-bill are, that Article 20 of the'state constitution (adopted as an amendment
in 1902), upon which the charter amendment is based,
(a) is repugnant to Article IV, § 4 of the Constitution of
the United States guaranteeing to the State a republican
form of government, in that it takes from the state
legislature and vests directly in the people of the city
legislative power over all subjects of purely municipal
concern, and (b) is repugnant to § 2 of Article 2, § 1 of
Article 5, and § 2 of Article 19 of the state constitution.
These objections are not now insisted upon, the first
doubtless because it is deemed sufficiently covered antd
disposed of, as undoubtedly it is, by our recent decision in
Pacific States Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Oregon, 223
U. S. 118, and the second because it appears to be fore-

closed by decisions of the Supreme Court of the State, in
People v. Sours, 31 Colorado, 369, and other cases. Both
may therefore be passed without further notice.
The next objection invokes the due process of law clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, and is, that the charter amendment subjects the water company to the alternative of accepting
an inadequate price for its plant or of having its value
ruinously impaired by the construction and operation
of a municipal plant, and that this amounts to an unlawful deprivation of property. The objection is faulty in
that it fails to recognize the real situation to which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

charter amendment applies. The water company, although -the undoubted owner of the physical property
constituting its plant, is without a franchise to maintain
and operate it through the streets of the city, the prior
franchise having expired; and the city not only is under
no legal obligation to renew the franchise or to purchase
the plant, but is free to construct and operate a plant of
its own. How then, can it be said that the proposal, expressed in the amendment, to purchase the company's
plant at $7,000,000 and to devote $1,000,000 more to its
betterment, or else to construct a new one at a cost of
$8,000,000, involves an unlawful deprivation of property
or any right? See Madera Water Works v. Madera, 228
U. S. 454; Detroit United Railway v. Detroit, ante,
p. 39. Whether $7,000,000 is an adequate price for the
company's plant, and whether its value will be ruinously
impaired by the construction of a municipal plant, are
beside the question. Being under no obligation to purchase, the city is free to name its own terms, and the water
company is likewise free to accept or reject them. The
latter is under no compulsion other than such as inheres
in the nature of its property or arises from a proper regard
for its own interests. That the city, mindful of its interests, offered $7,000,000 for the water company's plant,
when it could have proceeded to the construction of a new
plant of its own, without making any offer to the company, affords no ground for complaint by the latter.
Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561,
577.
Another objection invokes the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment and is, that the charter
amendment singles out and deals with the subject of a
water supply and with the plant of the water company,
leaving all other public utilities to be dealt with under
general charter provisions, and also cuts off all opportunity
to obtain future franchises to occupy and use the streets

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of supplying water to the city and its
inhabitants, while leaving full opportunity to obtain such
franchises for other purposes, such as supplying light, heat,
power, transportation, or telephone service. There is no
merit in this objection. The equal protection clause is
directed only against arbitrary discrimination, that is,
such as is without any reasonable basis. Lindsley v.
Natural Carbonic Acid Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78. It does
not prevent a city from applying the scheme of municipal
ownership and maintenance to one public utility without
applying it to all; nor does it prevent a city, owning aind
maintaining a municipal water plant, from refusing to
grant franchises which will bring privately owned plants
into competition with its own. There is nothing unequal
in this in the sense of that clause. And if it was essential
that there be a reasonable basis for dealing specially and
directly, as was-done, with the question of purchasing the
company's plant, the situation before recited shows that
such a basis was not wanting.
Article 20 of the state constitution, under which the
present home-rule charter was adopted, while investing
the people of the city (§ 4) with "exclusive power in the
making, altering, revising, or amending their charter,"
makes a distinction (§ 5)'between the modes of amending
it and of revising it in extenso or making a new one, the
difference being that an amendment may be initiated by
petition and directly voted upon and adopted by the
electors, while a revised or new charter requires the intervention of a charter convention. Relying upon this, it
is objected that § 2 64a, now under consideration, is not an
amendment but partakes of the nature of a revised or new
charter, and is invalid because, as is the fact, it was not
framed and approved by a charter convention before being
submitted to the electors. The point cannot be sistained.
The section is in form and in substance a mere amendment.
It does not alter the form of the city government or make

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

extensive changes in the existing charter, but is confined
to matlers pertaining to public utilities, more especially

the acquisition, maintenance and operation of a municipal
wat er plant. In the briefs some reference is made I'o
Speer v. People, 52 Colorado, 325, where the Supreme
Court of the State recently had before it a proposed
amendment radically and extensively changing the form
of the city government. The opinions rendered in the
case disclose some differences of opinion upon the question
whether what was proposed could be regarded as a mere
alnendment, but the question was not decided and nothing
was said in the opinions that tends to sustain the objection
now made to § 264a.
Another objection urged against that section is, that it
is in conflict with Article 20, § 4, of the state constitution
in that, while that article provides that the question of
granting a desired franchise shall be submitted to the
electors upon the deposit with the city treasurer of the
expense of the submission, § 264a prevents the granting
of any franchise for the purpose of furnishing a supply of
water. Assuming that § 264a does do this, it is done as
part of the plan of establishing and maintaining a municipal water plant expressly authorized by Article 20, § 1.
Besides, the provision in Article 20, § 4, which is relied
upon, is a subordinate part of a limitation or restriction
to the effect that no franchise to occupy or use the streets
of the city shall be granted except upon an approving vote
of the electors, and is evidently intended to be merely
regulatory of the payment of the expense of taking the
vote, and not to make such payment the only test of the
right to have the vote taken.
Finally, it is objected that the submission and adoption
of § 264a were in contravention of the existing charter,
(a) because the section deals with several independent
and unrelated subjects, (b) because it designates the first
members of the public. utilities commission, instead of

DENVER v. NEW YORK TRUST CO.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

leaving them to be elected in accordance with the general
provision in § 178 of the charter, and (c) because it prescribes a different mode of acquiring a municipal water
plant than that provided in Article 9 of the charter. In
disposing of a preceding objection, we have held that
§ 264a was merely an amendment of the charter, and
that the mode of its submission and adoption was in
accord with the applicable restrictions of the state constitution. No additional restrictions were prescribed by
the charter, its only provision upon the subject being
(§ 20), "Any measure, charter amendment, or proposal
for a charter convention, may be submitted to a vote of
the qualified electors in the manner provided by the
constitution." In passing upon the preceding objection,
therefore, we have passed upon the first branch of the
one just stated; but it may be added that we think all the
provisions of the amendment have such a relation to the
principal subject, namely, the public utilities of the city,
as to permit their inclusion in a single amendment. Of
the other two branches of this objection it is enough to
say that the amendment supersedes pro tanto the original
provisions of the charter with which it is not in accord.
The purpose in adopting it was to introduce something
new, to make a change in existing provisions, and being
adopted conformably to the constitutional and charter
requirements, the new or changed provisions became at
once a part of the charter, thereby supplanting or modifying the original provisions to the extent of any conflict.
Having now considered all the claims advanced in
support of the cross-bill and finding, as we do, that it has
no support in any of them, it follows that, like the original
bill, it cannot be maintained. The interlocutory decrees
of the Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court are
accordingly reversed, and the case is remanded with a
direction to dismiss both bills on the merits.
Reversed.
VoL. CcxxIx-10

