OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

229 U. S.

BARRETT v. STATE OF INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 245.

Submitted April 18, 1913. 7 -Decided May 26, 1913.

Coal mining is a dangerous business and subject to police regulation
by the State.
The legislature of the State is itself the judge of means necessary to
secure the safety of those engaged in a dangerous business, and only
such regulations as are palpably arbitrary can be set aside as violating
the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment requires
laws of like application to all similarly situated, but the legislature
is allowed wide discretion in -the selection of classes.
A classification, in, a police statute regulating operations in coal mines
including bituminous coal mines and excluding block coal mines, is
not so unreasonable or arbitrary as to justify the courts in overruling
the legislature.
It is the province of the legislature to make the laws and of the court
to enforce them.
Courts will not interfere with a police statute on the ground that the
classification is so arbitrary as to deny equal protection of the laws
unless it appears that there is no fair reason for the law that would
with equal force not require its extension to others whom it leaves
untouched. Missouri,Kansas & Texas Ry. v. May, 194.U. S. 267.
The statute of Indiana requiring entries in coal mines to be of a specified width was a reasonable exercise of the police power of the State
in regulating a dangerous business and is not unconstitutional under.
the Fourteenth Amendment either as depriving the owners of bituminous coal mines of their property without due process of law or as
denying them equal protection of the law because it expressly excepts block coal mines.
93 N. E. Rep. 543, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the statute of Indiana
prescribing the width of entries in bituminous coal mines,

are stated in the opinion.

BARRETT v. INDIANA.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John C. Chaney and Mr. Charles E. Barrett for
plaintiff in error:
The act of March 9, 1907, is in conflict with ยง 1 of the
Fourteenth Amendment. It denies the equal protection
of the law to the person or persons engaged in the mining
of coal in certain districts of the State. It grants special
privileges to another class of citizens engaged in mining
coal in what is known as the block coal district, and denies
these privileges to all other persons. Chicago, M. & St. P.
Ry. Co. v. Westby, 178 Fed. Rep. 619; Bells Gap R. R. Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Gulf &c. R. R. Co.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 159; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S. 356, 359; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S.
79; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Santa Clara Co.
v. Southern Pacific, 118 U. S. 394; Pembina Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181; Charlater R. R. Co. v. Gibbs, 142
U. S. 386; Covington v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578; Smythe
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Tiedeman, Pol. Powers (1886),
ยง 3; Toledo Co. v. Jacksonville &c., 67 Illinois, 37; Lake
View v. Rose Hill Cemetery, 70 Illinois, 192; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
Appellant in the operation of his coal mine fell within
the exception or proviso clause of the act. The act of
1907 is class legislation, and appellant is, by its terms,
denied the equal protection of the law. Greene v. State,
119 N. W. Rep. 6.
Mr. Thomas M. Honan, Attorney General of the State
of Indiana, Mr. Edwin Corr, Mr. Thomas H. Branaman
and Mr. James E. McCullough for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error was convicted in a Circuit Court of
Indiana of the violation of a statute of that State requiring
entries in certain coal mines to be of not less than a pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

scribed width. The case was twice before the Supreme
Court of Indiana. State v. Barrett, 172 Indiana, 169;
Barrett v. State, 93 N. E. Rep. 543. From the judgment in
the latter case, affirming the conviction, a writ of error was
prosecuted. The assignments of error raise the question
of the validity of the statute under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The statute provides (Burns' Annotated Indiana
Statutes, 1908):
"8582. Width of entries.--1. That it shall be unlawful
for any owner, lessee, agent or operator of any coal mine
within the State of Indiana, to make, dig, construct, or
cause to be made, dug or constructed any entry or trackway after the taking effect of this act, in any coal mine in
the State of Indiana where drivers are required to drive
with mine car or cars unless there shall be a space provided on one or both sides continuously of any track or
tracks measured from the rail, in any such entry of at
least two (2) feet in width, free from any props, loose
slate, debris or other obstruction so that the driver may
get away from the car or cars and track in event of collision, wreck or other accident. It shall be unlawful for any
employe, person or persons to knowingly, purposely or
maliciously place any obstruction within said space as
herein provided: Provided, That the geological veins of
coal numbers three and four commonly known as the
lower and upper veins in the block coal fields of Indiana
shall be exempt from the provisions of this act."
The next section provides that any one violating the
act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and prescribes the
penalty.
That the legislatures of the States may in the exercise of
the police power regulate a lawful business is too well
settled to require more than a reference to some of the
cases in this court in which that righthas been sustained
as against objections under the Fourteenth Amendment.

BARRETT v. INDIANA.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Gundling v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539;
Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79; Watson v. Maryland,
218 U. S. 173; Schmidinger v. City of Chicago, 226 U. S.
578. That the mining of coal is a dangerous business and
therefore subject to regulation is also well settled. It is
an occupation carried on at varying depths beneath the
surface of the earth, amidst surroundings entailing danger
to life and limb, and has been, as it may be, the subject
of regulation in the coal mining States by statutes which
seek to secure the safety of thQse thus employed. The
legislature is itself the judge of the means necessary and
proper to that end, and only such regulations as are palpably arbitrary can be set aside because of the requirements of due process of law under the Federal Constitution. When such regulations have a reasonable relation
to the subj ect-matter and are not arbitrary and oppressive,
it is not for the courts to say that they are beyond the exercise of the legitimate power of legislation. Carrollv. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61.
We are unable to say that the requirement that entries
sbhall have a certain width beyond the tracks, as prescribed
by this statute, would not promote the safety of the employ6s engaged in that work. The legislature found, for
reasons sufficient to itself, that such additional width, kept
clear of obstructions, would promote the safety of the
exploy6s, and we are not prepared to say that in enacting
such legislation it violated the Federal Constitution.
It is argued that the act in question is also violative of
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
in that it applies to bituminous coal mines but not to
block coal mines. The equal protection, of the laws requires laws of like application to all similarly situated, but
in selecting some classes and leaving out others the legislature, while it keeps within this principle, is, and may be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

allowed wide discretion. It is the province of the legislature to make the laws and of the courts to enforce them.
This court has had such frequent occasion to consider this
matter that extended discussion is not necessary now. The
legislature is permitted to make a reasonable classification
and *before a court can interfere with the exercise of its
judgment it must be able to say "that there is no fair
reason for the law that would not require with equal force
its extension to others whom it leaves untouched." This
was one test laid down in Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry.
Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267, and has been quoted and
followed with approval in Williams v. Arkansas, supra;
and Watson v. Maryland, supra. In noticing this contention the Supreme Court of Indiana, when the case was
first before it, 172 Indiana, 169, reviewed the situation
in that State, as evidenced by official reports concerning
the coal mining industry, and noted the great difference
in the production and number of mines between what are
called the block veins of coal and the bituminous veins of
coal existing in the State, and also the different depths at
which coal is mined in the strata of block and bituminous
coal, and concluded its discussion of this subject, as
follows:
"It is not unlikely that there is in fact a difference in
the degree of danger in mining the two kinds of coal. We
at least cannot say the contrary. If so, it must be presumed that the legislature informed itself upon that subject. It may be that mining coal at a distance of 165 feet
from the surface is more hazardous than mining it at 90
feet. These matters, with the relative output, relative
number of mines and persons employed, may have entered
into the consideration as rpquiring the act in one case, and
not in the other, and while the relative number of employ6s, mines and the output might not be a proper
classification if applied to persons in the same class of
work, or under the same conditions, we cannot say that

BIG VEIN COAL CO. v. READ.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

they are not different at different depths and in different
kinds of coal, and must presume that they are; at least
we cannot say that, as applied to all persons alike employed in mining bituminous coal, the act is invalid because not applicable to block mining, and we cannot say
that the act is unreasonable, or determine as to its propriety or impropriety, and to doubt its constitutionality
is to resolve in favor of its constitutionality."
This is a reasonable disposition of the matter, and we
concur in the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court of
Indiana in this respect. We are unable to say that the
application of the law to bituminous coal mines and the
omission of block coal mines was such arbitrary discrimination as to render the act unconstitutional.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
in affirming the conviction, and it is
Affirmed.

BIG VEIN COAL COMPANY OF WEST VIRGINIA
v. READ.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 501.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction to issue an
order of attachment in a case where no personal service can be had
upon the defendant and where there has been no personal appearance in the action.
Neither under ยง 915, Rev. Stat., nor under any Vrovision of the act
of March 3, 1887, as amended August 13, 1888, can the auxiliary
remedy by attachment be.had in a Circuit Court of the United
States where that court cannot obtain jurisdiction over the defendant personally.

