OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

the company has constructed the lock and dam, it does
not lie in the power of the State or the United States to
say that such lock and dam are an obstruction and wrongfully there, or that the right to compensation for the use

of this improvement by the public does not belong to its
owner, the Navigation Company."
Compare Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S.
'364.
The conclusion we reach, is that the court below did
not err in dismissing the action of the plaintiff in error,

and the judgment is accordingly
Affirvmed.

SHELTON v. KING.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 180.

Argued March 11, 12, 1913.-Decided May 26. 1913.

Trustees having the power to exercise discretion will not be interfered
with by a court of equity, at the instmce of the beneficiaries, so
lg "asthey are acting bona fide.
III the absence of circuinstanccs and conditions not provided for in the
will, there being no question of perpetuities or restriction of alienation and creditors not being concerned, the court should not compel testamentary trustees to anticilate the timc of payment of
legacies which the testator expressly provided should be held in
trust for the legatees until a specified time.
Wlhile one may not by his own act preserve to himself the enjoyment
of his own property in such manner that it shall not be subject to
claims of creditors or to his own power of alienation, a testator may
bestow his own property in that manner upon one to whom he
wishes to secure beneficial enjoyment without being subject to the
claims of assignees or creditors. Claftin v.Claflin, 149M,assachusetts,
19, approved.
The courts of tlhis country have r(jeeted the English doctrine that

SHELTON v. KING.
229 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

liability to creditors and freedom of alienation are necessary incidents
to efijoying the rents and profits from the property by the object of
bounty of a testator.
One of the highest duties resting upon a court is to carry out the intentions of a testator as expressed in valid provisions not repugnant
to well settled principles of public policy.
In this case the court refuses to compel testamentary trustees to pay
over legacies prior to the time specified in the Will although the
property bequeathed had vested in the legatees.
36 App. D. C. 1, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a testamentary
trust and the right of the beneficiaries to have the same
terminated prior to the time fixed by the will, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Henry F. Woodard, with whom Mr. Arthur A.
Birney was on the brief, for appellants:
Appellants took a vested and fixed interest in their
legacies, and the attempt to postpone the time for the
enjoyment of the same is inconsistent with their ownership, contrary to public policy, and a restraint on the
power of their free disposition or alienation,'and is, therefore, void. As no other person claims any interest in the
legacies appellants may rightfully waive the provision
made for their benefit and have the fund paid to them at
this time.
It is agreed that the legacies give appellants a vested
interest in the moneys bequeathed, so that the only point
in controversy is when the fund is to be paid over. Johnson v. Washington L. & T. Co., 224 U. S. 224; McArthur
v. Scott, 113 U. S. 340, 380.
Appellants took a vested and indefeasible interest in
their legacies and by no known process of human laws
could they be defeated in the enjoyment of the same.
Rector v. Dalby, 98 Mo. App. 189.
The will makes no provision with reference to the income or accumulations. It is merely a dry, naked trust.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Appellees.

229 U. S.

The fund is not given to the trustees to be by them held,
but the gifts are to the children. The only function of the
trustee is to lock the fund up and keep the legatees from
any participation therein until the youngest reaches the
age of 25.
The law is that a trust such as it was attempted to establish in this case is void, or if not void, voidable. For
the English rule see Saunders v. Vautier, 4 Beav. Rep. 115;
Wharton v. Masterman, App. Cas., 1895, H. of L., p. 186;
Josslyn v. Josslyn, 9 Sim. 64; Marsden on Perpetuities,
p. 206, citing Hilton v. Hilton, L. R. 14 Eq. 648; Gray on
Perpetuities, ยง 120.
See, also: Re Jacob's Will, 29 Beav. 402; Rocke v.
Rocke, 9 Beav. 66; Jackson v. Marjoribanks, 12 Sim. .93;
Craxton v. May, L. R. 9 Ch. Div. 338; Magrath v. Morehead, L. R. 12 Eq. 491.
For the American rule, see 22 Am. & Eng. Ency. 735,
2d ed.; 30 Cyc. 1497; Rector v. Dalby, 98 Mo. App. 189.
Sears v. Choate, 146 Massachusetts, 395, is parallel to the
bar and sustains appellants' contention.
case
Seeat also
Bennett v. Chapin, 77 Michigan, 526, 537,
citing Mandlebaum v. McDowell, 29 Michigan, 87; Hall
v. Tufts, 18 Pick. 459; Bank v. Davis, 21 Pick. 42; Brandon
v. Robinson, 18 Ves. 429; Docbler's Appeal, 64 Pa. St. 0;
Craig v. Wells, 11 N. Y. 315; Huber v. Donoghue, 49 N. J.
Eq. 125; Sanford v. Lacl1 land, 2 Dillon, 6; Brandon v.
Robinson, 18 Ves. 429; Kimball v. Crockuer, 53 'Maine, 263.
The Claflin Case, 149 Massachusetts, 19, decided in 1889,
does not disapprove of the Sears Case, 146 Massachusetts,
395; and see Wharton v. Masterman, App. Cas. 1895,
supra.
The rule as contended for by the appellees and the
authorities cited do not sustain their position.
Mrs. Ellen S. Mussey and Mr. J. J. Darlington for
appellees.

SHELTON v. KING.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill to terminate a trust under the will of
Anna Smith Mallett. The material clauses are in these
words:
"3. I give, bequeath and devise to Jean Louisa, Anna
Gertrude, and Robert Philo Shelton, being the children
of my cousin John Consider Shelton, deceased, all of
Bridgeport, Connecticut: the sum of Seventy-five Thou-

sand dollars, being Twenty-five Thousand to each.
"10. I give, bequeath and devise all the rest, residue
and remainder of my estate, real and personal wheresoever and whatsoever, of which I may die possessed to
the aforesaid Jean Louisa, Anna Gertrude, and R. Philo
Shelton.
Codicil.
"In addition to Frank B. King, whom I have appointed
executor of this, my last will and testament, I wish to
appoint Win. H. Saunders, of the firm of Win. H. Saunders
& Co., 1407 F Street, Northwest, and George W. White,
Paying Teller of the National Metropolitan Bank, cotrustees with the said F. B. King,-to hold in trust the
legacies devised to Jean Louisa, Anna Gettrude and
Robert Philo Shelton,-said trusteeship to terminate when
these legatees shall receive their portions of my estate.
"And it is my further will that these legacies to the
said Jean Louisa, Anna' Gertrude, and Robert Philo
Shelton, shall be paid in fill when the said Robert Philo
Shelton shall reach the age of twenty-five years."
The complainants are the three legatees, Jean L. Shelton, now more than twenty-one years of age, and Anna
Gertrude and Robert Philo Shelton, not yet twenty-one,
who sue by their guardian. As the youngest of the lega-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

tees was not born until 1896, the bill is premature by
many years, if the trust created by the codicil is to be
regarded.
That th6 respective legacies are vested and absolute
is undeniable. No other person has any interest in them,
and if the trustees should disregard the time of payment
and pay over to each legatee his or her legacy when they
are competent to give a valid discharge, there would be
no one who could call them to account. But the trustees,
having regard for the express wish of the testatrix, have
refused to terminate the trust, and the object of this
proceeding is to compel them to pay over the shares of
the legatees as they reach the age of twenty-one years..
The objects of the bounty of the testatrix were distant
kinspeople. Besides their postponed legacies they were
given the residuum of the estate. What that was does
not appear. It is not claimed that they are in want, nor
that anything has happened since the will which was
not anticipated by the testatrix, and no special reasons
are claimed for terminating the trust because of new conditions which she did not take into account. In Sears v.
Choate, 146 Massachusetts, 395, a situation arose after the
will, which the court thought had not been contemplated
by the testator, and for which no provision had been made.
The court therefore saw in that a reason for terminating
a like trust. In the case at bar no ground, aside from the
alleged illegality of the trust, is suggested for defeating
the wishes of Miss Mallett other than that it will be
convenient and will save the cost of continuing the trust.
The trust is not dry, but is active, and must continue,
if not invalid, until the time of payment arrives. Upon
what principle, then, is a court of equity to control the
trustee by compelling a premature payment? It is a
settled principle that trustees having the power to exercise discretion will not be interfered with so long as they
axe acting bona fide. To do so would be to substitute

SHELTON v. KING.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the discretion of the court for that of the trustee. Upon
the same and even stronger grounds a court of equity
will not undertake to control them in Violation of the
wishes of the testator. To do that would be to substitute
the will of the chancellor for that.of the testator. Lewin
on Trusts, 2nd Am. Ed. 448; Nichols v. Eaton, 91 U. S.
716, 724.
There being in this case no ground for saying that there
have arisen circumstances and conditions for which the
testatrix made no provision, we may not control the trustee, if the postponement directed by the will does not
offend against some principle of positive law or settled
rule of public policy.
There is no pretense of perpetuity. Creditors are in
no way concerned. If the testatrix saw fit to have this
fund accumulate in the hands of trustees and thereby
postpone the enjoyment of her gift, why shall her will be
disregarded? The restriction she imposed may protect
her bounty against ill-advised investments and waste or
extravagance. She did not undertake to guard against
alienation, except in so fai as the alienors will take subject to the same postponement of payment. Slier v.
Nashville Trust Co., 158 Fed. Rep. 601. Nor did she
undertake to protect against creditors as in Nichols v.
Eaton, 91 U. S. 716. The single restriction she imposed
upon her gift was that the legacies should not be paid
until the time named, and in the meantime should be
held in trust.
The appellants contend that whether the trust be active
or dry, it is one for the benefit of the legatees, and, as no
other person has any interest in the legacies, may be
waived by them. For this they cite Saunders v. Vautier,
4 Beavan's Reports, 115, and Wharton v. Masterman,
Appeal Cases, 1895, pp. 186, 193. In Saunders v. Vautier
it was laid down, without argument, that "where a legacy
is directed to accumulate for a certain period, or where

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

the payment is postponed, the legatee, if he has an absolute indefeasible interest in the legacy, is not bound to
wait until the expiration of that period, but may require
payment the moment he is competent to give a valid
discharge.". The point thus.decided in Saunders v. Vautier was followed in Wharton v. Masterman, where Lord
Herschell said very significantly, "The point seems, in
the first instance,, to have been rather assumed than
decided. It was apparently regarded as a necessary consequence of the conclusion that a gift had vested, that
the enjoyment of it must be immediate on the beneficiary
becoming sui juris, and could not be postponed until a
later date unless the testator had made some other destination of the income during the intervening period.
"It is needless to inquire whether the courts might
have given effect to the intention of the testator in such
cases to postpone the enjoyment of his bounty to a time
fixed by himself subsequent to the attainment by the
objects of his bounty of their majority. The doctrine
has been so long settled and so often recognized that it
would not be proper now to question it."
The doctrine thus stated is the plain outgrowth of
certain earlier English decisions in the interest of creditors,
which hold, in substance, that the necessary incidents of
beneficial ownership in property are liability to creditors
and the power of alienation. Having concluded that a
testator could not so bestow that which was his own to an
object of his bounty as not to be subject to the claims of
creditors of the latter, it was a logical conclusion that a
testator could not postpone the payment of a vested
and absolute legacy beyond the time when the legatee
should be able to give a valid discharge. But the acceptance of the principle upon which Saunders v. Vautier
and Wharton v. Masterman rest involves the acceptance
of the limitation which the earlier English cases place
upon the powers of a testator in so disposing of his prop-

SHELTON tr. XING.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

erty that it may be enjoyed by the recipient without liability to creditors. The foundation of the English doctrine in both classes of cases is an assumption that there
is some settled principle of public policy which subjects
all property in which one has a beneficial ownership to
the claims of creditors and forbids restraint upon alienation. That this theory of public policy is not of universal
application, at least in this country, is manifest from the
numerous exemption statutes existing which protect to a
limited extent the acquisitions of a debtor from the claims
of his creditors and restrain his power of alienation in
the interest of his family. Neither do we for a moment
question the rule that one may not by his own act preserve to himself the enjoyment of property in such manner that it shall not be subject to the claims of creditors
or placed beyond his own power of alienation.
But a very different question is presented when we
come to the powers of a testator to so bestow that which
is absolutely his own as to secure its beneficial enjoyment by an object of his bounty without being subject
to the claims of assignees or creditors. This court,' and
the courts of a number of the States of the Union, have
not accepted the limitation which the English courts
have placed upon the right of testamentary disposition,
and have sustained trusts having as an object the application of a testator's bequest to the support and maintenance of the recipient of his bounty. They have, therefore, rejected the assumption that liability to creditors
and freedom of alienation are necessary incidents to the
right to enjoy the rents and profits of real estate, or the
income from other property.
In the leading case of Nichols v. Eaton, 91 U. S. 716,
725, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking the unanimous voice
of this court, said of the English doctrine to which we
have referred, and upon which Saunders v. Vautier must
in- principle rest:
VOL. ccxxjx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

"We do not see, as implied in the remark of Lord Eldon,
that the power of alienation is a necessary incident to a
life estate in real property, or that the rents and profits
of real property and the interest and dividends of personal property may not be enjoyed by an individual
without liability for his debts being attached as a necessary incident, to such enjoyment. This doctrine is one
which the English Chancery Court has ingrafted upon
the common law for the benefit of creditors, and is comparatively of modern origin. We concede that there are
limitations which public policy or general statutes impose upon all dispositions of property, such as those
designed to prevent perpetuities and accumulation of
real estate in corporations and ecclesiastical bodies. We
also admit that there is a just and sound policy peculiarly
appropriate to the jurisdiction of courts of equity to protect creditors against frauds upon their rights, whether
they be actual or constructive frauds. But the doctrine,
that the owner of property, in the free exercise of his will
in disposing of it, cannot so dispose of it, but that the object of his bounty, who parts with nothing in return,
must hold itsubject to the debts due his creditors, though
that may soon deprive him of all the benefits' sought to
be conferred by the testator's affection or generosity, is
one which we are not prepared to announce as the doctrine of this court."
Touching the theory that public policy forbids restraints upon the disposition of a testator's bounty, the
court said (p. 727):
"Nor do we see any reason, -in the recognized nature
and tenure of property and its transfer by will, why a
testator who gives, who gives without any pecuniary
return, who gets nothing of property value from the
donee, may not attach to that gift the incident of continued use, of uninterrupted benefit of the gift, during the
life of the donee. Why a parent, or one who loves another,

SHELTON v. KING.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and wishes to use his own property in securing the object
of his affection, as far as property can do it, from the
ills of life, the vicissitudes of fortune, and even his own
improvidence, or incapacity for self-protection, should
not be permitted to do so, is not readily perceived."
In Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523, 526, this court said of
Nichols v. Eaton, supra:
"In that case, the mother of the bankrupt, Eaton, had
bequeathed to him by will the income of a fund, with a
condition in the trust that on his bankruptcy or insolvency the legacy should cease and go to his wife or children, if he had any, and if not, it should lapse into the
general fund of the testator's estate, and be subject to
other dispositions. The assignee of the bankrupt sued
to recover the interest bequeathed to the bankrupt, on
the ground that this condition was void as against public
policy.
"But this court, on a full examination of the authorities, both in England and this country, held that the
objection was not well taken; that the owner of property
might make such a condition in the transfer of that which
was his own, and in doing so violated no creditor's rights
and no principle of public policy."
If such a trust as that upheld in Nichols v. Eaton, was
not in violation of principles of public policy, it must
follow that one which neither restrains creditors nor
alienation is not. If that case is to stand the decree of
the court below was right.
The principle upon which Nichols v. Eaton stands is
in line with the views of a number of other courts. Many
of them are cited in that opinion, and to those we add:
Broadway National Bank v. Adams, 133 Massachusetts,
170; Mason v. Rhode Island HosXi~al Trust Co., 78 Connecticut, 81; Jourolmon v. Massengvll, 86 Tennessee, 81;
Henson v. Wright, 88 Tennessee, 501; Brooks v. Raynolds,
59 Fed. Rep. 923; Smith v. Towers, 69 Maryland, 77-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Keyser v. Mitchell, 67 Pa. St. 473; Seymour v. McAvoy,
121 California, 438; Steib v. Whitehead, 111 Illinois, 247;
Wallace v. Campbell & Maxey, 53 Texas, 229; Garland v.
Garland, 87 Virginia, 758; Lampert v. Haydel, 96 Missouri, 439.
Claflin v. Claflin, 149 Massachusetts, 19, was a case,
on its facts, like the case at bar. The testator gave the
residue of his estate to trustees in trust to sell and dispose of as follows: Ten thousand dollars to a son when of
age; a like sum when he reached twenty-five years, and
the balance when he should reach the age of thirty years.
When the son reached the age of twenty-one the trustee
paid him ten thousand dollars, and thereupon he filed a
bill in equity to obtain the whole of the fund. The Massachusetts court held the trust valid and dismissed the
bill. Referring to Broadway Bank v. Adams, supra,
where a trust for support and maintenance had been upheld against creditors, the court said:
"The decision in Broadway National Bank v. Adams,
133 Massachusetts, 170, rests upon the doctrine that a
testator has a right to dispose of his own property with
such restrictions and limitations, not repugnant to law,
as he sees fit, and that his intentions ought to be carried
out unless they contravene some positive rule of law, or
are against public policy. The rule contended for by
the plaintiff in that case was founded upon the same considerations as that contended for by the plaintiff in this;
and the grounds on which this court declined to follow
the English rule in that case are applicable tothis; and
for the reasons there given we are unable to see that the
directions of the testator to the trustees to pay the money
to the plaintiff when he reached the age of twenty-five
and thirty years, and not-before, are against public policy,
or are so far inconsistent with the rights of property
given to the plaintiff that they should not be carried into
effect. It iannot be said that these restrictions upon the

SHELTON v. KING.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's possession and control of the property are altogether useless, for there is not the same danger that he
will spend the property while it is in the hands of the
trustees, as there would be if it were in his own."
Stier v. Nashville Trust Co., decided by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, 158 Fed. Rep. 601, is also directly
in point.
The case of Sears v. Choate, 146 Massachusetts, 395, has
been cited as in conflict With Claflin v. Claflin. It is not.
In the former case it appeared that there had occurred circumstances which the testator had not contemplated, on
account of which the court saw no reason for not terminating the trust. The case was distinguished in Claflin
v. Claflin.
In the case at bar nothing has happened since the will
which was not anticipated by the testatrix. The case
falls, therefore, precisely within the later case of Claflin
v. Claflin. There is no reason for declaring the trust
invalid. There is no higher duty which rests upon a court
than to carry out' the intentions of a testator when the
provision is not repugnant to settled principles of public
policy and is otherwise valid.
Decree affirmed.

