OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 918.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

In determining the effect of statutes regarding the introduction of
liquor into Indian country, within the territorial limits of Oklahoma,
every consideration arising out of the guardianship of the Federal
Government over the Indians and control of their land indicate that
as to them the liquor prohibition should be maintained after Statehood so far as consistent with the control of the State over its internal police.
The liquor prohibition, so far as it concerns Indians, has always been
deemed one of the peculiar responsibilities of the Federal Governmnent.
The provisions of § 2139, Rev. Stat., as amended by the acts of July 23,
1892, and January 30, 1897, so far as they related to the introduction
of liquor into the Indian Territory from points outside of that Territory, but within what is now Oklahoma, have not been repealed,
either expressly or by implication, by the Oklahoma Enabling Act.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the various
acts relating to the introduction of intoxicating liquor into
Indian country in Oklahoma, are stated'in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison for the United

States.
Mr. James C. Denton for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error was indicted' in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma,
the charge being that-" on the nineteenth day of March,
in the year 1912, in the County of Muskogee, in the said

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

District, and within the jurisdiction of said court, the said
county and district then and there being a portion of the
Indian country of the said United States, (he) did at the
time and place aforesaid, unlawfully, wilfully, knowingly,
and feloniously introduce into said Indian country one
quart of malt, vinous, spirituous, distilled, ardent, and
intoxicating liquor, to-wit, whiskey. Contrary to the
form of the statute in such case made and provided," etc.
The District Court sustained his demurrer, and the case
is brought here under the Criminal Appeals Act.
The statutes involved are: §2139, Rev. Stat., as amended
by the act of July 23, 1892, c. 234, 27 Stat. 260, and by
the act of January 30, 1897, c. 109, 29 Stat. 506; also § 8 of
the act of March 1, 1895, c. 145, 28 Stat. 693; and the
Oklahoma Enabling Act of June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34
Stat. 267. Extracts from these are set forth in footnotes to
the opinion in Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663, 671, 677.
Muskogee County is a part of what was the Indian Territory.
The District Court in effect construed the indictment as
charging, not an interstate transaction, but an introduction of liquor from a point within the State of Oklahoma,
but outside of what is now Indian country, into such
Indian country. The decision of this court in the Webb
Case, which had to do with § 8 of the act of March 1, 1895,
and the effect of the Enabling Act upon it; and also the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit in United States Express Co. v. Friedman, 191 Fed.
Rep. 673, and Mosier v. United States, 198 Fed. Rep.
54,-both of which turned upon the effect of the Enabling
Act upon the act of January 30, 1897;-were reviewed by
the District Court, and the conclusion reached, principally
because of the line of reasoning expressed in the opinion
in Ex parte Webb, was "'That the provisions of § 2139,
Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of 1892 and the act of
1897, so far as they related, if at all, to the introduction

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

of liquor into the Indian Territory from points outside
of that Territory, but within what is now Oklahoma, must
be considered as having been repealed by the Enabling
Act."
. And again: "This confines offenses of this character, of
which the Federal court has jurisdiction, to those in which
the liquor is introduced from a point without the State.
It is a violation of the state law, as established by the
constitutional provision above referred to, to introduce
liquor into what was formerly Indian Territory from
some other portion of Oklahoma, but such violation is
an offense exclusively within the jurisdiction of the state
court. In order to give the Federal court jurisdiction, it is
necessary that the introduction of the liquor should have
been from a point without the State.' This is an essential
element of the offense, so far as the Federal court is concerned, and should therefore be charged in the indictment.
It follows that the demurrer must be sustained."
The Criminal Appeals Act, March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34
Stat. 1246, provides for a writ of error, to be taken by
the United States from the District Court direct to this
court, from a decision or judgment sustaining a demurrer
to an indictment, "Where such decision or judgment is
based upon the invalidity, or construction of the statute
upon which the indictment is founded." The present case
is clearly within this act, as previously interpreted and
applied. United States v. Sutton, 215 U. S. 291, 294;
United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 385; United States v.
Biggs, 211 U. S. 507, 518; United States v. Stevenson, 215
U. S.'190, 195; United States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599, 602;
United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 535; United States v.
George, 228 U. S. .14, 17; United States v. Anderson, 228
U. S. 52; United States v. Pacific & Arctic Co., 228 U. S.
87, 100.
Upon the merits, the principal question is whether the
acts of 1892 and of. 1897 were repealed, as to intra-state

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transactions, by the effect of the Erabling Act and the
admission of the State, with the constitutional prohibition of the liquor traffic that was prescribed by that act.
It is not contended that there was any express repeal.
The insistence that there was a necessary repeal by implication, is supported by arguments that may be outlined as
follows:
(a) That since the act of 1895 was a special act, applicable by name to the Indian Territory, it had the necessary
effect of superseding as to that Territory the existing general statute (§ 2139, Rev. Stat., as amended in 1892)
against the introduction and sale of intoxicating liquors in
the Indian country.
(b) That § 8 of the act of 1895 was inturn superseded or
repealed intoto by the act of 1897 and the Enabling Act
(c) Or else, that the act of 1897, because amendatory
only of the general statute against the introduction and
sale of intoxicating liquors in the Indian country, had no
effect upon the act of 1895, and did not apply to the
Indian Territory because that Territory was covered by
the act of 1895.
(d) And that whether the acts of 1892 and 1897, or
either of them, was in force in Indian Territory prior to the
admission of Oklahoma as a State, they were necessarily
superseded as to intra-state transactions by the force and
effect of that act, upon the same grounds on which this
court said in the Webb Case that the act of 1895 was
superseded.
Section 2139, Rev. Stat., providing for the punishment of
persons introducing liquor into the Indian country, traces
its origin to § 20 of the Indian Intercourse Act of June 30,
1834, c. 161, 4 Stat. 729, 732, as amended by act of
March 15, 1864, c. 33, 13 Stat. 29. The amendmeint of
1892 (set forth in 225 U. S.671), extended the prohibition
to include ale, beer, and intoxicating liquors of any kind,
as well as ardent spirits and wine, and added a clause

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

fixing the venue for complaints, arrests, and trials, including a special provision that complaints for offenses committed in the Indian Territory should be made before the
United States Court Commissioner, or Commissioner of
the Circuit Court of the United States, residing nearest
the place where the offense was committed. The penalty
under this act, as under § 2139, Rev. Stat., is imprisonment for not more than two years and fine of not more
than three hundred dollars for each offense.
Next in chronological order was the act of March 1,
1895, c. 145, 28 Stat. 693, the title of which is-" An act to
provide for the appointment of additional judges of the
United States Court in the Indian Territory, and for other
purposes." Section 8 (set forth in 225 U. S.672) prov ides
(inter alia) that any person carrying into the Territory
any vinous, malt or fermented liquors or other intoxicating
drinks, shall upon conviction be punished by fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars and by imprisonment for
not less than one month nor more than five years. Other
sections have to do with the creation of judicial districts
in the Territory, the establishment of courts, the appointment of judges, attorneys, marshals, clerks, &c. Section 4
adopts the criminal law provisions of Mansfield's Digest of
General Laws of Arkansas, with certain reservations. And
§ 13 declares-" That none of the provisions of any other
acts, or of any of the laws of the United States, or of the
State of Arkansas, heretofore put in force in said Indian
Territory, except so far as they come in conflict .with the
provisions of this act, are intended to be repealed, or in
any manner affected by this act, but all such acts and laws
are to remain in full force and effect in said Territory."
The act of January 30, 1897, c. 109, 29 Stat. 506, while
having an independent title,-"An act to prohibit the sale
of intoxicating drinks to Indians, providing penalties
therefor, and for other purposes,"- was manifestly intended primarily as an amendment of the act of 1892.

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This appears from a comparison of the clauses defining
the acts prohibited, from the circumstance that the act of
1897 contains no provisions of its own prescribing the
venue for complaints, arrests, and trials,' and especially
from the provision of its second section, "That so much of
the act of the twenty-third day of July 1892, as is inconsistent with the proVisions of this act is hereby repealed."
The prohibition is made to apply to sales of intoxicants
"to any Indian to whom allotment of land has been
made while the title to the same shall be held in trust
by the Government, or to any Indian, a ward of the
Government, under charge of any Indian superintendent
or agent, or any Indian, including mixed bloods, over
whom the Government, through its departments, exercises
guardianship," and the familiar prohibition of the introduction of intoxicants "into the Indian country" is repeated, with the addition of the' following new clause:
"which term shall include any Indian allotment while the
title to the same shall be held in trust by the Government,
or while the same shall remain inalienable by the allottee
without the consent of the United States." And the act
provides that any person violating its provisions "shall be
punished by imprisonment for not less than sixty days,
and by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars for the
first offense, and not less than two hundred dollars for
each offense thereafter."
The act of 1895, although evidently in pari materia, is
not mentioned in the act of 1897. This circumstance,
coupled with the fact that the latter act contains an express
repealing clause, is, we think, negatively significant upon
the question of implied repeal. In our opinion the act
of 1897 was not intended to take the place of § 8 of the act
of 1895 after the manner of a revision, and there is no
such complete repugnance as to render it clear that that
section was intended to be repealed in toto.
It is contended that, while-the act of 1892 covered the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

subject of the introduction and sale of intoxicating liquors
in Indian country, and was applicable to the Indian
Territory because it was Indian country, the passage by
Congress of the act of 1895, a special act applicable to the
Territory by name, and covering, by its eighth section,
the general subject of the introduction and sale of intoxicating liquors therein, necessarily superseded the former
act, so far as the Territory was concerned.
To show the purpose that Congress had in mind in
passing this act of 1895, the argument is that prior to the
general allotment act of February 8, 1887, 24 Stat. 388,
c. 119, all Indian lands were held in common by the Indian tribes; that soon thereafter it came to be questioned
whether § 2139, Rev. Stat., as amended by the 1892 act,
would apply to an Indian allottee and his allotment under
the 1887 act, for the reason that upon allotment thereunder
the individual Indian became a citizen of the United
States, and his allotment ceased to be Indian country
under the accepted definition (Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S.
204; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U., S. 556); because of the
Indian title having been extinguished; that beginning with
the act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 645, 646, c. 209, Congress began to contemplate the allotment in severalty of
all lands within the Indian Territory and to look forward
to the ultimate creation of a new State out of that Territory; that it was supposed that the effect of allotment
would be the same as under the 1887 act, in that the lands
allotted would cease to be Indian country; and that hence
Congress passed § 8 of the 1895 act, in order that the
people residing in Indian Territory might not be left
without protection against the introduction and sale of
intoxicants when the 1892 act should become inoperative
because of the extinguishment of the Indian titles. This
argument is ingenious, and has much force; but it takes too
little account, we think, of. § 13 of the act of 1895, above
quoted.

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Assuming all that is claimed as to the general object
that Congress had in view during these years when the
Indian Territory was in a transition state, it seems to us
safer to rely upon the words of the several acts of 1892,
1895, and 1897 in order to determine the true intent and
meaning of the law-maker. If Congress, in enacting the
eighth section of the act of 1895, had intended to totally
supersede the act of 1892 as to the Indian Territory, that
purpose would naturally have been expressed in plain
terms. And so would the act of 1897 presumably have
expressed the purpose to supersede and repeal that section, if such purpose had existed. The very fact that
Congress contemplated that the situation in Indian
Territory was but temporary; that either because of Statehood; or because of the allotment of the Indian lands in
severalty, the necessity for retaining these prohibitory
laws upon the statute-book would not long continue;
tends to negative a desire on the part of Congress to
presently repeal either of them; and therefore rebuts the
presumption of an implied repeal of one act by the other.
It seems to us, upon the whole, that during this transition period preceding the admission of Oklahoma as a
State, the several acts referred to were intended to and did
stand together, excepting o far (if at all) as they were necessarily repugnant one to the other; that is to say, the act
of 1892, as amended in 1897, on the one hand, making "Indian co)untry" (a term defined in Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S.
204; Clhirmont v. United States,. 225 U. S. 551, 558, and
cases cited) the test of the prohibition respecting the-introduction of intoxicants; and the act of 1895, on the other
hand, employing the territorial test, irrespective of whether
it was or continued to be Indian country.
We thus come to consider the effect of the Enabling
Act of June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, and the admission of Oklahoma as a State thereunder, which occurred November 16, 1907.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

The pertinent clauses of the act may be found in 225
U. S. 677; the clause respecting liquor prohibition being
especially important. We should also note the proviso in
the first section, that nothing in the state constitution
should "be construed to limit or impair the rights of person or property pertaining to the Indians of said Territories (so long as such rights shall remain unextinguished)
or to limit or affect the authority of the Government of
the United States to make any law or regulation respecting
such Indians, their lands, property, or other rights by
treaties, agreements, law, 'or otherwise, which it would
have been competent to make if this Act had never been
passed." And also this clause from the 21st section:
"All laws in force in the Territory of Oklahoma at the
time of the admission of said State into the Union shall be
in force throughout said State, except as modified or
changed by this act or by the constitution of the State,
and the laws of the United States not locally inapplicable
shall have the same force and effect within said State as
elsewhere within the United States."
It is suggested, rather than argued, that the reservation
of "the authority of the Government of the United States
to make any law or regulation respecting such Indians,
their lands, property, or other rights, by treaties, agreement, law, or otherwise, which it would have been competent to make if this act had never been passed," evidences a purpose not to preserve prior laws or regulations
respecting the Indians. But this is sufficiently answered
by what was said in Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663, 682,
where the view of the court was expressed as follows: 'It
is contended that this does not preserve the existing laws
and regulations respecting the Indians, but rather ekcludes the inference of their continued force and existence
by indicating a purpose on the part of Congress to thereafter enact regulations for the protection of the Indians
in Oklahoma if necessity requires. This, we think, is an

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

inadmissible construction. We deem it unreasonable to
suppose that Congress, possessing the constitutional
power and recognizing the moral duty to make laws and
regulations respecting the Indians, and having already
established laws and regulations of this character applicable in the Territory, including some that were established by treaties and agreements, should resolve to wipe
them out, and thereby impose upon future Congresses the
labor and difficulty of establishing other proper laws and
regulations in their stead. In our opinion, the purpose
expressed in the proviso to reserve to the Government of
the United States the authority to make laws and regulations in the future respecting the Indians is, under the
circumstances, evidence tending to negative a purpose to
repeal by implication the existing laws and regulations
on the subject."
When it is recalled that the new State was made up by
combining two Territories theretofore separately existing
under different systems of laws, one of them being largely
inhabited by Indian tribes, with whom numerous treaties
had previously been made, differing from each other in
many respects, but each recognizing to some extent the
propriety of restricting the liquor traffic, the importance
of these clauses in the Enabling Act,-read, as they of
course must be read, in connection with the restriction of
the manufacture and sale of liquors within those parts of
the State known as the Indian Territory and the Osage,
Indian Reservation for a period of twenty-one years, imposed upon the new State by § 3 of the Act,-is very
evident.
In the Webb Case, as appears from the opinion, p. 676,
the Government conceded that the act of 1895 had been
repealed by the Enabling Act and the admission of the
State thereunder, saving so far as it prohibited the carrying of intoxicating liquors, etc., from another State into
the Territory. The statement to the like effect in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

opinion, p. 681, was made in view of this concession; but
we see no reason for recalling it. The language used was:
"No doubt the Enabling Act, followed by the adoption
of the constitution therein prescribed and the admission
of the new State, had the effect of remitting to the state
government the enforcement of the prohibition respecting
the manufacture, sale, barter, etc., of intoxicating liquors
within the State, and respecting commerce in such liquors
conducted wholly within the State; and, to the extent that
the scheme of prohibition established by the Enabling Act
covered the same field tLat had been covered by the act
of 1895, the latter act must be considered as impliedly
repealed." But this had reference only to the act of 1895,
and not to the act of 1897, it having previously been stated
in the opinion (p. 676) that since § 2139, Rev. Stat., and
the act of 1897 contained provisions respecting the sale of
intoxicating liquors to Indians, and in this and perhaps
in other important respects covered ground not covered
by the act of 1895, we must not be understood as deciding
that those prohibitions were no longer in force within what
was the Indian Territory.
But, because the act of 1895 was impliedly repealed
with respect to intra-state manufacture and traffic, it
does not necessarily follow that the act of 1892, as amended
in 1897, was likewise repealed in respect of that traffic,
by the Enabling Act and the admission of the State.
The one was a territorial prohibition applicable to the
Indian Territory because made so by Congress, irrespective of other considerations; while the other act,
applicable to Indian country throughout the States and
Territories generally, happened to be applicable to the
Indian Territory because that was Indian country. But
as already pointed out, in passing the Enabling Act,
Congress knew that if, and when, and so far as, portions
of the Indian Territory ceased to be Indian country, the
acts of 1892 and 1897 would cease to apply, irrespective

UNITED STATES v. WRIGHT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Statehood; and on the other hand, must be deemed
to have intended that the establishment of Statehood
should repeal the act of 1895 with respect to matters
wholly intrastate, because- that act (whatever reasons
may have moved Congress to enact it) was, by its terms,
applicable to the Territory as a Territory and as a whole,
irrespective of whether it was Indian country; and this
kind of internal prohibition of the liquor traffic would
naturally cease with Statehood, because inconsistent with
local self-government and with equality between the
States.
The terms of the act of January 30, 1897, show that it
was especially designed to provide for the changes consequent upon the adoption of the policy of alloting the
Indian lands in severalty. Hallowell v. United States,
221 U. S. 317. This policy was in progress in the Indian
Territory at the time of the passage of the Oklahoma
Enabling Act. The history has been so recently rehearsed
that it need not be here repeated. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286, 300, 302; Heckman v. United
States, 224 U. S. 413, 435; Mullen v. United States, 224
U. S. 448; Goat v. United States, 224 U. S. 458; Deming
Investment Co. v. United States, 224 U. S. 471. Every
consideration arising out of the Governmental guardianship over the Indians, and control over their lands, indicated that as to them the liquor prohibition should be
maintained after Statehood, so far as it was consistent
with the control of the State over its internal police.
The act of 1892, as amended in 1897, concededly remains
in force in other States where there is Indian country or
Governmental trusteeship over Indian lands or guardianship over the Indians. United States v. Sutton, 215 U. S.
291, 295. Such legislation is of undoubted constitutionality. United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383'rEx parte
Webb, supra. The prohibition against introducing liquor
into the Indian country has been consistently adhered

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

to for many years, with beneficial results so far as the
welfare of the Indians is concerned.
All of these .considerations were presumably in the mind
of Congress when it passed the Enabling Act, and they
are inconsistent with any tacit purpose to repeal the acts
of 1892 and 1897. The liquor prohibition, so far as it
concerns the Indians, has always been deemed one of the
peculiar responsibilities of the Government at Washington, and it may easily be believed that Congress felt
reluctant to delegate the subject-matter wholly to the
state government that was about to be established in
the Indian Territory; especially as the same subjectmatter in other States remained, as it still remains,
under Federal control.
In United States Express Company v. Friedman, 191
Fed. Rep: 673, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit held that the Enabling Act did not repeal the act
of 1897, at least with respect to the introduction of liquor
into the Indian country from points outside the State.
In .Mosier v. United States, 198 Fed. Rep. 54, the same
court held the act of 1897 to be in force within the State
so far as relates to the sale of liquors to Indians.
Upon the whole, while the matter is not free from difficulty, it seems to us the better argument is against the
implied repeal. It follows that the District Court erred
in holding the acts in question, viz: § 2139, Rev. Stat.,
as amended by the acts of 1892 and 1897, to be no longer
in force, and erred in sustaining the demurrer to the indictment. The judgment should be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with
the views above expressed.
Judgment reversed.

