BIG VEIN COAL CO. v. READ.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

they are not different at different depths and in different
kinds of coal, and must presume that they are; at least
we cannot say that, as applied to all persons alike employed in mining bituminous coal, the act is invalid because not applicable to block mining, and we cannot say
that the act is unreasonable, or determine as to its propriety or impropriety, and to doubt its constitutionality
is to resolve in favor of its constitutionality."
This is a reasonable disposition of the matter, and we
concur in the conclusion reached by the Supreme Court of
Indiana in this respect. We are unable to say that the
application of the law to bituminous coal mines and the
omission of block coal mines was such arbitrary discrimination as to render the act unconstitutional.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
in affirming the conviction, and it is
Affirmed.

BIG VEIN COAL COMPANY OF WEST VIRGINIA
v. READ.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 501.

Argued April 11, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

A Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction to issue an
order of attachment in a case where no personal service can be had
upon the defendant and where there has been no personal appearance in the action.
Neither under ยง 915, Rev. Stat., nor under any Vrovision of the act
of March 3, 1887, as amended August 13, 1888, can the auxiliary
remedy by attachment be.had in a Circuit Court of the United
States where that court cannot obtain jurisdiction over the defendant personally.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

An attachment is still but an incident to a suit and unless jurisdiction
can be obtained over the defendant, his estate cannot be attached in
a Federal court.
This court will not construe an amendment to the judiciary statute
as making such a radical change as granting a new remedy unless
provision is clearly made -for making the remedy effective; and so
held, that as Congress did not in the act of March 3, 1887, as amended
August 13, 1888, make any provision for service by publication, the
act will not be construed as giving jurisdiction to Federal court-to
grant attachments in cases where the defendant cannot be served.
In the Federal courts an appearance may be made for the sole purpose
of raising jurisdictional questions without thereby submitting to the
jurisdiction of the court over the action; and where, as in this case,
no issue involving the merits was made, a special appearance to
object to the jurisdiction does not give the court jurisdiction to issue
an attachment.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court of the United States to issue an order of attachment
in a case where no personal service could be had upon the
defendant and wherein there was no personal appearance
to the action, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Gosnell and Mr. Wm. L. Rawls, with whom
Mr. Geo. Weems Wlilliams was on the brief, for defendant

in error, in support of motion to dismiss.
Mr. Osborne I. Yellott for plaintiff in error in opposition

thereto.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of
the United States to issue an order of attachment in a
case where no personal service could be had upon the defendant and wherein there was no personal appearance

to the action.

The case was begun in the Circuit Court of the United

BIG VEIN COAL CO. v. READ.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States for the Northern District of West Virginia to recover in debt upon certain promissory notes. A summons
was issued against the defendant, Benjamin H. Read,
trading as Lynah & Read, and return was made by the
marshal that the writ had not been served, as defendant
was not found in his district. Thereafter an affidavit was
filed for an attachment, setting forth that the defendant
was one of the receivers of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of West Virginia of the
property of The Oakland Coal & Coke Company and that
there had been allowed to him for his services as such receiver the sum of two thousand dollars. An order of
attachment was issued, and the return of the marshal
stated that he had been unable to locate any property in
his district upon which to serve the attachment and accordingly returned the writ, "no property found." Afterwards an order was made which, after reciting the beginning of the suit and that the defendant was a nonresident
of West Virginia; that the special master had found the
sum of two thousand dollars due him as such receiver,
and that an order of attachment had been issued and
placed in the hands of the marshal for the purpose of
attaching the estate of the defendant, provided that a
copy of the order be served upon the defendant, that he
appear before the court and that a copy of the order
served upon the defendant and one Slingluff, special receivers in a suit entitled The Baltimore Trust & Guaranty
Company v. The Oakland Coal & Coke Company, should
be notice to them of the proceedings and that the claim of
the defendant was sought to be attached therein.
A copy of the order was served upon the defendant in
Baltimore, Maryland, who thereafter appeared by his
counsel for the purpose only of objecting to the jurisdiction
of the court and moved the court to dismiss the suit and
quash the attachment upon the following grounds:
"First. The record shows that this defendant is not a
VOL. ccxxix-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

citizen of or resident in, nor found within the Northern
District of West Virginia.
"Second. The record shows that the defendant has no
property whatever within the said State or District.
"Third. That this court has no jurisdiction in rem or
in personam in said action.
"Fourth. That at the time of the suing out of the writs
of summons and of attachment herein on the 26th day of
June, 1911, this defendant was not a citizen or resident or
found within West Virginia, and he had.ho property in said
State or District, and at no time since has this defendant
been such citizen or resident, or had any property within
the said District, although the return day of the said
writs has long since passed and the defendant makes the
said writs and the returns thereon by the Marshal for the
Northern District of West Virginia a part of this motion.
"Fifth. The fund or compensation- ordered by this
Honorable Court to be paid to the defendant for services
as Receiver was not, at the time of the issuance of said
writs or at any time since then, liable to be attached upon
the alleged indebtedness of the plaintiff or for the payment
thereof, in this Honorable Court.
"Sixth. This Honorable Court has no jurisdiction either
of property or person giving jurisdiction for the maintenance of the said action."
Thereafter the case coming on to be heard, counsel
appearing for the defendant for the purpose of objecting
to the jurisdiction and for the purpose of the motions filed
only and further moving the court to vacate and set aside
the orders issued and to quash the service of summons .in
the action and to dismiss the case, certain facts were
found, without prejudice to any motion of the defendant
and without enlarging the appearance of the defendant,
as follows:
"Messrs. Read and Slingluff were appointed Receivers
in the cause of the Baltimore Trust & Guarantee Company

BIG VEIN COAL CO. v. READ.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

v. The Oakland Coal & Coke Company of West Virginia, a
cause pending in the United States Circuit Court for the
Northern District of West Virginia, by an order in said
cause passed on the twelfth day of June, 1907, and the
receivership estate being ready for distribution on June 20,
1910, this Court passed a decree referring the cause to
Special Master C. D. Merrick, with directions among other
things to make a report 'including costs and allowances
and fees to the end that a full and complete decree might
be made for the distribution and settlement of the estate.'
"On May 15th, 1911, the Special Master filed such
report. Among other allowances were the following:
"That Benjamin H. Read, for his services as Receiver,
is entitled to and should be allowed the sum of Two Thousand Dollars.'
"That no objection had been taken or exceptions made
to the above allowance at the time the attachment was
laid in this cause.
"That in July, 1911, this court passed an order ratifying the report of the Master as to the above and similar
allowances, but directed that the allowance of $2,000
commissions to B. H. Read be retained by the Receivers
pending the determination of the questions arising out
of such attachment."
Afterwards the court delivered an opinion in which the
judge directed that the former order, amounting to an
attachment, should be set aside and held that, inasmuch
as personal service upon the defendant in the action might
-yet be obtained by alias summons, he would not then
dismiss the action. Later the plaintiff refused to direct
the issuance of alias summons, and upon motion judgment
was entered dismissing the action, and a certificate was
made by the court.
The certificate states that the judgment complained of
in plaintiff's writ of error, which was'set out, is based solely
upon the ground that the court had no jurisdiction as a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Federal court to grant relief to the plaintiff by subjecting
to the claim of the plaintiff the assets and credits of the
defendant, to be attached in the case, without personal
service of summons upon him or his voluntary appearance
in the cause, and that the motion filed in the case did not
constitute a voluntary appearance, and that the court,
as a Federal court, had no jurisdiction to grant a personal
judgment against the defendant or to make a final judgment or order subjecting to the claim of the plaintiff the
assets and credits of the defendant so sought to be attached.
The attachment was sought to be levied and was claimed
to be authorized under the act of June 1, 1872, 17 Stat.
196, c. 255, now ยง 915 cf the Revised Statutes. It is as
follows:
"In common law causes in the circuit and district courts
the plaintiff shall be entitled to similar remedies, by attachment or other process, against the property of the
defendant, which are now provided by the laws of the
State in which such court is held for the courts thereof;
and such circuit or district courts may, from time to time,
by general rules, adopt such State laws as may be in
force in the States where they are held in relation to attachments and other process: Provided, That similar
preliminary affidavits or proofs, and similar security, as
required by such State laws, shall be first furnished by
the party seeking such attachment or other remedy."
Assuming that the attachment could be issued under
the laws of West Virginia, under this statute was there
authority in the courts of the United States to issue the
attachment, it appearing that no service had been or
could be Tade upon the defendant and that he had not
appeared in the action?
Section 915 was before this court in Ex parte Railway
Company, 103 U. S. 794, and it was held that as, under
ยง 739 of the Revised Statutes, Act of March ,3, 1875, 18

BIG VEIN COAL CO. v. READ.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 470, c. 137, then in force, no civil action, not local
in its nature, -could be brought against any one by original
process in any United States Circuit Court other than that
for the State of which he was an inhabitant or in which
he was found at the time of serving the writ, an attachment could not be issued, the defendant being a nonresident and not having been served with process. It was
further held that an attachment was but an incident to
a suit and unless the suit could be maintained the attachment must fall. In other words, in cases where the
defendant could not be sued and jurisdiction acquired over
him personally, the auxiliary remedy by attachment could
not be had, as attachment was not a means of acquiring
jurisdiction. The same view was taken in Nazro v. Cragin,
3 Dillon, 474, by Mr. Justice Miller, on the circuit. Ex
parte Railway Company, supra, was but an affirmance,
as to the right of attachment where no personal service
could be had, of the former case of Toland v. Sprague, 12
Peters, 300, wherein it was held that a person was not
amenable to attachment against his property except where
process could be served upon his person.
It is contended, however, that since the act of March 3,
1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, as amended August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433, c. 866, the right of attachment should be
held to exist in cases like the present. The statute of 1888
provides:
"And no civil suit shall be brought before either of said
courts against any person, by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant, but where the jurisdiction is founded only
on the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plantiff or the defendant."
The argument is that the right to issue an attachment
under the act of 1872 should obtain, since the law now
permits suit in the district of the residence either of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

plaintiff or defendant, omitting the provision of the act
of 1875 that the defendant could be sued only in the district in which he was an inhabitant or could be found at
the time of commencing the proceeding. But we are of
the opinion that this amendment to the statute was not
intended to do away with the settled rule that, in order
to issue an attachment, the defendant must be subject
to personal service or voluntarily appear in the action.
If Congress had intended any such radical change, it
would have been easy to have made provision for that
purpose, and doubtless a method of service by publication
in such cases would have been provided. We think the
rule has not been changed; that an attachment is still
but an incident to a suit, and that, unless jurisdiction can
be obtained over the defendant, his estate cannot be
attached in a Federal court. See Laborde v. Ubarri, 214
U. S. 173; United States v. Brooke, 184 Fed. Rep. 341.
Another contention is that the defendant in appearing
for the purpose of the motion submitting to the court
the question of the right to attach his compensation as
receiver in the court, had voluntarily submitted to the
jurisdiction of the court, but we are of the opinion that
this contention is untenable. It is the settled practice in
the Federal courts that an appearance may be made for
the sole purpose of raising jurisdictional questions, without thereby submitting to the jurisdiction of the court
over the action. Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518;
Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444, 453.
It is true that where the defendant appears by motion
and objects to the jurisdiction and also submits a question
going .to the merits of the action, it being one of which
the court -hadjurisdiction, there is a general appearance in
the case which gives jurisdiction, as in St. Louis & S. F. R.
Co. v. McBride, 141 U. S. 127, where a demurrer was interposed raising two grounds of jurisdiction and the third
going to the merits of the cause of action, and it was held

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. DETROIT.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

that there had been a submission to the jurisdiction of
the court. See also Western Loan Co. v. Butte & Boston
Min. Co., 210 U. S. 368.
In this case, however, the submission was not of any
question involving the merits of the suit, but of one with
reference to the jurisdiction of the court to issue the attachment, adding the further ground that the property in
question was not subject to attachment or garnishment.
No issue was made involving the merits of the action.
This special appearance was sufficient to raise the question
of jurisdiction only. Davis v. C., C., C. & St. L. Ry., 217
U. S. 157.
In our opinion the Circuit Court did not err in holding
that it had no jurisdiction to issue the attachment in this
case.
Judgment affirmed.

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. CITY OF
DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 1047.

Submitted May 5, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Franchises granting rights of the public must be in plain language,
certain and definite in terms and containing no ambiguities. They
are to be stritly construed against the grantee. Cleveland Electric Ry. Co. v..Cleveland, 204 U. S. 116.
An ordinance requiring a street railway company to comply with certiin conditions on all of its lines until the expiration of the franchises
of longest duration, held not to constitute a contract, extending all
the franchises to the date of such expiration, within the protection
of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
Where a street railroad company is operating in the streets of a city
for a definite period and has enjoyed the full term granted, the

