OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

might slip and be caught in an open frog rail of which 1.e
had or could be charged with knowledge. The case is
within the ruling in Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Harvey, 228
U. S. 319.
Judgment affirmed.

CITIZENS' TELEPHONE COMPANY OF GRAND
RAPIDS v. FULLER, AUDITOR-GENERAL OF
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN

No. 284.

DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

Argued May 2, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

Power of exemption from taxation seems to imply the power of discrimination; and in taxation, as in other matters of legislation,
classification'is within the legislative power-and it may be even to
a greater extent.
The numerous decisions of this court reviewed in this opinion illustrate
the power of the legislature of the State over the subjects of taxation
and the range of discrimination that may be exercised in classification.
Thd legislature, having the power of classification, has also the power
to select the differences on which to base the classification.
The State is not bound to rigid equality by the equal protection, provision of the Fourteenth Amendment: classification simply must not
be exercised in clear and hostile discrimination between particular
persons and classes.
There is a clear and reasonable distinction on which to base a classification for taxation between telegraph and telephone corporations con.ducting for profit large businesses and having offices and exchanges
in cities and villages, and those conducting a very small business
for mutual convenience of the incorporators; and so held that the
Michigan statute taxing such smaller corporations does not deny the
larger corporations the equal protection of the laws because it

CITIZENS' TELEPHONE CO. v. FULLER.
229 U. S.

323

Argument for Appellant.

exempts corporations having gross receipts of less than five hundred
dollars.
Where there has been a constant iegislative and executive construction
of a provision of the constitution of the State in regard to the title
of a statute clearly expressing the object thereof, this court will not,
in view of the consequences of striking down legislation, declare a
statute invalid on account of defective title where, as .in this case,
there has been substantial compliance with the requirements of the
constitution of the State in that regard.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of a statute of Michigan
taxing telephone companies and excepting therefrom certain classes thereof, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas P. Bradfield and Mr. Jacob Kleinhans for
appellant submitted:
An exemption of companies whose gross receipts do not
exceed $500 per annum invalidates the act.
Judicial construction cannot enlarge or restrict the
obvious meaning of the act. Atty. Gen'l. v. Assessors, 143
Michigan, 73; Bate Refrigerator Co. v. Sulzberger, 157
U. S. 37; Denn v. Reed, 10 Pet. 527; Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1; Leoni v. Taylor, 20 Michigan, 148, 154; People
v. Plumstead, '2 Michigan, 465; Ry. Co. v. Phelps, 137
U. S. 528; Swartz v. Siegel, 117 Fed. Rep. 18; Whipple v.
Saginaw Judge, 26 Michigan, 342; Wilt v. Cutler; 38
Michigan, 189.
A law must operate equally and uniformly and the
classification must be based upon some reasonable ground.
Am. Sugar Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 92; Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Cotting v. Stockyards Co., 183 U. S. 79, 112; Field v. Asphalt Co., 194
U. S. 618, 621; Kentucky R. R. Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321,
337; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Railway Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 160; St. Louis Cons. Coal Co. v. It
linois, 185 U. S. 203; S. W. Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S.
114; State v. Ilaun, 61 Kansas, 146.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of tieCourt.

229 U. S.

While the legislature has the right to make exemptions,
as held in Supervisors v. Auditor Gen'l, 65 Michigan, 408;
Loan Co. v. Detroit, 136 Michigan, 451; People v. Auditor
Gen'l, 7 Michigan, 84, the power is not absolute and
without limitation. 1 Cooley Taxation (3d ed.), 382;
Cotting v. Stockyards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Gulf &c. Ry. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 237; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 369.
The exemption does not operate to segregate any definite class of telephone companies to the exclusion of all
others.
The value of non-assessed properties is substantial.
The object of the act is not expressed in the title and
is in conflict with the Michigan constitution. Atty. Gen'l
v. Bolger, 128 Michigan, 355; Bresler v. Delray Investment Co., 156 Michigan, 3; Callaghan v. Chipman, 59
Michigan, 614; Cooley's Const. Lim. 143; Depot Co. v.
Com'nr of Railroads, 118 Michigan, 340; Detroit v. Wayne
Circuit Judge, 112 Michigan, 319; Fish v. Stockdale, 111
Michigan, 646; In re Hauck, 70 Michigan, 396; Pratt
Food Co. v. Bird, 148 Michigan, 634; Wilcox v. Paddock,
65 Michigan, 24.
Mr. Roger I. Wykes, with whom Mr. Grant Fellows was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the
opinion of the

court.
Appellant is a telephone company,, located in the city
of Grand Rapids, in the State of Michigan, where it has
10,000 telephones in use, and by its own and other lines
is engaged in the telephone business all over the southern
peninsula. It brought this suit to restrain the collection
of a tax levied on its property under a certain act of the
State of Michigan, on the grounc (1) that the act violates

CITIZENS' TELEPHONE CO. v. FULLER.
229 U. S.

325

Opinion of the Court.

the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of theUnited States and .(2) violates the constitution of the
State because the purpose of the act is not expressed in
its title.
A demurrer was filed to the bill, which was overruled.
An answer was then filed and, after hearing, a decree was
entered dismissing the bill. This appeal was then taken
directly to this court, the case presenting questions under
the Constithtion of the United States.
Prior to 1909 telephone companies were taxed under
Act No. 179 of the Public Acts of Michigan for the year
1899 (June 23, 1899, Pub. Acts 1899, p. 270), at the rate
of 3% on their gross receipts for the year in which the tax
was laid. This act also embraced express and telegraph
companies. The companies were required to make a
report of their gross receipts for the year ending December 1st next preceding such report. The taxes paid
were to be in lieu of all other taxes.
Act No. 282 of the Public Acts of 1905 (June 16, 1905,
Pub. Acts 1905, p. 439) provided for the assessment of
the prbperty of railroads and certain other companies
and for the levying of taxes thereon by a State Board of,
Assessors. The act did not include either telephone or
telegraph companies.
In 1909 the legislature passed Act No. 49 (April 28,
1909, Pub. Acts 1909, p. 77), which amended the title
and certain sections of the Act No. 282 and provided for
the assessment by the State Board of Assessors of the
property of telephone companies on an ad valorem basis
instead of a tax on their gross earnings, as provided by
the act of 1899. The act contained this proviso: "Provided, That the property of telegraph and telephone
companies whose gross receipts within this State for the
year ending June thirty do not exceed five hundred dollars shall be exempt from taxation."
The contention of appellant that the act offends the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

equal protection clause of the Constitution is based on
that proviso. It is urged that the proviso makes an unjust discrimination between companies doing the same
business by the same means and imposes a tax on their
property because the business of one is large and the
other small. "The busitiss is not taxed," it is contended,
"under Act 49. It is the property used in the business,
and it is all of like kind and used for like purposes, and
each dollar's worth should be treated alike." And it isl'
urged that "it must be remembered that the tax in question is a tax on property according to its value, and not
a tax on doing the business." This being the insistence
of appellant, that is, that the tax is on property simply,
appellant makes the property, dollar for dollar, the only
basis of comparison between the taxed companies and
the exempt companies, and asserts illegal discrimination.
In other words, treating the tax as one on property, and
this being the purpose of the statute, "each dollar's
worth should be treated alike;" and it is contended, if
each dollar's worth is not treated alike, there is an arbitrary classification and hence an illegal classification,
because it-has no proper relation to the legislative purpose.
The District Court, however, took a broader view and
considered the inducement of the legislation and its administrative possibilities as giving character to its classification. The court also considered the character of the
taxed and non-taxed lines, their number and comparative
value and the amount of taxes which would be assessed
against them. The court said:
"For the year ending June 30, 1909, 659 corporations,
individuals or associations made the required report. Of
these, 224 showed receipts of more than $500 each, reported property said to have cost $35,000,000.00 and
reported gross receipts of $7,600,000.00. The Board assessed this property at $21,000,000.00 and levied thereon
a total tax of $433,000.00 (in place of the former specific

CITIZENS' TELEPHONE CO. v. FULLER.
229 U. S.

327

Opinion of the Court.

tax, which would have been $228,000.00). Four hundred
and thirty-five of the reports showed receipts of less than
$500.00 each. Property belonging to the persons and
companies so reporting was not assessed. The cost of
this non-assessed property, at the average reported cost
per telephone of all reporting companies, would be about$145,000.00; complainants' proof tends to show such cost
to be about $250,000.00; $200,000.00 may fairly be assumed as such cost; and upon the comparative basis
used with the larger corporations, this exempted property
would have been assessed at $120,000.00. If we add an
ample allowance for non-reporting, non-taxable property,
it still appears that the property which escaped taxation
and which forms the basis of the complaint, is not more
than one per cent. of the total."
The lines may be divided into two classes, (1) lines
owned by appellant and conducted for profit, and (2)
lines connected with those of the first class and called
sub-licensed companies, rural and roadway. There are
17 to 20 of the sub-licensed companies which operate for
a profit. Their lines are connected with the main lines
and may extend over a whole county or more. It is
testified that the sub-licensed companies run their own
business, no control being in the main line. Their lines,
it is further testified, were constructed by themselves,
and the instruments either leased from the main company or owned by themselves. The contracts with the
sub-companies are not all alike. The main line may or
may not have investment in the sub-licensed lines.
The "rural" usually belongs to an association of farmers
who live along the line. It comprises a switch-board
leased by the main or profit-making company to a rural
manager, the main company owning the telephones on
the line and receiving the entire charge for toll messages,
less the manager's commission for collection. The roadways connected with a "rural" axe constructed aud owned

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

by the farmers in the same way as other roadways. The
larger portion of "rurals" are contracts with individuals.
The percentage of corporations in the roadway and sublicensed lines is very small.
The "roadway" is a line owned and constructed by
farmers connected with a receiving service from an existing exchange of a main line or profit-making company,
or of a rural exchange manager.
The profit that is derived from the rural and roadway
lines is in the reduced rate for the telephones. The manager gets the difference between what he pays the main
company and what he gets from those to whom he rents.
The difference, therefore, between the tax-paying and
non-tax-paying companies, or individuals is that the
former, as said by the District Court, belong to commercial corporations or enterprises, organized and conducted
for the purpose of earning and paying profits as or in
the nature of dividends; the latter, the untaxed, are cooperative or farmers' mutual associations, usually unincorporated, conducted at estimated costs and organized
primarily to get for the association cheap telephone

service.
It is manifest, therefore, that there are marked differences between the taxed and non-taxed companies, and
the differences might be pronounced arbitrary if the rule
urged by appellant should be applied, that is, that in the
taxation of property no circumstance should be considered
but its value, or, to use appellant's words, "each dollar's
worth. should be treated alike." But such rigid equality
has not been enforced. In Michigan the legislature has
the power of prescribing the subjects of taxation and
exemption, notwithstanding the constitution of the State
requires the legislature to provide a uniform rule of taxation, except on property paying specific taxes. The People
v. The Auditor General,7 Michigan, 84; Board of Supervisors
v. Auditor General, 65 Michigan, 408; National Loan &c.

CITIZENS' TELEPHONE CO. v. FULLER.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. City of Detroit, 136 Michigan, 451. The power of exemption would seem to imply the power of discrimination,
and in taxation, as in other matters of legislation, classification is within the competency of the legislature. We
said in American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179
U. S. 89, 92, that from time out of mind it has been the
policy of this Government to classify for the purpose of
taxation, and a discrimination was supported between
taxation of producers and manufacturers of products; and
yet in Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 97, 102, we compared
the rule with that in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S. 540, where a distinction between buyers of products and the producers of them was held an illegal discrimination.
It may, therefore, be said that in taxation there is a
broader power of classification than in some other exercises
of legislation. There is certainly as great a power, and the
rule alipellant urges cannot be adopted. It is inconsistent
with the principle of classification and the cases which
have explained the principle and the range of its legal
exercise.
In Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.
232, 237, it was decided that under the power of classification there might be exemption of property dependent upon
its species and the rates of excise might be varied upon
different trades and products. And it was said that it
was safe to say "that the Fourteenth Amendment was not
intended to compel the State to adopt an iron rule of equal
taxation." It was pointed out that to give it that effect
would destroy the constitutional provision and laws of
some of the States which, while enjoining uniformity of

taxation, permitted exceptions which were deemed material, and that "it would render nugatory those discriminations which the best interests of society require; which
are necessary for the encouragement of needed and useful
industries, and the discouragement of intemperance and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

vice; and which every State. in one form or another, deems
it expedient to adopt."
In Pacific Express Company v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339,
a distinction, for taxing purposes, between express companies which owned their own means of transportation
and those who engaged for hire a railroad or steamship
company to transport their merchandise, was supported.
The range of classification for taxing purposes which was
expressed in Bell's Gap Railroad Company v. Pennsylvania
and Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 606,
607, was approved. These cases and others were cited in
Michigan Central Railroad Company v. Powers, 201 U. S.
245, 293, for the same principle of classification and its
application to taxation. It was said, "There is no general
supervision on the part of the Nation over state taxation,
and in respect to the latter the State has, speakinig generally, the freedom of a sovereign both as to objects and
immunities. And, further, quoting from the opinion of
the lower court, it was said, "It is enough that there is no
discrimination in favor of one against another of the same
class, and the method for the assessment and collection of
the tax is not inconsistent with natural justice."
In Travelers' Insurance Co. v. Connecticut, 185 U. S. 364,
a law of the State was sustained which imposed a tax on
the stock of non-residents in corporations and exempted
the stock of residents.
In King v. Mullins, 171 U. S.404, 435, a distinction was
made in the taxing system of the State between tracts cf
1000 acres or less and tracts of more than 1000 acres. It
was sustained.
In Consolidated Coal Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S.203, a law
providing for the inspection of mines was held not unconstitutional by reason of its limitation to mines where
more than five men were employed at any one time. See
also McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S.539.
In New York, N. H. & II. R. R. Co. v. New York, 165

OITIZENS' TELEPHONE CO. v. FULLER.

229 U. S.

331

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 628, a law requiring railroads to heat their passenger
coaches but exempting roads of less than fifty miles in
length was, declared not unconstitutional and discriminatory. To like effect is Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680,
where a classification of railroads by their length in fixing
the rate of passengers' fare was sustained.
In Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. 688,
a tax was graduated according to the amount and value
of the property measured by miles, and was in lieu of
taxes levied directly on the property. Held valid. In
Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283,
legacies less than a certain amount were held legally exempt from taxation.
To these cases may be added others. They illustrate
the power of the legislature of the State over the subjects
of taxation and the range of discrimination which may be
exercised in classifying those subjects when not obviously
exercised in a spirit of prejudice and favoritism. Cook v.
MarshallCounty, 196 U. S. 261, 274; Missouri v. Dockery,
191 U. S. 165. The cases decided subsequent to the decision in Bell's Gap Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, have
applied its principle to many varying instances. Granting
the power of classification, we must grant Government
the right to select the differences upon which the classification shall be based, and they need not be great or conspicuous. Keeney v. New York, 222 U. S. 525, 536. The
State is not bound by any rigid equality. This is the
rule;-its limitation is that it must not be exercised in
"clear and hostile discriminations between particular persons and classes." See 223 U. S. 59, 62, 63. Thus defined
and thus limited, it is a vital principle, giving to the Government freedom to meet its exigencies, not binding its
action by rigid formulas but apportioning its burdens and
permitting it to make those "discriminations which the
best interests of society require."
We think the statute under review is within the rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

It is not arbitrary. It has a reasonable basis, resthig on
a real distinction. It is not a distinction based on mere
size only, as contended by appellant, nor upon the mere
amount of business done. There is a difference in the
doing of the business and its results; a difference in the
relation to the public. Indeed, the non-taxed companies,
are subsidiary to the taxed companies, patrons, in a sense,
of the taxed companies. The use of the untaxed property,
as pointed out by the District Court, is "predominantly
private, while the use of the taxed property is correspondingly public; the exempt property is used for the personal
convenience of the owners, while the taxed property
represents commercial investment for profit makiig purposes." To these differences the -court added others:
"(1) That the property exempted is only a trifling portion
of the whole; (2) that the cost of assessing and cellecting
in this class would be disproportionate to the amount
which would be realized; (3) that this property is in the
incipient or development stage, while the taxed property
is in the fully developed form." All were differences
which could appeal to the legislature and determine a difference of treatment. To accomplish it they, had to be
united in a class, and, as happily said by 'Judge, Denison
in the Circuit Court, the companies were described "in
terms of earnings instead of in terms of method and use."
It seems, however, that bythe selection of earnings as a
basis of classification all of the differences we have enumerated are not exactly accommodated. Some small portion of the cooperative companies will be taxed and some
small portion of the profit-making companies will be
exempt. This result is not, we think, an impeachment of
the basis of classification, as the cases we have cited illustrate. Besides, the appellant is not affected by the inexactitude.
The second question in the case is whether the purpose
of Act No. 49, of 1909, under which the appellant was

C'ITIZENS' TELEPHONE CO. v. FULLER.
229 U. S.

333

Opinion of the Court.

assessed, is sufficiently expressed in its title. Prior to
the passage of that act certain specified classes of corpora-,
tions, such as railroad, express companies, etc., were taxed
under the provisions of act No. 282 of the acts of 1905,
supra./
The title of act No. 49 and ยง 1 are as follows:
"An act to amend the title and certain sections of
Act No. 173 of 1901. relating to the taxation of railroads
and express companies.
"Section 1. The title and sections 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 13,
14, 18 and 21 of Act No. 282 of the Public Acts of 1905,
entitled 'An Act to provide for the assessment of the property of railroad companies, union station and depot companies, sleeping car companies, express companies, car
loaning companies, stock car companies, refrigerator car
companies, and fast freight line companies, and for the
levy of taxes thereon by a State Board of Assessors, and
for the collection of such taxes, and to repeal all acts or
parts of acts contravening any of the provisions of this
act,' are hereby amended to read as follows:
"TITLE. An act to provide for the assessment of the
property, by whomsoever owned, operated or conducted,
of railroad companies, union station and depot companies,
telegraph companies, telephone companies, sleeping car
companies, express companies, car loaning companies,
stock car companies, refrigerator car companies, and fast
freight companies, and all other companies owning, leasin,, running or operating any freight, stock, refrigerator,
or any other cars, not being exclusively the property of
any railroad company paying taxes upon its rolling stock
under the provisions of this Act, over or upon the line or
lines of any railroad or railroads in this State, and for
the levy of taxes thereon by a State Board of Assessors,
and for the collection of such taxes, and to repe, all acts
or parts of acts contravening any of the provisions of this
act.'''

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

The contention is that there is nothing in the title to
indicate the intention of adding to the act of 1905 "new
classes of business to those already taxed by the ad valorem
method, so as to include telephone, companies." It is
hence further contended that the act is invalid, the constitution of the State providing that "no law shall embrace more than one object, which shall be expressed in
its title."
There can be no doubt that the purpose of the act was
to extend to telegraph and telephone companies the provisions of the act of 1905, which provided for the assessment
of the property of certain companies and the levying
of taxes
thereon by the State Board of Assessors,
and the
method of collecting such taxes. Its title explicitly states
that the purpose is to amend the title and the act relating to the taxation of railroad and express companies
and the particular sections which consummate the purpose are referred to and declared in ยง 1 to be amended.
The title, therefore, is a substantial compliance with the
constitution of the State, and the brief of appellee shows
thirty-eight examples of like kind in the laws of the State.
This legislative and executive construction is entitled to
weight, and, when considered in connection with the
consequence of making those laws invalid as well as declaring the law under review invalid, would determine
against the construction urged by appellant even if we
had doubt of the sufficiency of the title to give notice of
the purpose of the legislation. See Attorney General v.
Amos, -60 Michigan, 372; Grimm v. Secretary of State,
137 Michigan, 134; Common Council of Detroit v. Schmid,
128 Michigan, 379; People v. Howard, 73 Michigan, 10;
City of Detroit v. Chapin, 108 Michigan, 136.
Decree affirmed.

