OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

229 U. S.

that in the absence of changed conditions the bridge in
question was not subject to the act of 1899. How far,
if at all, the grant of the right to build the bridge under
the terms specified in the act of 1862, with no .reservation
of the right to alter or amend, will operate to limit the
power of Congress to directly legislate on the subject of
the removal or alteration of the bridge is a question we
are not here concerned With and therefore express no
opinion upon it. And of course, we also express no opinion
as to how far the decree in the equity cause would be applicable in case of such direct action by Congress.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE PITNEY, not being a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in its consideration.

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 320.

SubmittedLMay 7, 1913.-Decided June 10, 1913.

This court follows the ruling of the state court on the question whether
contracts between the purchaser and the State convey such an
equitable title that the certificates of purchase are real estate.
The bankruptcy court is not confined in the administration of the
property of the bankrupt to state or district boundaries; nor is it
necessary to institute independent or ancillary proceedings in the
different States in which the bankrupt's property is situated, or to
conform to the provisions of the act of 1893 prescribing the method
of selling real estate under orders and decrees of courts of the United
States.
General Order XVIII in Bankruptcy does not contemplate that the
act of 1893 be followed in sales of real estate.

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the'Court.

The effect of adjudication in bankruptcy is to transfer title of all of
the property of the bankrupt wheresoever situated and vest the same
in the trustee, who has the right to administer the same under the
authority of the court.
After sale of real estate by the trustee and confirmation by the Teferee,
lack of appraisal and error of description in published notice are
mere irregularities cured by the'order of confirmation and validated
under ยง 70b of the Bankruptcy Act, and the conveyance cannot be
attacked collaterally.
83 Kansas, 453, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a trustee in bankruptcy to convey real estate in a jurisdiction other than
that in which he was appointed, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Blood Smith and Mr. Samuel Barnum for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. T. F. Garver and Mr. R. D. Garver for defendants
inerror.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered

the opinion of the

court.
John H. Hagener was adjudicated a bankrupt by the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois, and a trustee for his estate was qualified.
At the time of the adjudication the bankrupt was the
owner, by assignment, executed to him on October, 28,
1901, of two certificates, each reciting the purchase from
the State of Kansas of a particular quarter-section of
school lands situated in Rawlins County, Kansas, of the
making of a partial payment therefor, and the right to
receive from-the State a deed of the land upon the payment of the balance due. The certificates were placed on
the bankruptcy schedule as real estate. Upon the petition
of the trustee the referee ordeied the sale at public auction,
after ten days' notice by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation, published in Cass County, Illinois.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

and by distribution of hand bills, of the interest of the
bankrupt in certain described real estate, including the
certificates in question. The published notice, however,
mistakenly stated the lands to be situated in Range 1
instead of in Range 34. The certificates realized only the
sum of one dollar each. The sale, on the report of the
trustee, was confirmed by the referee. The record does
not affirmatively show that any appraisement was made
either of the certificates or of the 'interest of the bankrupt
in the land which they embraced.
By virtue of the sale and its -confirmation, the trustee
executed an assignment to Henry Fraumann,-the purchaser at the sale, of each certificate and of "all the right,
title and interest" of the bankrupt "of and to the land
therein described." Fraumann transferred the certificates
and his interest in the land, as well as all his right to rents
and profits which had accrued, to Fred. Robertson, one
of the plaintiffs in error, and Robertson executed a like
assignment of an undivided half of each certificate, with
an undivided half of the interest in the real estate and in
the rents which had accrued, to W. J. Rateliff, the other
plaintiff in error.
It appears that in September, 1901, just prior to the
time when Hagener, the bankrupt, had acquired the
certificates, the taxes on the land not having been paid,
a sale for delinquent taxes took place, at which trne County
of Rawlins became the purchaser. The county, on
September 28, 1903, issued a certificate to each of the defendants in error-reciting the tax sale, the purchase by the
county, the payment by the defendants in error of the
delinquent taxes and costs, and assigned the interest of
the county in the property to the purchasers. Subsequently, evidently treating the certificates which had been
previously issued for the land by the State, and which
were surrendered in the bankruptcy, under the circumstances we have recited, as being the 1qnd itself and there-

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore as passing to the purchaser at the sale for delinquent
taxes, assignments were drawn by the county officials
making recitals of the facts and virtually substituting the
two Howards to the ownership of the right, title and interest acquired under the original certificates, with the
right on their part to acquire patents for the land from
the State on paying the balance due to the State on the
terms fixed in the original certificates issued by the State.
Thereafter the two Howards, as the owners each of a
quarter-section, under these proceedings, went into possession of the land.
Subsequently, as the result of mandamus proceedings,
Robertson and Ratcliff, as the owners of the lands by
virtue of the original certificates issued by the State, surrendered by -the bankrupt, and acquired by the sale in
bankruptcy, paid the full amount of principal and interest
due to the State upon the certificates, as also a sum sufficient to reimburse each of the Howards for the moneys
disbursed by them in acquiring from the County of
Rawlins supposed rights under the tax sale to which
we have referred, it not being disputed that the tax
sales were void. In the year 1899 patents of the State
for the land were duly issued to Robertson and Ratcliff.
Prior to the issue of the state patents, as above
mentioned, and while the bankruptcy proceedings were undetermined, the bankrupt and his wife executed to Robertson and Ratcliff a quitclaim deed of all their right, title
and interest to the land.
Soon after the execution by Hagener and wife of this
quitclaim deed Robertson and Ratcliff commenced two
actions in ejectment in the District Court of Rawlins
County, Kansas, to recover possession of the two quartersections, and damages for detention. 'The defendant in
one action was C. F. Howard and the defendant in the
other action was Fred. Howard. The plaintiffs recovered
VOL. ccxxix-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion ot the Court.

229 U. S.

in the trial court. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the
State, the actions were consolidated and the court decided
that the sale in the bankruptcy proceedings was void and
that the purchaser did not acquire either the title to the
certificates or the right to the possession of the quartersections in controversy. The judgment of the trial court
was nevertheless affirmed upon the ground that the interest of the bankrupt in the land passed by the quitclaim
deed executed by the bankrupt and his wife. 82 Kansas,
588. Upon a rehearing the judgment of affirmance was
vacated and set aside and the jiudgment of the trial court
was reversed with directions to render judgment for the
Ilowards, the claimants under the tax sale. 83 Kansas,
453. This was based upon the ruling that not only was
the sale in the bankruptcy proceedings of the certificates
of purchase invalid, but that a right to possession was not
derived from the quitclaim deed, since when it was executed and when. the actions in, ejectment were commenced, the bankruptcy proceedings were pending and
the property and right of possession to the land was in
the trustee in bankruptcy. In consequence it was held
that the plaintiffs in ejectment were not entitled "to recover the possession of the property even against one who
had simply the naked possession thereof." This writ of
error was then, prosecuted.
But one ground for reversal is relied on, viz., that the
Supreme Court of Kansas erred in deciding that the sale
of land in Kansas by a trustee in pursuance of an order of
the court of bankruptcy for the Southern District of Illinois, made in original proceedings pending in that court,
was void and did not convey to the purchaser any interest
to such land.
The state court held that the 'contracts between the
bankrupt and the State of Kansas evidenced by the
certificates of purchase in question conveyed to the purchaser an equitable title to the land and was real estate.

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We follow this construction of the local law; hence the
only question with which we are concerned was thus
stated by the court below: "Whether the sale of the
certificates by the trustee in bankruptcy conveyed any
interest in the land, or whether it was necessary in order to
divest the certificate holder of his title in the land to appraise and advertise the land itself for sale and to sell it
in the method provided by the laws of the United States."
The court while conceding that the adjudication in bankruptcy "conveyed. this land and all the property of
IIagener to the trustee," yet decided that "the court had
no jurisdiction over the land. Its jurisdiction was in
personam." And apparently having in mind the provisions of the act of Congress approved March 3, 1893,
c. 225, 27 Slat. 751, regulating sales of real estate by courts
of the United States, it was declared that the attempted
sale of the land by the trustee was not simply irregular
and erroneous, but was void. The views of the court on
the subject were thus stated:
"The United States District Court for the Southern
District of Illinois has no jurisdiction in Kansas in bankrnptcy, and a trustee appointed by itcould only sell real
estate in this State under orders procured from some court
having jurisdiction therein. 4 U. S. Compiled Statutes,
sec. 563, subd. IS. So far as conveying any interest in the
lands in question, the sale of the certificates by the trustee
is void."
It is to be observedthat no question was raised cocerning the validity under the state law of the certificates,
and their efficacy to transfer the title, if the court of bankruptey had power in the premises and the sale was otherwise valid under the laws of the United States. It is
certain therefore that the refusal to recognize the assign1uents as having validity was based solely upon the opinion that the (otut of bankruptcy was without power to
order the sale because the land covered by the certificate

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

was not located within its territorial jurisdiction, and
that a sale could only have been made under orders of a
court of the United States within whose territorial jurisdiction the land was situated, and in the mode pointed
out by the act of 1893. This, however, but amounts to
holding that a court of bankruptcy is confined in the
administration of the property of a bankrupt to state or
district boundaries, and that whenever the bankrupt has
property within two or more States it is necessary to
commence independent or ancillary proceedings in all such
States in order to subject the property therein to administration and sale. But we think it is clear that this view
is incompatible with the Bankruptcy Act of 1898. No
analysis of the text of the act, we think, is necessary to
demonstrate this result, since it is elementary and has
been decided over and over again that the effect of the
adjudication in bankruptcy is to transfer the title of the
property of the bankrupt and vest the same in the trustee,
who has the right, under the control and authority of the
court, to administer the same.
No limitation on this general principle arises from the
mere fact of the particular situation of the property, as
the principle is general and embraces all the property of.
the bankrupt estate wherever situated. rndeed this view
was accepted by the court below and made the basis of
its ruling, since in considering whether the quitclaim deed
was valid it held it to be void because the title to the
property which it embraced remained in the trustee in
bankruptcy; a view which necessarily demonstrates that
the ruling as to the invalidity of the sale made in the
bankruptcy proceedings rested upon the conception that
although the property passed to the trustee and was
subject to administration, nevertheless the court was
without power to direct the sale of the property, because
it was 'located in another State. But in discussing the
jurisdiction vested in a court of bankruptcy, in United

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Bray, 225 U. S. 205, 217,
it was said:
"We think it is a necessary conclusion from these and
other provisions of the act that the Jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy courts in all 'proceedings in bankruptcy' is
intended to be exclusive of all other courts, and that such
proceedings include, among others, all matters of administration, such as the allowance, rejection and reconsideration of claims, the reduction of the estates to money
and its distribution, the determination of the preferences
and priorities to be accorded to claims presented for allowance and payment in regular course, and the supervision and control of the trustees and others who are employed to assist them."
The court of bankruptcy in Illinois therefore acquired
full jurisdiction over the land in question upon the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy. Having such jurisdiction
it possessed the power to order a sale of the certificates or
of the interest in the land evidenced by them. The legal
title to the certificates being in the trustee and he being
within the jurisdiction of the court and subject to its
orders, that tribunal could lawfully exert its powers over
him, without regard to where the land was situated.
Even if the, enlarged powers of a court of bankruptcy
over the estate under its control be put out of view and
the subject be looked at as a mere question of equitable
jurisdiction, it may not be doubted that a court of equity
in one State in a proper case could compel a defendant
before it to convey property situated in another State.
Fall v. Eastin, 215 U. S. 1, 8 et seq., and cases cited. There
being thus ample power in the court, it follows of course
that resort to ancillary proceedings was unnecessary.
The decision in Babbitt v. Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102, to the
effect that district courts other than the court in which
original proceedings in bankruptcy are instituted possess
power in proper cases to exert ancillary jurisdiction in aid

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U.S.

of the court in which the bankruptcy proceedings are
pending, lends no support to the contention that the court
which had full power could not exert its ample authority
without invoking the ancillary power of another and
different court.
We come, then, to consider whether the court of bankruptcy in Illinois, in the proceedings to sell the certificates
and the interest in the land evidenced by them was required to conform to the provisions of the act of Congress
of March 3, 1893, c. 225, 27 Stat. 751, heretofore referred
to, reading 'as follows:
"SECTION 1. That all real estate or any interest in land
sold under any order or decree of any United States court
shall be sold at public sale at the court house of the county,
parish, or .city in which the property, or the greater part
thereof, is located, or upon the premises, as the court rendering such order or decree of sale may direct.
"SEC. 2. That all personal property sold under any
order or decree of any court of the United States shall be
sold as provided in the first section of this act, unless in
the opinion of the court rendering such order or decree,
it would be best to sell it in some other manner.
"SEC. 3. That hereafter no sale of real estate under any
order, judgment, or decree of any United States court
shall be bad without previous publication of notices of
such proposed sale being, ordered and had once a week for
at least four weeks prior to such sale in at least one
newspaper printed, regularly issued and having a general
circulation in the county and State where the real estate
proposed, to be.sold is situated, if such there be. If said
property shall be situated in more than one county or
State, such notice shall be published in such of the counties
where -said property is situated, as the,court may direct.
Said notice shall, among other things, describe the real
estate to be sold. The court may, in its discretion, direct the publication of the notice of sale herein provided

ROBERTSON v. HOWARD.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for to be made in such other papers as may seem
proper."
We think this question must be answered in the negative. It is not to be doubted that the subject of bankruptcy was special in its nature and that in enacting the
Bankruptcy Act it was proposed, comprehensively to deal
with the subjects coming within the scope of bankruptcy
legislation, which included, of course, the authority of
courts of bankruptcy to deal with the sale of the real and
personal estate of a bankrupt. Section 70b of the Bankruptcy Act, provides that:
"All real and personal property belonging to bankrupt
estates shall be appraised by three disinterested appraisers; they shall be appointed by, and report to, the
court. Real and personal property shall, when practicable, be sold subject to the approval of the court; it shall
not be sold otherwise than subject to the approval of the
court for less than seventy-five per centum of its dppraised value."
This provision makes it manifest that it was the purpose
of Congress to give bankruptcy courts full and complete
equitable power in matters of the administration and sale
of the bankfupt estate, wholly irrespective of the mere
situs of the property, the controlling factor being, not
where the property is situated, but did it pass to the trustee
and is it a part of the estate subject to administration under the direction of the court. In view of the fact that the
Bankruptcy Act was enacted long after the passage of the
statute of 1893, and of the complete right of administration which the Bankruptcy Act confers'over the property,
real and personal, of the bankrupt estate, we think it
follows that the authority to realize, by way of sale, on
the property of the bankrupt estate, cannot be held to
be limited by the provisions of the act of 1893. Indeed,
this conclusion is additionally demonstrated by the fact
that as recognized by No. 18 of the General Orders in

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

Bankruptcy, in disposing by sale of the property of the
bankrupt, a bankruptcy court, as to both real and personal property, may, if reason for so doing exists, direct a
private sale to be made. We do not stop to refer to the
many cases in the lower Federal courts which have applied and enforced the view which we here maintain, as
we think it unnecessary to do so.
As regards the alleged lack of an appraisement and error
in the description of the property covered by the certificate
contained in the published notice, we think they must in
this collateral proceeding be deemed as mere irregularities,
and that the order of confirmation, made by the referee
was sufficient to Validate the sale under the discretionary
power given to the referee by ยง 70b of the Bankruptcy Act.
Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Peters, 157.
The Supreme Court of Kansas erred in deciding that
the plaintiffs in error acquired no right or interest to the
land in controversy under the sale made by the court of
bankruptcy for the Southern District of Illinois; and its
judgment must therefore be reversed and the case be
remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Judgment reversed.

