DETROIT UNITED RY. v. DETROIT.
229 U. S.

Syllabus.

that there had been a submission to the jurisdiction of
the court. See also Western Loan Co. v. Butte & Boston
Min. Co., 210 U. S. 368.
In this case, however, the submission was not of any
question involving the merits of the suit, but of one with
reference to the jurisdiction of the court to issue the attachment, adding the further ground that the property in
question was not subject to attachment or garnishment.
No issue was made involving the merits of the action.
This special appearance was sufficient to raise the question
of jurisdiction only. Davis v. C., C., C. & St. L. Ry., 217
U. S. 157.
In our opinion the Circuit Court did not err in holding
that it had no jurisdiction to issue the attachment in this
case.
Judgment affirmed.

DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. CITY OF
DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 1047.

Submitted May 5, 1913.-Decided May 26, 1913.

Franchises granting rights of the public must be in plain language,
certain and definite in terms and containing no ambiguities. They
are to be stritly construed against the grantee. Cleveland Electric Ry. Co. v..Cleveland, 204 U. S. 116.
An ordinance requiring a street railway company to comply with certiin conditions on all of its lines until the expiration of the franchises
of longest duration, held not to constitute a contract, extending all
the franchises to the date of such expiration, within the protection
of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
Where a street railroad company is operating in the streets of a city
for a definite period and has enjoyed the full term granted, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

municipality may, upon failure of renewal of the grant, require the
company within a reasonable time to remove its tracks and other
property from the streets, without impairing any contractual obligation protected by the Federal Constitution or depriving the company
of its property without due process of law.
156 Michigah, 106, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a decree of the
state court holding that certain franchises of the railway
company had expired and that it should pay the city
temporary rental for the use of certain streets or vacate
those streets, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Richard I. Lawson and Mr. Alfred Lucking for
appellee, in support of motion to dismiss, affirm or advance.
Mr. John C. Donnelly, Mr. William L. Carpenter and
Mr. Fred A. Baker for plaintiff in error, in opposition
thereto.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, originating in the Circuit Court
for the County of Wayne, of the State of Michigan,
brought by the City of Detroit against the Detroit United
determine that certain franchises of the railRailway,
way havetoexpired
and to require it to pay a temporary
rental or to vacate the streets operated under the franchises. The decree of the Circuit Court in favor of the
city was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Michigan.
The case comes here on writ of error, and is now before us
on motion of the city to dismiss, affirm or advance.
The Detroit United Railway owns and operates all the
street railways in Detroit. Its principal east and west line
is called the Fort Street Line, in connection with which
three franchises have been granted to the Railway and

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. DETROIT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its predecessors. One of the franchises was granted by
the Township of Springwells, part of which has since
been annexed to the City of Detroit by legislative act,
and the other two were granted by the city. By their
terms the franchises expired June 17, June 30, and July 24,
1910, respectively.
The Township of Springwells had also granted certain
other franchises (the part of the railway system covered
by such franchises not being involved in this suit, however) to the Railway in 1889 and 1891 to expire in 1921,
naming a certain rate of fare and providing that the tracks
constructed under such grants should be deemed, for the
purpose of collecting fares, an extension of the tracks
theretofore laid in the Township and City. Upon the
inclusion of that part of the Township of Springwells
within the city which contained the lines of railway covered by the franchises of 1889 and 1891, the city, which
had theretofore made certain contracts with the Railway
for the reduction of fare upon the lines then within the
city limits at certain hours under a system of tickets called
workingmen's tickets, by an ordinance passed May 2,
1906, entitled "An ordinance in relation to rates of fare
on Fort Street lines of the Detroit United Railway,"
amended the Township franchises so that the agreement
between the Railway and the City with reference to
workingmen's tickets should apply to the lines embraced
in the grants of 1889 and 1891 for the term of such grants,
but provided that the other provisions of the Township
grants should remain unchanged.
Shortly before the expiration of the three franchises
involved in this suit the City passed three resolutions
under date of June 14, June 21, and July 19, 1910, the
third being like but superseding the other two. The resolution of July 19, 1910, after reciting the fact that two of
the ordinances had expired and the other soon would expire; that, because of the pendency of a certain suit and

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

injunctions issued therein, an ordinance prescribing the
terms and conditions under which the Railway might
continue to operate its lines after the expiration of its
franchises could not be enforced; that under the constitution of Michigan it was impossible for the City to grant
a term franchise without the affirmance of the electors of
the City, and that the Railway was denied the right to
operate its lines without a franchise, provided that the
Railway might temporarily operate under the same
terms and conditions as theretofore existed upon the payment of $200 a day to the City, and that, qxcept upon
such terms, consent to operate its railway was denied and
refused to the Railway. The Railway by written communication denied that the franchises had expired, insisted that the demands of the City were illegal and declined to pay the sum named in the resolution.,
The Railway, among other defenses, asserted that the
ordinance of 1906 had the effect of extending its franchises
to 1921, that, the original franchises being silent on the
question of the rights of the parties upon the termination
of the grants, an implied contract was created that the
railway and other property of the Railway should continue in place and in use for the public convenience on
reasonable terms and in conformity to the rights of the
City, public and Railway, and that the resolutions impaired the obligations of the contracts of the Railway, in
violation of ยง 10, Article I, of the Constitution and deprived it of its property without due process of- law, in
contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Circuit Court held, among other things, that the
franchises had expired and ordered the Railway to accept
the terms of the resolution and comply with its provisions
or to vacate the streets. The Supreme Court of Michigan
affirmed the decision of the Circuit Court that the franchises had expired and that all rights of the Railway to
occupy the trecets and to maintain and operate its railway

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. DETROIT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had terminated, and held that the Common Council of the
City might require the Railway to cease the operation of
its ears and might also require the Railway to remove its
tracks from the streets, and provided the minimum time
in which the Railway should be compelled to comply with
the demands of the Common Council.
Certain Federal questions are made which require consideration, upon this application to dismiss or affirm, the
first of which is that the attempt to terminate the rights
of the Railway and require the removal of its tracks and
property from the streets of the City impairs the obligation of a valid and subsisting contract for the continued
use of the streets until 1921. This contention is based
upon the ordinance of May 2, 1906, which, by its title,
purports to be one in relation to rates of fare on the Fort
Street lines of the Railway and which provides, after
reciting the purpose of the ordinance, as we have mentioned above, and the intention that the grants from the
Township of Springwells may be modified in accordance
with the ordinance, the terms and conditions of the township grants not to be otherwise affected by the agreement:
"That the Detroit United Railway shall for the full
term of said township grants, issue and sell tickets at the
rate of eight tickets for twenty-five cents, each of said
tickets to be good for a continuous ride between any two
points on what are known as the routes of the Fort Wayne
& Elmwood Railway lines, so called, whether constructed
under grants from the Township of Springwells or from
the City of Detroit, between the hours of 5 a. m. to -6.30
a. in.; and the hours of 4:45 and 5:45 p. in., but the terms
of said township grants in all other respects shall not be
modified or changed, nor shall this ordinance and the
acceptance thereof be construed to abridge, enlarge or
extend any rights acquired by said railway comany, or
its assignors or predecessors in title under said several
grants from the Township of Springwells."

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

The argument is that, as this ordinance obligates the
Railway for the full term of the township grants, which
do not expire until December 14, 1921, to sell tickets and
transport passengers over its railway, including the portion covered by the now expired grants, the last named
grants of the Railway were thereby extended to expire
at the same time with the township grants, because only
by such construction can the obligation of the Railway to
furnish transportation for the full term of the township
grants be complied with; that this was a contractual obligation proposed by the City and accepted by the Railway,
and necessarily extended the grants of the Railway.
The principles upon which grants of this character are
to be construed have been frequently declared in decisions of this court. They were stated by the late Mr.
Justice Peckham, speaking for the court, in Cleveland
Electric Railway Co. v. Cleveland, 204 U. S. 116, 129:
"The rules of construction which have been adopted
by courts in cases of public grants of this nature by the
authorities of cities are of long standing. It has been held
that such grants should be in plain language, that they
should be certain and definite in their nature, and should
contain no ambiguity in their terms. The legislative
mind must be distinctly impressed with the unequivocal
form of expression contained in the grant, 'in order that
the privileges may be intelligently granted or purposely
withheld. It is matter of common knowledge that grants
of this character are usually prepared by those interested
in them, and submitted to the legislatures with a view to
obtain from such bodies the most liberal grant of privileges
which they are willing to give. This is one among many
reasons why they are to be strictly construed.' Blair v.
Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, 471."
Applying these principles, it is impossible to hold that
the effect of this ordinance was to extend franchises which
by their terms had definite and fixed duration. Such

DETROIT UNITED RY. v. DETROIT.
229 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

effect is nowhere suggested in the preamble of the ordinance, and does not necessarily inhere in the thing sought
to be accomplished. Legislation concerning prior grants
was not brought to the attention of the council, so that
privileges enlarging them could be intelligently acted
upon and clearly given or explicitly withheld. A fair
construction of the ordinance requires such service at the
rates fixed only while the Railway had a lawful right to
use the streets by grant from the City. Certainly it was
not contemplated that the City could require such service
after the grant which it had itself given to the Railway
had expired by its own limitation. Any other construction of this ordinance is forced and unnatural, and the
construction contended for would have the effect to deprive the City of the right to control the use of its streets
and grant to the Railway without any consideration or
compensation rights which this record shows are of great
value.
Nor do we find more force in the claim of an implied
contract to permit the Railway to remain in the streets
under such reasonable arrangements for public service as
the situation might require. The right to grant the use
of the streets was in the City. It had exercised it, had
fixed by agreement with the Railway the definite period
at which such rights should end. At their expiration the
rights thus definitely granted terminated by force of the
terms of the instrument of grant. The Railway took the
several grants with knowledge of their duration and has
accepted and acted upon them with that fact clearly and
distinctly evidenced by written contract. The rights of
the parties were thus fixed and cannot be enlarged by
implication. Louisnlle Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76 Fed.
Rep. 296; Cedar Rapids Water Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 118
Iowa, 234; Scott County Road Company v. Hines, 215 U. S.
336; Turnpike Company v. Illinois, 96 U. S. 63.
We are of the opinion that where a street railroad is

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

229 U. S.

authorized to operate in the streets of a city for a definite
and fixed time, and has enjoyed the full term granted, it
may, upon failure to renew the grant, be required, within
a reasonable time, to remove its tracks and other property
from the streets. In this case the Supreme Court of
Michigan held that, if the city by the resolution of its
Common Council should require the removal of the Railway's property from the streets, the removal should be
effected by the Railway within ninety days after notice
of the resolution, unless it be given a longer time or the
time given be extended by like resolution. In thus providing for the removal of the property of the Railway
from the streets of the city we are unable to see that any
contractual obligation was impaired or that the property
of the Railway was taken without due process of law,
and these are the contentions as to Federal questions
argued in this connection.
A number of other assignments of error are made, some
of which do not appear to have been taken in the Supreme
Court of Michigan and are consequently not reviewable
here, and in none of them do, we find any contention of
the substantial impairment of rights secured by the Federal
Constitution to the plaintiff in error.
We think the Federal rights relied upon are of such
nature as to require no further argument for their determination, and the motion of the defendant in error to
affirm will be granted.
Affirmed.

