OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

Commission to make the rule quoted in its opinion.
What the court did was to so interpret the statute and
rule as to render essential the filing of the tariffs at stations at the points of origin of shipment. Such interpretation, whether right or wrong, did not involve the validity of an authority exercised under the United States,
and the review in this court should have been sought by
a petition for writ of certiorari.
The writ of error must be
Dismissod
JOHN SIMMONS COMPANY v. GRIER BROTHERS
, COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 57.

Argued November 8, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. A bill of review is called for only after a final decree adjudicating upon the entire merits and leaving nothing further to be
done except the execution of it. P. 88.
2. An interlocutory decree may be modified or rescinded by the
court at any time before final decree. P. 88.
3. Whether a decree is final or interlocutory depends upon its essential purport and effect and not upon its characterization in pleadings. P. 89.
4. A decree in a suit for patent infringement and unfair competition,
dismissing the bill as to the former ground and granting a permanent injunction as to the latter, but leaving the case pending
for an accounting before a master, is interlocutory as an entirety,
permitting the plaintiff, if diligent, to seek a rehearing of the dismissal. P. 89. Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, and
Hill v. "Chicago& Ezvnston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52, distinguished.
5. A proceeding to reopen by rehearing or bill of review a decree
entered on a mandate of an appellate court should first be referred
to that tribunal. P. 91.
6. The fact that a party, to carry on his suit, moved execution of a
mandate directing a decree partly adverse to himself, after his
right of appeal was exhausted, did not make the resulting decree u
decree by consent. P. Q1

SIMMONS CO. v. GRIER BROS. CO.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

7. A decision of this court upholding a patent claim is ample ground
for rehearing in a pending suit between other parties in which the
same claim has been adjudged void. P. 91.
8. Omission to apply to this court for certiorari to an interlocutory
decree, held not laches. P. 91.
9. Abercrombe & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin, 245 U. S. 198, upholding
claim 4 of Baldwin lamp patent, followed. P. 91.
265 Fed. 481, reversed.

CERTIonA

to review a decree of the Circuit Court of

Appeals, reversing a decree entered by the District Court
after a rehearing, in a suit for patent infringement and
unfair competition, and directing reinstatement of another previously entered under its mandate.
Mr. James Q. Rice for petitioner.
Mr. C. P. Byrnes and Mr. David A. Reed, with who m
Mr. Geo. H. rarmelee and Mr. Geo. E. Stebbinswere on
the briefs, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In October, 1913, Frederic E. Baldwin, a citizen of
New York, together with the present petitioner John Simmons Company, a corporation and citizen of that State,
brought suit in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania against The Grier
Brothers Company, a corporation and citizen of the latter
State, charging infringement of reissued letters patent
No. 13,542, issued to and own ed by Baldwin and under
which the Simmons Company was sole licensee, for certain improvements in acetylene gas lamps intended for
various uses, especially that of miners' lanterns. The bill
charged also unfair competition with plaintiffs by the sale
of lamps made to resemble the Baldwin lamp manufactured under the patent. The District Court granted, a
preliminary injunction as to unfair competition but reserved the question of patent infringement for final hear9544°23-9

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

ing 210 Fed. 560. Upon that hearing the court held
claim 4 of the Baldwin reissue patent valid and infringed
and awarded a permanent injunction upon both grounds,
July 24, 1914, with an interlocutory decree for an accounting. 215 Fed. 735. Upon appeal by defendant (the
present respondent), the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit affirmed the decree as to unfair competition
but reversed it as to patent infringement, holding the reissue to be void as to claim 4 upon the ground that this
broadened the original patent. 219 Fed. 735, 739. This
decision was rendered January 22, 1915, and the mandate
went down about a month later setting forth the decree of
the appellate court that the decree of the District Court
be "affirmed as to so much thereof as refers to the subject
of unfair competition, but the rest of the decree must be
modified in accordance with the opinion of this court,"
and that the appellant recover costs and have execution
therefor; and thereupon commanding that execution and
further proceedings be had according to right and justice.
No decree was entered upon this in the District Court
until January 5, 1916, when on motion of plaintiffs an
order was entered that the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals be made the decree of the District Court, that
plaintiffs recover from defendant their damages sustained
by reason of unfair trade to be ascertained and reported
.by a master to whom reference was made for the purpose,
that a perpetual injunction be issued restraining defendant from further unfair competition in trade; and that the
bill of complaint as to infringement of the reissue patent
be dismissed. The accounting before the master is still
pending.
In May, 1913, Baldwin had brought suit (John Simmons Company intervening) upon the same reissue patent in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York against Abercrombie & Fitch Company (Justrite Company, intervening), and that court

SIMMONS CO. v. GRIER BROS. CO.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

adjudged the patent valid and infringed. 227 Fed. 455.
On appeal this decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, November 9, 1915. 228
Fed. 895. On December 20, 1915, defendants in that suit
presented to thi court a petition for a writ of certiorari;
January 10, 1916, this writ was granted (239 U. S. 649);
and under it, on December 10, 1917, the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit *as
affirmed, this court holding, in direct opposition to the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, that claim 4 of the reissue was valid. 245 U. S.
198. A mandate was sent down January 15, 1918, to the
District Court for the Southern District of New York,
and the proper decree was promptly entered thereon.
Soon after this, plaintiffs herein petitioned the District
Court for the Western DiStrict of Pennsylvania for leave
to file what was called a "bill of review" against its decree of January 5, 1916. The court in the first instance
refused, but without prejudice to an application to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit for leave
to fie such bill. Upon application that court granted
plan tiffs leave to make the application to the District
Court, and authorized the latter court to take action
thereon. Under this leave, application was renewed to
the District Courf, the proposed "bill of review' being
at the same time presented, and with leave of the court
filed. This bill sets out the original bill and the proceedings had thereunder, as above recited; also the proceedings in the suit in the Second Circuit and the final deeision
of this court therein; allegirng these as "new facts" that
had arisen since the decree entered in the District. Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania on the 5th of
January, 1916, and as showing that that decree was erroneous and contrary to law, in so far as (pursuant to the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit) it dismissed the bill as to infringement of the re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

issue patent and failed to decree a perpetual injunction
and ascertainment of damages as to infringement; prayed
that the cause might be reopened and the decree rescinded
and set aside, in so far as it dismissed the patent cause
of action, and a new decree entered granting the relief
prayed for in the original bill. Defendant answered admitting in the main, or at least not denying, the allegatidns of the so-called bill of review as to the former proceedings and decrees in fhe courts of the two circuits, but
denying that the lamp involved in the Abercrombie &
Fitch Company suit (the "Justrite lamp ") corresponded
in essential features of construction with the "Grier
lamp " involved in the present suit; averring that the decisions of the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the two circuits
were notrendered on the same state of facts; that the bill
was "in fact only a petition for rehearing because of the
decision of the Supreme Court referred to therein;" and
that the-decision of this court in the Abercrombie & Fitch
Company suit formed no basis for a bill of review.
Afterwards, John Simmons Company by leave filed a
supplemental bill setting up that it had acquired from
Baldwin all his rights in the reissue patent including all
claims for damages and profits on account of the infringement. Defendant having answered this, testimony was
taken to show the structural identity of the "Justrite"
and the " Grier" lamps, and the cause came to hearing,
with the result that the District Court found substantial
identity between the two lamps in all essential features of
construction, sustained the right of plaintiffs to maintain
the bill of review, and held that its former decree, entered pursuant to the mandate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, so fax as it held the reissue patent invalid, should
be vacated- and set aside and a decree entered sustaining
the validity of claim 4 of the reissue, finding defendant
guilty of infringement thereof, and plaintiffs entitled to
an accounting of profits and a perpetual injunction.

SIMMONS CO. v. GRIER BROS. CO.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

From-the decree thus entered an appeal was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed it and remanded
the cause with directions to reinstate the decree of January 5, 1916. 265 Fed. 481. To review this decision,
the present writ of certiorari was allowed. 253 U. S. 482.
The District Court, as will appear from an excerpt from
its opinion reported in a note to the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 265 Fed. 483, treated the case as
one based upon a true bill of review, and this as resting
not upon new matter that had arisen since the decree
but upon error of law apparent on the face of the record
without further examination of matters of fact.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, upon a recital of the different steps in the litigation, regarded the situation as one
of plaintiffs' own creation, for the reason that after that
court's decision on the original bill but before the mandate went down, although apprised of the contrary decision of the District Court for the Southern District of
New York in a cause to which they were parties, plaintiffs
made no request to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit to withhold its mandate; that, after the
mandate went down and before a decree pursuant to it
was entered in the court below, they knew of the affirmance of the decision of the District Court of New York by
the Circuit Court "of Appeals for the Second Circuit, yet
made no request to either court in the Third Circuit to
have the entry of a decree withheld; that on the contrary,
with knowledge that this court had under consideration a
petition for certiorari in the Second Circuit case, they prepared and of their own motion caused to be entered on
January 5, 1916,"the decree dismissing their suit as to the
patent infringement; and after this court on January 10,
1916, granted the certiorari, they allowed the term to end
without moving to suspend, open, or vacate the decree
of Jaunary 5. The court held that in dffect, so far as
plaintiffs .were. concerned, tat decree was a consent de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

cree, and while not going to the extent of holding that
this was sufficient to bar them from maintaining the bill
of review, did declare that the anomalous situation and
consequent hardship; arising from the fact that a patent
adjudged valid in one circuit by this court at the same
time had been adjudged invalid by the Circuit Court of
Appeals in another circuit, was due not to any fault of the
law or of the patent system but to the failure of plaintiffs
to take steps that might have avoided'it. Proceeding
to consider the legal question whether the decision of this
court in 245 U. S. 198, either showed an error of law apparent on the face of the record without further examination of matters of fact, or constituted a new fact discovered since the decree and materially affecting it, the
court held on the authority of Scotten v. Littlefield, 235
U. S. 407, 411; Tilghman v. Werk, 39 Fed. 680; and Hoffman v. Knox, 50 Fed. 484, that the bill of review could
not be maintained.
The cases cited are to the effect that, in the application
of the ancient rule of practice in equity, based upon Lord
Bacon's first ordinance (Story Eq. P1., 6th ed., § 404), achange in the authoritative rule of law, resulting from a
decision by this court announced subsequent to the former
decree, ieither demonstrates an "error of law apparent"
upon the face of that decree nor constitutes new matter
in pais justifying a review.
But a bill of review is called for only after a final decree-one that finally adjudicates upon the entire merits,
leaving nothing further to be done except the execution
of it. If it be only interlocutory, the court at any time
before final decree may modify or rescind it. Story Eq.
Pl., §§ 408, a, 421, 425. In the so-called bill of review
herein, it is in terms alleged that the decree of the District
Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, entered
July 24, 1914, was an interlocutory decree. The same is
alleged as to the decree of January 5, 1916. Both allega-

SIMMONS CO. v. GRIER BROS. CO.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

tions are admitted by the answer, which at the same time
asserts that the "bill of review" is in fact only a petition
for rehearing. Obviously, the nature of the decree is to
be determined by.its own essential purport and effect not
by the statements of the pleaders about it. But an examination of the record demonstrates that they correctly
described the decree as interlocutory.
The decree of July 24, 1914, although following a "final
hearing ", was not a final decree. It granted to plaintiffs
a permanent injunction upon both grounds, but an accounting was necessary to bring the suit to a conclusion
upon the merits: An appeal taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, whose jurisdiction, under § 129 Judicial Code,
extended to the revision of interlocutory decrees granting
injunctions, followed by the decision of that court reversing in part and affirming in part, did not result in a decree more final than the one reviewed, .The prayer for
relief based upon infringement of patent and that based
upon unfair competition iji trade were but parts of a
single suit in equity. The decree entered pursuant to the
decision of the appellate court, did not bring the suit to
a conclusion for either purpose. As to unfair competition,
it evidenced a quasi-definitive decision in plaintiffs'
favor, but an inquiry before a master still was necessary
before final decree could pass; an inquiry not formal or
ministerial but judicial, in order to ascertain the amount
of the damages to be awarded. As to the claim of patent
infringement, the decree evidenced a quasi-definitive decision adverse to plaintiffs, which, if nothing occurred to
prevent, would in due course be carried into the final decree. But it did not constitute a separation of the cause,
nor dismiss defendant from the jurisdiction for any purpose; necessarily this decision remained in abeyance until
the cause should be ripe for finaldecree; there was nothing to take the case out of the ordinary rule that there
ian be but one final decree in a suit in equity.

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518, 525, where
it was held by this court, after some diversity of opinion
among the Circuit Courts of Appeals of the different circuits, that an appeal to one of those courts under § 7
of the Act of 1891, from which § 129 Judicial Code was
derived, taken from an interlocutory decree granting an
injunction and awarding an accounting in a patent case,
conferred jurisdiction upon the appellate court to consider and decide the case upon its merits, and thereupon
direct a final decree dismissing the bill, if in its judgment it had no equity to support it, differed vitally from
the case before us, since there an adverse decision upon
the patent disposed of the entire merits, the suit having
no other object. Nor was the situation presented in the
present case analogous to that passed upon by this court
in Hill v. Chicago & Evanston R. R. Co., 140 U. S. 52,
which arose out of its decision in 129 U. S. 170. There a
decree was held final for the purposes of an appeal, which
dismissed the bill as to. certain parties- and denied relief
"upon all matters and things in controversy," although it
left undetermined a severable matter in which those
parties had no interest. The test of finality here to be
applied is rather that exemplified by Keystone Manganese
& Iron Co. v. Martin, 132 U. S. 91, and cases cited. In
Ex parte National Enameling & Stamping Co., 201 U. S.
156, 165, it was pointed out that the rule of the Hill Case
cannot apply to a case in which there is but a single defendant.
Regarding, therefore, the decree of January 5, 1916, as
an interlocutory not a final one, there is neither technical
nor substantial ground for applying to it the rules pertaining to a bill of review, and the bill herein called such
is to be treated as essentially a petition for rehearing.
By the 69th Equity Rule (226 U. S. 669) such a petition
is in order at the term of the entry of the final decree;
and, of course, if an interlocutory decree be involved, a

SIMMONS CO. v. GRIER BROS. CO.
82.

Opinion of the Court.

rehearing may be sought at any timo before final decree,
provided due diligence be employed and a revision be
otherwise consonant with equity.
As the decree in question was entered pursuant to the
mandate of an appellate. court, proper deference to its
authority required that a proceeding to reopen it, whether
by rehearing or review, should be first referred to that
tribunal. Southard v. Russell, 16 How. 547, 570-571; In
re Potts, 166 U. S. 263, 267; National Brake & Electric
Co. v. Christensen,254 U. S. 425, 430-431.
That having been done in this case, and leave for the
purpose obtained (leave to grant a "review" fairly included any step short of that), what obstacle stood in
the way of correcting the decree? The suit was still pending; plaintiffs applied promptly after the decision of
this court in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. suit, 245 U. S.
198. It was eminently proper that the decree in the present suit should be made to conform to that decision, in
the absence of some special obstacle. We cannot assent
to the view of the court below that plaintiffs may be
regarded as consenting to the decree of January 5, 1916;
they simply accepted an adverse decision as to a part of
their suit, not open to.further appeal at their instance,
and proceeded in the orderly mode to pursue their suit
as to the rest. They were not guilty of laches for omitting
at that stage to make application to this court for allowance of a writ of certiorari. That mode of review is not
a right of the party, but lies in this court's discretion; peradventure the very fact that a final decree had not yet
been entered might have been deemed a sufficient ground
for refusing the writ. Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf
Brothers& Co., 240 U. S. 251, 254, 257-258.
Our decision in Abercrombie & Fitch Co. v. Baldwin,
245 U. S. 198, must be taken as not only demonstrating
that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in its disposition
of this case upon the first appeal (219 Fed. 735), but that

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondent.

258 U. S.

the error, even though not amounting to "error apparent," within the meaning of Lord Bacon's first ordinance, afforded ample ground for setting matters right
upon a rehearing before final decree, as was in effect done
by the District Court. No sufficient ground is shown for
the reversal of its latest decree.
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,
and that of the District Court affirmed; and the
cause remanded to that court for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
REED, ADMINISTRATRIX OF REED, v. DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, UNITED
STATES RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, OPERATING PHILADELPHIA & READING RAILROAD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 78.

Argued January 13, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

In actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the doctrine
of assumption of risk has no application when the negligence of a
fellow servant which the injured party could not have foreseen
is the sole, direct and immediate cause of the injury. P. 95.
267 Pa. St. 86, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, reversing a judgment for the plaintiff, the
present petitioner, in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and directing entry of judgment for
the respondent, non obstante veredicto.

M1r. John J. McDevitt, Jr., with whom Mr. FrederickS.
Tyler was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Win. Clarke Mason for respondent.
The case is determined by Seaboard Air Line Ry. v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, and Boldt v. Pennsulvania R. R.

