VIGLIOTTI v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

888.

tual experience of the utility might show it entitled to;
and the decree was thereupon entered without prejudice.
The District Judge refused a temporary injunction and
did not exact a bond. Hence the only relief we can grant
is such as operates in futuro.. Compare Duplex Printing
Press Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443, 464. An injunction
should not issue now, unless conditions are such that the
prescribed rate is confiscatory. As by the reservation in
the decree appellant may secure protection against the
ordinance if under 'existing conditions the five-cent rate
appears to be inadequate, the decree should be affirmed.
Compare Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co. v. Lincoln,
250 U. S. 256, 268; Ex parte Lincoln Gas & Electric Light
Co., 256 U. S. 512; 257 U. S. 6.
Decree affirmed.
VIGLIOTTI v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OP THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 530. Argued March 14, 1922.--Decided April 10, 1922.
The law of Pennsylvania of May 13,
which prohibits sale of spirituous
at variance with but rather in
Eighteenth Amendment and the
was not superseded by them. P.
271 Pa. St. 10, affirmed.

1887, known as the Brooks Law,
liquor without a license, 'is not
aid of the prohibitions of the
National Prohibition Act, and
408.

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirming a conviction and sentence of the plaintiff in error for a violation of a law of the State against
selling liquor without a license.
ERROR

Mr. Frank Davis, Jr., and Mr. H. S. Dumbauld, with
whom Mr. E. C. Higbee and Mr. A. E. Jones were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
9544°-23-----29

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

258 U. S.

The Brooks Law is a regulation of the sale of intoxicating liquors. Schlaudecker v. Marshall, 72 Pa. St. 200,
206; Raudenbusch's Petition, 120 Pa. St. 328; Venango
County Liquor License, 58 Pa. Super. Ct. 277; Gregg's
License,.36 Pa. Super. Ct. 633.
So much of the law as relates to liquors not intoxicating
in fact is only incidental to this primary object. Construed otherwise than as a regulation of the sale of intoxicating liquors, the law violates the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The law therefore conflicts with the Eighteenth Amendment, NationalProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350; and such
parts as do not are not separable and the statute must
fall as a, whole, Employers' Liability Cases, 204 U. S. 463;
Warren v. Mayor, 2 Gray, 84; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 564.
The purpose of the Eighteenth Amendment and the
Volstead Act is to annihilate the traffic in intoxicating
liquors and thereby eliminate the evils that flow from it.
The purpose of the Brooks Law was not to destroy this
traffic. It undertook to minimize the evils attendant upon
the unregulated sale of intoxicating liquors by establishing a system where such sales could be made only by
persons and 'at places licensed for that purpose by the
Courts of Quarter Sessions, to the extent that was nece§sary f6r the accommodation of the public.
The two systems are diametrically opposite. United
States v. Yuginovich, 256 U, S. 450; State ex rel. Rose v.
Donahey, 100 Oh. St. 104; Draper v. State, 6 Ga. App.
.12; State V. Tonks, 15 R. I. 385.
Section 1 of the Eighteenth Amendment is an absolute
prohibition throughout the entire territorial limits of the
United. States. National Prbhibition Cases, 253 U. S.
350. In and of itself it conferred upon Congress a power
to legislate for its enforcement. Concurring opinion
White. Ch. J.. 253 U. S. 390; Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 18.

VIGLIOTTI v. PENNSYLVANIA.
403.

405

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The Thirteenth Amendment, § 1, is closely analogous.
Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S. .3. The whole subjectmatter of the manufacture, importation, exportation,
transportation and sale of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes is lifted out of the control of the States and
by the fundamental law of the United States absolutely
prohibited. The Amendment transferred this subjectmatter from the sovereignty of the respective States to
the sovereignty of the United States.
The object of the Amendment was to destroy the governmental power of the several States in respect of the
subject-matter embraced in it. The police power of the
State is -actually abolished so far as intoxicating liquors
for beverage purposes are concerned. Katz v. Eldredge,
117 Atl. 841.
Since the prohibition of § 1 of the Amendment is national, Congress, the agency of national power, has the
right in virtue of that section to define prohibited beverages and enact suitable regulations and provide adequate
penalties to effectuate and enforce it.
The right of the States is to enforce the Amendment, as
defined and sanctioned by Congress, by appropriate legislation. Section 2 of the Amendment is: "The Congress
and the several States shall have concurrent power to
enforce this article by appropriate legislation." Since the
same power is lodged in the States by the same words that
confer it upon Congress, the fair inference is that it was
'in like manner conferred upon the States and not reserved
to them.
Since § 1 in and of itself destroyed the police powers of
the States so far as intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes are concerned, the only power of the States in connection therewith must be that granted by the Amendment itself.
The power thus granted is limited to enforcement of
the Amendment, but as Congress had power and right

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argumenit for Plaintiff in Error.

258 U. S

independently of § 2, to prescribe definitions of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes and to make regulations and provide penalties, the power conferred by
§ 2 is additional or supplemental to that, and the States
have no greater or different power from that specifically
conferred upon Congress.' National Prohibition Cases,
supra, 391.
In legislating for the enforcement of the Amendment,
the States do not act in virtue of their police powers inherently possessed as sovereigns, but in virtue of a power
conferred upon them by the people of the United States.
In this respect they are administrative agents or mandataries of the United States. National ProhibitionCases,
supra, 387, conclusions 7 and 8.
In enacting legislation for the enforcement of § 1 of
the Eighteenth Amendment, Congress could have provided that, like the naturalization laws, it might be enforced in the state 'Courts, even if § 2 did not exist, tut it
would not be required to do so. Section 2 does not leavc
it optional with Congress. Each State may determine for
itself, whether it will enforce the Amendment. If it determines to do so, it is the Amendment as already made completely operative by congressional action that is to be
enforced.
These questiong have been considered by
the Supreme
Courts of a number of States. Commonwealth v. Nickerson, 236 Mass. 281; St'ate v. DistrictCourt, 58 Mont. 684;
State v. Fore, 180 N. Car. 744; People v. Foley, 184 N. Y.
S. 270; Allen v. Commonwealth, 129. Va. 723; Jones v.
Hi~ks, 150 Ga. 657; State v. Green, 148 La. 376; Hall v.
Moran, 81 Fla, 706; Burrows vr. Moran, 81 FLa. 662; Johnson v. State, 81 Fla. 783.
Mr. George E. Alter, Attorney General of the State of
Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. William A. Miller was on
the brief, for defendant in error.

VIGLIOTTI v. PENNSYLVANIA.
403.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BVRiDins delivered the opinion of the

court.
In the. Court of Quarter Sessions of Fayette County,
Pennsylvania, Vigliotti was found guilty of selling, during
the spring of 1920, spirituous liquor without a license, in
violation of § 15 of the Act of May 13, 1887, P. L. 108,
known as the Brooks Law. The liquor so sold was a
preparation called Jamaica Ginger containing 88 per cent.
of alcohol. The defendant claimed seasonably that the
state law as applied deprived him .of rights guaranteed
by the Federal Constitution, because the sales complained
of had been made after January 16, 1920, when the
Eighteenth Amendment became effective, after which
the Volstead Act was the only law applicable to sales of
intoxicating liquors. This claim was overruled by the
trial court; the defendant was sentenced; the judgment
was affirmed by both the Superior Court, 75 Pa. Super. Ct.
366, and the Supreme Court of the State, 271 Pa. St. 10;
and the case comes here on writ of error under § 237 of
the Judicial Code as amended. The question presented
for our decision is whether the provision of the Brooks
Law here applied had been superseded by the Eighteenth
Amendment and the Volstead Act.
The Brooks Law, as construed by the courts of the State,
prohibits every sale of spirituous liquor without a license,
excepting only such sales as are made by druggists; and
these are forbidden to sell intoxicating liquors except on
prescription of a regular physician. The law applies however small the percentage of alcohol and although the
liquor is not intoxicating. It applies to liquor sold solely
for industrial uses. It does not purport to confer upon
anyone anywhere the right to a license; nor does it
authorize the sale of liquor in any city or county having
a special prohibitory law. It merely grants to the appropriate Qfficials, where such authority exists, discretion to

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

give or to withhold the license under the conditions prescribed. In case of an indictment for selling without a
license, a sale is presumed to be unlawful and the burden
is on the defendant to show the authority on which he
acted. It is thus primarily a prohibitory law; and its prohibitory features are not so dependent upon those respecting license as to be swept away by the.Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act. The Supreme Court declared
further that "the Brooks Law still survives, as Pennsylvania's own police power method of officially listing and
adequately controlling the customary sources of general
supply and distribution, to the peoples within her borders,
of those kinds of liquors among which intoxicating beverages are usually found, and she may thus assist in
prohibiting their illegal use as such." 271 Pa. St. 15.
We, of course, aacept as controlling the construction given
to the statute by the highest court of the State. The
question before us is whether so construed the statute
violates the Federal Constitution.
The Brooks Law as thus construed does not purport to
authorize or sanction anything which the Eighteenth
Amendment or the Volstead Act prohibits. And there is
nothing in it which conflicts with any provision of either.
It is merely an additional instrument which the State
supplies in the effort to make prohibition effective. That
the State may by appropriate legislation exercise its police
power to that end was expressly provided in § 2 of the
Amendment which declares that "Congress and the
several States shall have concurrent power to enforce
this article by appropriate legislation." National Prohibition Cases, 253 U. S.350, 387. That the Brooks Law as
construed is appropriate legislation is likewise clear. To
prohibit every sale of spirituous liquors except by licensed
persons may certainly aid in preventing sales for beverage
purposes of liquor containing as much as one-half of one
per cent. of alcohol; and that is what the Volstead Act

OREGON-WASHINGTON CO. v. McGINN.
403.

409

Statement of the Case.

prohibits. If the Brooks Law as construed had been
enacted the day after the adoption of the Amendment it
would obviously have been "appropriate legislation." It
is not less so because it was already in existence.
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE DAY and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs dissent.

OREGON-WASHINGTON RAILROAD & NAVIGATION COMPANY v. McGINN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 170. Argued March 17, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922..
1. In the absence of a statute or special contract, the liability of a
connecting qarrier on a through route for the safety of freight begins when it receives it and is discharged by its delivery to and
acceptance by the succeeding carrier or its authorized agent. P. 413.
2. The Cummins Amendment deals with and modifies the commonlaw liability only of the initial carrier, xendering that carrier liable
for loss or-damage of property con~mitted to its care until delivered
to the consignee, but leaving the relation of all connecting carriers, including the terminal carrier, to the shipper or consignee
or to each other, entirely unaffected. P. 413.
3. Where a bill of lading for a through sliipment of livestock provided that no carrier, except the initial carrier, should be liable for
loss or injury not caused by it, held that the terminal carrier was
not liable to the consignee for an injury on the line of an intermediate carrier. P. 412. Georgia, Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v.
Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190, distinguished.
265 Fed. 81, reversed.

CERTioRARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a judgment of the District Court adverse
to the plaintiff and present respondent, in ark action to
recover from the present petitioner for damages to livestock while in transitu.

