OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

BANKERS TRUST COMPANY v. CITY OF RATON
AND RATON WATER WORKS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.

No. 167.

Argued March 16, 17, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.

1. Where there were two statutes, an earlier empowering cities to
erect water works, if authorized by a majority of the voters, or
to grant the right to private individuals for a term not exceeding
25 years, and a later for the inborporation of water companios to
supply water to municipalities, with power to occupy the strecti
subject to regulation by the municipal authorities, and a company
entered a municipality under an ordinance, ratified by the citizens,
limiting its term to 25 years, held, that it was estopped by its
contract from claiming a perpetual franchise under the later
statute, and that, upon the expiration of the term, the municipality, as against the trustee for the company's bondholders, could
require that the pipes, etc., be removed from the streets. P. 334.
2. A bill which sought to enjoin a city from enforcing an ordinance revoking the rights of a water company under a prior
ordinance and requiring removal of its plant from the streets, and
which prayed also a money recovery for damages to its contract
rights and trespass upon its real property, held not multifarious.

P. 337.
3. In a suit in the District Court by a trustee for the bondholders
of a corporation to protect the corporate property, in their interest,
against destruction by a third party, the corporation properly may
be joined as a defendant. P. 337.

Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
for want of equity, the appellant's amended bill, in a suit
brought by it, as trustee for bondholders of the appellee
Water Company, to restrain the other appellee, the City
of Raton, from revoking the company's rights in the city
and ousting it from the streets, and to recover damages.

Mr. Alva B. Adams, with whom Mr. Robert S. Gast
was on the brief, for appellant.

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. RATON.
328.

Argument for Appellant.

The Raton Water Works Company was incorporated
under an Act of the Territory of New Mexico, passed
February 24, 1887, c. 12, Laws 1887.
By virtue of incorporation under that act and the provision of the articles of incorporation declaring that the
company was formed for the purpose of supplying water
to the Town of Raton and the inhabitants thereof, the
company became vested with the right to lay its mains
and pipes in any of the streets or alleys of Raton. This
right is unlimited in time but is subject to such regulations as may be provided by the corporate authorities of
the town.
Even if the Act of April 1, 1884, granting cities power
to grant franchises, had been subsequent to that of 1887,
the original statutory grant would not have been impaired.
It is not material whether these acts conflict, as in case
of conflict the 1884 statute. must yield; but an examination will show but slight, if any, conflict.
Acceptance of the provisions of Ordinance No. 10 has
not estopped the Water Company to rely upon the statutory grant. The statute does not give an exclusive right.
It provides that the laying of pipes riay be regulated by
the City and that the terms upon which water is supplied
may be agreed upon. The law of 1884 gave the City
power to enter into a contract for the furnishing to it of
water. All of these things were covered by the ordinance.
The City in order to induce the company to give it an
adequate water supply contracted that for a period of 25
years it would not enter into competition with the company,-an agreement it did not keep as is pointed out in
the bill. The ordinance further provided regulations as
to laying pipes and a schedule of rates for both city and
private consumers. There is thus no inconsistency in
accepting the added benefits and privileges of this ordinance and in retaining the unlimited franchise upon which
the company could rely and under which it could operate

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

after the period of 25 years had expired and it was no
longer entitled to the beneficial provisions of the ordinance. Northwestern Telephone Co. v. Minneapolis, 81
Minn. 140; Abbott v. Duluth, 104 Fed. 833; Wichita v.
Old Colony Trust Co., 1-32 Fed. 641.
A trustee for bondholders not only has the power but it
is its duty to invoke the aid of a court of equity to protect
the trust estate whenever the necessity arises.
Ordinance No. 197 is a law impairing the obligation of
the contract between the Raton Water Works Company
and New Mexico, and the bill clearly presents a question
over which the federal court has jurisdiction under ยง 10,
Art: I, of the Constitution. The cancelation of the company's franchise and the destruction of its easements and
valuable business rights is a taking of property without
compensation and without due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The bill also alleges that the City is taking the water
rights, reservoirs, and other property without compensation and without due process of law. The mortgagor is
not an indispensable party to the suit and a decree in
another action to which the trustee was not a party is not
res judicata against the trustee even though the same
issues were involve d. Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha,
230 U. S. 100, 122; Keokuk Co. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 313;
Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76 Fed. 296.
The bill is not multifarious.
Mr. John H. Fry for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Water Works Company is a corporation of New
Mexico and was incorporated to furnish the City of Raton
with water. Its system is constituted of pipes, mains, conduits, sources of water, reservoir sites, and' reservoirs.

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. RATON.
328.

Opinion of the Court.

(These accessories are to be understood when we use .the
word "system.")
The Bankers Trust Company, alleging itself to be the
successor of the original trustee in a deed of trust or mortgage executed by the Water Works Company to secure an
issue of bonds, brings this suit, (1) to enjoin the City from
enforcing an ordinance requiring the removal of the Water
Works Company's system from the City, (2) to enjoin the
disturbance of the system and to protect the enjoyment of
the Water Works Company of its water rights, (3) that
the City be required to pay the Trust Company such
sum as will compensate the bondholders for the loss and
injury to the trust property through the impairment and
breach of the contract through which, it is alleged, the
City gave exclusive rights to the Water Company to furnish water to the City.
To justify the relief prayed and to establish the jurisdiction of the District Court (and we may say of the appeal to this court) the Trust Company alleged that the
value of the matter in controversy exceeds $3,000, and
involves the Constitution of the United States because the
acts of the City produced the results from which relief is
prayed by violating the contract the City entered into
with the Water Works Company, and will deprive the
Trust Company of its property without due process of law
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The bill is very long and
replete with repetitions. but, -as it constitutes the case, we.
give a summary of it a-lollows:
The Town of Raton (it was then a town) having no
water supply the Raton Water Company was incorporated
and constructed a system to furnish water to the town.
* The town grew and 4ts officials and citizens induced the
incorporation of the Raton Water Works Company and
selected its present source of the supply of water. The
Company then began and completed its water system

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S

and subsequently purchased the property and rights of the
Raton Water Company.
On or about July 20, 1891, the Water Works Company
and the City entered into a contract evidenced by an ordinance by which the Company agreed to furnish water to
the City for a period of 25 years and the City agreed that
it would not operate or maintain water works in or near
the town for the same period from July 25, 1891, and also
agreed to pay a rental for fire hydrants for the same time
at a rate fixed in the ordinance.
The ordinance was known as Ordinance No. 10. It was
ratified by a vote of the citizens of the town and accepted
by the Company.
The Company constructed a system in accordance with
the contract and the act of its incorporation, and has performed its terms and conditions. And it has become the
owner of valuable and extensive water rights, reservoirs,
and reservoir sites.
On February 1, 1905, the Water Works Company executed and delivered to the Manhattan Trust Company of
New York a deed of trust conveying all of its property,
rights, privileges and franchises to secure an issue of bonds
to the amount of $300,000. "The Bankers Trust Company . . . has duly succeeded to all the rights, duties
and obligations of the Manhattan Trust Company under
and by virtue of the provisions of said deed of trust and
now is the duly qualified and acting trustee under said
mortgage or deed of trust." The bonds are outstanding in
the hands of holders in due course and for value, and none
have been paid or otherwise cancelled or satisfied.
The City in 1912 began steps with intention to impair
the contract between it and the Water Works Company
and, after an election authorizing an issue of bonds for the
purpose of constructing a water works system, proceeded,
in accordance with an ordinance passed July 16, 1913, to
the construction of a water works system and erected fire

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. RATON.
328.

Opinion of the Court.

hydrants, prior to the expiration of the Company's exclusive contract, which caused the revenues and income
from the latter to be impaired and reduced to the extent
of over $30,000.
The City ordered the Company to remove its system,
and on August 6, 1.915, by an ordinance, repealed Ordinance No. 10 and revoked all the rights conferred by
it and ordered the Company to immediately remove
its system, and the Mayor, Clerk, and City Attorney
were directed to enforce the ordinance, which took effect
five days after its passage and repealed all other ordinances. The ordinance was known as Ordinance No. 197.
The only source of supply for the City's system is
that 6f the Water Works Company, and the City has
taken possession of a portion of the reservoirs of the
Company, and such taking is a deprivation of the property of the Company without due process of law.
Other deprivations are alleged, and that the City has
occupied with some of its works the lands of the Company .more than two miles from the exterior boundaries
of the City.
The only source of income to the Company is the
system and lands thus taken.
At the time of filing the original bill there were pending two actions between the Water Works Company
and the City, one of which was in the United States
court and the other in the state court-in each of which
there were matters pertinent and material to the cause
of the complainant in this action. By stipulation, this
case was delayed to await the final determination of those
actions and the bill here has been amended to present
the issues as they may have been changed or affected
by those decisions and the lapse of time and events since
filing the original bill.
The City moved to dismiss the bill on the ground,
among others, (the others will be considered later), that

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a valid cause
of action in equity. The motion was granted. This
appeal attacks that action. The grounds of the attack
seem to have for their principal basis the Act of New
Mexico passed February 24, 1887, ยง 24 of which authorized the incorporation of water companies to supply water
to towns and cities, with the power to lay mains or pipes
in, along,, and upon the public streets or alleys of the
town or city, subject to such regulations as may be provided by the corporate authorities of the city or town.
and to furnish and supply such city or town or the inhabitants thereof with water, upon such terms and conditions as may be fixed by such corporations or as may
be agreed to by the consumers and such corporations.
It is contended that the act gave a franchise unlimited
in duration, subject, however, to regulation by the town
or city.
And it is further contended, in opposition to a contention of the City, that a prior act (April 1, 1884) which
gave a city the power to erect water works if authorized
by a majority of the voters of the city, or the right to
grant private individuals such power for a term not exceeding 25 years, was repealed by the Act of February
24, 1887.
The contentions of the parties are, therefore, in sharp
contrast. Appellant contends that the Water Company
had a perpetual right in the City, 1not subject to interference by the City," and, though not exclusive, by the contract with the City evidenced by Ordinance No. 10 it
was preserved from competition by the City, and that
the Act of 1887 and the ordinance constituted a contract
'Wichita v. Old Colony Trust Co., 132 Fed. 641; Michigan Telephone Co. v. Benton Harbor, 121 Mich. 512; Wisconsin Telephone
Co. v. Oshkosh, 62 Wis. 32; Northwestern Telephone Exchange Co.
v. Minneapolis, 81 Minn. 140; New Castle v. Lake Erie & Western
-R. R. Co., 155 Ind. 18.

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. RATON.
328.

Opinion of-the Court.

with the State that was inviolable under the Constitution
of the United States, and, therefore, invulnerable to Ordinance No. 197 repealing Ordinance No. 10 and ordering
the Company from the City.
The opposing contention of the City is that there is
no inharmony between the Act of 1884 and the Act of
1887, that they have co6rdinate purpose-the Act of
1887 giving a company incorporated under it the capacity
to receive a grant from a city with power of regulation
by the city. It is further contended the Water Company
recognized this and applied to the City for a grant, and
that, in response to the application, the City enacted
Ordinance No. 10, and exercised the power of regulation
conferred by the Act of 1887 by fixing the-duration of
the grant at twenty-five years from July 25, 1891. It
was accepted by the Company with that limitation and,
it is the contention, by the application and acceptance
it is estopped to deny that its right to furnish water to
the City was derived from the contract with the City.
We are not called upon to review in detail the contentions and consider their various.;elem' ts. We concur in
the view of the City that the Water Works Company is
estopped by its contract with the City, evidenced by
Ordinance No. 10 (which -we may remark was ratified by
a vote of the citizens of the City), and we construe it as
the City construes it. From what act the power to enact
it was derived we need not pronounce. We may say, however, that the Supreme Court of the State in Raton
Waterworks Co. v. City of Raton, 22 N. Mex. 464, said the
franchise of the Company was granted by an ordinance
of the City, and certainly the -bill in this case shows that
its term was -fixed at twenty-five years from-July 25, 1891.
The term, therefore, had expired when the amended bill
was filed. The term of the rights having- expired, , necessarily the rights granted expired, and the City cannot be
enjoined from requiring the removal of the Company's

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

system from the streets of the City. Whatever rights of
property appellant may have in its reservoirs and in the
land upon which they are located may be the subject of
other actions if the City asserts rights to them that have
not been adjudicated. Some of them, it may be all of
them, have been adjudicated.
One of the suits referred to in our summary of the bill
as pending when the original bill was filed (October 27,
1915), was brought by the Water Works Company against
the City in the District Court from which this appeal is
taken. From the opinion of the court, annexed to the
City's brief, about the same questions here presented were
there presented, and it was decided that the repeal of
Ordinance No. 10 was justified because of the failure of
the Water Works Company to furnish pure and wholesome water. And it was decided that the ordinance gave
the City the power of revocation and the power was
legally exercised by the enactment of Ordinance No. 197
and. it should not be enjoined.
The relief prayed by the Company on account of the
occupation of its reservoir sites by the City was denied
because of a condemnation suit in a state court which
was proceeding, it was said, in due course. And we may
observe that in City of Raton v. Raton Ice Co., 191 Pac.
516, 'it is decided that the City has power of eminent
domain and can exercise it more than two miles froma the
city limits. The case passed on the condemnation of one
of the reservoir sites mentioned in the bill in this case.
The decision seems to be a refutation of some uf the
contentions of appellant.
The judgment of the District Court was appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appeals and dismissed on stipulation.
232 Fed. 1020.
We do not refer to the case as binding upon appellant
here but to present clearly that the principal question
presented by the present bill is the. right of the Trust

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. RATON.
328.

Opinion of the Court.

Company under a prior trust deed covering the rights of
the Water Company to occupy the streets of the City
notwithstanding the expiration of the time given to the
Company by Ordinance No. 10. The time having expired, the conduct of the City prior to its expiration is
not important to consider.
The other grounds of dismissal were: (1) There was
misjoinder of parties defendant in that the Water Works
Company, the owner of the system, should have been
joined with the Trust Company as complainant, and that
there was no allegation that it refused to join as complainant. (2) There was a misjoinder of parties defendant in that the Water Works Company is made defendant o
when it should have been made complainant. (3) There
was a misjoinder of causes of action in that the bill set
forth at least three independent causes of action: (a)
action for damages, (b) action to enjoin the enforcement
of Ordinance No. 197, (c) trespass by the City upon
certain real property of the Water Works Company. As
to the latter grounds, that is, the union of independent
causes of action, it is not very substantial. They are but
the specifications of the elements of the right of suit, that
is, the equity that appellant has. In other words, they are
the enumeration of the elements of the asserted aggression upon the Company and in emphasis of it. The other
grounds of the motion to dismiss are untenable. Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S. 100.
Decree affirmed.

