OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

court may be, even if the error be in the assumption ot
the validity of a seeming but void law going to the merits
of the case. It is for the court of first instance to determine the question of the validity of the law, and until
its decision is reversed for error by orderly review, either
by itself or by a higher court, its orders based on its decision are to be respected, and disobedience of them is contempt of its lawful authority, to be punished. Gompers
v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, 450; Toy Toy
v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542, 548. See also United States v.
Shipp, 203 U. S. 563, 573.
•It is to be observed, moreover, that the injunction suit
in the District Court was not the enforcement of the
Industrial Relations Court Act. It was a proceeding
wholly independent of that act and the District Court
in entertaining it did not depend on the constitutionality
of that act for its jurisdiction or the justification of its
order. The State Supreme Court, it is true, did go into an
extended discussion of the constitutional principles upon
which the Industrial Court Act could in its opinion validly rest, but, as the court itself had before intimated, the
discussion was not necessary to the conclusion which it
had reached in sustaining the sentence for contempt.
As the matter was disposed of in the state courts on
principles of general, and not federal law, we have no
choice but to dismiss the writ of error as in No. 154.
Writs of error dismissed.
ATCHAFALAYA LAND COMPANY, LIMITED, ET
AL. v. F. B. WILLIAMS CYPRESS COMPANY,
LIMITED.
ERROR TO'TIIE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 106.

Argued March 3, 1922.-Decided March 13, 1922.

A statute limiting the time within which actions may be brought to
annul state patents for land and which, applied to a given case,

ATCHAFALAYA CO. v. WILLIAMS CO.
190.

191

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

prevents a senior grantee or contractee from asserting his rights,
accrued before the passage of the statute, against a junior patentee
of the same land, does not deprive him of property without due
,process or impair the obligation of his contract if it allows a
reasonable time after its enactment within which his suit may be
begun. P. 197.
146 La. 1047, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana reversing a judgment in favor of the present plaintiffs in error in a suit to have the Land Company's title
adjudged superior and the Cypress Company's patents
annulled.

Mr. Walter J. Burke, with whom Mr. Ventress J.
Smith, Mr. F. Ernest Delahoussaye, Mr. Charles F. Consaul and Mr. Jacob H. Morrison were on the briefs, for
plaintiffs in error.
The grant by the State to the Board of Commissioners
was a grant in praesenti. The terms of this grant further
left it entirely at the option of the grantee when to require a title deed to be executed to it.
Decisions of the State Supreme Court interpreting this
very contract in two cases as withdrawing the lands from
sale by the State and conveying a continuing title deed
became a part of the contract.
After the grant by the State to the Board, the Register
of the State Land Office was deprived of any authority to
sell the lands in the name of the State.
After the Board, under the specific legislative authority
to sell the lands granted it, did sell all of its rights, with
the right to secure title deed in the same manner as the
Board might do, the legislature could not, directly or indirectly, impair the contract by changing the term of its
execution, or rights of enforcement, from a continuing
one, to one limited by a statute of limitation.
A legislative provision to the effect that, whenever a
patent issued by the Register of the State Land Office is

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

signed by the Governor and is recorded in the manner
prescribed, it is unassailable after six years, must be interpreted to refer to such lands as the State owns and for
which it might authorize the issuance of patent. The
statute is one of repose for the benefit of owners of patent
lands where the right of the officer to issue might be
doubted. It cannot be interpreted to prevent the owners
of property rights from contesting a wrongful divestiture
of title.' Such an application in the instant case would
be a divestiture of vested rights without due process of
law, and an impairment of the contract.
While the parties to a contract must contract with
knowledge that the legislature may change the remedy,
may even change the prescriptive term within which the
parties may sue to enforce contracts,.this rule does not
apply to clauses written in the contract, of its substance
and nature, either as to the mode .of executing the contract between the parties, or as to the time within which
it must be executed. That which is written in the contract, as part thereof, is so much of the essence of the obligation that it cannot be affected by legislation.
Mr. Charles F. Borah, Mr. J. Blanc Monroe and Mr
Monte M. Lemann, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit by the Atchafalaya Land Company to have declared nuil and void certain patents issued by the Register
of the State Land Office of Louisiana to a partnership
composed of John N. Pharr and Frank B. Williams, of
which the F. B. Williams Cypress Company became
grantee May 23, 1903; and that the lands of the patents
be adjudged to have been included in the grant of the
State to the Board of Commissioners of-the Atchafalaya

ATCHAFALAYA CO. v. WILLIAMS CO.
190.

193

Opinion of the Court.

Basin Levee District anterior to the patent to Pharr aid
Williams, and by the Board of Commissioners transferred
to Edward Wisner and J. M. Dresser, under a contract
dated' July, 1900, confirmed April 11, 1904, and by them
to the Land Company.
It was prayed that the Board of Commissioners be cited
to join in the vindication of the Land Company's rights.
The Board responded to the citation by intervening,
answering and joining in the prayer of the bill. The other
plaintiff in error also intervened.
The answer of the Cypress Company brought into the
case a statute of limitations of the State approved July 5,
1912, Act No. 62, that prescribes the time of bringing
suits which attack patents from the State, or any transfer
of property by any subdivision of the State.'
This suit was not brought within the time prescribed.2
The following are the other facts, stated narratively:
The State of Louisiana is the grantee under the Acts of
Congress of 1849 and 1850 of the. swamp and overflowed
lands in the State.
The State in 1890 [Act No. 97] created the Board of
Commissioners of the Atchafalaya Basin Levee District
I " Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, etc., That all suits or proceedings of the State of Louisiana,
private corporations, partnerships or persons to vacate and annul
any patent issued by the State of Louisiana, duly signed by the
Governor of the State and the Register of the State Land Office,
and of record in Ihe State Land Office, or any transfer of property by
any sub-division of the State, shall be brought only within six
years of the issuance of patent, provided, that suits to annul patents
previously issued shall be brought within six years from the passage
of this Act."
2It
was not brought until April 26, 1919,'that is, six years and
nearly ten months after the passage of the statute, nearly nineteen
years after Wisner and Dresser acquired the claim of the Board of
Commissioners, and more than twenty-eight years after the Pharr
and Williams patents were recorded.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

and constituted it a corporate body. The act created the
LeveeDistrict and declared that all lands in the District
then belonging to the State or that might thereafter be
acquired, were thereby granted to the Board of Commissioners of the District. And it was further provided, to
accommodate the time for redemption of the lands sold
for taxes, even those forfeited for non-payment, after the
expiration of six months from the passage of the act, that
it should be the duty of the State Auditor and the Register of the State Lafid Office to convey the lands to the
Board of Commissioners whenever requested to do so by
the Board or its president, and that after the recording
of the instruments of conveyance the title and possession
of the lands should vest absolutely in the Board, its successois or grantees.
This request was not made but the Board nevertheless,
sold to Edward Wisner and John M. Dresser the lands
in controversy and bound itself in the instrument of conveyance "to lend itself, with all its rights, powers and
privileges and prerogatives to perfect its title or the title
acquired under this agreement to all lands which it could
have and [Wisner and Dresser] can now justly lay claim
to and to do so whenever so requested,
"
The Land Company has become the assignee and representative of Wisner and Dresser with their rights. The
Lumber Company has acquired rightg to the timber on
the land and to that extent claims to be entitled to
call for a conveyance.
The Board of Commissioners in view of having bound
itself to make deed to Wisner -and Dresser unites with the
Land Company and the Lumber Company, as we have
said, to seek the relief desired by them, which includes the
cancellation of patents issued to the partnership composed of John N. Pharr and F. B. Williams (of which the
Williams Cypress Company is grantee) and the recognition of title in the Land and Lumber Companies.

ATCHAFALAYA CO. v. WILLIAMS CO.
190.

Opinion of the Court.

To the cause of'action thus stated, the Cypress Company pleaded the statute of the State heretofore referred
to limiting the time of suit.
In reply to the plea of the statute the Land Company
and interveners averred that its application would violate
the Constitution of the United States in that it would deprive them of their property without due process of law,
and would impair the obligation of the contract entered
into between the State and the Board of Commissioners
of the Levee District and Wisner and Dresser and their
assignees.
The specification of this effect is that the grant from the
State to the Board of -Levee Commissioners took from the
State the right to otherwise dispose of the lands, and
further, that the right to acquire by transfer from the
State was perpetual, and that this right constituted a contract, and the right to demand perfection of the title was
in the Board of Commissioners or its assignees, and that
these rights were the obligation of the contract, and would
be violated by the prescription act.
The trial court (19th Judicial District Court in and for
the Parish of Iberia) accepted this view and adjudged to
the Land Company and interveners the relief and judgment prayed for.
Upon appeal of the Cypress Company the Supreme
Court reversed the decree and adjudged that the plea of
prescription should have been sustained, and that the
demands of the Land Company and interveners should
have been denied and rejected.
. The court recited the facts, as we have stated
them, and
that, within six months after the statute was passed (July
8, 1890) granting the lands to the Board of Commissioners,
Pharr and Williams made cash purchases of the lands now
in controversy and obtained the patents in contest which
were promptly recorded. The cotirt stated further that
Pharr sold his interest in the lands to Williams in 1892
9544-23-16

OCT6BER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

and Williams sold the lands to the Cypress Company in
1903 and the deed was duly recorded, and that the Company immediately went into possession of the lands and
exercised ownership upon them, and has ever since exercised ownership in various ways to the date of filing its
answer, and it and its grantors have since 1890 paid the
taxes on the lands. The court pointed out that no instrunent of conveyance was ever made to the Board of Comnissioners nor was there any request made for the same
.s provided for in the Act of 1890.
The court decided these were indispensable conditions
Jnd, they not having been performed, no indefeasible title
passed or could pass to the Board or its assignees. Or, to
quote the court, it quoting a state decision, "the board of
commissioners of the levee district could not convey a
perfect title, or title indefeasible at the instance of the
state, for any land in the district, before the board had
obtained and recorded an instrument of conveyance of the
land, in the manner required by the statute creating the
levee district," and that until such time "the lands remained under legislative control by the state, as well after
as before the board of commissioners contracted with
Wisner and Dresser." The conclusion of the court was
that "the Legislature, therefore, had power, at any time,
to limit the time within which the board of commissioners
of the levee district could lay claim to lands that had been
disposed of by the state directly in favor of individuals or
private corporations ", and that this power was exercised
by the act of prescription. It was the decision of the court,
therefore, that the Land Company's predecessors, Wisner
and Dresser, did not acquire a vested interest in the lands
as plaintiffs in error contend.
Plaintiffs in error vigorously contest the conclusions of
the court and contend that they are contrary to prior decisions. The exigencies of the case do not call for an arbitration of the contest. We are concerned alone with the

ATCHAFALAYA CO. v. WILLIAMS CO.
190.

197

Opinion of the Court.

power of the State to pass the statute of limitations of
1912, and we agree with the Supreme Court that such
statutes are valid if they allow a reasonable time after
their enactment for the assertion of an existing right or
the enforcement of an existing obligation, and certainly
the condition was satisfied by -the statute of 1912. Besides having over six years after its enactment to assert
their rights, plaintiffs in error, adding their time and that
of their predecessors, had nearly a quarter of a century to
confirm and fix whatever rights they had to the lands in
controversy.
Passing, however, all considerations of details and local
aspects of the case, we are of the opinion that none of the
invoked provisions of the Constitution of the United
States is offended even under the construction plaintiffs
in error give to the asserted grant to the Board of Commissioners and its conveyance to Wisner and Dresser.
The act of prescription was a proper exercise of sovereignty. The State could recognize, as it did recognize,
that there might be claims derived from it, asserted or to
be asserted, rightfully or wrongfully, involving conflicts
which should be decided and quieted in the public interest,
and therefore, enacted the statute. And such is the rationale of statutes of limitations. They do not necessarily lessen rights of property or impair the obligation
of contracts. Their requirement is that the rights and
obligations be asserted within a prescribed time. If that
be adequate, the requirement is legal, and its justice and
wisdom have the testimony of the practices of the world.
Decree affirmed.

