50

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Estill, 147 U. S. 91, 619, 622.
St. 3 & 4 Win. IV, c. 42, § 29. In the circumstances of
this case we are of opinion that the judgment must stand.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY was absent and took no part in the
decision.
LEMKE, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NORTH DAKOTA, ET AL. v. FARMERS GRAIN
COMPANY OF EMBDEN, NORTH DAKOTA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 456. Argued November 14, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.
1. In a suit in the District Court which arises under a law of the
United States as well as under the Constitution, in that the bill
attacks a state statute both as violative of the Constitution directly
and as in conflict with an act of Congress, the judgment may be
reviewed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 52.
2. In the general and usual course of its trade, a North Dakota association bought grain in that State, placed it in its elevator, loaded
it promptly on cars and shipped to other States for sale. The grain,
even after loading, was subject to be diverted and sold locally if
the price was offered, but local sales were unusual, the company's
entire market, practically, being outside North Dakota. Held:
(a) That the business, including the buying of the grain in North
Dakota, was interstate commerce. P. 54. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282. (b) As applied to this business, a North Dakota statute, c. 138, Laws 1919, requiring purchasers of grain to obtain a license and pay a license fee, and to act
under a defined system of grading, inspection and weighing, and
subjecting the prices paid and profits made to regulation, was a
direct burden on interstate commerce. P. 55.
3. Even when the particular subject remains unregulated by Congress, a State cannot lay burdens on interstate commerce in the
guise of police regulations to protect the welfare of her people.
P. 58. Mllerchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365, distinguished.

LEMKE v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

4. A state statute unconstitutional in a part essential and vital to its
whole scheme, can not be enforced by this court in its other
provisions. P. 60.
273 Fed. 635, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing a decree of the District Court and directing
a permanent injunction in a suit against officials of North
Dakota, brought to restrain them from enforcing, against
the appellee, the North Dakota Grain Grading and Inspection Act. See also the next case, post, 65.
Mr. Seth W. Richardson, with whom Mr. William
Lemke, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota,
Mr. Karl Knox Gartner and Mr. George K. Foster were
on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. David F. Simpson, with whom Mr. W. A. McIntyre, Mr. 0. B. Burtness, Mr. Sveinbjorn Johnson, Mr.
William A. Lancaster,Mr. John Junell, Mr. James E. Dorsey and Mr. Harold G. Simpson were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the complainant, a codperative association incorporated under the laws of North
Dakota, and engaged in the business of operating a public
elevator and warehouse for the purchase, sale, distribution and storage of wheat, oats, rye, barley, seeds and
flax at the village of Embden in that State. The association retains no profit. If there is a surplus over operating expenses at the close of the season, such surplus is
distributed among the grain growers according to the
amount sold by each. The-purpose of the suit is to enjoin the enforcement of the North Dakota Grain Grading
and Inspection Act, passed February 11, 1919, c. 138.
North Dakota Laws, 1919. The bill, omitting allegations
9544°-23.-7

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

as to certain federal statutes which have become obsolete, is based upon two grounds: 1st. That the state
statute is an unlawful regulation of and burden upon
interstate commerce and, therefore, violates the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution. 2nd. That the
state statute is in conflict with the Federal Grain Standards Act of August 11, 1916, c.. 313, 39 Stat. 482, 485.
Upon filing its bill, complainant moved for a temporary
injunction, which application was heard bfore three federal judges. A notion to dismiss the'suit was also filed.
The court denied this motion and granted.a temporary
injunction, finding that the North Dakota law imposed
a substantial burden upon interstate commerce, and was
in conflict with the Federal Grain Standards Act. Afterwards an answer was filed by, the Attorney General of
North Dakota on behalf of all the defendants, and later
a separate answer was filed on behalf of Ladd'and McGovern, officials.-charged with the execution of the state
laws. Upon trial the District Court denied the injunction, and held that the state statute did not place a burden upon interstate commerce, and was not in conflict
with the Federal Grain Standards Act, and entered a
decree accordingly, from which appeal was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. That.
court reversed the decree of the District Court, held the
state statute unconstitutional, and invalid as in conflict
with the federal statute, and directed the issuance of a
permanent injunction to prevent the enforcement of the
state law. - 273 Fed. 635.
At the threshold we are met with a question of the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals to review the
decree of the District Court. It is well settled that when
the jurisdiction of the District Court rests solely upon an
attack upon a state statute because .of its alleged violation of the Federal Constitution, a direct appeal to this
court is the only method of review. § 238, Judicial Code.

LEMKE v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

53

Opinion of the Court.

CarolinaGlass Co. v. South Carolina, 240 U. S. 305, and
cases cited. It is equally well settled that where the
jurisdiction is invoked upon other federal grounds, as
well as the one attacking the constitutionality of a statute
of a State, an appeal may be taken to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, with ultimate review in this court if the cause
is within a class within our jurisdiction. In our view the
case falls within the class permitting appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Section 24, Judicial Code, gives
to the District Court jurisdiction of cases arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States. The attack upon the state statute because of its repugnancy to
the federal statute required a consideration and construction of both statutes, and their application to the facts
found. These considerations presented a ground of jurisdiction arising under a law of the United States, and was
not dependent solely upon the application and construction of the Federal Constitution. Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, 407; City of Pomona
v. Sunset Telephone Co., 224 U. S. 330. We, therefore,
hold that the Circuit Court of Appeals had jurisdiction
of the cause.
We pass to a consideration of the merits. The record
discloses that North Dakota is a great grain-growing State,
producing annually large crops, particularly wheat, for
transportation beyond its borders. Complainant, and
other buyers of like character, are owners of elevators and
purchasers of grain bought in North Dakota to be
shipped to and sold at terminal markets in other States,
the principal markets being at Minneapolis and Duluth.
There is practically no market in North Dakota for the
grain purchased by complainant. The Minneapolis prices
are received at the elevator of the complainant from Minneapolis four times daily, and are posted for the information of those interested. To these figures the buyer adds
the freight and his "spread," or margin, of profit. The

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

purchases are generally made with the intention of shipping the grain to Minneapolis. The grain is placed in the
elevator for shipment and loaded at once upon cars for
shipment to Minneapolis and elsewhere outside the State
of North Dakota. The producers know the basis upon
which- the grain is bought, but whoever pays the highest
price gets the grain, Minneapolis, Duluth or elsewhere.
This method of purchasing, shipment and sale is the general and usual course of business in the grain trade at the
elevator of complainant and others similarly situated.
The market- for grain bought at Embden is outside the
State of North Dakota, and it is an unusual thing to get
an offer from a point within the State. After the grain
is loaded upon. the cars it is generally consigned to a coinmission merchant at Minneapolis. At the terminal market the grain is inspected and graded by inspectors
licensed under federal law.
That such course of dealing constitutes interstate commerce, there can be no question. This court has so held in
many cases, and we have had occasion to discuss and decide the nature of such commerce in a case closely analogous in its facts, and altogether so in principle. DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant,257 U. S. 282. In that
case the facts disclose that a company organized in Tennessee and carrying on business there, went into Kentucky
and, through an agent there, bought wheat for shipment
to the company's mill in Tennessee. The state court held
that the transaction was merely a purchase of wheat in
Kentucky, and made the Tennessee company amenable to
the regulatory statutes of the State. This court rejected
the conclusion of the state court, and held that the buying, no less than the selling, of grain under such circumstances was a part of interstate commerce, committed to
national control by the Federal Constitution. Applying
the principle of that decision, and the previous decisions

LEMKE v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

of this court cited in the opinion, the complainant's course
of dealing in the buying of grain, which it purchased and
sold under the circumstances as herein disclosed, was interstate commerce. Being such, the State could not-regulate the business by a statute which had the effect to control and burden interstate commerce.
Nor is this conclusion opposed by cases decided in this
court and relied upon by appellants, in which we have had
occasion to define the line between state and federal authority under facts presented which required a definition
of interstate commerce where the right of state taxation
was involved, or manufacture or commerce of an intrastate character was the subject of consideration. In those
cases we have defined the beginning of interstate commerce as that time when goods begin their interstate
journey by delivery to a carrier or otherwise, thus passing
beyond state authority into the domain of federal control. Cases of that type are not in conflict with principles
recognized as controlling here. None of them indicates,
much less decides, that interstate commerce does not include the buying and selling of products for shipment beyond state lines. It is true, as appellants contend, that
after the wheat was delivered at complainant's elevator,
or loaded on the cars for shipment, it might have been diverted to a local market or sent to a local mill. But such
was not the course of business. The testimony shows that
practically all the wheat purchased by the complainant
-,was for shipment to and sale in the Minneapolis market.
That was the course of business, and fixed and determined the interstate character of the transactions. Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Eureka Pipe Line
Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265; and United Fuel Gas
Co. v. Hallanan,257 U. S. 277.
In view of this state of facts we come to inquire whether
the North Dakota statute is a regulation of interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

commerce, and, therefore, beyond the legislative power of
the State. Pertinent parts of the act are stated in the
margin.'
This act shows a comprehensive scheme to regulate the
buying of grain. Such purchases can only be made by
those who hold licenses from the State, pay state charges
for the same, and act under a system of grading, inspect'Authdrity is given to a State Inspector appointed by the Gover-

nor-(a) To appoint a Chief Deputy State Inspector of Grades, Weights
and Measures; a Chief Elevator Accountant; Deputy Inspector of
Grades, Weights and Measures; State Deputy Inspector of Grades,
Weights and Measures, and Warehouse Inspectors;
(b) To issue licenses to warehouses, buyers and solicitors of grain,
6eeds and other agricultural products;
(c) To establish uniform grades for grain, etc., for the State of
North Dakota; to alter and modify such grades;
(d) To establish uniform grade certificates used in marketing the
grain, etc.;
(e) To hear and determine appeals from State Deputy Inspectors and from Deputy Inspectors of Grades, Weights and Measures;
() To conduct investigations in regard to marketing, grading and
weighing of grain, etc.;
(i) To establish a reasonable margin to be paid producers of grain
by warehouses, elevators and mills;
(j) To fix and determine all charges for grading, inspecting and
weighing grain, etc.;
(k) To make rules, etc., to carry out the provisions of the act.
Sec. 3. It is made the duty of the Inspector of Grades, Weights
and Measures to define and establish uniform grades and weights
for grain, etc. In establishing such grades, dockage shall be consideied as being of two classes: (1st) that having value, (2nd) that having no value, the former to be paid for at its market value.
See. 4. The term "Deputy Inspector of Grades, Weights and
Measures" under this act means any firm, person, company, corporation or association that buys, weighs and grades grain, etc., and holds
a license issued therefor by the State Inspector of Grades, Weights
and Measures.
Sec. 5. The term "State Deputy Inspector of Grades, Weights and
Measures" within the meaning of this act is defined as one who is

LEMKE v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

ing and weighing fully defined in the act. Furthermore,
the grain can only be purchased subject to the power of
the state grain inspector to determine the margin of
profit which the buyer shall realize upon his purchase.
This authority is conferred in § 23, and the margin of
profit is defined to be the difference between the price
paid at the North Dakota elevator and the market price,
in the employment of the State of North Dakota and has received an
appointment from the State Inspector -of Grades, Weiglits and Measures.
Sec. 10. Deputy Inspectors shall weigh, inspect and grade grain
that shall be offered for sale or shipment at their market place, according to the provisions of this act and the rules and regulations
established by the State Inspector. They shall issue a certificate
stating the kind of grain, etc., giving the grade, test-weight per bushel
and the reason for all grades below number 1, and shall deliver to the
owner or agent of such grade said certificate; it is also made their
duty to accurately sample grain, etc., in wagon loads, carloads or
other containers and forward samliles thereof to the State Inspector
of Grades, Weights and-Measures when instructedby him to do so.
Sec. 11. The State Inspector may issue a license to any person engaged in buying, weighing and inspecting or grading grain, etc., or
to the buyer or agent of a privately or publicly owned warehouse,
elevator or flour mill, provided they pass an examination as to° their
competency at may be prescribed by the State Inspector; the license
requires such Deputy Inspectors to fix grades and dockage of grain,
etc., inspected at their respective places of business-and to weigh
same according to this act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The State Inspector may issue licenses to persons soliciting
or procuring assignments of grain, etc., after they have passed an
examination as to their competency; the State Inspector may suspend
or revoke licenses when he determines licensee is incompetent, or has
knowingly or carelessly graded grain improperly, or hag issued any
false certificate of grading, or violated the act or rules made thereunder, etc.
Sec. 14. Makes it unlawful for any .person to buy or grade grain,
etc., without a license as a Deputy Inspector of Grades, Weights and
Measures; or for any person, corporation or association operating a
public warehouse to purchase, weigh, grade or inspect grain, etc.,
without first obtaining a Deputy Inspector's license, provided that

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

wim an allowance for freight, at the Minnesota points to
which the grain is shipped and sold. That is, the state
officer may fix and determine the price to be paid for
grain which is bought, shipped, and sold in interstate
commerce. That this is a regulation of interstate commerce, is obvious from its mere statement.
Nor will it do to say that the state law acts before the
interstate transaction begins. It seizes upon the grain
and controls its .purchase at the beginning of interstate
commerce. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Brothers
Coal Mining Co., 238 U. S. 456, 468.
It is contended that these regulations may stand upon
the principles recognized in decisions of this court which
permit the State to make local laws under its police power
in the interest of the welfare of its-people, which are valid
this section shall not prohibit State Deputy Inspectors from inspecting, weighing and grading grain, etc., under the direction and supervision of the State Inspector; and shall not prohibit producers from
buying and selling grain, etc., to one another.
Sec. 16. The State Inspector after cancellation or suspension of
license may permit the business of the licensee to be completed and
closed out under the inspection and supervision of a State Deputy
Inspector who shall be stationed at the place of business of such
licensee; all expenses to be paid by the licensee;
Sec. 18. The State Inspector may establish central markets for the
display of samples of grain, etc., at cities or towns within or without
the State of North Dakota. Such markets shall be open to any and
all persons desiring to buy or sell on said market and shall be operated and conducted under such rules and regulations as the State
Inspector may establish.
Sec. 20. Makes it -the duty of all Deluty Inspectors to keep a
record showing: names and addresses of patrons of their respective
warehouses, elevators, or mills; prices paid for agricultural produdts;
the grades given; prices received and the grades received at terminal markets or within the State.
Sec. 23. The -State Inspector is authorized, upon complaint of a
producer of grain, etc., that any warehouse, elevator or mill is paying an unreasonable margin, to investigate, determine and establish a
reasonable margin to be paid such producer for grain, etc.

LEMKE. v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

although affecting interstate commerce, and may stand,
at least until Congress takes possession of the field under
its superior authority to regulate commerce among the
States. This principle has no application where the State
passes beyond the exercise of its legitimate authority and
undertakes .to regulat interstate commerce by imposing
birdens upon it. This court stated the principle and its
limitations in the discussion of the subject in the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.352. In the course of the opinion in that case, we said (p. 400):
"The principle, which determines this classification
[between federal and state power], underlies the doctrine
that the States cannot under any guise 'impose direct
burdens upon interstate commerce. For this is but to
hold that the States are not permitted directly to regulate
or restrain that which from its nature should be under
the control of the one authority and be free from restriction save as it is governed in the manner that the national
legislature constitutionally ordains.
"Thus, the States cannot tax interstate commerce,
either by laying the tax upon. the business which constitutes such commerce or the privilege of engaging in it, or'
upon the receipts, as such, derived from it (State Freight
Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232; Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120, U. S.489; Philadelphia& Southern Mail S. S.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.326; Leloup v. Mobile, 127
U. S.640; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104; Brennan
v. Titusville, 153 U. S.289; Galveston, Harrisburg& San
Antonio Railway Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.1; Pullman Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S.56; Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223
U. S.298; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S.389). .... "
Applying the principle here, the statute denies the
privilege of engaging in interstate commerce except to
dealers licensed by state authority, and provides a system
which enables state officials to fix the profit which may be
made in dealing with a subject of interstate commerce.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 11. S.

It is insisted that the price fixing feature of the statute
may be ignored, and its other regulatory features of inspection and grading sustained if not contrary to valid
federal regulations of the same subject. But the features of this act, clearly regulatory of interstate commerce, are essential and vital parts of the general plan of
the statute to control the purchase of grain and to determine the profit at which it may be sold. It is apparent
that without these sections the state legislature would
not have passed the act. Without their enforcement the
plan and scope of the act fails of accomplishing its manifest purpose. We have no authority to eliminate an essential feature of the law for the purpose of saving the
constitutionality of parts of it. International Textbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 113, and cases cited.
Nor is the appellants' contention upheld by the decision of this court in Merchants Exchange v. Missouri,
248 U. S. 365. In that case this court sustained the constitutionality of a statute of Missouri providing that in
cities having more than seventy-five thousand inhabitants
buildings used for the storage of grain shall be deemed
public warehouses; and prohibiting the issue of weight
certificates by other than authorized bonded state weighers. We held that the state statute did not violate the
due process ,clause or the interstate commerce clause of
the Federal Constitution. Furthermore, it was held that
the act, under the facts of that case, did not violate the
United States Grain Standards Act, as the latter did not
regulate weighing; and, for reasons stated, did not violate the United States Warehouse Act. The act, there
.n question, did not undertake to regulate the buying of
grain in interstate commerce, nor to levy a license tax
upon the privilege, nor to fix the profit which could be
realized on grain bought, shipped, and sold in interstate
commerce.

Tt is alleged that such legislation is in the interest of
the grain growers and essential to protect them from

LEMKE v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

BRANDEIS, HOLMES, and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

fraudulent purchases, and to secure payment to them of
fair prices for the grain actually sold. This may be true,
but Congress is amply authorized to pass measures to protect interstate commerce if legislation of that character is
needed. The supposed inconveniences and wrongs are
not to be redressed by sustaining the constitutionality of
laws which clearly encroach upon the field of interstate
commerce placed by the Constitution under federal
control.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that this
legislation is beyond the power of the State, as it is a
regulation of interstate commerce when applied to complainant's business. This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider whether the provisions of the state act
are in contravention of the regulations provided in the
Federal Grain Standards Act as was held by the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUsTIcE BRANDEIS dissenting, with whom MR.
JUSTIcE HOLMES and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concur.

The United States Grain Standards Act of August 11,
1916, c. 313, Part B, 39 Stat. 482, 483, authorizes the
Secretary of Agriculture to establish standards (or
grades) of quality and condition for different kinds of
grain and provides that, when such standards shall have
been established, shipment of any such grain for sale by
grade in interstate commerce is prohibited, unless the
grain has either been inspected before shipment or is to
be inspected en route or at destination, by an inspector
licensed under the federal act. Shipment without such
inspection is permitted whenever the sale is by sample or
by some description other than the official grade. The
act does not purport to deal in any way with sales in intrastate commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS, HOLMES, and CLnARKE, JJ., dissenting.

258 U. S.

In 1919 the Legislature of North Dakota concluded that
its farmers were being systematically defrauded in purchases of their grain made within the State. The buyers
were largely local mills, of which there are 160, and local
elevators, of which there are 2,200. The fraud was perpetrated, in part, by underweighing and undergrading in
the unofficial inspection of the grain made locally by or
on behalf of the purchasers. In part, the fraud was perpetrated by means of unconscionable bargains made
locally, through which valuable dockage was obtained
from the farmer without any payment therefor or by
which the grain itself was bought at less than its fair
value. Against such frauds the federal act did not purport to afford any protection. So far as the transactions
were wholly intrastate,, Congress was without power to
do so. So far as the sales were part of transactions in interstate commerce, the power was ample; but Congress
did not see fit to exert it. And the Secretary of Agriculture did not even exercise his authority to provide for
federal inspection and grading within North Dakota of
such grain as was shipped from there in interstate commerce. That was left by him to be done after the grain
reached Minnesota or other States.
To protect the North Dakota farmer against these
frauds practiced by local buyers its Legislature enacted c. 138 of the Laws of 1919. The statute seeks
to effect protection (a) by establishing a system of
state inspection, grading and weighing; (b) by prohibiting anyone from purchasing grain before it is inspected, graded and weighed (except that one producer may buy from another); (c) by ascertaining
in the course of inspection, grading and weighing,
the amount of dockage, and requiring a purchaser of
the grain either to pay separately for the dockage or to
return the same to the farmer; (d) by requiring payment
to the farmer of the fair value of grain-the value to be

LEMKE v. FARMERS GRAIN CO.
50.

BRANDEIS,

HOLMES,

and CLARKE, ,TJ., dissenting.

ascertained by fixing the so-called margin; (e) by ensuring compliance with the above provisions through the
further provision that only persons or concerns licensed
to inspect, grade and weigh may buy grain before it has
been officially inspected. The standards of quality and
condition established by the Secretary of Agriculture
were adopted under regulations issued by the State Inspector of Grades, Weights and Measures; and all state
inspectors (including -licensed buyers) were required to
observe those grades.
Ordinarily when a State's police power is exerted in
connection with sales it is the buyer whom the law seeks
to protect; and the seller is licensed as part of the machinery to enforce the regulations prescribed. I cannot
doubt that the State has power as broad to protect the
seller and, to that end, to license the buyer. Compare
Hous' v. Mayes, 219 U. S. 270. Ordinarily the function
of inspection, grading and measurement is comnitted to a
public official or other impartial person. But I am not
aware of any constitutional- objection to imposing the
duty upon the buyer, where conditions demand it. The
requirement that the amount of the dockage shall be
ascertained and that it shall be paid for separately or be
returned, does not differ in principle from the requirement upheld in McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, that
coal shall be measured before screening, or the requirement upheld in Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S.
13, that store orders shall be redeemed in cash, or that
upheld in House v. Mayes, supra, which prohibited, in
the purchase of grain; making arbitrary deductions from
the actual'weight. The requirement that the buyer shall
take only a proper margin for graded grain is, in effect,
requiring that he pay a fair price. Laws designed to prevent unfair prices are ordinarily enacted to protect consumers. But there is no constitutional objection to protecting producers against unconscionable bargains, if con-

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDEIS,

HOLMES, and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

258 U. S.

ditions are such that it is they who require protection.
Nor can there be any constitutional objection to using,
as a factor in determining what is fair, the price prevailing in terminal markets-even if they" happen to be
located in another State.
Whether the purchases involved in this case were intrastate or interstate commerce we need not decide. For
the fact that a sale or purchase is part of a transaction in
interstate commerce does not preclude application of
state inspection laws, unless Congress has occupied the
field or the state regulation directly burdens interstate
commerce. That neither of these exceptions applies here
appears from the description of the operation of the federal and the state laws given below in the opinion of
Judge Amidon. Compare Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501;
illerchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365; Corn
Products Refining Co. v. Eddy, 249 U. S. 427; Crescent
Cotton Oil Co. v. Mississippi,257 U. S. 129, and New York
CentralR. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 156, note 1.
The requirement of a license and the payment of a $10
license fee, if applied to non-residents not regularly engaged in buying grain within the State, might perhaps be
obnoxious to the Commerce Clause. But the objection, if
sound, would not afford this plaintiff ground for attacking the validity of the statute. Lee v. New JerseVj, 207
U. S. 67. It is a North Dakota corporation, owner of an
elevator within the State, and is carrying on business
there under the laws of the State as a public warehouseman. Compare Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391, 394, 396.
It is possible also that some provision in the license or
some regulation issued by the State Inspector is obnoxious
to the Commerce Clause. If so a licensee may disregard
it. Cargill Co. y. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452. Even if the
margin clause should be held a burden upon interstate
commerce, still that would not invalidate the whole statute. The margin clause is separable from the other pro-

LEMKE v. HOMER FARMERS ELEVATOR CO.
50.

65

Counsel for Parties.

visions of the act; and it could be eliminated without
affecting the operation of any other feature of the 'state
system. Compare Presserv. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252; Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642. And it is clear
that the Legislature would have wished to secure the protection afforded by the other provisions, if this one should
be held to be beyond the power of the State. That it was
not the purpose of Congress to supersede state inspection
and grading acts is made manifest by § 29 of the United
States Grain Standards Act (p. 490). Merchants Exchange v. MIissouri, supra, p. 368.
To strike down this inspection law, instead of limiting
the sphere of its operation, seems to me a serious curtailment of the functions of the State and leaves the farmers
of North Dakota defenseless against what are asserted. to
be persistent, palpable frauds.
LEMKE, AS ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NORTH DAKOTA, ET AL. v. HOMER FARMERS ELEVATOR COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 604.

Submitted November 14, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.

Decided on the authority of Lem/ke v. Farmers Grain Co., ante, 50.
Affirmed.

Mr. William Lemke, Attorney General of the State of
North Dakota, Mr. Seth W. Richardson and Air. Karl
Knox Gartner for appellants. Mr.'George K. Foster was
also on the briefs.
A'Ir. David F. Simpson, Mr. William A. Lancaster and
Mr. Harold G. Simpson for appellees. Mr. TV. A. McIntyre, Mr. 0. B. Burtness, Mr. Sveinbjorn Johnson, Mr.

