OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 U. S.

For the reasons indicated, the judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
NEW BEDFORD DRY DOCK COMPANY v.
PURDY, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMER "JACKO-LANTERN."
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 131.

Argued January 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

A contract for the wood-work involved in converting a car-float into
an amusement steamer 4y removing the car tracks, relaying the
decks as dancing floors and adding a superstructure, steering apparatus, and steam propulsion plant, is a maritime contract for
repairs as opposed to original construction, within the Maritime
Lien Act of June 23, 1910, and Within the admiralty jurisdiction
of the District Court. P. 99.
266 Fed. 562, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a libel to recover damages and enforce a lien for repairs.
Mr.George R. Farnum, with whom Mr. Lee M. Friedman was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. George L. Dillaway for appellee.
The identity of the car-float was completely lost by the
conversion into an amusement steamer. Mere identity
of hull is not sufficient to preserve the identity of the vessel. McMaster v. One Dredge, 95 Fed. 832; The Dredge
A, 217 Fed. 617, 629, 630; Thames Towbodt Co. v.
The " FrancisMcDonald," 254 U. S. 242.
The work done was not to repair, reconstruct, or furnish
anything to the steamer "Jack-O-Lantern," the vessel
which the libelant has libeled in this case. Such a craft

NEW BEDFORD CO. v. PURDY.
96.

Argument for Appellee.

was not in existence. The work done was not necessary
to the repair of the original car-float. It was only necessary to bring the steamer which was libeled into existence.
The car-float itself was destroyed and disappeared as a
craft by mbans of the very work which the libelant did,
and a new and entirely different type of vessel came into
existence. This was construction of a steamboat and not
repairs to a car-float.
The Act of June 23, 1910, gives a lien for " repairs, supplies, or other necessaries," etc. Even if the contract in
this case were maritime in its nature, the libelant must
show that the work done comes within the description of
"repairs." The distinction between repairs and reconstruction is drawn in The Susquehanna, 267 Fed. 811;
and The Harvard, 270 Fed. 668. The statute, so far as
it applies, only removes the distinction between foreign
and domestic vessels, making no change in general principles of the law of maritime liens. Piedmont Coal Co. v.
Seaboard Fisheries Co., 254 U. S. 1, 11; The Oceana, 244
Fed. 82; The Hatteras,255 Fed. 518; The Muskegon, 275
Fed. 348. It does not include reconstruction. The
Schuylkill, 267 Fed. 811.
It does not create new classes of liens or make maritime
what was not maritime before. The J. Doherty, 207 Fed.
997; The Sinaloa, 209 Fed. 287; The Hatteras, supra;
Thames Towboat Co. v. The "Francis McDonald," 254
U. S. 242; Piedmont Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries
Co., supra; The " United States,"'193 Fed. 552. It does
not include all services, even though the contract be maritime. The Hatteras, supra; The Convoy, 257 Fed. 843.
"Repairs" may be very extensive. Hardy v. Ruggles,
Fed. Cas. No. 6,062; North Pacific S. S. Co. v. Hall Bros.
Co., 249 U. S. 119; The Harvard,supra; Donnell v. The
Starlight, 103 Mass. 227. But they must not change the
identity of the vessel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Claiming a lien under Act of Congress approved June
23, 1910, c. 373, 36 Stat. 604,1 and seeking to recover for
work done and supplies furnished in pursuance of a contract with the owner of the "Jack-O-Lantern," appellant
libeled the vessel. The libel was dismissed for lack of
jurisdiction. If the agreement between the parties is
maritime there was jurisdiction, otherwise there was none.
The facts are not in dispute. They were stated as follows by the District Court:
"The Jack-O-Lantern was originally a car float of the
usual type, something over 200 feet long, with neither
motive power nor steering gear, and having two lines of
track on her single deck. The claimant bought her and
proceeded to c(,nvert her into a steamer to be used for
amusement purposes. The tracks were removed, the deck
relaid to make a dancing floor, a large house, or superstructure, was built, inclosing most of the deck, and containing a dance hall, rooms, balconies, etc. Steering apparatus and a steam plant of the propeller type for propulsion were also installed.
"For the purpose of carrying out these changes the contract now before the court was made between the claimant
and the libelant. It covers, generally speaking, all the
woodwork involved in the changes above outlined. The
I Section 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
any person furnishing repairs, supplies, or other ne,:es.aries, including
the use of dry dock or marine railway, to a vessel, whether foreign
or domestic, upon the order of the owner or owners of such vessel,
or of a person by him or them authorized, shall have a maritime
lien on the vessel which may be enforced by a proceeding in rem,
and. it shall not be necessary to allege or prove that credit was given
to the vessel.

NEW BEDFORD CO. v. PURDY.
96.

Opinion of the Court.

libelant did not install the power plant, but it did prepare
the vessel for it. The scow was towed to the libelant's
yard for the work to be done. The engine and boilers
were there installed. As they were not yet in working
condition when the vessel left the libelant's yard, she was
towed away."
Upon these facts it held that the contract was not one
for repairs or supplies, but for original construction, and
therefore non-maritime within the doctrine of Thames
Towboat Co. v. The "Francis McDonald," 254 U. S. 242.
"In rebuilding operations the test is whether the identity
of the vessel has continued, or has been extinguished."
"The matter turns, as I view it, upon a question of fact;
and upon the facts stated I think it clear that the identity
of the car float which was delivered to the libelant was
completely lost by the conversion into an amusement
steamer under the contract in suit. It is true that the
hull is substantially unchanged; but mere identity of
hull is not sufficient to preserve the identity of the vessel."
"The Jack-O-Lantern, with her dance hall, rooms, and
power plant, self-propelled and able to maneuver, is an
essentially different vessel from the car float; which furnished the hull." In support of this conclusion McMaster v. One Dredge, 95 Fed. 832, and The Dredge A,
217 Fed. 617, 629, 630, were cited.
It is not always easy to determine what constitutes repairs as opposed to original construction. "A contract for
the former is maritime; if for the latter, it is not. We
are not disposed to enlarge the compass of the rule approved in Thames Towboat Co. v. The "Francis McDofiald," under which contracts for the construction of
entirely new ships are classed as non-maritime, or to apply it to agreements of uncertain intendment-reasonable
doubts concerning the latter should be resolved in favor
of the admiralty jurisdiction. Nor do we think that in
95440-23-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

cases like the instant one any refined distinction should
be made between reconstruction and repairs--the latter
word as used in the statute has a broad meaning.
As pointed out in Piedmont & Georges Creek Coal Co.
v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., 254 U. S. 1, 11, 12, the Act of
June 23, 1910, makes "no change in the general principles
of the present law of maritime liens, but merely substitutes d single statute for the conflicting state statutes."
This court has not undertaken and will not now essay
to announce rigid definitions of repairs and new construction; but we do not accept the suggestion that the two
things can be accurately differentiated by consideration
of the ultimate use to which the vessel is to be devoted.
The view expressed by Judge Hughes in United States v.
The Grace Meade, Fed. Cas. No. 15,243, is both sound and
helpful. "And generally, it may be held as a principle,
that, where the keel, stem, and stern-posts and ribs of
an old vessel, without being broken up and forming an
intact frame, are built upon as a skeleton, the case is one
of an old vessel rebuilt, and not of a new vessel. Indeed,
without regard to the particular parts reused, if any considerable part of the hull and skeleton of an old vessel in
its intact condition, without being broken up, is built
upon, the law holds that in such a case it is the old vessel
rebuilt, and not a new vessel. But where no piece of the
timber of an old vessel is used without being first dislocated and then replaced, where no set of timbers are left
together intact in their original positions, but all the
timbers are severally taken out, refitted, and thun reset,
there we have a very different case. That is a case of
a vessel rebuilt."
There was jurisdiction in the court below to determine
and enforce the rights of the parties. Its judgment to
the contrary must be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

