OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

WOOD ET AL., TRADING AS PHILADELPHIA
STEAM HEATING COMPANY, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 100.

Argued January 20, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

Where a public building contract provides that no claim shall be made
or allowed for damages which may arise out of any delay caused
by the Government, damages due to delays caused by the Government's suspensions of the work cannot be recovered, even though
suspensions were not expressly authorized by the contract. So
held, where the contractor acquiesced in the first suspension and
thereafter made no protest, nor any claim until the suit was
brought. P. 121.
55 Ct. Clins. 533, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims re-

jecting a claim for damages arising from suspension of
work under claimants' contract.
Mr. Edwin C. Brandenburg,with whom Mr. ClarenceA.
Brandenburg was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ottinger, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Harvey B. Cox were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Philadelphia Steam Heating Company made a contract with the United States, approved April 5, 1897, to
furnish and install the boiler plant, heating system and
other apparatus for the post-office building at Washington
then under construction. The price fixed was $111,373;
the time for completion 250 working days; with a forfeiture of $100 a day for each day's delay. The contract
provided that for each day's delay "in the execution of
the work" caused "through any fault" of the Govern-

WOOD v. UNITED STATES.
120

Opinion of the Court.

ment one additional day was to be allowed for its completion; but "that no claim shall be made or allowed for
damages which may arise out of any delay caused by the"
Government. The right to make additions to or omissions
from the work was reserved by the United States, allowance therefor to be'determined by the Supervising Architect; and it was provided " that no claim for damages, on
account of such changes or for anticipated profits, shall
be made or allowed."
The work was entered upon promptly both at the factory in Philadelphia and at Washington. About a month
thereafter the Secretary of the Treasury requested suspension of certain work, in view of contemplated changes,
and notified the contractor that he would be entitled to
" one day additional for each day's delay caused by the
Government, as provided for by your contract." Radical
changes in plan were made. There was a suspension for
ten months of part of the work which had to be done in
the building; and later another suspension was ordered.
The whole work was not completed until eighteen months
after the expiration of the contract period. This delay
was attributable mainly, if not wholly, to the Government. To recover for the expenses and loss which resulted
from this delay, as well as for extra work, this suit was
brought in the Court of Claims. Judgment was entered
for the value of the extra work; but the court, following
its decision in Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v. United
States, 40 Ct. Clms. 117, denied recovery for damages due
to the suspension.
The appeal to this court was taken before our decision
in Wells Brothers Co. v. United States, 254 U. S. 83.
There the contract gave to the United States in terms
"the right of suspending the whole or any part of the
work." The absence of such a provision in the contract
here under consideration is mainly relied upon to distinguish this case. But here, as there, the contract pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
6tatement of the Case.

258 U.S.

vided that no claim shall be made or allowed for any
damages which may arise out of any delay caused by the
United States. Suspension by the Government is one
of several possible causes of delay-and not an uncommon
one.
Moreover, when the contractor was first directed to
suspend work, he replied: "We are not objecting to this,
but we desire to call the department's 'attention to the
matter in order that we may be entitled to extra time
should we be unable to complete the work within the
time named in our contract." So far as appears no protest was ever made against the prolonged suspension;
nor was there any claim made of a right to damages arising therefrom until it was asserted in this suit.
Affirmed.
KEOKUK & HAMILTON BRIDGE COMPANY v.
SALM ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 130.

Argued January 27, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. A bridge owned by a bridge company and used for railroad purposes is assessable in Illinois as real estate by the assessor of the

county inwhich it lies and not by the State Board of Equalization
as a railroad. P. 123.
2. A bill in the District Court to enjoin enforcement of a state tax
on real property, as based on a discriminatory overvaluation,
which fails to show that the plaintiff availed himself of presumably
adequate legal remedies afforded by the state law, or, the amount
being the only matter in dispute, that he paid or tendered the
amount confesedly due, and which does not offer to pay such
amount as the court may find to be equitably due, should be dismissed for want of equity. P. 124.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court dismissing

the bill, for want of equity, in a suit brought by -the ap-

