242

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

EDGAR A. LEVY LEASING COMPANY, INC. v.
SIEGEL.
810 WEST END AVENUE, INC. v: STERN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 285 and 287.

Argued January 24, 25, 1922.-Decided March
20, 1922.

1. Chapters 942 and 947 of the New York Housing Laws, which
suspend the landlord's right of action to recover possession from
his tenant, except under specified conditions, and c. 944, providing
that, in an action for rent under an agreement for premises occupied for dwelling purposes it shall be a defense that the rent is
unjust and unreasonable and the agreement oppressive, but permitting the landlord to plead, prove and recover a fair and reasonable rent, are constitutional. P. 245. Marcus Brown Holding Co.
v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170.
2. The obligation to pay specified rent can not be said to be impaired
by a limitation on the recovery to what is fair and reasonable,
made by a statute existing when the lease was made and carried
into a subsequent statute. P. 248.
3. A statute maing it a defense in an action for rent that the rent
agreed is unjust and unreasonable and the agreement oppressive,
provides a standard sufficiently definite to satisfy the due process
clause of the Constitution. P. 249. United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, distinguished.
194 App. Div. 482, 521; 230 N. Y. 634, 652, affirmed.

ERROR tO two judgments entered in the Supreme Court
of New York pursuant to remittiturs from the Court of
Appeals and dismissing actions brought by the present
plaintiffs in error, in the first case to recover rent under
a lease and in the second to eject a tenant holding over
after the expiration of his lease. The premises leased
were apartments in New York City. In both cases there
were appeals in the first instance to the Appellate Division, and thence to the Court of Appeals. A summary of
the New York Housing Laws, the provisions of which as

LEVY LEASING CO. v. SIEGEL.

243

Opinion of the Court.

242.

applied in favor of the tenants were questioned on constitutional grounds, will be found in a note to the report of
Marcus Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170.
Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. Lewis M. Isaacs
was on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. William D. Guthrie and Mr. Julius Henry Cohen,
with whom Mr. Elmer G. Sammis and Mr. Bernard
Hershkopf were on the briefs, for the Joint Legislative
Committee on Housing of the New York Legislature.
Mr. Raymond L. Wise, Mr. David L. Podell, Mr. Martin C. Ansorge, Mr. Benjamin S. Kirsh and Mr. J. J.
Podell filed a brief on behalf of the defendant in error
in No. 287.

MR.

JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases were argued and will be disposed of
together.
A motion to dismiss or affirm was filed in each case, on
the ground that each is ruled by the decision in Marcus
Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170, and both
were postponed to the hearing on the merits.
The essential question presented for decision in the
Marcus Brown Case was, and in these cases is, the constitutional validity of the Emergency Housing Laws of
the State of New York. approved by the Governor September 27, 1920, cc. 942 to 953, inclusive, Laws of New
York, 1920.
By these acts a number of changes were made in the
substantive law, and a number of amendments to remedial statutes of the State, for the purpose of securing to
tenants in possession of houses or apartments, occupied
for dwelling purposes, in described cities, the legal right
to continue in possession ,until November 1, 1922, by the
payment, or securing the payment, of a reasonable rental,
to be determined by the courts, and for the purpose also
9:,4
::--

- 19

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U.S.

of encouraging the building of dwellings by providing
under specified conditions for their exemption from local
taxation.
In No. 285 it is alleged: That a described apartment was
leased to the defendant from October 1, 1918, to October
1, 1920, at the stipulated rental of $1,4,50 per annum, payable in equal monthly installments in advance; that while
in possession under that lease, in May, 1920, the defendant executed a new lease for two years, beginning on the
expiration of the former one on October 1,1920, at a rental
increased to $2,160, payable in equal monthly installments in advance; and that he refuses to pay the installment due on October 1, 1920. Judgment for the one
month's rent is prayed for.
The defendant admits the execution of the leases, as
stated in the complaint, but avers that the second one
was signed under the coercion and duress of threats of
eviction and that the rent stipulated for is "unjust, unreasonable and oppressive." He offers to pay the same
amount of rent as waz paid for the preceding month and
asserts the right to continue in possession under the emergency acts. A motion for judgment on the pleadings
presented the question of the constitutionality of c. 944
of the Emergency Housing Laws and the state courts all
held the chapter a constitutional and valid exercise of the
police power.
In No. 287 it is averred: That the defendant is a tenant
holding over after expiration of his lease; that he refuses
to surrender possession as he stipulated in his lease to do,
and that he claims the right to retain possession under
cc. 942 and 947 of the Emergency Housing Laws, which
suspend the right of action to recover possession except
under specified conditions, which are not applicable. A
general demurrer to this complaint presented the question
of the constitutionality of cc. 942 and 947 of the laws
assailed and the state courts all sustained them as valid.

LEVY LEASING CO. v. SIEGEL.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

In terms the acts involved are "emergency" statutes
and, designed as they were by the legislature to promote
the health, morality, comfort and peace of the people of
the State, they are obviously a resort to the police power
to promote the public welfare. They are a consistent
inter-related 'group of acts essential to accomplish their
professed purposes.
The warrant for this legislative resort to the police
power was the conviction on the part of the state legislators that there existed -in the larger cities of the State a
social emergency, caused by an insufficient supply of
dwelling houses and apartments, so grave that it constituted a serious menace to the health, morality, comfort,
and even to the peace of a large part of the people of the
State. That such an emergency, if it really existed, would
sustain a resort, otherwise valid, to the police power for
the purpose of dealing with it cahnot -e doubted, for, unless relieved, the public welfare Would suffer in respects
which constitute the primary and undisputed, as well as
the most usual, basis and justification for exercise of that
power.
In the- enactment of these laws the Legislature of New
York did not depend on the knowledge which its members
had of the existence of the crisis relied upon. 'In January,
1919, almost two years before the laws complained of.were
enacted, the Governor of the State appointed a "Reconstruction Commission" ahd about the same time the
*Legislature appointed a committee known as the "Joint
Legislative Committee 'on Housing," to investigate and
report upon housing conditions in the cities of the State,
and a few months later the Mayor of New York appointed
*asimilar committee. The membership of these committees comprised many men and- women representative of
the best intelligence, character and public service in the
State and Nation, their investigations were elaborate and
thorough and in their reports, placed before the Legisla-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

ture, all agree: that there was a very great shortage in
dwelling house accommodations in the cities of the State
to which the acts apply; that this condition was causing
widespread distress; that extortion in most oppressive
forms was flagrant in rent profiteering; that, for the purpose of increasing rents, legal process was being abused
and eviction was being resorted to as never before; and
that unreasonable and extortionate increases of rent had
frequently resulted in two or more families being obliged
to occupy an apartment adequate only for one family,
with a consequent overcrowding, which was resulting in
insanitary conditions, disease, immorality, discomfort and
widespread social discontent.
If this court were disposed, as it is not, to ignore the
notorious fact that a grave social problem has arisen
from the insufficient supply of dwellings in all large cities
of this and other countries, resulting from the cessation
of building activities incident to the war, nevertheless,
these reports and the very great respect which courts must
give to the legislative declaration that an emergency existed would be amply sufficient to 'sustain an approprigte
resort to the police power for the purpose of dealing with
it in the public interest.
The argument heard in these cases and further examination of the subject confirms us in the assumption made in
the Marcus Brown Case, 256 U. S. 170, 198, that the
,emergency declared existed when the acts were passed.
It is strenuously argued,-as it was in Block v. Hirsh,
256 U. S. 135, and in the Marcus Brown Case, that the
relation of landlord and tenant is a private one and is not
so affected by a public interest as to render it subject to
regulation by the exercise of the police power.
It is not necessary to discuss this contention at length,
for so early as 1906, when the Tenement House Act of
New York, enacted in 1901, was assailed as an unconstitutional interference with the right of property in land,

LEVY LEASING CO. v. SIEGEL.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

on substantially, all of the grounds .now urged against
the Emergency Housing Laws, this court, in a per curiam
opinion affirmed a decree of the Court of Appeals of
New York (179 N. Y. 325), sustaining regulations requiring large expenditures by landlords as a valid exercise of the police power. Moeschen v. Tenement House
Department, 203 U. S. 583. To require uncompensated
expenditures very certainly affects the right of property
in land as definitely, and often as seriously, as regulation
of the amount of rent that may be charged for it can do.
Many decisions of this court were cited as sufficient to
justify the summary disp6sition there made of the question, as one even then so settled, by authority as not to
be longer open to discussion.
In the opinion in Block v. Hirsh, supra, this court cites
in support of this same conclusion, under the circumstances there disclosed, which are not to be distinguished
from those presented in this case, the later cases following: Strickley v. Highland Boy Gold Mining Co., 200
U. S. 527; Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S. 91; Plymouth Coal
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531; St. Louis Poster Advertising Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S. 269: Perle v. North
Carolina,249 U.-S. 510.
These authorities show that from time to time for a
generation, as occasion arose, this court has held that there
is no such inherent difference in property in land, from
that in tangible and intangible personal property, as exempts it from the operation of the police power in appropriate cases, and in both the Marcus Brown and Block
Cases, supra, it was held, in terms, that the existing circumstances clothed the letting of buildings for dwelling
purposes with a public interest sufficient to justify restricting property rights in them to the extent provided
for in the laws in, those cases objected to.
In the opinion in the Marcus Brown Case it is said,
that the defendant-tenants, holding over after their lease

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

had expired, relied upon cc. 942 and 947 of the New York
Housing Laws and that the landlord challenged their
validity. But this court held them valid. We have seen
that in No. 287, here under consideration, the defendant-tenant is holding over after the expiration of his
lease, and that he justifies under cc. 942 and 947. Thus
this No. 287 presents precisely the same questions of
fact and law as the Marcus Brown Case presented, and
must be ruled by it.
,No. 285 is a suit against a tenant who, during the term
of a lease, which he avers was executed under the coercion
and duress of a threat of eviction, refuses to pay the
amount of rent stipulated threin, which he alleges is
"unjust, unreasonable and oppressive." He offers to pay
the same rent that he paid for the next treceding month.
Such a case falls within the precise terms of c. 944 of the
Emergency Housing Laws, providing that:
"It shall be a defense to an action for rent accruing
under an agreement for premises in a city," etc., "occupied for dwelling purposes that such rent is unjust and
unreasonable and that the "agreement under which the
same is sought to be recovered is oppressive."
Section 4 of this chapter provides that nothing therein
contained shall prevent a plaintiff from pleading and proving in such action a fair and reasonable rent for the
premises and recovering judgment therefor.
It is contended that the validity of this c. 944 was not
directly presented in the Marcus Brown Case, and that
the impairment of contracts clause of the Constitution
was not considered or decided in that case as it must be
in this one.
To this there are two answers, either of which is sufficient.
The first is that the defense sustained in this case, by
the court below, was provided for by c. 136 of the Laws
of New York in effect when the lease involved was exe-

LEVY LEASING CO. v. SIEGEL.
242.

Opinion of the Court.

cuted. The provision was simply carrieu into c. 944
when that chapter was amended in September, 1920, and,
of course, a lease made subsequent to the enactment of a
stattite can not be impaired by it. Oshkosh Waterworks
Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S.437, 446.
The second answer is that reference to the report of
the Marcus Brown Case shows that this constitutional
objection was urged in the briefs and the court says, in its
opinionr:
"The chief objections to these acts have been dealt
with in Block v. Hirsh. In the present case more emphasis is laid upon the impairment of the obligation of
the contract of the lessees to surrender possession and of
the new lease which was to have gone intq effect upon
October 1, last year. But contracts are made subject to
this exercise of the power of the State when otherwise
justified, as we have held this to be. kanigault v.
Springs, 199 U. S. 473, 480. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467, 482. Chicago & Alton R. R.
Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S.67, 76, 77., Union Dry Goods
Co. v. Georgia Public Service Corporation, 248 U. S.
372, 375. ProducersTransportationCo. v. RailroadCommission of California,251 U. S.228, 232."
Palpably, as to this constitutional objection to c. 944,
the prior decision is ruling.
Ihi is also urge1 that c. 944 is invalid because the pro-vision that, "It shall be a defense to an action [by a
landlord], that such rent [demanded] is unjust and unreasonable and.that the agreement under which the same
is sought to be recovered'is oppressive," is too indefinite
a standard to satisfy the due, process of law clause of the,
Constitution.
The report of the Marcus Brown Case shows that this
contention was urged in briefs by the same counsel presehting it here, and it is apparent that the standard was
impliedly approved as valid in that case, as it was very

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

clearly approved in the Block Case, supra, the court saying: "While the act is in force there is little to decide
except whether the rent allowed is reasonable, and upon
that question the courts are given the last word." The
standard of the statute is as definite as the "just compensation" standard adopted in the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution and therefore ought to be sufficiently definite
to satisfy the Constitution. United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81, dealing with definitions of
crime, is not applicable.
Several other contentions are pressed upon the attention of the court, chiefly with respect to the modifications
of .the remedial statues, but such as were not specifically
dealt with in the Marcus Brown and Block Cases, impress us as quite unimportant. Given a constitutional
substantive statute, enacted to give effect to a constitutional purpose, the States have a wide discretion as to
the remedies which may be deemed necessary to achieve
such a result and it is very clear that that discretion
has not been exceeded in this instance by the State of
New York.
It results that the judgments of the state court must be
affirnied.
Affirmed.
Dissenting: MR.'JUSTICE MCKENNA, IR. JUSTICE VAN
DEVANTER and AIR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

UNITED STATES v. BALINT ET AL.
.ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 480. Argued March 7, 1922-Decided March 27, 1922.
1. Whether scienter is a necessary element of a statutory crime,
though not expressed in the stntute, is a question of legislative intent to be answered b .a construction of the statute. P. 251.

