OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

injustice. And that a mistake was made cannot be denied, and to which no act or negligence of Johnson was
accessory. He responded to the solicitation of the Navy
Department executing the law, and he was entitled to the
preference that the law commanded. It was given to
another by mistake. The law will not permit him to retain it, and this is a necessary deduction, I confidently
believe and, therefore, confidently express, though it is
opposed by the judgment of my brethren. I repeat, that
there was a mistake cannot be disputed, and I cannot
think that its consummation protects it from correction
and that a remedy should be denied because it is needed,
all of its conditions existing.
It was the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a
well reasoned opinion that the Secretary of the Navy had
"no authority to deliver the bill of sale to Levinson"
but was "bound to deliver it to Johnson." There is much
to sustain the decision; I, however, base my dissent upon
the views that I have expressed, and think that the judgment of the Circuit-Court of Appeals should be affirmed.
STATE OF TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS RAILROAD
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

STATE OF TEXAS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES,
ivIcCHORD ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

Nos. 298 and 563.

Argued November 15, 16, 1921.-Decided March
13, 1922.

1. Where a statute is susceptible of two constructions, one raising
grave and doubtful constitutional questions and the other not, it is
the duty of the court to adopt the latter. P. 217.

TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
204.

205

Argument for Appellants.

2. Paragraphs 18-20 of § 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, added
by § 402 of the Transportation Act of 1920, which regulate the construction and acquisition of new lines of railroad and the-extension and abandonment of old lines, are not to be construed as
clothing the Interstate Commerce Commission with authority over
the discontinuance of the purely intrastate business of a railroad
whose situation and ownership are such that interstate and foreign commerce will not be affected by that business.. P. 218.
Reversed.

THE first of these cases is an appeal from a decree of the
District Court for the Western District of Texas dismissing a suit removed from a court of that State, in which
the State of Texas sought to enjoin the-above-named railroad company and some of its officers from ceasing to operate its road in intrastate commerce. The other is an
appeal from a decree of the District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas dismissing the bill in a suit brought by
the State and its Attorney General, in that.court, against
the United States, the members of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the United States Attorney General,
and the above-named and two other railroad companies,
to annul an order and certificate of the Interstate Commerce Commission purporting to permit the abandonment of the-same railroad line upon certain conditions.

Mr. Tom L. Beauchamp, with whom Mr. C. M. Cureton, Attorney General of the State of Texas, Mr. Bruce
W. Bryant and Mr. Walace Hawkins were on the briefs,
for appellants.
Under the authority given by the statute, it may be
said that the power of the State to forbid extensions has
been superseded. It may with good reason be argued
that extensions become necessary to interstate commerce
whether agreeable to the State in which they are made
or not, and this may be given as a reason for the insertion
bf paragraph 21, authorizing the Commission to require
them. If that same argument applied to abandonments,

206

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellants.

258 U. S.

paragraph 21 should then have included abandonments,
as well as extensions, but it does not.
Congress did not intend by the act to exclude the
authority of the State. The full purpose is served and
the language of the law has been complied with when the
Interstate Commerce Commission gives to the carrier its
authority to abandon the operation of its line as an interstate carrier, leaving it then to be dealt with by the State
creating the corporation and to which it owes its existence
and with which it has a charter contract and obligation.
If the acts of the Commission under paragraphs 18-22
are judicial, the paragraphs are unconstitutional. This is
determined by the matter at issue before them and its
nature and not the nature of the Commission. "
A State may control the physical properties of its
private corporations and make rules and regulations
therefor in accordance with the terms of their charter
contracts, and the laws of the State which enter into and
become a part of them, so long as such action does not
become a direct burden on interstate commerce or embarrass Congress in the exercise of any power with which it
is invested by the Constitution. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 473; Northern Securities
Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 347; Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 206, 208.
When the Federal Government, acting through Congress or its committee or commission, designated the Interstate Commerce Commission, withdraws the patronage
of interstate commerce from the Eastern Texas Railroad,
it has reached the limit of its authority. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U; S. 677, 702;
Northern Securities Co. v. United States, supra; Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.262. Is it conceivable that the State, having a commerce over which it
exercises exclusive control, cannot control a corporation
engaged in such commerce?

TEXAS v., EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
204.

207?

Argument for the United States.

Though the Eastern Texas retains its corporate name,
it has lost its corporate identity; though its obligations
to the State of Texas have not been fulfilled, it has nevertheless become a part of the'system of the St. Louis
Southwestern'Railway Company and is subject to all of
the laws of the State and of the United States governing
it as a part of the system of the St. Louis Southwestern
Railway Company. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry.
Co. v. Minneapolis Civic & Commerce Association, 247
U. S. 490.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has no authority under the statute to grant to a railroad company a
certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing it to abandon a kpart of its main line track in the
absence of a showing that the entire system was losing
money. Puget Sound Traction Co.- v. Reynolds, 244
U. S. 574.
Mr. E. B. Perkins, with whom Mr. Daniel Upthegrove
and Mr. E. J. Mantooth were on the briefs, for appellee
railroad companies.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck for the United States, in
No. 563. Mr. Robert P. Reeder was on the brief.
If the construction advanced by Texas be accepted,
this portion of the Transportation Act loses its chief
efficacy, because of the unified character of the business of
transportation for most practical purposes. If the Interstate Commerce Commission only had power to authorize
the carrier to abandon its interstate business and were
impotent to give like authority to abandon its intrastate
commerce, then in most cases the certificate of authority
would not be worth the paper it was written on. For a
railroad corporation does not abandon its railway unless
the business has ceased to be profitable and, if the business be unprofitable when the railroad has the advantage
of revenue from both interstate and intrastate traffic, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

258 U. S.

would be even more so if it abandoned only one part of its
business. In such event its income would be lessened
but its expenses would not be appreciably diminished.
To require the consent of both the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the State Railroad Commission would
mean the very conflict of authority which the law sought
to avoid by explicitly providing that the carrier may act
upon the certificate of the Commission.
Having given the State, as it were, its day in court,
the act (paragraph 20) provides that the Commission in
issuing the certificate "may attach . . . such terms
and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience
and necessity may require." It was evidently intended
that the Commission should take into account the just
claims of the State. Indeed, the question of public convenience and necessity is left to the Commission. The
act does not say that the certificate may contain such
terms and conditions as the interest of the interstate commerce or even of the Federal Government may require;
it is the public convenience and necessity that the Commission is to consider.
Then follows the significant statement that the carrier
may, without securing approval other than such certificate, comply with the terms and conditions and proceed
with the construction, operation, or abandonment covered
thereby.
What can this mean except the authority to go ahead
with the extension or abandonment without consulting
any other authority?
The State may not seriously claim that the Eastern
Texas Railroad should continue operations at a loss.
Bullock v. Railroad Commission, 254 U. S. 513; Brooks-,
Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 396.
If Congress may directly or through appropriate agencies condemn defective 'or inadequate equipment and
facilities of interstate carriers irrespective of the nature of

TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
204.

209

Argument for the United States.

the traffic, whether interstate or intrastate, a fortiori, it
may authorize a railroad engaged in interstate transportation, which consists mainly of an accumulation of all or
many of these things, to cease operations.
If the commerce power be not broad enough to determine whether an interstate carrier, even though incorporated under the laws of the State, may abandon its business for lack of public patronage-as an entirety, and without respect to the division between interstate and intrastate comierce, then it is obvious that our political institutions are not in harmony with the present conditions of
human society.'
The banks, in loaning their credit and furnishing the
necessary means of constructing the railroad, take no account of the legal distinction between interstate and domestic commerce. The contractors, engineers,, and
builders of the road are also unable to regulate their operations by such distinction. So of organized labor; it
deals with a system as a whole.
The very act of transportation again illustrates the indivisibility from a practical standpoint and not as a legal
abstraction of this indivisible thing that we call commerce.
If, therefore, this legal distinction which seeks to make
a duality of an essential unity does not conform to the
nature of these economic forces, then it is obvious that
our political institutions are lagging behind the economic
forces which they are designed to protect and promote.
Fortunately, there is no such rigidity.
-This court has always recognized that, as human society
became more concentrated and complicated, all powers,
federal and state, have a necessary reaction upon each
other. With or Without political institutions, steam and
electricity have woven the commercial intercourse of the
country into substantial unity, and this unity is therefore
an indivisible unity. Therefore, # was futile for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

258 U. S.

political government in solving many practical problems
to attempt to make any division. A full century after
the Constitution was adopted Congress, yielding not
merely to the so-called granger movement but to the
widespread desire of citizens of all classes, passed the first
interstate commerce law; and from that time to the passage of the Transportation Act, legislation has been a
series of advancing steps vhereby Congress, in behalf. of
the whole Nation, seeks to end the abuses of transportation and to regulate the commerce of the Nation. To
legislate with reference to interstate commerce without
assuming an incidental but necessary control over intrastate coinmerce, had.become impracticable with the progress of human society.
This court has recognized in many cases as a concrete
proposition that Congress has full and plenary power to
regulate interstate carriers as instrumentalities of commerce and that this power can not be lessened, hampered
or obstructed by the consideration that, of necessity, these
interstate carriers are likewise engaged in intrastate business, and that intrastate business is necessarily affected.
If the duality of interstate and intrastate commerce be
longer a fact, then they are as the Siamese twins, two
bodies and yet united by a common ligature. The Government, apart from its power under the commerce clause, owes to these corporate instrumentalities
of commerce a direct obligation, due to the fact that they.
were taken by the Government for public use, and all the
obligations that arise under that public use must be met
by the power under which they were taken over, the war
power.
This power was assumed not merely to carry on the
war, but at the present time the Government, because it
utilized the railroads to carry on the war, has become a
creditor to the extent of many millions of dollars of the
corporate instrumentalities which it operated. It has thp

TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
204.

211

Argument for the United States.

power, like any other lien creditor, before it releases the
property, to which it must look as security for the
amounts due it, to see that that property is not sacrificed
by undue regulation.
The Government's claim rises higher than that of a
mere creditor. Under the Transportation Act it has
guaranteed for a period of six months the standard return
to the railroads as measured by prewar experience, and
it has further directed the Commission, in order to rehabilitate the railroads, that it shall authorize rates that
will enable the railroads to secure for a period of years
an adequate return upon their investment. If, during
such period of rehabilitation, Congress provides that a
railroad should not increase its obligations by extending
its lines, or, on the other hand, should not lessen the
value of the security by abandoning its road, or should
not increase the guaranty of the Government by running
the r6ad at a loss, why is not such an exercise of power
the exercise of the war power and as such an appropriate
means to discharge the important duty of rehabilitating
the' railroads, which suffered such grievous injury during
the period of governmental control?
If Congress has power to provide adequate transportation for interstate commerce and to that end may protect
the credit of the carriers by supervising and regulating the
issue of their securities and the expenditure of the capital
funds, why may it not for the same purpose prevent unwise expenditures for unnecessary extensions and the absorption of their means and the destruction of their credit
through the continued operation of unnecessary lines?
The power to regulate presupposes the existence of the
thing to be regulated and Would be void without the
power to "foster" and "protect" it. If a State may
prevent an abandonment of a line within its borders
which is in the opinion of Congress sapping the resources
of an instrumentality of commerce, or is reducing its
05440-23-17

'OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

capacity and usefulness, the State may impair or destroy
this instrumentality of interstate commerce and th.us destroy interstate commerce itself.
M11r. Walter McFarland, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrell
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DrEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
By § 402 of the Transportation Act of 1920, c. 91, 4i
Stat. 456, 477, several new paragraphs were added to § 1
of the Act to Regulate Commerce as theretofore amended.
Paragraphs 18, -19 and 20 are copied in the margin.' By
'(18) After ninety days after this paragraph takes effect no carrier by railroad subject to this Act shall undertake the extension
of its line of railroad, or the constructidn of a new line of railroad,
or shall acquire or operate any line of railroad, or extension thereof,
or shall engage in transportation under this Act over or by means
of such additional or extended line of railroad, unless and until there
shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certificate
that the present or future public convenience and necessity require
or will require the construction, or operation, or construction and
operation, of such additional or extended line of railroad, and no
carrier by railroad subject to this Act shall abandon all or any portion of a line of railroad, or the operation thereof, unless and until
there shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certificate
that The present or future public convenience and necessity permit
of such abandonment.
- (19) The application for and issuance of any such certificate shall 1e
under suchr rule.- and regulations as to hearings and other matters
as the Commission may from time to time prescribe, and the provisions of this Act shall apply to all such proceedings. Upon receipt
of any application for such certificate the Commission shall cause
notice thereof to be given to and a copy filed with the governor of
each State in which such additional or ex-tended line of railroad is
proposed to be constructed or operated, or all or any portion of a
line of railroad, or the operation thereof, is proposed to be abandoned, with the right to be heard as hereinafter provided with reshect to the hearing of complaints or the issuance of securities; and

TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
204.

213

Opinion of the Court.

them Congress has undertaken to regulate the construction and acquisition of new or additional lines of railroad
and the extension and abandonment of old lines, and to
invest the Interstate Commerce Commission with important administrative powers in that connection. Like
the act of which they are amendatory, these paragraphs
are expressly restricted to carriers engaged in transporting persons or property in interstate and foreign commerce.

2

Our present concern is with the provisions relating to
the abandonment of existing lines. They declare that
said notice shall also be published for three consecutive weeks in
some newspaper of general circulation in each county in or through
which said line of railroad is constructed or operates.
(20) The Commission shall have power to issue such certificate
as prayed for, or to refuse to issue it, or to issue it for a portion or
portions of a line of railroad, or extension thereof, described in the
application, or for the partial exercise only of such right or privilege, and may attach to the issuance of the certificate such terms
and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and necessity may require. From and after issuance of .such certificate,
and not before, the carrier by railroad may, without securing approval other than such certificate, comply with the terms and conditions contained in or attached to the issuance of such certificate
and proceed with the construction, operation, or abandonment covered thereby. Any construction, operation, or abandonment contrary to the provisions of this paragraph or of paragraph (18) or
(19) of this section may be enjoined by any court of competent
jurisdiction at the suit of the United States, the Commission, any
commission or regulating body of the State or States affected, or
rny party in interest; and any carrier which, or any director, officer,
receiver, operating trustee, lessee, agent, or person, acting for or
employed by such carrier, who knowingly authorizes, consents to,
or permits any violation of the provisions ot this paragraph or of
paragraph (18) of this section, shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000 or by imprisonment for not
more than three years, or both.
2See amended paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Act to Regulate
Commerce as set forth in § 400-of the Transportation Act of 1920.

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

"no carrier by railroad subject to this Act shall abandon
all or any portion of a line of railroad, or the operation
thereof, unless and until there shall first have been obtained from.the Commission a certificate that the present
or future public convenience and necessity permit of such
abandonment" (par. 18)'; that when application for such
a certificate is received the Commission shall cause notice
thereof to be given to the Governor of the State wherein
the line lies and published in rnewspapers of general circulation in each county along the line, and shall accord a
hearing to the State and all parties in interest (par. 19);
that the Commission may grant or refuse the certificate
in whole or in part and impose such terms and conditions
as in its judgment the public convenience and necessity
require; and that when the certificate is issued, and not
before, the carrier may, "without securing approval other
than such certificate," comply with the terms and conditions imposed and proceed with the abandonment covered
by the certificate (par. 20).
The Eastern Texas Railroad Company, a Texas corporation, owns and operates in that State a line of railroad
30.3 miles in length. Approximately three-fourths of the
traffic over the road is in interstate and foreign commerce
and the rest is in intrastate commerce. The company
neither owns nor operates any other line. The road was
constructed in 1902 to serve extensive lumber industries,
but in subsequent years the adjacent timber was removed
and the mills dismantled. The company claims that since
1917 the road has been operated at a loss.
On June 3, 1920, the company filed with the Commission an application for a certificate authorizing it to abandon and cease operating its road, full notice of the application being regularly given. The State declined to appear before the Commission, but others, who were being
served by the road, appeared "and opposed the application.
A full hearing was had and, on December 2, .1920, the

TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS R. R. CO.
204.

215

Opinion of the Court.

Commission made and filed a report concluding as follows: "Upon consideration of the record we find that the
present public convenience and necessity permit the abandonment of the applicant's line, and we further find that
permission to abandon the line should be made subject to
the right of peisons interested in the community served
to purchase the property at a figure not in excess of
$50,000. A certificate and order to that effect will be
issued." The certificate and order were issued and the
railroad company indicated its assent to the condition
imposed, but, so far as appears, no one sought to purchase
under the condition.
While the _application was pending before the Commission and before the certificate was issued, the State
brought a suit in one of its courts against the railroad
company and some of its officers to enjoin them from
ceasing to operate the road jn intrastate commerce. The
bill was brought on the theory that under the laws of
the State.the company was obliged to continue the operation of the road in intrastate commerce; that the provisions of the Transportation Act were unconstitutional
and void, if and in so far as they authorized the abandonment of such a road as respects intrastate commerce, and
that the company in asking the Commission to sanction
sIch an abandonment was proceeding in disregard of its
obligations to the State. At the instance of the defendants the suit was removed to the District Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas. During
the pendency of the suit the Commission issued the certificate and the defendants then sought the benefit of it
by a supplemental answer. The court held that the'certificate constituted a complete defense, and without a
hearing on other issues dismissed the suit. The State
appealed directly to this court. That appeal is No. 298.
After the Commission granted the certificate the State
brought a suit in the District Court of the United States

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

for the Eastern District of Texas against the United
States, the railroad company and others to set aside and
annul the Commission's order and certificate on the
grounds, first, that the provisions of the Transportation
Act, rightly interpreted, did not afford any basis for granting a certificate sanctioning the abandonment of the company's road as respects intrastate cofnimerce, and, secondly, if those provisions purported to authorize such a
certificate, they were to that extent in excess of the power
of Congress and an encroachment on the reserved powers
of the State. The defendants moved to dismiss the bill
as ill founded in point of merits, and the court sustained
the motions and entered a decree of dismissal. The State
appealed directly to this court. That appeal is No. 563.
Counsel attribute to these cases a breadth which they
do not have; and for obvious reasons we shall deal with
them as they are, not as they might be.
Up to the time the Commission made the order granting the certificate a part of the commerce -passing over the
road was interstate and foreign, that is, was bound to or
from other States and foreign countries. It is not questioned that Congress could, nor that it did, authorize the
Commission to sanction a discontinuance of this interstate
and foreign business. Neither is it questioned that the
Commission's certificate was adequate for that purpose.
The only matters in controversy are whether, by paragraphs 18, 19 and 20, Congress has assumed to clothe the
Commission with authority, to sanction the entire abandonment of a road such as this, and, if so, whether the
power of Congress extends so far.
The road lies entirely within, single State, is owned
and operated by a corporation of that State, and is not
a part of another line. Its continued operation solely in
intrastate commerce, cannot be of more than local concern. Interstate and foreign commerce will not be burdened or affected by any shortage in the earnings, nor will

TEXAS v. EASTERN TEXAS it. R. CO.
204.

217

Opinion of the Court.

any carrier in such commerce have to bear or make good
the shortage. It is not as if the road were a branch or
extension whose unremunerative operation would or
might burden or cripple the main line and thereby affect
its utility or service as an artery of interstate and foreign
commerce.
If paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 be construed as authorizing
the Commission to deal with the abandonment of such a
road as to intrastate as well as interstate and foreign commerce, a serious question of their constitutional validity
will be unavoidable. If they be given a more restricted
construction, their validity will be undoubted. Of such a
situation this court has said, "where a statute is susceptible of two constructions, by one of which grave and
doubtful constitutional questions arise and by the other
of which such questions 'are avoided, our duty is to adopt
the-latter." United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co.,
213 U. S.366, 407-408.
Although found in the Transportation Act, these paragraphs are'amendnients of the Interstate Commerce Act
and are so styled. They-contain some broad language,
but do not plainly or certainly show that they are intended to provide for the complete abandonment of a road
like the one we have described. 'Only by putting a liberal
interpretation on general terms can they be said to go so
far. Being amendments of' the Interstate Commerce Act
they are to be read in connection with it and with other
amendments of it. As a whole these acts show that what
is intended is to regulate interstate and foreign commerce
and to affect intrastate commerce only as that may be incidental to -the effective regulation and protection-of commerce of the other class. They contain many manifestations of a continuing purpose to refrain from any regulation of intrastate commerce, save such as is involved in
the rightful exertion of the power of Congress over interstate and foreign commerce. Minnesota Rate Case, 230

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

U. S. 352, 418; Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563. And
had there been a purpose here to depart from the accustomed path and to deal with intrastate commerce as such
independently of any effect on interstate and foreign commerce, it is but reasonable to believe that that purpose
would have been very plainly declared. This was not
done.
These considerations persuade us that the paragraphs
in question should be interpreted and read as not clothing
the Commission with any authority over the discontinuance of the purely intrastate business of a road whose
situation and ownership, as here, are such that interstate
and foreign commerce will not be burdened or affected by
a continuance of that business.
Whether, apart from the Commission's certificate, the
railroad company is entitled to abandon its intrastate
business is not before us, so we have no occasion for considering to what extent the decisions in Broo.ks-Scanlon
Co. v. Railroad Commission of Louisiana, 251 U. S. 396,
and Bullock v. Railroad Commission of Florida,254 U. S.
513, may be applicable to this road.
As the District Courts both accorded to the Commission's certificate a wider operation and effect than can be
given to it consistently with the provisions of paragraphs
18, 19 and 20 as we interpret them, the decrees must be
reversed and the causes remanded for further proceedings
in conformity to this opinion.
Decrees reversed.

