22

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

and fix it as a right. The accomplishment of this the repealing act prevented.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that as the State could
have withheld the power from telegraph companies to
condemn the right of way of railroad companies, the State
could withdraw the power before its exercise, and it could
not be exercised before the conditions of condemnation
were established and adjudicated, and this not preliminarily or dependently, but in final and unreviewable determination. To this situation the condemnatiol} in the
present case had not attained. The grant of power to the
Telegraph Company, therefore, was subject to legislative
control, and the Act of March 14, 1916, was not an "interference by the Legislature with judicial proceedings
in court" and does not offend the Fifth or Fourteenth
Amendments.
Judgment affirmed.

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 90.

Argued January 13, 16, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. An agreement in a drover's railroad pass, made pursuant to a
tariff filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission and conditioning his right to recover for personal injuries upon the giving
of a written notice of claim, within thirty days after injury, to
the general manager of the carrier upon whose line the accident
occurs, is valid, at least where his injuries do not disable him from
complying with tI~e condition. P. 24.
2. Actual knowledge on the part of the railroad's employees is no
excuse for not giving the notice. P. 24.
3. The action of Congress in fixing not less than 90 days for giving
notice of claims in respect of goods (Cummins Amendment, March

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE R. R. CO. 23
22.

'Opinion of the Court.

4, 1915, C. 176, ยง 1. 38 Stat. 1196), is not a declaration of public
policy against allowing a less, though reasonable, time in the case
of personal injuries. P. 24.
264 Fed. 664, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of nonsuit in an action in the
District Court for personal injuries.
Mr. J. H. Peterson, with whom Mr. T. C. Coffin was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George H. Smith, with whom Mr. Henry W. Clark
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is-an action for personal injuries caused by a collision on the defendant's road. The plaintiff, the petitioner, shipped some cattle from Bancroft in Idaho to
Omaha in Nebraska and got a drover's pass to go with
them as caretaker, free from charge other than that made
for carrying the cattle. In consideration of the pass the
plaintiff agreed that the carrier should not be liable for
any injury to him upon the trip unless he or his personal
representative should within thirty days after the injury
give notice in writing of his claim to the general manager
of the carrier on, which line the accident occurred. This
agreement. was required in pursuance of a regulation that
was part of the defendant's tariff Auly filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission. The, collision happened
on November 24, 1917, and the plaintiff was in a hospital
for about thirty days under the care of a doctor employed
by the ' defendant, but 'was not disabled from giving the
notice. He failed to give it, however. The -District
Court directed a non-suit and its. judgment was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 264 Fed. 664. A writ
of certiorari was granted by this Court. 254 U. S. 623.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

,The only question is whether the requirement of notice
in writing was valid. The railroad company does not
contend that it could have exonerated itself altogether
from liability for negligence, Norfolk Southern R. R. Co.
v. Chatman, 244 U. S. 276, but argues that a stipulation
for written notice within a reasonable time stands on a
different iooting, and of this there is no doubt. Southern
Pacific Cj. v. Stewart, 248 U. S. 446, 449, 450. St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S.
592, 602, et seq. We p3rceive nothing in the form of the
notice required to invalidate the requirement. It would
have been sufficiently complied with if addressed to the
railroad company, or to the general manager, care of the
railroad company. Of course too, actual knowledge on
the part of employees of the company was not an excuse
for omitting the notice in writing. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592. The
doubt that led to 1he granting of the writ of certiorari
was whether the prohibition of a requirement fixing less
than ninety days for giving notice .of claims in respect of
goods established a public policy that would affect the
present case. Act of March 4, 1915, c. 176, ยง 1, 38 Stat.
1196. For although courts sometimes have been slow to
extend the effect of statutes modifying the common law
beyond the direct operation of the words, it is obvious
that a statute may indicate a .change in the policy of the
law, although it expresses that change only in the specific
cases most likely -to occur to the mind. Johnson v.
United States, 163 Fed. 30, 32.
We are satisfied, however, that in this case the requirement was valid and that the statute referred to should'
not affect what in our opinion would be the law apart
from it. The decisions that we have cited show that the
time would l ve been sufficient, but for the statute, in
respect of darage to goods, and the reasons are stronger
to uphold it as adequate for personal injuries. A ,record

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE R. R. CO.
22.

CLAR

E,

J.,

TAFT, Ch. J.,

and

MCKENNA,

25

J., dissenting.

is kept of goods, yet even as to them reasonably prompt
notice is necessary as a check upon fraud. There is no
record of passengers, and the practice of fraud is too common to be ignored. Less time reasonably may be allowed
for a notice of claims for personal injuries than is deemed
proper for goods, although very probably an exception
might be implied if the accident made notice within the
time impracticable. The statute cannot be taken to indicate a different view. On the contrary it is impossible to
suppose that Congress when it was dealing with notices
of claims, and even with the claims of passengers for baggage, Act of August 9, 1916, c. 301, 39 Stat. 441, 442,
should not have thought of their claims for personal injuries, and, as it passed them by, we must suppose that
it was satisfied to leave them to the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the common law. See Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S.
357, 359. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Maucher, 248 U. S.359, 363. The fact that the form prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission in 1921is silent upon the subject cannot affect the result.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY was absent and took no part in
the decision.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, with whom concurred the CHIEF

JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, dissenting.

I

On November 24, 1917, petitioner, Gooch, when a passenger in the caboose attached to the train in which respondent company was carrying a carload of cattle for
him, was seriously injured by a collision'with another
train. Gooch was traveling on what has long been known
as a "Drover's Pass," which it is admitted in the answer
(as it must be, Norfolk Southern R. R. Co. v. Chatman,
244 U. S.276), entitledtim to the rights ;d protection

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

CimKE, J., Tmr, Ch. J., and McKENNA, J., dissenting. 258 U. S.

of a passenger for hire. It is also either admitted, or not
denied, thai Gooch was so injured that in about an hour
and a half after he was hurt agents of the company took
him to a hospital about forty miles from the scene of the
accident, where he was under the care of a physician employed by respondent for about thirty days, until he left
the hospital, but he returned for two treatments by the
company physician and was finally discharged by him on
January 15, 1918 (52 days after the accident). Five days
after Gooch entered the hospital, and while he was still in
bed under the care of the company's physician, the claim
adjuster of the company called upon him and asked him
"if he was ready for a settlement." To this Gooch replied that, "He was not in a condition to talk. with him;
that he was not ready for a settlement." About ten days
later, the claim agent called on him again at the hospital
and found him sitting up in a wheeled chair and a conversation similar to the first one was held." But his
case was dismissed below and that judgment is affirmed
by this court because he did not notify the company in
writing within thirty days of the accident that he would
claim damages for his injuries thus negligently caused.
The company alleged in its answer, aid it is not denied,
that pursuant to the provision of an effective tariff, when
he delivered his cattle for transportation, Gooch signed a
wrtten stipulation that no claim for personal injury
caused by its negligence should be valid or enforcible
against the company, unless notice in writing was given to
the general manager thereof within thirty days after injury occurred.'
It 'was admitted that the petitioner did not give the required notice in writing and the judgment of this court
is that the rule requiring it was a valid and reasonable rule
and that it must be enforced by affirmance of the judgment of the court below, notwithstanding the intimate
knowledge which the company so certainly had of Gooch's

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE R. R. CO.
22.

CLARxE, J.,

TAFT,

Ch. J., and

MCKENNA,

27

J., dissenting.

injuries from an hour and a half after the accident, when
it sent him to a hospital.
From this conclusion of the court I dissent: (1) Because
such a rule, as to property claims, has twice within six
years been specifically declared by acts of Congress to be
contrary to a public policy which I think it is the duty of
this court to recognize and accept with respect to injuries
to passengers, and (2) because in practice the rule is
gravely unjust and discriminatory and therefore unreasonable.
Of these in the order stated.
First. The petitioner claims the rule is unreasonable
and void under Boston & Maine Railroad v. Piper, 246
U. S. 439, but the court holds it reasonable on two
grounds: (1) Because the decisions of this court show that
the time for notice was sufficient, and (2) -because it is
necessary to protect carriers from fraudulent claims.
It is true that like, and even shorter, limitations with
respect to claims for property were sustained under special
circumstances in the two cases cited in the opinion of the
court and in several others, but those cases arose before
the Cummins Amendment to the Interstate Commerce
Act (38 Stat. 1196), which, after providing for the issuing
of a receipt or bill of lading for property received for
transportation by a carrier, contains this provision:
"Provided further, That it shall be unlawful for any
such common carrier to provide by rule, contract, regulation, or otherwise a shorter period for giving notice of
claims than ninety days and for the filing of claims for a
shorter period than four months, and for the institution of
suits than two years: Provided,however, That if the loss,
damage, or injury complained of was due to delay or
damage while being loaded or unloaded, or damaged ii
transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of
claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a condition
precedent to recovery."

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
CLARKE,

J., Tmrr, Ch. J., and

MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

258 U.S.

The first proviso thus quoted was a second time reenacted, in terms, (with an addition with respect to computations of time named therein) in the carefully considered Transportation Act, approved February 28, 1920,
c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 494, and the second proviso was left
unchanged by that act.
These two acts of Congress providing that any rule,
regulation or contract for limitation of notice to less than
ninety days, shall be unlawful, are such unmistakable
declarations of public policy as to a shorter notice limitation, under any circumstances, that in my judgment
it should be applied to claims for personal injury, even
though the statute, in terms, applies only to damages to
property, unless there are cogent reasons for distinguishing the two classes of claims from each other. Congress
should not have a ninety-day reasonablestandardin such
matters and this court a thirty-day standard.
The opinion of the court gives this as a sufficient reason for such distinction:
"The decisions that we have cited show that the time
would have been sufficient, but for the statute, in respect
of damage to goods, and the reasons are stronger to uphold it as adequate for personal injuries. A record is kept
of goods, yet even as to them reasonably prompt notice
is necessary as a check upon fraud. There is no record
of passengers, and the practice of fraud is too common to
be ignored."
With all deference, I submit that the reason thus given
is unsound, because the likelihood is much greater that
fraudulent claims will be made for injuries to goods than
to persons, for the reason that most goods are packed for
shipment and whether they are damaged or not cannot be
discovered until they are unpacked after having left the
cusft6dy of the carrier, but it must be rare indeed that a
passenger cart be injuled except in the presence of some
one or more of the carrier's Rgents. Such living and alert

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE R. R. CO.
22.

CLARKE, J., Tmi-r, Ch. J., and MCKENNA,

29

J., dissenting.

witnesses are a much better protection against fraud than
the indefinite and hurried record that is kept of goods.
In addition, the fact that cases involving notice limitations with respect to goods have been appearing frequently in this court for fifty years,-ever since Express
Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264, was decided-while counsel agree that the case we are considering is the first of
its kind with respect to passengers to find its way here
or, so far as they can discover, into any court, is very
strong evidence that fraudulent claims for damages to
goods are more frequent than for injury to persons. If
the carriers had needed and had used such limitations on
personal injury claims as much as they needed and used
them as to claims for damages to goods, some of them
would have found their way into reported cases long ere
this. As a matter of fact, however, this notice limitation
upon passenger injury claims is a recent innovation. It
appears for the first time in the livestock contract of the
respondent, effective November 2, 1915,-as if in defiant
response to the Cummins Amendment of the preceding
March. And in the Uniform Live Stock Contract, prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission in its
report of October 21, 1921, no such limitation is permitted. Interstate Commerce Reports, In re Domestic Bill
of Lading and Live Stock Contract. Appendix F. Under this prescribed form of contract, the latest word on
the subject, a thirty-day limit, such as the court is approving, would be as unlawful as it would have been under the statute had it been applied to a claim for injury
suffered by Gooch's cattle in the same accident in which
he was injured.
These considerations answer also the suggestion in the
opinion of the court that Congress must have considered
claims by passengers when considering claims for property and have decided that they deserved different- treatment. Such a limitation on passenger claims had never

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
CLARKE,

J., TAFT, Ch. J., and

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

258 U. S.

been heard of at that time, but we may be sure it will
be found in every railroad ticket promptly upon the
publication of the court's opinion in this case, unless prohibited by statute.
This court is passing for the first time upon such a rule
as we have here, and believing that no sound reasons have
been given for distinguishing between notice requirements for property and for passenger claims, I think it is
the duty of the court to accept the rule of public policy
prescribed by Congress and to apply it to personal injury
claims by declaring this thirty-day rule too short to be
reasonable and that it is therefore void under the Piper
Case, supra.
Second. That the rule is unjust and discriminatory,
and therefore unreasonable, is very clearly shown by the
operation of a like rule in freight cases.
In In the Matter of Bills of Lading, 29 I. C. C. 417, 419,
and In re the Cummins Amendment, 33 I. C. C. 682, 691,
the Interstate Commerce Commission says that, while the
uniform bill of lading had long contained a four months'
limitation for presenting da'mage claims for freight, no
effort had been made by carriers generally to enforce it
until the Croninger Case was decided in January, 1913
(226 U. S. 491), but that in December of that year they
began to enforce it literally and thereby "created multitudes of unjust discriminations." Only about one year of
such enforcement was necessary to cause the enactment of
the Cummins Amendment on March 4, 1915, which made
an end of the matter where property was damaged in
transit by negligence, and in any case rendered a limitation to less than ninety days unlawful.
That a notice rule so short as thirty days must result
in discrimination seems to me clear, also, because of that
characteristic of human nature, not sufficiently taken into
account by many courts. Persons and property are

GOOCH v. OREGON SHORT LINE R. R. CO.
22.

CLARKE,

J.,

TAFr,

Ch. J., and

McKENNA, J.,

31

dissenting.

usually transported so safely by rail that thought of
damage rarely enters the mind of the occasional shipper
or traveler, and from this it results that rules, such as
we have here, are not read, or if read are not understood,
couched, as they usually are, in forms of expression about
the meaning of which courts are in constant disagreement,
with the result that, while the large shippers know of and
keep within such rules and recover their losses, for the
occasional small shippers they serve as a trap in'which
they are often caught and ruined. The Cummins Amendment is the protest of the country against the discrimination and hardship which many federal and state court
decisions show resulted all over the country, from the enforcement of such a rule as to property claims.
To these reasons for holding the rule in this case unjust and discriminatory must be added the certainty, inherent in its form, that if enforced it will be an agency
of grave injustice.
Not only is the requirement unusual and unreasonable
that the. notice shall be given only to the general manager of a great system of railway, remote and unknown as
he must be to most of the patrons of the road, but, as a
shipper seldom accompanies his property-a drover is
almost the only instance in which he does-he is usually
at least in physical condition to make prompt claim if
his property is damaged, but many men are so badly injured in railway accidents that they are wholly incapable
.of making claim in writing within thirty days, and to
prepare the way for a law suit is the last thought of a
man who is seriously injured and suffering. It is true that
the rule considerately permits the claim to be made by
"the heirs and personal representatives" of one who may
be killed-but if, unfortunately, he should die toward the
end or yery near the end of the thirty days, this astutely
worded rule would cut out his dependents from all right

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

258 U.S.

to recover. The rule is a novel and cunning device to defeat the normal liability ,of carriers and should not be
made a favorite of the courts.
Believing, as I do, fQr the reasons thus stated, that the
thirty-day notice really is much more unjust when applied
to passenger than to property claims and also because its
application will work as grave discrimination and injustice
in other cases~as it so palpably does in this case, I think
the rule of puJtlic policy declared in the Cummins Amendment should be followed and that the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals should be reversed.
NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAIIROAD COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 96. Argued January 19, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
A railroad after accepting and transporting without protest, as mail
matter, a shipment of gold in mail sacks consigned by the Treasury Department, and after receiving the amount fixed by readjustment for carrying mail matter under its contract therefor, has
no claim for additional pay for carrying the gold and attendant
railway mail guards, whether the shipment was properly mail matter and the requirements of the statute concerning postal service
were technically complied with, or not. P. 33.
55 Ct. Clms. 536, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition.

Mr. S. S. Ashbaugh, with whom Mr. E. G. Buckland
and Mr. A. P. Russell were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney Gbneral, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck
was on the brief, for the United States.

