OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

STANDARD FASHION COMPANY v. MAGRANEHOUSTON COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIRST CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 20. Argued January 25, 1921; restored to docket for reargument
April 11, 1921; reargued January 16, 1922.-Decided April 10,
1922.
1. A contract for a term of two years from its date and from term
to term thereafter until terminated by eithe'r party by giving three
months' notice within thirty days after the expiration of any contract period, the contract to continue in effect during such three
months, held, where notice was not given after the first two years,
to have remained effective for two years longer and three months
thereafter. P. 353.
2. A suit to restrain a violation of a contract does not become moot
with the expiration of the contract if the bill also prays for damages capable of ascertainment. P. 353.
3. Under the General Laws of Massachusetts, c. 155, § 51, the existence of a corporation which has gone out of business and wound
up its affairs is continued for three years thereafter for the purpose
of prosecuting 'and defending suits. P. 353.
'4. A contract between a manufacturer and a retailer creating an
"agency " for the retailing of goods made by the former but to
be purchased by the latter, with provisions for periodical exchange
of old goods for new of less valuation, and for repurchase by the
manufacturer of stock on hand' at termination of the contract,
held a contract of sale, within § 3 of the Clayton Act. P. 354.
5. In a contract between a manufacturer and a retailer granting the
latter the "agency" for the sale at its store of goods bought by
-it from the former and stipulating that the retailer shall not
assign or transfer the agency or remove it from its original location
without the manufacturer's consent, a covenant of the retailer not
to sell on its premises goods of the manufacturer's competitors
during the term of the contract, held, a general restriction not
-confined to the particular shop. P. 354.
6. The Clayton Act was intended to supplement the Sherman and
other antitrust acts, by reaching agreements in their incipiency.
P. 355.

STANDARD CO. v. MAGRANE-HOUSTON CO.
346.

347

Argument for Petitioner.

7. The purpose of § 3 of the Clayton Act in forbidding contracts of:
sale, made upon the agreement or understanding that the purchaser
shall not deal in goods of the seller's competitors, which "may substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly ", was
not to prohibit the mere possibility of those consequences, but to
prevent agreements which, in the circumstances, will probably
lessen competition or create an actual tendency to monopoly.
P. 356.
8. When the meaning of an act of Congress is plain on its face, there
is no occasion to resort to the reports of congressional committees
concerning it. P. 356.
250 Fed. 793, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District'Court dismissing a
suit brought by the petitioner to restrain the respondent
from iriolating a. contract and for damages.
Mr. Herbert Noble, with whom Mr. Charles E. Hughes,

Mr. Robert G. Dodge, and Mr. James B. Sheehan were
on the briefs, for petitioner.1
The court below decided practically on the ground that
within the four corners of the contract and without refer-

ence to the evidence, there had been provided means for
lessening competition, irrespective of the use made of
those means.

It did not consider the undisputed evidence

that, there had been no lessening of competition and no
tendency to create a monopoly, but that, on the contrary,

the system was keenly competitive, extremely advantageous to the public and in the opinion of a competent witness economical.

There was no testimony showing that any deception,
misrepresentation or oppression had been practised; no
IAt. the first bearing the case was argued by Mr. Charles E.
Htighes on behalf of the petitioner. There was no appearance for
the respondent. On April 11, 1921, the court ordered the case restored to the docket for reargument and directed the clerk to notify
the Attorney General of its pendency.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

complaint of any competitor or other person of any unfairness; nor any suggestion that the public had suffered
injury or that competitors had reasonable ground for
complaint.
The words "may be" in § 3 of the Clayton Act are not
a license to the imagination. Congress meant to deal
with the discernment and suppression of practices in the
course of commerce which, in connection with an accomplished sale or lease, were bringing about conditions adverse to its policy to prevent restraints of trade and estab'lishment of monopolies, whether accomplished or in their
earlier stages.
The court must consider all the facts peculiar to the
business to which the restraint is applied, its condition
before and after the restraint was imposed, the nature of
the restraint and its. effect actual or probable, the history
of the restraint, the evil believed to exist, the reason for
the adoption of a particular remedy, and the purpose or
end sought to be obtained, because they are all relevant
facts. Where a record discloses the facts, a conclusion of
the actual effect or tendency can be found, and, from that,
-probabilities considered. Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, 246 U. S. 231. Section 3 of the act would
naturally be interpreted as contended for by the District
Court if the proviso at the end were omitted; but by the
introduction of that proviso Congress meant to deal with
facts as they are and to Afford an opportunity to ascertain
'the conditions before and after the restraint complained
of. United States v. United States Steel Corporation,
251 U. S. 417 444.
The Clayton Act is not intended to change the law in
any way with respect to the right of a manufacturer so
to market his goods as will prevent the buyer from using
them in competition with the business retained by the
seller, of selling direct to. the public, where it appears, as
the uncontradicted evidence here shows, that without such

STANDARD CO. v. MAGRANE-HOUSTON CO.
346.

349

Argument for Petitioner.

restriction the business of the seller would suffer injury.
United States v. Addyston Pipe Co., 85 Fed. 271; Hartman v. Park & Sons Co., 153 Fed. 24, 42, appeal dismissed
212 U. S. 588.
The contract is a method for the plaintiff to market its
own goods, the principal part of which it markets through
contracts similar to the one here, and the balance of
which it markets through its own salesrooms and through
the mail. The scheme of the contract requires the agent.
in conserving at all times the best interests of the agency,
to protect the plaintiff's goods, sell them only at retail,
and to return in bulk all that are not so sold, so that outof-date patterns may not get on the market, and the
plaintiff's own retained business as well as its reputation
may not be injured. The object of establishing the
agency is to sell patterns through the local dealer to the
public, and not to the local dealer. The facts that-defendant was required at all times to keep a minimum amount
of stock, and at the end of the contract to return this
minimum amount, and that by reason of the exchange
privilege it could not be determined until the end of the
contract and the return of the unsold patterns what the
plaintiff would receive for its patterns or what the defendant would pay, show that it could not have been
intended to sell the patterns to defendant. An unqualified title never vested in the defendant. It was intended
to secure the exclusive services of defendant in selling
plaintiff's patterns; and to allow the sale of other makes
on the same premises would interfere with defendant's
giving such exclusive service; and it was not intended to
injure competitors or the public, and, as a fact, it did not,
as appears from the record.
The negative covenant is not such a condition as is
prohibited by § 3; because it is specifically limited to the
premises described in the contract on which defendant
was to sell plaintiff's patterns, leaving defendant free to

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1921.

Argument for Petitioner.

258 U. S.

sell other makes in any other store it had or might have
in the same or any other city; and because the actual facts
show that it did not interfere with competition.
Before the passage of the Clayton Act, contracts of this
character were frequently assailed as being in restraint
of trade, either at .common law or under the Sherman
Act or state anti-monopoly statutes, and the view taken
by the courts with practical unanimity was that they did
not restrain trade.' Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn Products
Refg. Co., 236 U. S. 165; Cole Motor Car Co. v. Hurst,
228 Fed. 280, 284; Tillar v. Cole Motor Car Co., 246 Fed.
831, 832; Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125 Fed.
454; In re Green, 52 Fed. 104.
The validity, at least prior to the Clayton Act, of such
pattern agency contracts cannot be questioned. State
courts of the highest repute have not hesitated to sanction the issue of injunctions restraining the local agent
or dealer from selling the patterns of other manufacturers
than the one to whom he was bound by contract. Butterick Publishing Co. v. Fisher, 203 Mass. 122; Standard
Fashion Co. v. Siegel Cooper Co., 30 App. Div. 564; 157
N. Y. 60; 44 App. Div., 121; Butterick Publishing Co. v.
Rose, 141 Wisc. 533; Peerless Pattern Co. v. Gauntlett
Dry Goods Co., 171 Mich. 158; Davies' Trust Laws and
Unfair Competition, pp. 410 et seq.; see Brown v. Rounsavell, 78 Ill. 589; Southern Fire Brick & Clay Co. v.
Garden City Sand Co., 223 Ill. 616; Ferris v. American
Brewing Co., 155 Ind. 539; J. W. Ripy & Co. v. Art Wall
Paper Mills,-41 Okla. 20; Walsh v. Dwight, 40 App. Div.
513, 517; Weiboldt v. Standard Fashion Co., 80 Ill. App.
67; Sullivan v. Rime, 35 S. Dak. 75; Wood Co. v. Greenwood Hardware Co., 75 S. Car. 378;, Staroske v. Pulitzer
Publishing Co., 235 Mo. 67; Rawleigh Co. v. Osborne, 177
Ia. 208; Rose v. Gordon, 158 Wisc..414.
Decisions heretofore made under § 3 of the Clayton Act
sustain the petitioner's position. Sperry & Hutchinson

STANDARD CO. v. MAGRANE-HOUSTON CO.
346.

351

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Fenster, 219 Fed. 755; Elliott Machine Co. v.
Center, 227 Fed. 124; United States v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 227 Fed. 507; 234 Fed. 127; Coca-Cola Co.
v. Butler & Sons, 229 Fed. 224; Motion Picture Patents
Co. v. Universal Film Co., 235 Fed. 398; PictorialReview
Co. v. Curtis Publishing Co., 255 Fed. 206; Curtis Publishing Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 270 Fed. 881;
Texas Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 273 Fed. 478;
Standard Oil Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 273 Fed.
478; Canfield Oil Co. v. Federal Trade Commission, 274
Fed. 571.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. La Rue
Brown and Mr. Elias Field, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief,, (by special leave) for
the United States, as amicus curiae.

MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Petitioner brought suit in the United States District
Court for the District of Massachusetts to restrain the
respondent from violating a certain contract concerning
the sale of patterns for garments worn by women and
children, called Standard Patterns. The bill was dismissed
by the District Court and its decree was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 259 Fed. 793.
Petitioner is a New York corporation engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of patterns. Respondent
conducted a retail dry goods business at the corner of
Washington Street and Temple Place in" the City of
Boston. On November 25, 1914, the parties entered into
a contract by which the petitioner granted to the respondent an agency for the sale of Standard Patterns at respondent's store, for a term of two years from the date of
the contract, and from term to term thereafter until the
agreement should be terminated as thereinafter provided.
Petitioner agreed to sell to respondent Standard Patterns

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

238:U. S.

at a discount of 50% from retail prices, with advertising
matter and publications upon terms stated; and to allow
respondent to return discarded patterns semiannually
between January 15th and February 15th, and July 15th
and August 15th, in exchange at. nine-tenths cost for
other patterns to be shipped from time to time thereafter. The contract provided that patterns returned for
exchange must have been purchased-from the petitioner
and must be delivered in good order to the general office
of the seller in New York. Respondent agreed to pur-chase a substantial number of standard. fashion sheets,
to purchase and keep on hand at all times, except during
the period of exchange, $1,000 value in Standard Patterns
at net invoice prices, and .to pay petitioner for the pattern
stock to be selected by it on terms of payment which
are stated. Respondent agreed not to assign or transfer the agency, or to remove it from its original location
without the written consent of the petitioner, and not
to sell or permit to" be sold on its premises during the
term of the contract any other make of patterns, and
not to sell Standard Patterns except at label prices.
Respondent agreed to permit petitioner to take account
of pattern stock whenever it desired, to pay proper attention to the sale of Standard Patterns, to conserve the
best *interests of the agency at all times, and to reorder
promptly as patterns were sold. Either party desiring to
terminate the agreement was required to give the other
party three months' notice in writing, within thirty days
after the expiration of any contract period, the agency to
continue during such three months. Upon expiration
of such notice respondent agreed to promptly return to
petitioner all Standard Patterns, and petitioner agreed to
credit respondent for the same on receipt in good order
at three-fourths cost. Neglect to return the pattern stock
within two weeks after the expiration of the three months'
notice to relieve the petitioner from all obligation to

STANDARD CO. v. MAGRANE-HOUSTON CO.
:346.

353

Opinion of the Court.

redeem the same. It was further stipulated that in the
event the business property of the respondent, or a substantial part thereof, should be disposed of by respondent for business other than that of dry goods or as a
general department store, the respondent should have the
privilege of terminating the contract by giving the petitioner due notice of such change. Two weeks after the
change in the premises had been made the respondent
might deliver its stock of Standard Patterns to the petitioner for repurchase under the repurchase clause of the
contract.
We agree with the courts" below that, the notices not
having been given as required by the contract, the same
continued in force until three months from November
25, 1918, to wit, to February 25, 1919. It is contended in
the brief for the Government, filed by it as amicus curiae,
that as the date last mentioned had elapsed pending
the suit, the case has become moot, but we are unable to
agree with such contention. The bill prayed an assessment of damages as far as capable of ascertainment. The
record shows that such damages were capable at least of
partial ascertainment.
The suggestion that the respondent had wound up its
affairs, and had gone out of business on March 27, 1920,
is met by the General Laws of Massachusetts, c. 155, § 51,
continuing its corporate existence for the period of three
years for the purpose of prosecuting or defending suits by
or against it.
The principal question in the case and the one upon
which the writ of certiorari was granted involves the construction of § 3 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 73i. That
section, so far as pertinent here, provides:
"It shall be unlawful . . . to lease or make a sale or
contract for sale of goods, . . .
or fix a price charged
therefor, or discount from, or rebate upon, such price, on
the condition, agreement or understanding that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

lessee or purchaser thereof shall not use or deal in the
goods . . . of a competitor or competitors of the

lessor or seller, where the effect of such lease, sale, or
contract for sale or such condition, agreement or understanding may be to substantially lessen competition or
tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce."
The contract contains an agreement that the respondent shall not sell or permit to be sold on its premises during the term of the contract any other make of patterns.
It is shown that on or about July 1, 1917, the respondent
discontinued the sale of the petitioner's patterns and
placed on sale in its store patterns of a rival company
known as the McCall Company.
It is insisted by the petitioner that the contract is not
one of sale, but is one of agency or joint venture, but an
analysis of the contract shows that a sale was in fact intended and made. It is provided that patterns returned
for exchange must have been .purchased from the petitioner. Respondent agreed to purchase a certain number
of patterns. Upon expiration of the notice of termination
the respondent agreed to promptly return all Standard
Patterns bought under the contract. In the event of the
disposition of the business property of the respondent at
Washington Street and Temple Place, the respondent
might deliver its stock of Standard Patterns to the petitioner for repurchase under the repurchase clause of the
contract.
Full title and dominion passed to the buyer. While
this contract is denominated one of agency, it is perfectly
apparent that it is one of sale. Straus v. Victor Talking
Machine Co., 243 U. S. 490.
The contract required the purchaser not to deal in
goods of competitors of the seller. It is idle to say that
the covenant was limited to the premises of the purchaser,
and that sales might be made by it elsewhere. The contract should have a reasonable construction. The pur-

STANDARD CO. v. MAGRANE-HOU6TON CO.
346.

355

Opinion of the Court.

chaser kept a retail sfore in Boston. It was not contemplated that it would make sales elsewhere. The covenant,
read in the light of the circumstances in which it was
made, is one by which the purchaser agreed not to sell
any other make of patterns while the contract was in force.
The real question is: Does the contract of sale come
within the third section of the Clayton Act because the
covenant not to sell the patterns of others "may be
to substantially .lessen competition or tend to create a
monopoly."
The Clayton Act, as its title and the history of its enactment disclose, was intended to supplement the purpose and effect of other anti-trust legislation, principally
the Sherman Act of 1890. The latter act had been interpreted by this court to apply to contracts, combinations
and conspiracies which unduly obstruct the free and
natural flow of commerce. The construction since regarded as controlling was stated in Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 221 U. S. 1, 58, wherein this court construed the act as intended to reach combinations unduly
restrictive of the flow of commerce or unduly restrictive
of competition. It was said that the act embraced:
"All contracts or acts which were unreasonably restrictive of competitive conditions, either from the nature or
character of the contract or act or where the surrounding
circumstances were such as to justify the conclusion that
they had not been entered into or performed with the
legitimate purpose of reasonably forwarding personal
interest and developing trade, but on the contrary were
of such a character as to give rise to the inference or presumption that they had been entered into or done with
the intent to do wrong to the general public and to limit
the right of individuals, thus restraining the free flow of
commerce and tending to bring about the evils, such as enhancement of prices, which were considered to be against
public policy." See also United States v. American To9544-23-26

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

bacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United States v. Terminal Railroad Association, 224 U. S. 383; Standard Sanitary Manufacturing Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; United States
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61; United States
v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; Nash v. United States, 229
U. S. 373; Straus v. American Publishers' Association,
231 U. S.222.
As the Sherman Act was usually administered, when a
case was made out, it resulted in a decree dissolving the
combination, sometimes with unsatisfactory results so
far as the purpose to maintain free competition was concerned.
The Clayton Act sought to reach the agreements embraced within its sphere in their incipiency, and in the
section under consideration to determine their legality by
specific tests of its own which declared illegal contracts
of sale made upon the agreement or understanding that
the purchaser shall not deal in the goods of a competitor
or competitors of the seller, which may "substantially
lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly."
Much is said in the briefs concerning the Reports of
Committees concerned with the enactment of this legislation, but the words of the act are plain and their meaning is apparent without the necessity of resorting to the
extraneous statements and often unsatisfactory aid of
such reports. See Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563,
and previous decisions of this court therein cited.
Section 3 condemns sales or agreements where the effect
of.such sale or contract of sale "may" be to substantially
lessen competition or tend to create monopoly. It thus
deals with consequences to follow the making of the restrictive covenant limiting the right of the purchaser to
deal in the goods of the seller only. But we do not think
that the purpose in using the word "may" was to prohibit the mere possibility of the consequences described.

STANDARD CO. v. MAGRANE-HOUSTON CO.
346.

357

Opinion of the Court.

It was intended to prevent such agreements as would
under the circumstances disclosed probably lessen competition, or create an actual tendency to monopoly. That
it was not intended to reach every remote lessening of
competition Is shown in the requirement that such lessening must be substantial.
Both courts below found that the contract interpreted
in the light of the circumstances surrounding the making
of it was within the provisions of the Clayton Act as one
which substantially lessened competition and tended to
create monopoly. These courts. put special stress upon
the fact found that, of 52,000 so-called pattern agencies in
the entire country, the petitioner, or a holding company
controlling it and two other pattern companies, approximately controlled two-fifths of such agencies. As the
Circuit Court of Appeals summarizing -the matter pertinently observed:
"The restriction of each merchant to one pattern
manufacturer must in hundreds, perhaps in thousands, of
small communities amount to giving such single pattern
manufacturer a monopoly of the "business in such community. Even in the larger cities, to limit to a single
pattern maker the pattern business of dealers most resorted to by customers whose purchases tend to give fashions their vogue, may tend to facilitate further combinations; so that the plaintiff, or some other aggressive concern, instead of controlling two-fifths, will shortly have
almost, if not quite, all the pattern business."
We agree with these conclusions, and have no doubt
.that the contract, properly interpreted, with its restrictive
covenant, brings it fairly within the section of the Clayton
Act under consideration.
Affirmed.

