254

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

it that the emphasis of the section is in securing a close supervision of the business of dealing in these dangerous
drugs by the taxing offices of the Government and that
it merely uses a criminal penalty to secure recorded evidence of the disposition of such drugs as a means of taxing and restraining the traffic. Its manifest purpose is to
require every person dealing in drugs to ascertain at his
peril whether that which he sells comes within the inhibition of the statute, and if he sells the inhibited drug
in ignorance of its character, to penalize him. Congress
weighed the possible injustice of subjecting an innocent.
seller to a penalty against the evil ofexposing innocent
purchasers to danger from the drug, and concluded that
the latter was the resul4 preferably to be avoided.
Doubtless considerations as to the opportunity of the
seller to find out the fact and the difficulty of proof of
knowledge 'ontributed to this conclusion. We think the
demurrer to the. indictment should have been overruled.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in this decision.
PONZJ v. FESSENDEN ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 631. Argued larch 8, 9, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.
1. Our system of state and federal jurisdiction requires a spirit of
reciprocal comity between courts to promote due and orderly procedure. P. 259.
2. The fact that a man is serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed
by a federal court for a federal offense, does not render him
immune to prosecution in a state court for offenses committed
against the State. P. 264.
3. A federal prisoner may, with the consent of the United States, be
brought before a state court, for trial on indictment there, by a
writ of habeas corpus issued by that court and directed to the
warden having him in charge as federal agent, then to be returned
and serve out the federal sentenc6. P. 261.

PONZI v. FESSENDEN.
254.

Statement of the Case.

4. The Attorney General, in view of his statutory functions, has implied power to exercise the comity of the United States in such
cases, provided enforcement of the sentence of the federal court be
not prevented or the prisoner endangered. P. 262.
5. Upon trial and conviction of one already sentenced for another
crime, execution of the second sentence may begin when the first
terminates. P. 265.

THis case comes here for answer to the following ques-

tion of law:
"May a prisoner, with the consent of the Attorney
General, while serving a sentence imposed by a District
Court of the United States, be lawfully taken on a writ of
habeas corpus, directed to the master of the House of
Correction, who, as Federal agent under a mittimus issued
out of said District Court, has custody of such prisoner,
into a state court, in the custody of said master and there
put to trial upon indictments there pending against him?"
September 11, 1920, twenty-two indictments were returned against Charles Ponzi in the Superior Court for
Suffolk Cbunty, Massachusetts, charging him with certain
larcenies.
October 1, 1920, two indictments charging violation of
§ 215 of the Federal Penal. Code were- returned against
him in the United States District Court for the District
of Massachusetts. November 30, 1920, he pleaded guilty
to the first count of one of these, and was sentenced to
imprisonment for five years in the House of Correction
at Plymouth, Massachusetts, and committed.
April 21, 1921, the Superior Court issued a writ of
habeas corpus directing the master of the House of Correction, who, as federal agent, had custody of Ponzi by
virtue of the mittimus issued by the District Court, to
bring him before the Superior Court and to have him
'here from day to day thereafter for trial upon the pending indictments, but to hold the prisoner at all times in
his custody as an agent of the United States subject to the
sentence imposed by the Federal District Court. Blake,

'OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Ponzi.

258 U. S.

the master of the House of Correction, made a return that
he held Ponzi pursuant to process of the United States
and prayed that the writ be dismissed.
Thereafter the Assistant Attorney General of the
United States, by direction of the United States Attorney
General, stated in open court that the United States had
no objection to the issuance of the writ, to the compliance
with the writ by Blake, or to the production of Ponzi for
trial in the Superior Court and that the Attorney General had directed Blake to comply with the writ. Blake
then produced the prisoner, who was arraigned on the
state indictmentq and stood mute. A plea of not guilty
was entered for him by the court.
May 23, 1921, Ponzi filed in the District Court a petition for a writ of habeas corpus directed against the
Justice of the Superior Court, and against Blake, alleging
in substance that he was within the exclusive control of
the United States, and that the state court had no jurisdiction to try him while thus in federal custody. His
petition for writ of habeas corpus was denied. An appeal
was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the judges of
which certify the question to this court on the foregoing
facts. § 239, Judicial Code.
Mr. William H. Lewis for Ponzi.
If the petitioner could not be tried in the state court,
pending his sentence, without the consent of the Attorney General of the United States, he could not be tried
at all.
The Attorney General of the United States is a statutory
officer, and has no authority over prisoner of the United
States except such as is expressly given him by some statute of the United States, or as may be necessarily implied
from sonie express statute.
He has no control over a prisoner in a state jail or
penitentiary. Rev. Stats., § 5539.

PONZI v. FESSENDEN.
254.

Argument for Ponzi.

A federal prisoner is entitled to protection. Beavers v.
Henkel, 194 U. S. 83; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
295.
The Attorney General has neither express nor implied
authority to intervene in a habeas corpus case of this
character.
If the situation were reversed, and Ponzi had been first
tried in the state court and sentenced to serve a term in a
state jail or prison, and the United States desired to try
him upon indictments pending against him in the United
States District Court, neither the court, nor any judge
thereof, could issue a writ of habeas corpus to bring him
into that court for trial. Rev. Stats., § 753; Ex parte
Burrus, 136 U. S. 586; Re Dorr, 3 How. 103; Ex parte
Bollman, 4 Cranch, 75.
It would seem, therefore, that the United States ought
not to permit a state court to try a prisoner of the United
States where, under the same circumstances, a United
States court could not try a state prisoner. There is no
comity in it,
In all the judicial history of the Commonwealth, from
Sims's Case, (1851) 61 Mass. 285, down to the present,
Massachusetts has never attempted to assert the right
which is now being asserted in this case.
The proceeding of the state court is practically forbidden by the laws of the Commonwealth upon the subject of habeas corpus. Gen. Laws, c. 248, .§ 34.
This writ was used in the English law to bring in prisoners from one court to another in the same jurisdiction.
That was the use of the writ in the Bollman Case, supra.
It is used here as a substitute for removal, or an extradition proceeding. Obviously, this writ could not be used
to take a prisoner from one State to another, from one
jurisdiction to another jhrisdiction. The jurisdiction of
the United States, where Ponzi is, is just as foreign to
Massachusetts as Rhode Island is to Georgia, and the writ

258

OCTOBR TERM, 1921.
Argument for Ponzi.

258 U. S.

of the Massachusetts court can not cross the line between
the two jurisdictions.
The mittimus itself forbids interference with the body
of Ponzi by the state court. It is fundamental that, after
the term of the court has expired at which sentence was
rendered, the court itself cannot interfere with its own
mittimus. In re Jennings, 118 Fed. 479; Commonwealth
v. Foster, 122 iass. 317; Goddard v. Ordway, 101 U. S.
752; Basset v. United States, 9 Wall. 38; Ex parte Lange,
18 Wall. 167.
In all cases of concurrent jurisdiction or otherwise, the
court that first acquires jurisdiction holds it to the exclusion of all others, until its judgment is satisfied. McCauley v. McCauley, 202 Fed. 280, 284; State v. Chinault,
55 Kans. 326; Ex parte Earley, 3 Oh. Dec. 105; Commonwealth v. Fuller, 8 Mete. 318; Hill Mfg. Co. v. Providence
& New York S. S. Co., 113 Mass. 495; Ayers v. Farwell,
196 Mass. 350; Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1; Covell
v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176; Taylor v. Taintor, 16 Wall.
366; Felts v. Murphy, 201 U. S. 123; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 163; In re Johnson, 167 U. S. 120; Opinion
of the Justices, 201 Mass. 609.
Can the state court try Ponzi without jurisdiction over
his person; in other words, without custody of the prisoner? Ponzi, as a prisoner of the Uniteri States, is
"within the dominion and exclusive jurisdiction " of the
United States. Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506. See
also Robb v. Connoly, 111 U. S. 624; In re Johnson, 167
U. S. 120; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263;
Willoughby, Const., c. 9, § 72; Bailey, Habeas Corpus,
p. 68; 6 Ops. Atty. Gen. 103; 12 id. 258.
Upon the principles of natural justice, the state court
should not be permitted to try Ponzi under the circumstances, because he would be subject to double punishment for the same acts.
Is it the " due process of law " to which the petitioner
is entitled under § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to

PONZI v. FESSENDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

254.

be set to trial in a state court while serving sentence as
a federal prisoner? Twining v. New Jersey, 211-U. S.
103; Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 348; Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714, 733; Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Old
Wayne Mutual Life Association v. McDonough, 204
U. S. 8.
The contention is that the court, being without custody
of Ponzi's body, cannot try him in a criminal case.
Const. Mass. Art. XXVI; Gen. Laws Mass., c. 276, § 42.
The principle contended for by the respondents is a
dangerous one, in that it will lead to confusion, frequent
clashes, and conflicts of jurisdiction, where now none
exists.
Mr. J. Weston Allen, Attorney General of the State of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Edwin H. Abbot, Jr., was
on the brief, for Fessenden et al.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. W. Marvin Smith,
by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of the United
States, as arnici curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUsTIcE TA~r, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the court.
We live in the jurisdiction of two sovereignties, each
having its own system of courts to declare and enforce its
laws in common territory. It would be impossible for
such courts to fulfil their respective functions without embarrassing conflict unless rules were adopted by them to
avoid it. The people for whose benefit these two systems
are maintained are deeply interested that each system
shall be effective and unhindered in its vindication of its
laws. The situation requires, therefore, not only definite
rules fixing the powers of the courts in cases of jurisdiction over the same persons and things in actual litigation,
but also a spirit of reciprocal comity and mutual assistance to promote due and orderly procedure.
9344--2,::2

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 IT. S.

One accused of crime has a right to a full and fair trial
according to the law of the government whose sovereignty
he is alleged to have offended, but he has no more than
that. He should not be permitted to use the machinery
of one sovereignty to obstruct his trial in the courts of the
other, unless the necessary operation of such machinery
prevents his-having a fair trial. He may not complain
if one sovereignty waives its strict right to exclusive
custody of him for vindication of its laws in order that the
other may also subject him to conviction of crime against
it. In re Andrews, 236 Fed. 300; United States v. Marrin,
227 Fed. 314. Such a waiver is a matter that addresses
itself solely to the discretion of the sovereignty making it
and of its representatives with power to grant it.
One accused of crime, of course, can not be in two places
at the same time. He is entitled to be present at every
stage of the trial of himself in each jurisdiction with full
opportunity for defense. Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S.
309, 341; Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 37G. If that
is accorded him, he can not complain. The fact that he
may have committed two crimes gives him no immunity
-from prosecution of either.
The chief rule which preserves our two systems of
courts from actual conflict of jurisdiction is that the
court which first takes the subject-matter of the litigation
into its control, whether this be person or property, must
be permitted to exhaust its remedy, to attain which it
assumed control, before the other court shall attempt to
take it for its purpose. The principle is stated by Mr.
Justice Matthews in Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176.
as follows:
"The forbearance which courts of co-ordinate jurisdiction, administered under a single system, exercise towards
each other, vhereby conflicts are avoided, by avoiding interference with the process of each other, is a principle of
comity, with perhaps no higher sanction than the utility

PONZI v. FESSENDEN.
254.

Opinion of the Court.

which comes from concord; but between State courts and
those of the United States, it is something more. It is a
principle of right and of law, and therefore, of necessity.
It leaves nothing to discretion or mere convenience.
These courts do not belong to the same sytem, so far as
their jurisdiction is concurrent; and although they coexist in the same space, they are independent, and have
no common superior. They exercise jurisdiction, it is
true, within the same territory, but not in the same
plane; and when one takes into its jurisdiction a specific
thing, that res is as much withdrawn from the judicial
power of the other, as if it had been carried physically into
a different territorial sovereignty."
The Heyman Case concerned property, but the same
principle applies to jurisdiction over persons as is shown
bythe great judgment of Chief Justice Taney in Ableman
v. Booth, 21 How. 506, quoted from, and relied upon, in
Covell v. Heyman.
In the case at bar, the Federal District Court first took
custody of Ponzi. He pleaded guilty, was sentenced to
imprisonment and was detained under United States authority to suffer the punishment imposed. Until the
end of his term and his discharge, no state court could assume control of his body without the consent of the
United States. Under statutes permitting it, he might
have been taken under the writ of habeas corpus to give
evidence in a federal court, or to be tried there if in the
same district, § 753, Rev. Stats., or be removed by order
of a federal court to be tried in another district, § 1014,
Rev. Stats., without violating the order of commitment
made by the sentencing court. Ex parte Bollman, 4
Cranch, 75, 98; Ex parte Lamar, 274 Fed. 160, 164. This
is with the authority of the same sovereign which commitI
ted him.
There is no express authority authorizing the transfer
of a federal prisoner to a state court for such purposes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Yet we have no doubt that it exists and is to be exercised
with the consent of the Attorney General. In that officer,
the power and discretion to practice the comity in such
matters between the federal and state courts is vested.
The Attorney General is the head of the Department of
Justice. Rev. Stats., § 346. He is the hand of the
President in taking care that the laws of the United States
in protection of the interests of the United States in
legal proceedings and in the prosecution of offences, be
faithfully executed. United States v. San Jacinto Tin
Co., 125 U. S. 273; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1; Kern River
Co. v. UnitedStates, 257 U. S. 147; Rev. Stats., § 359; Act
of June 30, 1906, c. 3935, 34 Stat. 816; Rev. Statg., §§ 360,
361, 357, 364. By § 367, Rev. Stats., the Attorney General is authorized to send the Solicitor General or any
officer of the Department of Justice " to any State or
District in the United'States to attend to the interests of
the United States in any suit pending in any of the courts
of the United States, or in the courts of any State, or to
attend to any other interest of the United States."
The prisons of the United States and the custody of
prisoners under sentence are generally under the supervision and regulation of the Attorney General. Act
March 3, 1891, c. 529, 26 Stat. 839. He is to approve the
expenses of the transportation of United States prisoners
by the marshals under his supervision to the wardens of
the prisons where they are to be confined, 26 Stat. 839.
He makes contracts with managers of state prisons for
the custody of United States prisoners. Rev. Stats.,
§ 5548. He designates such prisons. Rev. Stats., § 5546.
amended 19 Stat. 88, and 31 Stat. 1450. Release of
United States prisoners on parole whether confined in
federal prisons or in state prisons is not made save with
the approval of the Attorney General. Act of June 25,
1910, c. 387, 36 Stat. 819. The Attorney General is authorized to change the place of imprisonment of United

PONZI v. FESSENDEN.
254.

26a

Opinion of the Court.

States prisoners confined in a state prison when he thinks
it not sufficient to secure their custody, or on their application, because of unhealthy surroundings or improper
treatment. Rev. Stats., § 5546, as amended 19 Stat. 88,
and 31 Stat. 1450. One important duty the Attorney
General has to perform, is the examination of all applications for pardon or, comnutation, and a report and
recommendation to the President.
This recital of the duties of the Attorney General leaves
no doubt that one of the interests of the United States
which he has authority and discretion to attend to,
through one of his subordinates, in. a state court, under
§ 367, Rev. Stats., is that which relates to the safety and
custody of United States prisoners in confinement under
sentence of federal courts. In such matters he represents
the United States and may on its part practice the comity
which the harmonious and effective operation of both
systems of courts requires, provided it does not prevent
enforcement of the sentence of the federal courts or
endanger the prisoner. Logan v. United States, 144
U. S. 263.
Counsel for appellant relies on § 5539, Rev. Stats.,
which directs that when any criminal sentenced by a
federal court is imprisoned in the jail or penitentiary of
any State or Territory "such criminal shall in all respects
be subject to the same discipline and treatment as convicts sentenced by the courts of the State or Territory
iu which such jail or penitentiary is situated; and while
so confined therein shall be exclusively under the control
of the officers having charge of the same, under the laws
of such State or Territory." This section it is said prevents the Attorney General or any other federal officer
from ordering the superintendent of a state prison to produce a federal prisoner for trial or testimony. But it is
clear that the section has no such effect. The section
is only one of many showing the spirit of comity between

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

the state and national governments in reference to the
enforcement of the laws of each. To save expense and
travel, the Federal Government has found it convenient
with the consent of the respective States to use state
prisons in which to confine many of its prisoners, and the
Attorney General is the agent of the Government to
make the necessary contracts to carry this out. In order
to render the'duty thus assumed by the state governments as free from complication as possible, the actual
authority over, and the discipline of, the federal prisoners while in the state prison are pfit in the state prison
authorities. If the treatment or discipline is not satisfactory, the Attorney General can transfer them to another prison, but while they are there, they must be as
amenable to the rules of the prison as are the state prisoners. But this does not have application to the procedure or the authority by which their custody may be
permanently ended or temporarily suspended.
The huthorities, except when special statutes make an
exception, are all agreed that the fact that a defendant
in an indictment is in prison serving a sentence for another crime gives him no immunity from the second
prosecution. One of the best considered judgments on
the subject is Rigor v. State, 101 Md. 465. The Supreme
Court of Maryland said (p. 471):
"The penitentiary is not a place of sanctuary; and an
incarcerated convict ought not to enjoy an immunity
from trial merely because he is undergoing punishment
on some earlier judgment of guilt."
Delay in the trial of accused persons greatly aids the
guilty to escape because witnesse disappear, their memory becomes less accurate and time lessens the vigor of
officials charged with the duty of prosecution. If a plea
of guilty and imprisonment for one offence is to postpone
trial on many others, it furnishes the criminal an opportunity to avoid the full expiation of his crimes. These

PONZI v. FESSENDEN.
254.

Opinion of the Court.

considerations have led most courts to take the same view
as that expressed in the case just cited. Other cases are
State v. Wilson, 38 Conn. 126; Thomas v. People, 67 N. Y.
218, 225; Peri v. People, 65 Ill. 17; Commonwealth v.
Ramunno, 219 Pa. St. 204; Kennedy v. Howad, 74 Ind.
87; Singleton v. State, 71 Miss. 782; Huffaker v. Commonwealth, 124 Ky. 115; Clifford v. Dryden, 31 Wash.
545; People v. Flynn, 7 Utah, 378; Ex parte Ryan, 10
Nev. 261; State v. Keefe, 17 Wyo. 227, 252; Re Wetton,
1 Crompt. & J. 459; Regina v. Day, 3 F. & F. 526.
It is objected that many of these cases relate to crimes
committed in prison during service of a sentence. The
Maryland case did not, nor did some of the others. But
the difference suggested is not one in principle. If incarceration is a reason for not trying a prisoner, it applies whenever and wherever the crime is comnitted.
The unsoundness of .the view is merely more apparent
when a prisoner murders his warden, than when he is
brought before the court for a crime committed before his
imprisonment. It is the reductio ad absurdum of the
plea.
Nor, if that be here important, is there any difficulty
in respect to the execution of a second sentence. It can
be made to commence when the first terminates. Kite v.
Commonwealth, 11 Metc. 581, 585, an opinion by Chief
Justice Shaw; Ex parte Ryan, 10 Nev. 261, 264; Thomas
v. People, 67 N. Y. 218, 226.
But it is argued that when fhe prisoner is produced in
the Superior Court, he is still in the custody and jurisdiction of the United States, and that the state court can not
try one not within its jurisdiction. This is a refinement
which if entertained would merely obstruct justice. The
prisoner when produced in the Superior Court 'in. compliance with .its writ is personally present. He has full
opportunity to make his defense exactly as if he were
brought before the court by its own officer. State v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

258 U. S.

Wilson, 38 Conn. 126, 136. The trial court is given all the
jurisdiction needed to try and hear him by the consent of
the United States, which only insists on his being kept
safely from escape or from danger under the eye and
control of its officer. This arrangement of comity between the two governments works in no way to the prejudice of the prisoner or of either sovereignty.
The question must be answered in the affirmative.
PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. LUCAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 160. Submitted March 10, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.
Where a seaman went ashore at a port of call for hospital treatment,
and, being asked only to sign for his past wages without mention
of a discharge, executed with the master a mutual release under
Rev. Stats., § 4552, but was not given a certificate of discharge as
required by § 4551, and the purport of the overt acts in the circumstances was not to release his claim for future wages, maintenance and cure- during the remainder of the ship's voyage, held
(considering also the power given by c. 153, 38 Stat. 1165, to set
aside such releases and "take such action as justice shall require,")
that the release was not a bar to the assertion of such claim in a
libel in admiralty. P. 267.
264 Fed. 938, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a decree of the District Court in admiralty
awarding the libelant the amounts he was compelled to
pay for subsistence and medical treatment at a port of
call where he left the ship for hospital treatment, and the
amount of his wages from that time until the ship completed her voyage.
Mr. Charles J. Heggerty for petitioner.
Mr. Frederick Clayton Peterson for respondent.

