574

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

As to the preference claimed against a bankrupt in No.
526 by the Fleet Corporation, I concur in the conclusion
of the court that it can not be allowed under the statute
as to preferences in bankruptcy, because I do not think it
extends to claims of the United States except those for
taxes.
STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN

No. 20, Original.

EQUITY.

Argued December 13, 14, 1921.-Decided May
1, 1922.

1. When this court, in aj. original suit involving title to land claimed
by two States against each other and by the United States against
both, has appointed a receiver who has possession of the land and
of funds derived therefrom, its control over such subject-matter
is exclusive and it has ancillary jurisdiction to determine particular
claims thereto irrespective of whether, considered apart, they
would lie within its original jurisdiction. P. 581.
2. The former decree (252 U. S. 372) having determined the boundary between Oklahoma and Texas to be along the south bank of
the Red River, Texas and its grantees and licensees have no proprietary interests in the river bed or in the proceeds of oil and
gas taken therefrom. P. 582.
3. Upon the creation of a new State, ownership of the beds of navigable streams within the boundaries passes from the United States
to the State in virtue of the constitutional rule of state equality;
but not so of the beds of streams not navigable. P. 583.
4. The Treaty of 1819, between the United States and Spain, by
declaring that the navigation of the Sabine River to the sea and
of the Red and Arkansas Rivers, throughout the extent of the
boundary fixed by the treaty, should be common to the inhabitants
of both nations, did not impress upon the R~ed River the legal character of a navigable stream where not navigable in fact. P. 583
5. Officials of the United States Public Land Survey are not empowered to settle questions of navigability, and navigability in
law can not he im-led from their actioii, in meandering a stream

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

' Syllabus.

and their failure to extend township and section lines across it.
P. 585.
6. The fact that Congress, in permitting construction of bridges
over the Red River in Oklahoma, required, out of precaution, that
there should be no interference with navigation, does not justify
an inference that the river within that State is navigable. P. 585:
7. Navigability in fact is the test of navigability in law; and whether
a river is navigable in fact is determined by whether it is used or
susceptible of use, in its natural and ordinary condition, as a
highway of commerce for the conduct of trade and travel in the
modes customary on water. P. 586.
8. In determining navigability, the actual condition of a river as
disclosed in recent years must prevail over 'statemenfs 'in early
publications made upon inadequate data and loosely repeated.
P. 586.
9. Any inference of navigability from the appropriation by Congress,
and use, of money in an attempt to improve a river, held overcome by the conditions disclosed in the work. P. 590.
10. A river whose characteristics are such that its use for transportation has been and must be exceptional and confined to irregular and short periods of temporary high water, is not navigable. P. 591.
11. A decision of a State Supreme Court holding a river navigable,
in a suit between private parties merely, does not bind the United
States, and is not persuasive in the absence of a statement of the
evidence. P. 591.
12. Upon the evidence in this case, held that no part of the Red
River in Oklahoma is navigable. P. 591.,
13. The Treaty of October 21, 1867, 15 Stat. 581, 589, reserved for
the Kiowa and other Indians a tract described as the territory
north of the " middle of the main channel " of Red River; the
Act of Jane 6, 1900, c. 813, § 6, 31 Stat. 676, describing the south
boundary in the same way, directed that part o. the tract be
allotted to the Indians in severalty, part reserved for their grazing
uses, part reserved for the future State of Oklahoma, and the rest
subjected to certain public land laws; a grazing reserve, so authorized, described in the executive order defining it as bounded south
by the "mid-channels" of the rih er, was subjected by the Act of
.Juae 5, 1906, c. 2580, 34 Stat. 213, to further allotments, entries
and sales. Held:
(a) That, as the river, opposite the tract, had no permanent channel
other than a broad sandy bed extending from one cut bank to the

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

other, traversed only by shifting ribbons of water in dry seasons,
but over which the water was well distributed in times of substantial flow, the medial line of this hed was the boundary of the
Reservation and of the pasture reserve. P. 593.
(b) That disposal of parcels on the north bank, under the acts referred to, by allotment in severalty, entry and purchase under the
land laws, or grant to Oklahoma for public piurposes, carried with
it the right to the river bed in front of them out to the medial line
but no farther, the bed south of that line remaining the property
of the United States. P. 594.
14. When the United States owns the bed of a non-navigable stream
and the upland on one or both sides, it is free to retain all or any
part of the bed while disposing of the upland. P. 594.
15. If by a treaty or statute or the terms of its patent the United
States has shown its intention to restrict its conveyance to the
upland, or to that and a part only of the river bed, that intention
will be controlling; and, if its intention be not otherwise shown,
it will be taken to have assented that its conveyance be construed
and given effect in this particular according to the law of the
State in which the land lies. P. 594.
16. These same rules apply where the land disposed of is the tribal
land of Indians under guardianship. P. 594.
17. Tested by the common-law rule, in force in Oklahoma, conveyances by the United States of lands on a non-navigable stream,
according to legal subdivisions established by the survey of the
upland and shown on the official plat, carry title to the middle of
the stream. P. 595.
18. The common-law rule in this respect is not displaced by state
statutes modifying the common-law rule respecting the rights of
riparian proprietors in the natural flow of the stream. P. 596.
19. A perfected allotment to an Indian of a tract of riparian land,
to be held by the United States in trust for the sole use and benefit
of the allottee or his heirs during a stated period and then to be
conveyed to him or them, passes the equitable title and beneficial
use of all that would have passed under a full patent. P. 596.
20. Tracts surveyed and platted as upland along the north bank of
Red River were disposed of according to the survey and plat under
the Acts of 1900 and 1906, supra, after changes due to floods had
converted some into parts of the river bed and others from nonriparian to riparian land. Held, that the allottees or vendees of
such last-mentioned tracts took title to the. middle line of the
stream bed where 'there were no earlier disposals of intervening

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Counsel for Parties.

tracts in the bed, but that senior disposition of tracts in the bed
carried title" to that line. P. 597.
21. The claim of Oklahoma to portions of the bed of Red River based
on ownership of riparian lands was not waived by its failure to
assert it in its brief and argument wherein it relied upon the
alleged navigability of the stream and claimed the entire bed upon
that ground. P. 598.
22. The declaration of Rev. Stats., § 2319, that all valuable mineral
deposit in lands belonging to the United States are open to exploration and purchase, must be read in view of its cpllocation in
the Revised Statutes and with the entire statute of which it is a
part. P. 599.
23. This section applies only where the United States has indicated
that lands are held for disposal under the land laws, and never
where the United States directs that the disposal be only under
laws other than the mining laws.. P. 599.
24. The general policy in respect of public lands in Oklahoma has
been that the mining laws should not apply to them, and the exceptions to it do not embrace the land in the south half of the bed of
Red River within the .receivership area in this case. P. 600.

THE court having decided that- the boundary between
Oklahoma and Texas is along the south bank of Red
River, 256 U. S. 70,. 608, the cause was, on June 1, 1921,
ordered set down for hearing on special issues touching
the ownership of land in the bed of that stream, as between the United States, Oklahoma, and a'number of
private parties who were allowed to intervene and assert
their claims as riparian owners or as claimants under the
placer mining laws. See 256 U. S. 605. These matters
were heard and are disposed of by the following opinion.
Mr. Frank Dale and Mr. Jesse B. Roote for Burke Divide Oil Company, Consolidated, et al.
Mr. T. P.

Gore, with whom Mr. J. I. Howard, Mr.

A. M. Beets, Mr. Nestor Rummons, Mr. Garnett Hughes
and Mr. Jos. H. Aynesworth were on the briefs, for Melish
Consolidated Placer Oil Mining Association.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Mr. Henry E. Asp, for the Indian allottees, and, with
Mr. George P. Rowell and Mr. Lucien H. Boggs, for E.
Everett Rowell et al.
Mr. W. A. Ledbetter, with whom-Mr. H. L. Stuart, Mr.
R. R. Bell, Mr. F. W. Fisher and Mr. A. E. Pearson were
on the briefs, for A. E. Pearson et al.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom Mr.
Assistant Attorney General kiter and Mr. John A. Fain,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. George Trice for D. D. Brunson.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, with whom Mr. Geo. F. Short, Mr. W. A.
Durant and Mr. J. L. Carpenterwere on the brief, for the
complainant.
Mr. F. A. Williams and Mr. F. Chatterton filed a brief
on behalf of the Pacific-Wyoming Oil Comhpany et al.
Mr. Jesse B. Roote and M11r. Paul M. Clark filed a brief
on behalf of Mark Denson et al.
Mr. T. P. Gore and Mr. J. H. Cline filed a brief on behalf of Burkburnett Placer Mining & Oil Company; Double Triangle Petroleum Development Association, et al.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER deli ,ered the opinion of
the court.
This suit in equity was brought in this court by the
State of Oklahoma against the State of Texas to settle a
controversy between them over their common boundary
along the course of the Red River and over the title to
the southerly half of the river bed- The State of Texas
answered* the bill ,and joined in the prayer that the controversy be decided. Shortly thereafter the United

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

States, by the court's leave, intervened as a party in interest, and in its bill of intervention set up a claim to the
river bed as against both States. Subsequent proceedings
resulted in a decree recognizing and declaring that the
true state boundary is along the south bank of the river,
as claimed by Oklahoma and the United States, and not
along the medial line of the stream, as claimed by Texas.
256 U. S. 70, and 608. The decree directed a further
hearing to determine what constitutes the south bank,
where along that bank the boundary is, and the proper
mode of locating it on the ground. That hearing was had
last week and disclosed that the parties differ widely as to
what constitutes the south bank. A decision on the question will be given after it shall have been fully considered.
The southerly cut-bank to which we shall refer presently
may or may not be the bank along which the boundary
extends. On this we intimate no opinion now.
Our present concern is with proprietary claims to the
bed of the river and to the proceeds of oil and gas taken
from 43 miles of the southerly half.
After we acquired jurisdiction of the suit it developed
that the State of Oklahoma was claiming title to the entire river bed from one bank to the other; that the State
of Texas was claiming title to the southerly half; that the
United States was disputing the claims of both States and
asserting full proprietorship of the southerly half and an
interest (because of its relation to Indian allottees) in
portions of the northerly half; that a part of the bed, particularly of the southerly half, had been but recently discovered to be underlaid with strata bearing oil and gas
and to be of great value by reason thereof; that many
persons were proceeding to drill for, extract and appro-.
priate these minerals with uncertain regard for the dispute over the title and for the true ownership; that possession of parts of the bed was being taken and held by
intimidation and force; that in suits for injunction the
0544 -2_: -40

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

courts of both States were assuming jurisdiction over the
same areas; that armed conflicts between rival aspirants
for the oil ard gas had been but narrowly averted and
still were imminent; that the militia of Texas had been
called to support the orders of its courts and an effort was
being made to have the militia of Oklahoma called for
a like purpose; that these conflicting assertions of jurisdiction and the measures taken to sustain them were
detrimental to the public tianquility, were of general concern and were likely to result in great waste of the oil and
gas and in their extraction and appropriation to the irreparable injury of the true owner of the area in dispute,
and that unless these minerals were secured and conserved
by means of wells drilled and operated in that area there
was danger that they would be drawn off through wells
in adjacent territory pending the solution of the controversy over the state boundary and the title to the river
bed.
In these circumstances, on the motion of the United
States, fully supported by the State of Oklahoma and
expressly approved by the State of Texas to the extent
of its proprietary claim, we appointed a receiver to take
possession of the part of the river bed between the medial
line and a line on the south bank temporarily and provisionally designated, and within defined easterly and
westerly limits, and to control or conduct all necessary oil
and gas operations therein. As to that area there ap
peared to be urgent need for such action. The order provided in detail for ascertaining and holding the net proceeds of the oil and gas in such way that they could be
awarded and paid to whoever ultimately should be found
to be the rightful claimants, and also provided for such
interventions in the suit as would permit all possible
claims to the property and proceeds in the receiver's possession to be freely and appropriately asserted. 252 U.
S. 372.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

Numerous parties have since intervened for the purpose
of asserting rights to particular tracts in the receiver's
possession and are seeking to have the same and the net
proceeds of the oil and gas taken therefrom surrendered
to them. Many of these claims conflict one with another
and all are in conflict with the claims of one or more of
the three principal litigants.
Under the Constitution our original jurisdiction extends to suits by one State against another and to suits
by the United States against a State.' In its first stage
this was a suit by one State against another. When the
United States intervened it became also a suit by the
United States against those States. In its enlarged phase
it presents in appropriate form the conflicting claims of
the two States and the United States to the river bed and
calls for their adjudication. The other claims, being for
particular tracts and funds in the receiver's possession
and exclusively under our control, are brought before us
because no other court lawfully can interfere with or disturb that possession or control. It long has been settled
that claims to property or funds of which a court has
taken possession and control through a receiver or like
officer may be dealt with as ancillary to the suit wherein
the possession is taken and the control exercised,-and
this although independent suits to enforce the claims
could not be entertained in that court.2
1See United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621; Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 UI. S. 373, 384-388; United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S.
379, 396; Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331, 342.
2 See

Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450; Minnesota Co. v. St. Paul
Co., 2 Wall. 609, 632; Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S. 61, 64; Phelps
v. Oaks, 117 U. S. 236; Morgan's Louisiana & Texas R. R. & S. S.
Co. v. Texas Central Ry. Co., 137 U. S. 171, 201; Compton v. Jesup,
68 Fed. 263; Blake v. Pine Mountain Co., 76 Fed. 624; Central Trust
Co. v. Carter, 78 Fed. 225, 233; Sioux City Terminal Co. v. Trust
Co., 82 Fed. 124, 128; Daniels Ch. Pl. & Pr., 6 Am. ed., pp. *17431745; Street's Fed. Eq. Pr., §§ 1229, 1245, 1246, 1364, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
. Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

The decree recognizing and declaring that the boundary
between the two States is along the south bank of the
river, and not along its medial line, means that the entire
river bed is within the State of Oklahoma and beyond the
reach of the laws of the State of Texas, and therefore that
the latter State and its grantees and licensees have no
proprietary interest in the bed or in the proceeds of oil
and gas taken therefrom. Of course, when the exact location of the boundary along the south bank is determined,
it may develop that the receiver is holding some land on
the southerly side of that line or proceeds arising therefrom, and, if so, the State of Texas and its grantees and
licensees will be free to claim the same.
The other claims are all such as may be examined without awaiting an exact location of the boundary. They
may be grouped and designated as (a) those of the State
of Oklahoma and its grantees and licensees, (b) that of
the United States, (c) those of Indian allottees and others
based on the ownership of riparian lands on the northerly
side of the river, and (d) those based on placer mining
locations made in the river bed. The evidence bearing on
these claims was taken and reported under an order entered at the last term, 256 U. S. 605, and the pertinent
questions of fact and law have been recently presented in
both oral and printed arguments.
The Red River rises in the Panhandle of Texas, near
the New Mexico boundary, and takes an easterly and
southeasterly course to the MVississippi, of which it is a
tributary. Its total length is about 1,300 miles. The
first 557 miles from its mouth are in Louisiana and Arkansas, the next 539 miles are in Oklahoma along the
southern boundary, and the remainder is in the Panhandle
of Texas. The receivership area embraces 43 miles of the
southerly half of the river bed and lies 409 miles up
stream from the eastern boundary of Oklahoma. In that
State the river bed between the cut-banks, so-called, has

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

an average width of one-third of a mile,-the least width
being in the vicinity of the 100th meridian and the greatest in the vicinity of the receivership area.
By the Treaty of 1803 with France and that of 1819
with Spain the United States acquired the full title to
the bed of the river within what now constitutes the State
of Oklahoma and to the adjacent lands on the north, and
it still is their proprietor, save as in the meantime the title
to particular areas, or some beneficial interest therein, has
passed or been transferred from it to others in virtue of
the Constitution or some treaty or law made thereunder.
Recognizing that this is so, the claimants, other than the
United States, severally have assumed, as they should,
the burden of showing that the rights in the river bed
which they are asserting were mediately or immediately
derived from the United States. Whether they have successfully carried this burden is the matter for decision.
Oklahoma claims complete ownership of the entire bed
of the river within that State, and in support of its claim
contends that the river throughout its course in the State
is navigable, and therefore that on the admission of the
State into the Union, on November 16, 1907, the title to
the river bed passed from the United States to the State
in virtue of the constitutional rule of equality among the
States whereby each new State becomes, as was each of the
original States, the owner of the soil underlying the navigable waters within its borders. If that section of the
river be havigable, its bed undoubtedly became the property of the State under that rule.' Those who oppose the
State's claim recognize that this is so; and the State concedes that its claim is not tenable, if that section of the
river be not navigable. So the real question in this connection is whether the river is navigable in Oklahoma.
The State relies on the third article of the Treaty of
1819 between the United States and Spain (8 Stat. 252)
1Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S. 229, 242-243, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

as conclusively establishing the navigability of that section of the river. The article says:
"The boundary line between the two countries, west of
the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulph of Mexico, at the
mouth of the river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north,
along the western bank of that river, to the 32d degree of
latitude; thence, by a line due north, to the degree of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Nachitoches, or Red
River; then following the course of the Rio Roxo westward, to the degree of longitude 100 west from London
and 23 from Washington; then, crossing the said Red
River, and running thence, by a line due north, to 'the
river Arkansas; thence, following the course of the southern bank of the Arkansas, to its source, in latitude 42
north; and thence, by that parallel of latitude, to the
SOILth Sea. The whole being as laid down in Melish's
map of the United States, published in Philadelphia, improved to the first of January, 1818. But, if the source
of the Arkansas river shall be found to fall north or south
of latitude 42, then the line shall run from the said source
due south or north, as the case may be, till it meets the
said parallel of latitude 42, and thence, along the said
parallel, tp the South Sea: All the islands in the Sabine,
and the said Red and Arkansas rivers, throughout the
course thus described, to belong to the United States; but
the use of.the waters, and the navigation of the Sabine to
the sea, and of the said rivers Roxo and Arkansas,
throughout the extent of the said boundary, on their respective banks, shall be common to the respective inhabitants of both nations."
The State's reliance is on the concluding words, but we
think it ill-founded. At the date of the treaty the Red
and Arkansas rivers were in a general way known to be
navigable in their lower reaches and not navigable in their
upper reaches, but how far up the streams navigability
extended was not known. Both were of great length,

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

largely within a region occupied by wild Indians, and
measurably unexplored. The words on which the State
relies evidently were to apply alike to both streams. The
international boundary was to run along the southerly
banks of both,-along that of the Red for about 600 miles'
east of the 100th meridian and along that of the Arkansas
from the same meridian to the source of that river in the
heart of the Rocky Mountains. To attribute to the parties a purpose 'to impress this entire stretch of the Arkansas with a navigable character, regardless of the actual
conditions, is, in our opinion, quite inadmissible. And so
of -the 600-mile stretch of the Red. The entire article, examined in the light of' the circumstances in which the
treaty was negotiated, shows, as we think, that what really
was intended in this regard was to provide and make sure
that the right to navigate these rivers, wherever along the
boundary they were navigable in fact, should be common
to the respective inhabitants of both nations.
A legal inference of navigability is said to arise from
the action of the surveying officers who, when surveying
the lands in that region, ran a meander line along the
northerly bank and did not extend the township and section lines across the river. But this has little significance.
The same thing was done on the Platte and other large
western streams known to be unnavigable. Besides,
those officers were not clothed with power to settle questions of navigability.2
A like inference is sought to be drawn from the fact
that Congress, in permitting the construction of certain
bridges across the river within Oklahoma, provided in sub'The actual length of- the international boundary along the south
bank of the Red River was 587 miles. Of that boundary 48 miles are
now in the Arkansas-Texas boundary and 539 miles are in the TexasOklahoma boundary.
"Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R.Co., 154 U. S.288,320; Gauthier
v. Mori'son, 232 U. S: 452, 458; Harrisonv. Fite, 148 Fed. 781, 784.

586

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

stance that there should be no interference with navigation.1 But it is reasonably manifest that this provision
was only precautionary and not intended as an affirmation
of navigable capacity in that locality. The river was
known to be navigable from its mouth to near the eastern
boundary of Oklahoma and there had been, as will be seen
presently, some light navigation above that boundary in
the irregular times of temporary high water; so those who
were about to construct the bridges at large expense
deemed it prudent to secure the permission of Congress,
and Congress merely took the perfectly safe course of
qualifying its permission as indicated.
We find nothing in any of the matters relied on which
takes the river in Oklahoma out of the settled rule in this
country that navigability in fact is the test of navigability in law, and that whether a river is navigable in fact
is to be determined by inquiring whether it is used, or is
susceptible of being used, in its natural and ordinary
condition as a highway for commerce, over which trade
and travel are or may be conducted in the customary
modes of trade and travel on water.'
The evidence bearing on this question is voluminous
and in some respects conflicting. A large part of it deals
directly with the physical characteristics of the river,
comes from informd sources and is well in point. A small
part consists of statements found in early publications,
and repeated in some later ones, to the effect that the
river is navigable for great distances,-some of them
exceeding its entire length. These statements originated
Examples of this are found in the Acts of May 15, 1886, c. 332,
24 Stat. 28; May 17, 1886, c. 354, 24 Stat. 63, and June 30, 1916, c.
200, 39 Stat. 251.
2 The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563; The Montello, 20 Wall. 430,
439; United States v. Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690, 698; United
States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316, 323; Economy Light & Power Co. v.
United States, 256 U. S. 113, 121.
1

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of 'the Court.

at a time when there were no reliable data on the subject,
and were subsequently accepted and repeated without
much concern for their accuracy. Of course, they and
•their repetition must yield to the actual situation as
learned in -recent years.' The evidence also discloses an
occasional tendency to emphasize the exceptional conditions in times of temporary high water and to disregard
the ordinary conditions prevailing throughout the greater
part of the year. With this explanatory comment, we
.turn to the facts which we think the evidence establishes
when it is all duly considered.
The river has its source in the Staked Plains of northwestern Texas and from there until it gets well into Okla.homa is within a region where the rainfall is light, is
confined to a relatively short period in each year and
quickly finds its way into the river. Because of this the
river in the western half of the State does not have a
continuous or dependable volume of water. It has a fall
of three feet or more per mile and for long intervals the
greater part of its extensive bed is dry sand interspersed
with irregular ribbons of shallow water and occasional
deeper pools. Only for short intervals, when the rainfall
is running off, are the volume and depth of the water such
that even very small boats could be operated therein.
During these rises the water is swift and turbulent and
in rare instances overflows the adjacent land. The rises
usually last from one to seven days and in the aggregate
seldom cover as much as forty days in a year.
In 1910 Captain A. E. Waldron, of the Corps of Engineers, made an examination of this part of the river from
the mouth of the Big Wichita eastward to the mouth of
the Washita (1851/2 miles) pursuant to a congressional
direction. From his report,- fairly portraying the normal
'Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395, 410.
2 House Doe., No. 193, 63d Cong., 1st sess., p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

condition of that stretch of the
following:
"5. The banks of the river are
mileg in width [apart], and from
with numerous high, rocky, and

258 U. S.

stream, we extract the
from one-fourth to V/.,
10 to 30 feet in height,
clayey bluffs. In the

bends of the river the banks cave badly except where the
rocky and clayey bluffs occur. This caving causes a continual-shifting of the river bed, which moves from one
side of the valley to the other.
"6. In places the channel is 1,000 feet wide, and has
a depth of only about one-third of a foot. At other places,
notably in the bends, it narrows down to a width of 30
feet with an increased depth.
"7. The examination of the river was made from a
flat bottom bateau drawing 51/L inches when loaded.
There was not a single day during the field examination
upon which it was not necessary to remove part of the
load and drag the boat over sand bars from 300 to 1,000
feet in length. On some days this would occur very often.
"8. The field work of examination was performed during the period from November 21 to December 19, 1910.
During this period the river gauge at Denison, 11 miles
below the mouth of the Washita River, ranged between
zero and I foot. In reference to the gauge readings-at
the bridge near Denison, it might be well to state that
there were only 42 days during the year 1910 on which
this gauge read 2 feet or over, and only 81 days on which
it read as much as 1 foot or over.
"9. At tlhree places during the trip down the river in
the bateau, solid rock bottom was encountered, ranging
from 300 to 1,200 feet in length, and having a depth of
only four-tenths of a foot of water in the deepest place."
We regard it as obvious that in the western half of the
State the river is not susceptible of being used in its
natural and ordinary condition' as a highway for commerce; and there is no evidence that in fact it ever was
so used. That section embraces the receivership area.

OKLABIOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

Of. course, the conditions along that part of the river
greatly affect the part in the eastern half of the State.
But the latter receives additional waters from the Washita
and other tributaries and has a practically continuous flow
of varying volume, the extreme variation between high
and low water being about thirty feet. When the water
rises it does so very rapidly and it falls in the same way.
The river bed has a fall of more than one foot to the mile
and consists of light sand which is easily washed about and
is carried down stream in great quantities at every rise of
the water. At all times there is an almost continuous succession of shifting and extensive sand bars. Ordinarily
the depth of water over the sand bars is from six to
eighteen inches and elsewhere from three ,to six feet.
There is no permanent or stable channel. Such, as there
is shifts irregularly from one side of the bed to the other
and not infrequently separates into two or three parts.
Boats with a sufficient draft to be of any service can ascend
and descend only during periods of high water. These
periods are intermittent, of irregular and short duration,
and confined to a few months in the year.
Lanesport, Arkansas, which - is near the .Oklahoma
boundary, has been the usual head of navigation; but for
several years before railroads were extended into that
section boats of light draft carried merchandise up the
river to the mouth of the Kiamitia 1 and other points in
that vicinity and took out cotton and other products on
the return trip. This occurred only in periods of high
water, and was accomplished under difficulties. In very
exceptional instances boats went to the mouth of the
Washita,2 where some had to await the high water of the
next season before they could return. When the railroads
1The Kiamitia is 83 miles up stream from the eastern boundary
of Oklahoma.
2The Washita is 217 miles up stream from the eastern boundary

of Oklahoma.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

were constructed this high-water or flood navigation
ceased. That was between 1875 and 1880.
According to many witnesses, whose knowledge of this
part of the river reaches back for a long period, the depth
of the water at ordinary stages has come to be less than
it was from 1850 to 1870, when they first knew it. Portions of the banks have been swept away and sand in great
quantities has been brought down stream, making the
river wider and shallower than at the time of the navigation just mentioned.
Beginning in 1886 Congress made several appropriations looking to the improvement of the river from a point
in Arkansas, not far from the Oklahoma boundary, westward to the mouth of the Washita, and about $500,000
was expended on the project. The officer in charge of the
work several times recommended that it be discontinued,
because not likely to result in any commercial navigation;
and in 1916' that officer, the division engineer, the Board
of Engineers and the Chief of Engineers concurred in
recommending that the project be entirely abandoned,
their reasons being that the small (high-water) commerce
of an earlier period had disappeared; that the characteristids of theriver rendered it impracticable to secure a
useful channel except by canalization, the cost of which
would be prohibitive; that the expenditures already made
were practically useless, and that there was no reason to
believe conditions would change in such way as to bring
better results in the future. In 1921' that recommendation was repeated. No appropriations in furtherance of
the project were made after 1916. Any inference of
navigable capacity arising from the fact that this project
was undertaken is much more than overcome by the
actual conditions disclosed in the course of the work.
IHouse Doe., No. 947, 64th Cong., 1st sess.
2 House Doe., No. 87, 67th Cong., 1st sess.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

While the evidence relating to the part of the river in
the eastern half of the State is not so conclusive against
navigability as that relating to the western section, we
think it establishes that trade and travel neither do nor
can move over that part of the river, in its natural and
ordinary condition, according to the modes of trade and
travel customary on water;-in other words, that it is
neither used, nor susceptible of being used, in its natural
and ordinary condition as a highway for commerce. Its
characteristics are such that its use for transportation has
been and must be exceptional, and confined to the irregular and short periods of temporary high water. A greater
capacity for practical and beneficial use in commerce is
essential to establish navigability.'
A decision by the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, in Hale
v. Record, 44 Okla. 803, is relied on as adjudging that the
river is navigable -infact. The*opinion in the case is
briefly to the effect that in the trial court the evidence
was conflicting, that the conflict was there resolved on the
side of navigability, and that this finding had reasonable
support in the evidence and-therefore could not be disturbed. It was a purely private litigation. The United
States was not a party and is not bound.2 There is in the
opinion no statement of the evidence, so the decision
hardly can be regarded as persuasive here.
We conclude that no part of the river within Oklahoma
is navigable and therefore that the title to the bed did not
pass to the State on its admission into the Union. If the
State has a lawful claim to any part of the bed, it is only
such as may be incidental to its ownership of riparian
1 United States v.

Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690, 698-699; Leovy
v. United States, 177 U. S. 621; Toledo Liberal Shooting Co. v. Erie
Shooting Club, 90 Fed. 680, 682; Harrisonv. Fite, 148 Fed. 781, 784;
North American Dredging Co. v. Mintzer, 245 Fed. 297, 300.
2Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States, 256 U. S. 113, 123.

OCTOBER TERM, imi.
. Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

lands on the northerly bank. And so of the grantees and
licensees of the State.
The riparian claims pressed on our attention all relate
to the river bed between the 98th degree of west longitude
and the mouth of the North Fork.1 They must be considered in the light of matters which we proceed to state.
By a treaty between the United States and the Kiowa,
Comanche and Apache tribes of Indians, concluded in
1867, the territory north of the "middle of the main
channel" of the Red River and between the 98th meridian
and the North Fork was set apart as a reservation and
permanent home for those tribes. 15 Stat. 581 and 589.
That reservation was maintained until June 6, 1900, when
Congress passed an act (c. 813, § 6, 31 Stat. 672, 676)
directing that it be disposed of (a) by allotting in severalty
to each member of the tribes one hundred and sixty acres;
(b) by setting apart 480,000 acres of grazing lands for the
common use of the tribes; (c) by reserving four sections
in each township for the future State of Oklahoma for
school and other public purposes, and (d) by subjecting
the remaining lands to particular modes of entry and
acquisition under designated land laws. Besides the
allotments and grazing reserves, the Indians were to
receive stated payments in money. The Indians assailed
the validity of the act, but in Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U. S.553, this court sustained it as a legitimate exertion of the power of Congress over tribal Indians and their
property, and the act we- carried into effect. Like the
treaty reservation, the provisions of the act were in terms
limited to the territory north of the "middle of the main
channel" of the river.
One of the grazing reserves created unaer that act contained 400,000 acres, and the order setting it apart made
the "mid-channel" of the river its southern boundary.
1 The 98th degree is 380 miles, and the mouth of the North Fork
477 miles, upstream from the r.stern Oklahoma boundary.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

That reserve came to be known as the Big Pasture and was
maintained until June 5, 1906, when Congress passed an
act (c. 2580, 34 Stat: 213) requiring that it be disposed
of (a) by allotting in severalty to each child born into
the tribes after the Act of 1900 one hundred and sixty
acres, ana (b) by subjecting the remaining lands to particular modes of entry and sale and placing the proceeds
in the Treasury to the credit of the tribes. Subsequent
amendments made some changes, not material here, in the
modes of entry and sale, and'directed the use of a part of
the proceeds in maintaining a hospital which was open
to and used by the members of the tribes. The last
amendment was made June 30, 1913, c. 4, § 17, 38 Stat.
77, 92.
The lands on the northerly bank of the river between
the 98th meridian and the North Fork were all disposed
of under the Act of 1900, or that of 1906 and its amendments,--some as Indian allotments, some through entries
or purchases in the designated modes, and some under the
grant to Oklahoma for school and other public purposes.
The riparian claims are all founded on these disposals.
The river bed there is from 1500 to 6600 feet wide between
what are called the cut-banks.
The receivership area lies immediately south of -what
was the Big Pasture and has the isme easterly and
westerly limits.
One of the questions involved in the riparian claims
relates to what was intended by thb terms "middle of the
main channel" and "mid-channel" as used in defining
the southerly boundary of the treaty reservation and of
the Big Pasture. When applied to navigable streams such
terms usually refer to the thread of the'.navigable current,
and, if there be several, to the thread of the one best
suited and ordinarily used for navigation.'
But this
1Iowa v. Illino.is, 147 U. S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

section of Red River obviously is not navigable. It is
without a continuous or dependable flow, has a relatively
level bed of loose sand over which the water is well distributed when there is a substantial volume, and has no
channel of any permanence other than that 'of which this
sand bed is the bottom. The mere ribbons of shallow
water which in relatively dry seasons find their way over
the sand bed, readily and frequently shifting from one
side to the other, cannot be regarded as channels in the
sense intended. Evidently something less transient and
better suited to mark a boundary was in mind. We think
it was the channel extending from one cut-bank to the
other, which carries the water in times of a substantial
flow. That was the only real channel and therefore the
main channel. So its medial line must be what was designated as the Indian boundary.
Other questions common to all the riparian claims are,
whether the disposal of the lands on the northerly bank
carried with it any right to the river bed in front of them,
and, if so, whether this right extends to the medial line of
the stream or to the Texas boundary along the opposite
bank. On these questions the parties are far apart. The
State of Oklahoma and the placer mining claimants insist
that no right to the river bed passed with the upland; the
United States that such a right did pass, but extends only
to the medial line, and the several riparian claimants that
the right passed and extends to the Texas boundary along
the opposite bank.
Where the United States owns the bed of a nonnavigable stream and the upland on one or both sides, it,
of course, is free when disposing of the upland to retain
all or any part of the river bed; and whether in any particular instance it has done so is essentially a question of
what it intended.. If by a treaty or statute or the terms
of its patent it has shown that it intended to restrict the
conveyance to the upland or to that and a part only of the

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

river bed, that intention will be controlling;' and, if its
intention be not otherwise shown, it will be taken to have
assented that its conveyance should be construed and
given effect in this particular according to the law of the
State in which the land lies.- Where it is disposing of
tribal land of Indians under its guardianship the same
rules apply.
What has been 'said concerning the treaty reservation,
the Big Pasture and the Acts of 1900 and 1906 shows that
the United States intended to dispose of the upland and
the northerly half of the river bed, but nothing more. The
southerly half of the bed had not been included in the
reservation or the Big Pasture and was not subjected to
the operation of the Act of 1900 or that of 1906. This
shows that the United States intended to retain that part
of the bed. It follows that, while the disposals under
those acts could extend southward to the medial line, they
could not go beyond it.
In executing the acts there was no attempt to dispose of
the river bed separately from the upland. The disposals
were all according to the legal subdivisions established by
the survey of the upland and shown on the official plat.
In the patents there was no express inclusion or exclusion
of rights in the river bed.
Tested by the common law these conveyances of riparian tracts conferred a title extending not merely to the
water line, but to the middle of the stream. Possibly, if
the river bed for its entire breadth had been subject to
' Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, 516-517; Irvine v. Marshall, 20
How. 558; Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 99; Utah Power & Light
Co. v. United States, 243 U. S. 389, 404; Kean v. Calumet Canal Co.,
190 U. S. 452, 460.
2
Hardin v. Jordan, 140 Tb. S. 371, 384; Mitchell v. Smale, 140
U. S. 406, 413-414; Grand Rapids & Indiana R. R. Co. v. Butler,
159 U. S. 87, 92; Hardin v. Shedd, Y40 U. S. 508, 519; Whitaker
v. McBride, 197 U. S. 510, 512, 515-516; and see Railroad Co. v.
Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272, 287, et seq.
9544°-23-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

disposal under the Acts of 1900 and 1906, the title would
have extended to the Texas boundary along the other
side; but this is a debatable question which need not be
considered here, for no disposal under those acts could go
beyond the medial line. That limitation inhered in all
that was done.
But it is contended that the common-law rule, although
formerly adopted in Oklahoma' and recently recognized
by the Supreme Court of the State,2 has been impliedly
a}rogated by the legislature. The contention is not sustained by any decision in the State and, in our opinion,
is not tenable. It is based on statutes displacing or qualifying the common-law rule respecting the rights of riparian proprietors in the natural flow of a stream, which is
a matter quite distinct from the ownership of the bed of
the stream. The rule as to either could be displaced without affecting the other.
Our conclusion on the general questions is that the disposal of the lands on the northerly bank carried with it a
right to the bed of the river as far as, but not beyond, the
medial line.
Particular questions relating to some of the riparian
claims and not to others are presented, and we now turn
to them.
The Indian allotments were made in 1909 and 1910,
but have not been carried to final patents. They are evidenced by trust patents, so-called, wherein the United
States engages to hold the land for a period of twenty-five
years " in trust for the sole use and benefit" of the
allottee, or of his heirs in the event of his death, and at
the end of the trust period to convey the same to him, or
to his heirs if he be not then living. The contention is
made that no right to the river bed could pass under these
Rev. Laws Okla., 1910, § 4642.
v. Record, 44 Okla. 803.

2 Hale

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

allotments in. advance of the issue of the final patent.
Even if this were so, it well may be doubted that it would
enable strangers to fasten any claim on or appropriate the
bed in front of the allotments. But we think it is not so.
The allotments when perfected passed the equitable title
and beneficial use of all that would have passed under a
full patent. The purpose of the holding in trust by the
United States is to prevent allottees from improvidently
alienating or encumbering the land, not to cut down or
postpone their rights in other respects.
The lands along the north bank were surveyed and
platted in 1874 and 1875. Afterwards, and before the
disposals in question, portions of the bank were swept
away in times of flood. This changed the relation to the
river of several surveyed tracts. Some became part of
the bed and others nonriparian before became riparian.
But most .of the tracts on which the riparian claims before
us are founded remained unchanged and need not be
specially noticed.
Of the tracts changed from riparian upland to river
bed, a small number were disposed of as if they still were
upland abutting on the river,-the disposal occurring
while the adjacent land then actually riparian was unallotted and unsold. Evidently the disposal was intended
to operate and have effect as if the tracts retained their
former relation to the river; and, as nothing stood in the
way, we think the title under the disposal reached to the
middle of the stream.
Of the tracts which had been nonriparian but became
riparian, all were disposed of in ordinary course. Generally the tracts in front of them which came to lie in the
river bed were neither allotted nor sold. Where this was
so, we think the right to the bed, out to the center line,
passed with the tracts which had come to be riparian.
But where there was a prior disposal of the tracts in the
bed, that right, as just indicated, went with them.

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

Four legal subdivisions in township five south of range
fourteen west were sold to Fred Capshaw and transferred
by him to A. E.Pearson et al., who are interveners here.
Two of these subdivisions, lots 1 and 2 of section 8, were
riparian when surveyed, but in the river bed whei sold.
Another, the N. W. 1/4 .of the-N. W. 1/4 of the same section,
lay immediately back of these lots. The fourth, the N. E.
1/ of the N. E. '/ of section 7, lay to one side of the third.
At the time of the survey the fourth was separated from
the river by a tract which afterwards came to be largely,
if not entirely, in the river bed. This tract was sold to
Robert L. Owen before the others were sold to Capshaw.
Pearson et al. claim the river bed in front of lots 1 and 2
of section 8 and also in front of the N. E. '/ of the N. E.
1/ of section 7. Their rights are just what Capshaw's
were, neither more nor less. We think the bed of the
river in front of the two lots in section 8, out to the middle, passed to Capshaw, but that no part of the bed
passed to him with the N. E. '/ of the N. E. 'A of section
7. All that could possibly have passed with that subdivision had already passed to Owen with the tract which
lay in front of it.
The State of Oklahoma in its bill claimed riparian
rights in portions of the bed by reason of its ownership
of occasional school and other lands on the bank; but in
its brief it has endeavored only to sustain the claim based
on the asserted navigability of the river. As to the latter
it has failed. According to the evidence, it owns riparian
lands both within and without what was the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache reservation. As to such lands it is
entitled to the same incidents of riparian ownership that
any other owner would have. The fact that it has not
pressed this right in its brief might be regarded by some
as a waiver or renunciation of the right; but this hardly
can have been intended. The State's riparian right will
therefore be recognized in the decree.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

What has been said indicates the disposition which
must be made of all the riparian claims. It would serve
no purpose to enumerate them here. All will be dealt
with in the decree conformably to the views we have
expressed.
We come next to the claims founded on placer mining
locations. These locations were all made in that part of
the southerly half of the river bed which is in front of
what was the Big Pasture. It is objected that some are
overlapped by others and that some were without a supporting mineral discovery. But we put these questions
aside and come directly to one which is common to all
the locations, namely, whether that part of the bed was
subject to location and acquisition under the mining laws.
The placer claimants insist that it was and the United
States that it was not. No one doubts that when these
locations were made lands valuable for oil, if within areas
where the mining laws were operative, could be located
and acquired as placer claims.
The claimants rely on § 2319 of the Revised Statutes,
which declares:
"All valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to
the UAited States, both surveyed and unsurveyed, are
hereby declared to be free and open to exploration and
purchase, and the lands in which they are found to occupation and purchase, by citizens of the United States and
those who have declared their intention to become such,
under regulations prescribed by law, and according to the
local customs or rules of miners in the several mining districts, so far as the same are applicable and not inconsistent with the laws of the United States."
This section is not as comprehensive as its words separately considered suggest. It is part of a chapter relating to mineral lands which in turn is part of a title dealing with the survey and disposal of "The Public Lands."
To be rightly understood it must be read with due regard

600

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

for the entire statute of which it is but a part, and when
this is done it is apparent that, while embracing only lands
owned by the United States, it does not embrace all that
are so owned. Of course, it has no application to the
grounds about the Capitol in Washington or to the lands
in the National Cemetery at Arlington, no matter what
their mineral value; and yet both belong to the United
States. And so of the lands in the Yosemite National
Park, the Yellowstone National Park, and the military
reservations throughout the weptern States. Only where
the United States has indicatedithat the lands are held for
disposal under the land laws does the section apply; and
it never applies where the United States directs that the
disposal be only under other laws.
This part of the river bed was for many years in the
Indian Territory, to which nope of the land laws ever was
extended. In 1890 it was made part of the Territory of
Oklahoma by an act wherein Congress expressly indicated
that the lands in that Territory should be disposed of
under the homestead and townsite laws "only." '
A question arose under that act as to whether the exclusion of the mining laws relieved homestead applicants
from offering proof that the land sought to be entered
was agricultural and not mineral, such proof being required where the mining laws were in force; and Congress
promptly answered that question by saying, in an Act of
1891, that " all the lands in Oklahoma are hereby declared
to be agricultural lands, and proof of their non-mineral
character shall not be required as a condition precedent
to final entry." '2 In the many acts which followed
wherein lands in Oklahoma were opened to disposal all
but two, exactly conformed to the policy announced in
I Act May 2, 1890, c. 182, §§ 1, 18, 20, 22, 26 Stat. 81.
2

Act March 3, 1891, § 16, c. 543, 26 Stat. 989. 1026.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
574.

Opinion of the Court.

the Acts of 1890 and 1891. The two exceptional acts
were one of 1895 dealing with the Wichita lands' and the
one of 1900, before described, dealing with the Kiowa,
Comanche and Apache lands.2 The Act of 1895 expressly extended the mining laws over the limited area
to which it related, which was remote from the one with
which we are here concerned. The Act of 1900 expressly
extended the mining laws to a part, but not all, of the
lands to which it related,--that is to say, it extended them
to such lands as were to be allotted and opened to settlement, but not to those set apart as grazing reserves.
There never was any act subjecting the latter to the operation of the mining laws. On the contrary, the Act of
1906 and its amendments show that the Big Pasture and
other grazing reserves were to be disposed of only in other
modes specially defined.
Thus the general policy in respect of lands in Oklahoma
has been that the mining laws should not apply. to them,
and to this there have been but two exceptions, each confined to a limited area and neither embracing the locality
in question. Even the words of the exceptions, "are
hereby extended over" the particular areas, plainly imply
that but for them the mining laws would not have applied
to those areas. The general policy is also reflected in the
Act of 1906, providing for Oklahoma's admission into the
Union, the eighth*section of which distinctly recognized
the right of the State to receive mineral lands under the
grants to it for school and other purposes, 3-a thing not
4
permitted to a State where the mining laws are in force.
This is the view which has been uniformly taken and
enforced by the officers of the land department in the
'Act March 2, 1895, c. 188, 28 Stat. 876, 899.
2Act June 6, 1900, c. 813, 31 Stat. 672, 676-681
3 Act June 16, 1906, c. 3335, § 8, 34 Stat. 267.
4 United States v.'Sweet, 245 U. S. 563.

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

administration of these acts.' Those officedrs have not
recognized or given any effect to these mining -claims.
We conclude that this part of the river bed never was
subject to location or acquisition under the mining laws,nor, indeed, to acquisition under any of the land laws,and therefore that these locations were of no effect and
conferred no rights on the locators or their assigns.
The parties in interest will be accorded twenty days
within which to submit a proper form of decree disposing
of the several claims now before us in conformity with the
views expressed in this opinion.
It is so ordered.
'Acme Cement and Plaster Co., 31 L. D. 125; Instructions, 31 L.
D. 154; E. A. Shirley, 35 L. D. 113; Regulations, § 38, 35 L. D. 239;
Benjamin F. Robinson, 35 L. D. 421; Lenertz v. Malloy, 36 L. D.
170; Knight Placer Mining Assn. v. Hardin, 47 L. D. 331.

