OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

discretion and as there was no abuse -of this discretion it
must be affirmed.
All impounded funds should be promptly released to
the Gas Company subject only to deductions for such
costs as are clearly assessable to the prevrailing party.
Costs of appeal No. 257 will be taxed to appelldnts; in
No. 258 to the appellees. Modified as here indicated the
decree below is affirmed. The cause will be remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with thi opinion.
It seems proper to add that we do not intend by anything said herein to intimate what would have been a
reasonable rate for the sale of gas under the circumstances
disclosed. The eighty-cent rate wag confiscatory; the one
dollar and twenty-cent maximum imposed by the court
during a specified period as a condition to the injunction
was a limitation in favor of the consumers.
Modified and Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE concurs in the result.

NEWTON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, ET AL. v. NEW YORK & QUEENS
GAS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 296.

Argued January 6, 1922.-Decided March 6, 1922.

Approving the aonclusion of the master and the District Court that
a gas xate fixed under Laws New York, 1906, c. 125, had become
confiscatory.
269 Fed. 277, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree enjoining enforcement of a statutory'gas rate as confiscatory. See also the cases, antc,
165? and pcst/ 180,

NEWTON v. NEW YORK GAS CO.
178.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Wilber W. Chambers, with whom Mr. Charles D.
Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, and,
Mr. Clarence R. Cummings were on the brief, for Newton, Attorney General.
Mr. M. Maldwin Fertig, with whom Mr. John P.
O'Brien and Mr. James A. Donnelly were on the brief,
for Wallace, District Attorney.
Mr. William L. Ransom, with whom Mr. John A.
Garver, Mr. Charles A. Vilas and Mr. Jacob H. Goetz
were on the briefs, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This appeal brings up for review a final decree entered
November 19, 1920, which adjudged that in so far as
c. 125, Laws of New York of 1906, prohibited appellee
from charging and receiving more than $1.00 per thousand/
cubic feet for gas delivered, and sold in the Third Ward,
Borough of Queens, New York City, it was and had been
confiscatory since January 1, 1919. 269 Fed. 277.
After taking a great mass of evidence the Master reported that the actual cost to appellee of manufacturing and distributing gas exceeded $1.00 per thousand
cubic feet and that the challenged act was confiscatory.
With this conclusion the trial court agreed and entered
an appropriate decree. We find no sufficient ground for
disapproving the action so taken, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.
95440 23..15

