OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

at the bar to deal with the questions raised more at
length in exposition of the effect of the Organic Act of
1917 upon the issue, and we have done so.
A second assignment of error is based on the claim that
the alleged libels here did not pass the bounds of legitimate comnment on the conduct of the Governor of the
Island against whom they were directed, and that their
prosecution is a violation of the First Amendment to the
Constitution securing free speech and a free press. A
reading of the two articles removes the slightest doubt
that they go far beyond the "exuberant expressions of
meridional speech," to use the expression of this court
in a similar case in Gandia v. Pettingill, 22 U. S. 452.
458. Indeed -they are so excessive and 'outrageous in
their character that they suggest the query whether their
-superlative vilification has not overleapt itself and become
unconsciously humorous. But this is not a defence.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico are
Affirmed.
Mr. Justice HOLMES concurs in the result.

FERRY v. SPOKANE, PORTLAND & -SEATTLE
RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 177.

Argued March 20,1922.-Decided April 1Q, 1922.

1. Dower is not a privilege or immunity of citizenship, state or federal, within the meaning of § 2 of Article IV of the Constitution
or the Fourteenth Amendment, but at .most a right attached to

the marital relation and subject to regulation by each State respecting property within its limits. P. 318.
2. The Oregon law allowing a dower right in the lands of which the
husband was seized of an estate of inheritance at any time during

FERRY v. SPOKANE, P. & S. RY. CO.
314.

315

Argument for Appellant.

the marriage, but restricting this, when the wife at the time of his
death is a nonresident of the State, to the lands of which the hus-band died seized, does not deprive the nonresident widow of property without due process of law or deny her the equal protection
of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 318.
268 Fed. 117, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed
a bill by which the appellant asserted a dower right in
land possessed by the appellee railway company.
Mr. Henry L. Brant, with whom Mr.. James G. Wilson,
Mr. George B. Guthrie, Mr. Charles Haldane, and Mr.
Frances L. Patton,Jr., were on the brief, for appellant.
Citizenship and residence, while not strictly synonymous, under all circumstances, are practically so, so far
as they are used in the Oregon statutes and as they apply
to the case at bar. Federal Constitution, Fourteenth
Amendment, § 1; Chalker v. Birmingham & Northwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522; Travis v. Yale & Towne
Manufacturing Co., 252 U. S. 60.
The right to succeed to property in one State by a
citizen residing in another State is protected by Art. IV,
§ 2, of the Constitution and by the Fourteenth Amendment. Ma gill v. Brown, 16 Fed. Cas. 408; Estate of
Stanford, 126 Cal. 112; Estate of Mahoney, 133 Cal. 180;
Estate of Johnson, 139 Cal. 532.
It is conceded that a State has full power over matters
of succession to property within its jurisdiction and may,
as to aliens, discriminate, or deny such rights. Mager v.
Crima,8 How. 490.
A State has no right to penalize a person for removing
from the State, either by fine or tax or the deprivation of
any property right based merely on such removal. Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 36; Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36; Chalker v. Birmingham & Northwestern Ry.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

258 TT. S.

Co., 249 U. S. 522; Travis v. Yale & Towne . Lnufacturing Co., 252 U. S. 60.
The right of dower is just as fundamental and substantial as the right of inheritance or succession to property; and the States may not discriminate against citizens
of other States in applying laws of dower, inheritance or
succession. Rev. Stats., § 1978; Magill v. Brown, 16 Fed.
Cas. 408; Estate of Stanford, .126 Cal. 112; Estate of
Mahoney, 133 Cil. 180; Estate of Johnson, 139 Cal. 532.
Mr. Charles H. Carey and Mr. James B. Kerr, for
appellees, submitted. Mr. Omar C. Spencer was also on
the brief.
The statute, adopted in 1854 (now § 10,073, Oreg.
Laws), has been construed in both federal and state courts
of Oregon to the effect that a woman not a resident of
the State is not entitled to dower in the lands therein of
which her husband did not die seized. . Thornburn v.
Doscher, 32 Fed. 810; Cunningham v. Friendly, 70 Ore.
222; Woolsey v. Draper, 103 Ore. 103. See also Pratt v.
Tefft, 14 Mich. 191; Ligare v. Semple, 32 Mich. 438;
Bear v. Stahl, 61 Mich. 203; Bennett v. Harms, 51 Wis.
251; Ekegren v. Marcotte, 159 Wis. 539; Atkins v. Atkins,
18 Neb. 474; Miner v. Morgan, 83 Neb. 400; Burr v.
Finch, 91 Neb. 417; Buffington v. Giosvenor, 46 Kans.
730.
The right of a State to define marital property rights as
between residents and nonresidents is directly recognized
in Conner v. Elliott, 18 How. 591.
There is a just ground for the distinction between residents and nonresidents in the statute, and therefore § 2,
Art. IV, of the Constitution, does not apply. La Tourette
v. McMaster, 248 U. S. 465; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S.
525; Travis v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., 252 U. S. 60;
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37; Citizens National Bank v.
Durr, 257 U. S. 99.

FERRY v. SPOKANE, P & S. RY CO
314.

'317

Opimon of the Court.

The statute of limitations as to the right of a dower
claimant as against the husband's grantee in po~sess in
would begin to run from the time of the husbhd's.eath.
Britt v Gordon, 11 Am. & Eng. Ann. Cas.,407, .andmnote.,
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion'of Ithe
court.
By a bill filed in the District Court£of te Unit 4 Stgts
,a ,erted) idower
for the District of Oregon, appe
right in one-half part of certaiRflad, ia, ossessionj4f, the
Railway Company
The bill was dismissed on mation of, the: RailwayiGCmpany and the Company was awax-ded&judgment tfor-costs.
On appeal by the complainant, ln~the suit, the ,udghilnt
was affirmed. Against ,the affi~rmatce;tlisappda-i& prdsecuted.
The law of Oregon provides3 f'*Th(v'idbw~of every'deceased person shall be-entitled to d:6w&;'6fthe, it,1 dhling
her natural life, of one-half 'pdt of all -the t aids-'wAeeof
her husband was seised' of an 6tate6e i6ht-iftiieinc' a'ny
time during the anarriag, ViiIe s 'she"is lawfblly b~rred
thereof." Lord's Ox'ego' ALa~ws, '7286.'
"A woman beffig an' 'alien 'shalf hb& 8n that accounit be
barred of her dower; W'd an" tw~maii 'residing out o6f 1e
state shall be entitled to dower of the lands of her deceased
husband lying in this state of' which her husband. fdied
seised, and the same may be assigned to her, or recovered
by her, in like manner as if she and her deceased husband
had been residents within the state at the time of his
1
death." § 7306.
Appellant adduces against-the validity of-§ 7306, t-he
provision of § 2 of Article IV of the 'Constitution of'the
United States, that "the citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all the privileges and iimmurilties of citi ens in
the several States," and the provisons of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which declare that no State shall " make or

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1921..
Opi ion of the Court.

25S U. S.

enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States," or "deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of la*," or" deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the lavs."
Dower is not a privilege or immunity of citizenship,
either state or federal, within the meaning of the provisions relied on. At most it is a right which, while it exists,
is attached to the marital contract or relation; and it always has been deemed subject to regulation by each State
as respects property within its limits. Conner v. Elliott,
18 How. 591. Neither § 2 of Article IV nor the Fourteenth Amendment takes from the several States the
power to regulate ,this subject; nor does either make it a
privilege or immunity of citizenship. Maxwell v. Bugbee,
250 U. S. 525, 537, 538, and cases cited; United States v.
Wheeler, 254 U. S.281, 296.
The further contention based on the Fourteenth
Amendment necessarily is, as counsel urge, that dower is
'"
fundamental and substantial "-" a property right,
being, while inchoafe, a chose in action, of which no citizen
of the United States, wherever he [she] may be resident,
can be deprived without 'due process of law,' and as to
which every person is entitled to the 'equal protection of
the laws,' as provided in the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution."
The Court of Appeals considered this contention, and it
is difficult to add anything to its opinion. It pointed out
that the Oregon statute was taken from the laws of Michigan adopted irn1846 and sustained.' The example of
Michigan was followed in Wisconsin, Kansas and Nebraska and sustained by the courts of those States.2
IPratt v. Tefft, 14 Mich. 191; Ligare v. Semple, 32 Mieh. 438;
Bear v. Stahl, 61 Mich. 203.
2 Bennett v. Harms, 51 Wis. 251, Ekegren v. Marcotte, 159 Wis.
539; Atkins v. Atkins, 18 Neb. 474; Miner v. Morgan, 83 Neb. 400;
Buington v. Grosvenor,46 Kan. 730.

FERRY v. SPOKANE, P. & S. RY. CO.
314.

319

Opinion of the Court.

To the decisions of those courts we may add Thornburn
v. Doscher, U. S. Circuit Court for Oregon, 32 Fed. 810,
which sustained the Oregon statute as did the Supreme
Court of Oregon in Cunninghamv. Friendly, 70 Ore. 222.
And we may add also Richards v. Bellingham Bay Land
Co., 54 Fed. 209, -which decided to be legal a like statute of
the State of Washington. And Blackstone speaks of
dower as having become "a great clog to alienation" and
"otherwise inconvenient to families." 1 Washburn on
Real Property, 5th ed., 278, in note.
The cases recognize that the limitation of the dower
right is to remove an impediment to the transfer of real
estate and to assure titles against absent and probably unknown wives. And such is the purpose of the Oregon
statute, and the means of executing the purpose appropriate, and a proper exercise of classification. It satisfies,
therefore, the constitutional requirement of the equal protection of the laws; and we proceed to the inquiry whether
the statute is otherwise valid.
Appellant's contention is that, though she be living in
New York, it is her privilege under the Fourteenth
Amendment to resist the law of Oregon as a limitation
of her dower rights, that is a limitation of rights in property situated in Oregon. The contention might be tenable if the legislature of a State was required to grant
dower rights. As repellent of that proposition, the difference the laws of the States exhibit in the rights that
attach to the marriage relation may be adduced. The
States greatly differ as to what lands are dowable, and as
to what claims are paramount to dower, and to some extent, how it will be barred. 4 Kent, p. 35, et seq.
The granting of dower, therefore, is a matter of statutory regulation. It was so decided by the United States
Circuit Court of 0regon in 1887 (Thornburn v. Doscher,
supra), Judge Deady expressing it as follows: "It rests
with the legislature to say what interest, if any, married

320

OCTOBER TERMI, 1921.
Opinion ot the Court.

258 U. S.

persons shall have in the property of each other, as an
incident of the relation between them. It may give or
withhold dower altogether. Or it may for the security of
titles, and the protection of innocent purchasers, provide
that a nonresident woman whose very existence is probably unknown within the state, and is practically disavowed by the husband, shall not be entitled to dower of
lands which he has disposed of without her concurrence
or consent, and ostensibly as a single man." The law
thus declared has been the law of Oregon for 65 years.
There is a distinction between dower created by the
parties and that given by law, and the latter "is believed
to be the only kind which ever obtained in this country."
Randa'l v. Kreiger, 23 Wall. 137, 148. Expressing the
power of the legislature over it, the court said, "during
the life of the husband the right is a mere expectancy or
possibility. In that condition of things, the law-making
power may deal with it as may be deemed prbper. It is
not a natural right. It is wholly given by law, and the
power that gave it may increase, diminish, or otherwise
alter it, or wholly take it away. It is upon the same footing with the expectancy of heirs, apparent or presumptive,
before the death of the ancestor. Until that event occurs
the law of descent and distribution may be moulded according to the will of the legislature."
The ruling is a deduction or incident of the more general
principle expressed in Kerr v. Moon, 9 Wheat. 565, 570,
"that the title to, and the disposition of real property,
must be exclusively subject to the laws of the country
where it is situated." And this was so cofisidered and
the case cited in Thomas v. Woods, 173 Fed. 585, 693,
along with a number of other cases, to sustain the court
in the declaration and decision that "the right of dower
in ieal property is determined by the laws of the state in
-0hich the property is situated."

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
.314.

321

Argument for the United States.

From these cases it results, as said by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, that "the legislature having this power to
give or withhold dower, it follows that it has the power to
declare the manner in which the dower right may be
barred, or the grounds upon which it may be forfeited,
and, if so, it has the right to provide that it may be
barred by the wife's nonresidence in the State."
The action of the court affirming the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 127.

Argued March 16, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.

1. A contract of the United States to pay for its use of a patented
invention is to be implied rather than a tortious appropriation by
the officers acting for the Government. P. 326.
2. When the C-overnment iseN a patented invention with .the permission of the owner and does not repudiate his title, an implied
contract to pay reasonable compensation for the use arises. P. 327.
53 Ct. Clms. 348, aflirmed.

APPEAL by the United States from a judgment sustaining a claim against it.
Mr. Daniel L. Morris, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr.
Harry E. Knight and Mr. Lucius E. Varney, Special Assistarits to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
There must be a definite intention to take private
property for public i[e before a contract, other requirements being .alisfied. will be implied. Bedford v. United

