OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

-

Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

FORBES PIONEER BOAT LINE v. BOARD.OF COMMISSIONERS OF EVERGLADES DRAINAGE DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.

No. 188. Argued March 23, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.

0

1. Plaintiff, having been required by the defendant Board to pay
charges for passage through a canal lock the use of which was then
by law free, its right to recover the amount was protected by the
Federal Constitution against destruction by the State, and could
not be ,defeated by an act of the legislature purporting to validate
the collection retroactively. P. 339. United States v. Heinszen
& Co., 206 U.'S. 370, a tax case, distinguished.
2. Generally a ratification of an act is not good if attempted when
the ratifying authority could not lawfully do the act. P. 339.
80 Fla. 252, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Florida
which reversed a judgment recovered by the present plaintiff in error in its action to recover sums of money it had
paid to the defendant Board as tolls for the passage of
its boats through locks in one of the canals of a drainage
system supervised and controlled by the Board under the
state law.

Mr. James JI.

Carson for plaintiff in error.

Mr. William Glenn Terrell for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit, begun in 1917, to recover tolls unlawfully
collected from the plaintiff, the plaintiff in error, for passage through the lock of a canal. The Supreme Court of
Florida sustained the declaration, 77 Fla. 742, but on the
day of the decision the Legislature passed an act, c. 7865,
Acts of 1919, that purported to validate the collection.
The act was pleaded. The plaintiff demurred setting up

FORBES BOAT LINE v. BOARD OF COMMRS.
338.

339

Opinion of the Court.

Article I, ยง 10, and the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States, but the Supreme Court
rendered judgment for the defendant on the ground that
the plea was good. 80 Fla. 252.
Stripped of conciliatory phrases tlhe question is whether
a state legislature can take away from a private party a
right to recover money that isdue when the act is passed.
The argument that prevailed below was based on the supposed analogy of lUnited States v. Heinszen & Co., 206
U. S. 370, (Rafferty v. Smith, Bell & Co., 257 U. S. 226,)
which held that Congress could ratify the collection of a
tax that had been made without authority of law. That
analogy, however, fails. A tax may be imposed in respect
of past benefits, so that if instead of calling it a ratification
Congress had purported to impose .the tax for the first
time the enactment would hav6 been within its power.
Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 216, 217. Stockdale
v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 20 Wall. 323. But generally
ratification of an act is not good if attempted at a time
when the ratifying authority could not lawfully do the
act. Bird v. Brown, 4 Exch. 786, 799. If we apply that
principle this statute is invalid. For if the Legislature of
Florida had attempted to make the plaintiff pay in 1919
for passages through the lock of a canal, that took place
before 1.917, without any promise of reward, there is nothing in the case as it stands to indicate that it could have
done so any more effectively than it could have made a
man pay a baker for a gratuitous deposit of rolls.
It is true that the doctrine of ratification has been
carried somewhat beyond the point that we indicate, in
regard to acts done in the name of the Government by
those who assume to represent it. Tiaco v. Forbes, 228
U. S. 549,556. It is true also that when rights are asserted
on the g-cound of some slight technical defect or contrary
to some strongly prevailing view of justice, Courts have
9544 -23-25

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

allowed them to be defeated by subsequent legislation and
have used various circumlocutions, some of which are
collected in Danforth v. Groton Water Co., 178 Mass. 472.
477. Dunbar v. Boston & Providence R. R. Co., 181 Mass.
383, 385. In those cases it is suggested that the meaning
simply is that constitutional principles must leave some
play to the joints of the machine.
But Courts can not go very far against the literal meaning and plain-intent of a constitutional text. Defendant
owed the plaintiff a definite sum of money that it had extorted from the plaintiff without right. It is hard to find
any ground for saying that the promise of the law that the
public force shall be at the plaintiff's disposal is less absolute than it is when the claim is for goods sold. Yet no
one would say that a claim for goods sold could be abolished without compensation. It would seem from the first
decision of the Court below that the transaction was not
one for which payment naturally could have been expected. To say that the legislature simply was establishing the situation as both parties knew from the beginning
it ought to be would be putting something of a gloss upon
the facts. We must assume that the plaintiff went
through the canal relying upon its legal rights and it is not
to be deprived of them because the Legislature forgot.
Judament reversed.

