290

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

were intended by the defendant to be used by King in
divided doses over a period of several days. The defendant was a licensed physician and his part in the sale
was the giving of prescriptions for the drugs. In view of
the allegation that I have quoted and the absence of any
charge to the contrary it must be assumed that he gave
them in the regular course of his practice and in good
faith. Whatever ground for scepticism we may find in the
facts we are bound to accept the position knowingly and
deliberately taken by the pleader and evidently accepted
by the Court below.
It seems to me impossible to con'str'ue. the statute as
tacitly making such acts, however foolish, crimes, by saying that what is in form a prescription and is given
honestly in the course of a doctor's practice, and therefore, so far as the words of the statute go, is allowed in
terms, is not within the words, is not a prescription and
is not given in the course of practice, if the Court deems
the doctor's faith in his patient manifestly unwarranted.
It seems to me wrong to construe the statute as creating a
crime in this way without a word of warning. Of course
the facts alleged suggest an indictment in a different form,
but the Government preferred to trust to a strained interpretation of the law rather than to the finding of a jury
upon the facts. I think that the judgment should be
affirmed.
HtUMP HAIRPIN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
EMMERSON, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE
STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPRETME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No.'139.

Argued March 2, 3, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.

1. Error of state authorities in treating interstate as intrastate business in computing a corporation excise tax under a statute meant
to include the latter only in the computation, goes to the constitutionality of the tax and not of the statute. P. 293.

HUMP HAIRPIN CO. v. EMMERSON.
290.

Opinion of the Court.

2. Business done by a corporation through orders approved in a
State where its tangible property and business office were located
andits manufacturing conducted, but first obtained by its salesmen
from residents in other States, held interstate. P. 294.
3. Where a state law for taxing foreign corporations for the privilege
of doing local business bases the tax upon the capital stock actually
represented by property located and business transacted within the
State, ph ily intending not to tax interstate commerce, and is
reasonable as to amount and free. from discrimination in favor of
local corporations, a tax .assessed under it will not be unconstitutional merely because a trifling part resulted from inclusion of
interstate business in the basis of computation. P. 295.
293 Ill. 387, affirmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois
in a suit brught by the plaintiff in error to recover the
amount of a tax.
Mr. Colin C. H. Fyffe for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Clarence N. Boord, with whom Mr. Edward J.
Brundage, Attorney General of the State of Illinois, was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1918 the defendant in error, as Secretary of State,
assessed a tax of $6,045 upon the plaintiff in error, a corporation organized under the laws of West Virginia, for
the privilege of doing business in the State of Illinois.
The tax was paid under protest and this suit was instituted to recover the amount of it, based upon the contention that the statute under which it was imposed offends
against the Federal Constitution for various reasons, the
only one argued in this court, however, being that, if
given effect, it will constitute a regulation of, and inipose
a direct burden upon, interstate commerce.
The case was tried on stipulated facts, from which we
derive9544°-23-22
these as essential to a disposition of it.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

In 1918 the authorized capital stock of the company was
$6,000,000, of which $5,500,000 was reported by the company to the State as paid in and issued. It was a manufacturing corporation, with all of its tangible property in
Illinois. Its method of doing business was to send salesmen into Illinois and the various other States to solicit
orders, which, however, were not accepted until approved
at the Chicago office, after which they were filled from
stocks maintained in that city. The company represented
the potential value of its patent rights, licenses, trade-marks, secret processes and good will as $5,124,126.72,
and the total value of its real and personal property as
$416,629.07,-making a total in Illinois of $5,540,755.79.
It also represented the total sales made by it in 1917, on
which year's business the tax was computed, as $263,334.96, and of these $25,814 were made to residents of
Illinois.
The statute under which the tax was assessed reads:
"It shall be the duty of the Secretary of State to propound' interrogatories from time to time 'to officers of
such foreign corporations [with negligible exceptions] doing business in this State to ascertain the proportion of
capital stock actually being represented by property
located and business transacted in the State of Illinois,
which proportion shall be determined by averaging the
percentage of the total business of the corporation transacted in Illinois with the percentage of the total tangible
property located in this State." (Hurd's Statutes, 1917,
p. 719, § 67 fb.)
In a recent case, American Can Co. v. Emmerson, 288
Ill. 289, the Supreme Court of Illinois held that it has
been the policy of that State since 1872 to accord precisely
equal treatment to domestic and foreign corporations of
like character (Hurd's Statutes, 1917, p. 703, § 26,) and
that the fees for transacting business in the State are
computed on the amount of the authorized capitai stock

HUMP HAIRPIN- CO. v. EMMERSON.
290.

293

Opinion of the Court.

of domestic corporations and, at the same rate, on the
amount of the capital stock of foreign corporations actually "represented by property located and business transacted" in the State, as determined by the Secretary of
State under the statute. The basis for the computation
was $50 for the first $5,000, and $1 upon each $1,000 over
that amount.
Acting under these statutes, the Secretary of State concluded that, under the facts as we have stated them, all
of the business of the company was " transacted" in the
State of Illinois and, all of the tangible property of the
company being in the State, he computed the tax on the
entire authorized capital stock. The State Supreme
Court sustained the assessment as valid.
The contention of the plaintiff in error in this court is
that, notwithstanding the manner in which it was done,
the business which the company did with residents of
States other than Illinois was interstate business and that
the treating of the amount of it as a part of the business
of the company transacted in that State in determining
the percentage of the total business of the corporation
transacted therein, renders the act under which the computation was made unconstitutional and void for the
reason that the tax assessed is a burden upon interstate
commerce.
Plainly this contention cannot be sustained. The
statute and the state Supreme Court both show a candid
purpose to differentiate state from interstate business and
to use only the former in determining the amount of the
disputed tax. If the Secretary of State or the court, in
computing the tax, erroneously treated as intrastate that
which was really interstate business, such error would be
reason in a proper case for correcting the computation,
but would not justify declaring the act unconstitutional.
The facts, that all of the property of the company was
located in Illinois, that all of its manufacturing operations

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U, S.

were conducted in that State, and that all contracts of
sale must be approved at Chicago, where the only business office of the company was maintained, certainly reduce the interstate element in its business to the lowest
terms, but, nevertheless, we are constrained to hold that
the business done with residents of States other than
Illinois is interstate business, and therefore, there remains
the question, Whether the use made of the amount of
such interstate business, in determining the amount of the
tax, renders it invalid?
While a State may not use its taxing power to regulate
or burden interstate commerce (United States Express
Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; InternationalPaper Co.
v. Massachusetts, 246 U. S. 135), on the other hand it is
settled that a state excise tax which affects such commerce, not directly, but only incidentally and remotely,
may be entirely valid where it is clear that it is not imposdd with the covert purpose or with the effect of defeating federal constitutional rights. As coming within this
latter description, taxes have been so repeatedly sustained
where the proceeds of interstate commerce have been
used as one of the elements in the process of determining
the amount of a fund (not wholly derived from such commerce) to be assessed, that the principle of the cases so
holding must be regarded as a settled exception to the
general rule. Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., 142 U. S.
217; Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S.
379; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; United
States Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335,
343; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68;
Kansas City, Memphis & Birmingham R. R. Co. v. Stiles,
242 U. S. 111; United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247
U. S. 321, 326-327. The turning point of these decisions
is, whether in its incidence the tax affects interstate commerce so directly and immediately as to amount to a
genuine and substantial regulation of, or restraint upon

HUMP HAIRPIN CO. v. EMMERSON.
290.

Opinion of the Court.

it, or whether it affects it only incidentally or remotely
so that the tax is not in reality a burden, although in form
it-may touch and in fact distantly affect it.
No formula has yet been devised by which it can be
determined in all cases whether or not such a tax is valid,
and, applying the repeated declaration of this court, in
the cases cited and in many others, that the question is
inherently a practical one, depending for its decision on
the special facts of each case, we are clear that the tax
here involved falls within the excepted class described,
even though the business done with residents of States
other than Illinois be regarded as interstate.
Clearly the statute is not a disguised attempt to tax
interstate commerce. On the contrary, its purpose plainly
is to differentiate state from interstate business and to
impose the tax only on the former. Construed with other
statutes the act accords equal treatment to domestic and
foreign corporations, and clearly in this case property of
the company beyond the jurisdiction of the State is not
taxed-all of its property is in Illinois. To require foreign
corporations to pay for the privilege of doing business in
a State is, of course, a familiar and often approved form
of taxation, and in this case the fee imposed is reasonable
in amount.
The tax is not imposed directly upon the proceeds of
interstate commerce and is not computed upon it. The
$235,000 of interstate business of the company is only one
of three factors used in estimating or measuring "the
amount of the capital stock represented by property and
business transacted in Illinois," upon which the privilege
tax in dispute was computed. The other two factors were
$5,540,000 of property in Illinois and $25,000 of business
stipulated as done with residents of that State. If the
fee or privilege tax were computed at the statutory rate
on the whole of the interstate business, it would be trifling
in amount, but if compited on the property admitted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

have been in use in the State it would be but slightly less
than the tax collected.
If this same amount of tax had been imposed upon such
a manufacturing corporation as we have here without
reference being made to the basis of its computation, very
certainly no objection to its validity would have been
thought of (142 U. S. supra,p. 229). Or if the State had
imposed an income tax, a part of which would have been
derived from the net profits on this same interstate business, no valid objection could have been made to it.
(United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, supra.) At most
the assessment, so far as interstate commerce is concerned,
is incidental, remote and, unimportant and it is therefore
constitutional. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TEE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 118.

Petition for rehearing and motion to remand for further
finding.7-Decided April 10, 1922.

The Senate, in confirming nominations to office, exercises, not a
judicial, but an executive function; and, if it confirms a nomination to a place in the Army existing only through the President's
removal of another officer, the legal effect is to sustain the removal
no less where the nomination is taken as assurance that a vacancy
exists than where the Senate investigates the facts. P. 298.
Petition for rehearing and motion to remand denied.

O a petition for rehearing and for a remand of the
case to the Court of Claims for a further finding of fact.
See s. c. 257 U. S. 541.

