WHITE OAK CO. v. BOSTON CANAL CO.- 341
Statement of the Case.
WHITE OAK TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
BOSTON, CAPE COD & NEW YORK CANAL
COMPANY.
NORTHERN COAL COMPANY v. BOSTON, CAPE
COD & NEW YORK CANAL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

Nos. 116, 124. Argued March 1, 1922.--Decided April 10, 1922.
Where a large steamship, heavily laden and awkward to steer, traversing a canal, sheered to one bank and then tle other, grounded,
sprang a leak, and despite efforts first to hold and lighten and then
to tow her through, sheered again to the other bank and sank,
becoming a total loss with her cargo, held, upon the findings and
evidence(1) That the master was not to blame for not displacing a canal pilot
after the first accident and for permitting the vessel to proceed,
before slack water, not fully pumped out and with her cargo unadjusted, in view of the canal company's regulations, the directions
of its superintendent and the situation and consensus of opinion
existing at the time. P. 344.
(2) That the loss was attributable to the joint negligence of the canal
company an4l the master in attempting. to pass such a vessel through
the canal. P. 345.
(3) That all the damages, arising from the loss of the vessel and its
cargo, injury to the canal and obstruction of the canal business,
should be divided equally between the canal company and thovessel owner. P. 345.
(4) The cargo owner, having proceeded only against the canal company, was entitled to a decree for the full amunt of its loss against
that company. P. 345.
265 Fed. 538; 267 Fed. 176, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals,

the one holding the petitioner Transpbrtation Company
liable to th@- respondent Canal Company for damages
found to have resulted frboA negligence of the petitioner
iti
the maiagement of its vessel in the respondent's canal;

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

the other exonerating the respondent Canal Company
from liability to the petitioner Coal Company for the loss
of a cargo contained in the same vessel.
Mr. Edward E. Blodgett, with whom Mr. Foye M.
Murphy was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 116.
Mr. Henry E. Warner, with whom Mr. John G. Palfrcy
was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 124.
Mr. Thomas H. Mahony, with whom Mr. Guy TV.
Currierwas on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Samuel Park, with whom Mr. Henry E. Mattison
was on the brief, for the T. A. Scott Company, Inc., impleaded with respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

On December 13, 1916, the, steamer Bay Port, while
passing through the Cape Cod Canal, ran ashore on the
south bank and the next day sank diagonally across it. In
January, 1917, the Canal Company filed a libel against the
White Oak Transportation Company, the owner of the
steamer, to recover for damages suffered by the canal and
the obstruction of traffic through it. It also filed a libel
against the T. A. Scott Company, Inc., a wrecking company, for negligence in dealing with the steamer after it
had grounded; but this company has been exonerated and
is not before us. In May, 1917, the Transportation Company filed a libel against the Canal Company, to charge it
with a total loss of the steamer and freight, and in 1\Iarch,
1918, the Northern Coal Company intervened seeking to
hold the Canal Company for a total loss of the cargo,
which was coal. The causes were heard together below
and were consolidated by agreement for hearing and determination upon one record here.: The District Court
found no negligence on either side and dismissed all the

WHITE OAK CO. 'v.
BOSTON CANAL CO.
341.

343

Opinion of the Court.

libels. 251 Fed. 356. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
the Transportation Company liable to the Canal Company, and reversed the decree in that cause. 265. Fed. 538.
It also dismissed the"intervening petition of the owner of
the coal. 267 Fed. 176.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals: that the
owners of the Bay Port and the Canal Company both
ought to have known that it was unsafe to take the vessel
through the canal. We agree with the dissenting Judge in
the Circuit Court of Appeals that the loss of the cargo
must be attributed to the joint negligence of the two; and
we are of opinion that the amount of that loss, that suffered by the vessel and that §uffered by the canal should
be added together and divided between the Bay Port and
the Canal.
The Bay Port was a lake built steamer of the whaleback
type, 265 feet long and of 38 feet beam, which had been
brought to the Atlantic. When deeply laden she steered
somewhat awkwardly but as well as other vessels of the
type. She was loaded with 2393 tons of coal and had a
draft of eighteen feet two inches aft and seventeen feet
eight inches forward, when soon after noon on December
13, 1916, she appeared at the western or Wing's Neck entrance to the canal. Her captain was a man of experience
and had gone through the canal twice with the Bay Port
when empty, never when loaded. He had been solicited
by the Canal Company to go by way of the canal, the
Company representing the canal to be twenty-five feet
deep throughout as its charter required. Mass. Act of
1899, c. 448, § 3.
Having got permission the Bay Port started in tow of a
tug with a competent pilot. The tide was about half out,
running west at about three knots an hour. After proceeding halfway through the canal the vessel passed over
a shoal where there was not more than twenty-one or

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

twenty-two feet of water, and soon after sheered toward
the north bank and then toward the south bank where
she grounded, at about a thousand feet from the shoal.
It is strongly argued that this and the shoal next to be
mentioned caused the trouble, but, notwithstanding The
Pennsylvania, 19 Wall. 125, we will accept the finding of
the two Courts that they were not the proximate cause.
Two tugs'and the superintendent of the canhl came to the
help of the Bay Port but could not get her off as the tide
was falling. The tugs kept her upon the bank and the
next morning a hole was discovered in her bottom, but
was plugged. Arrangements had been made to lighten
the cargo when unexpectedly, about 10.15 a. in., she slid
into the channel. The pilot with whom she started had
left but another canal pilot who seems to have taken his
place ran upon the bridge and directed the captain to
start his engines at full speed to prevent her drifting upon
the opposite bank. She was down at the head from 18 to
30 inches with a list to port of from 15 to 24 inches. Since
6 a. m. the tide had been running to the east, the direction
in which the steamer was going, and the pilot ordered a
tug to take her in tow and started toward the east. The
Bay Port proceeded about a mile; but after she had
passed another shoal spot by some two thousand feet,
sheered again two or three times and stranded on the north
bank, the bow came clear and swung down stream and
then she sank and became a total'loss.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought that the master
was responsible for the loss because he did not displace
the pilot and prevent the vessel proceeding before she
was fully pumped out, the cargo adjusted and slack water
had come, which he might have done by holding her in
the channel by the tugs that were present or by tying up
to some dolphins that he passed. Upon this point we
agree with the feasoning of the District Court. The
emergency Was serious. The canal regulations provided

WHITE OAK CO. v. BOSTON CANAL CO.
341.

345

Opinion of the Court.

that in the event of grounding the canal authorities
should have the right to direct all operations for floating
the vessel. The superintendent of the Canal while present had told the pilot that he wanted to get the vessel out
of the canal as soon. as. possible. The captain regarded
that as the understanding of all concerned. The wreckers
called out to the pilot: "She is yours." The pilot as-.
sumed command and started to carry out -the superintendent's wish. Everybody at the time thought that the,
proper course, and we cannot think that the master was
to blame for not overriding the judgment of the local experts, with which his own concurred, on general grounds.
On the other hand, as we have said, we agree with the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and in any event we find that
the evidence recited by it shows that the Company had
notice and that the master of the vessel ought. to have
known that it was unsafe and improper to try to carry
this vessel, loaded as it was, through the canal. Both
parties, therefore; are responsible for all the damages including the loss of cargo and they should be divided between the two. The cargo owner, h'6wever, having proceeded only against the Canal Company, is entitled to a
decree against that company for the full amount. The
Atlas, 93 U. $. 302. The New York, 175 U. S. 187, 209,
210.
Decree of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Decree to be entered that the Northern Coal Company recover its damages and costs from the Boston,
Cape Cod & New York Canal Company; that the
White Oak Transportation Company exonerate the
Boston, Cape Cod & New York Canal Company from
one-half of the above damages and costs, and that
the damaes and costs of the White Oak Transportation Company and the Boston', Cape Cod & New
York 'Canal. Company *be equally' divided between
those two conipanies.

