OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

66

258 U. S.

Syllabus.

John Junell and Mr. James E. Dorsey were also on the
briefs.
MR. JUsTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by companies representing 692
elevators in the State of North Dakota to enjoin*the en.,forcement of the North Dakota Grain Grading and Inspection Act, c. 138 of the Laws of North Dakota of 1919.
This act was considered and passed upon in No. 456, just
decided, ante, 50.
The matter was heard before three judges, and a temporary injunction was granted upon the authority of the
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals which we have just
reviewed, and affirmed. Appeal from that order was
taken to this court. The facts are not materially different
from those presented -in the former case, and the reasons
therein stated for the conclusion reached are controlling
here, and need not be repeated.
The order of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLmES,
JUSTICE CLARKE

'fR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

and MR.

dissent.

CRICHTON v. WINGFIELD.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 312.

Submitted December 16, 1921.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. As a basis for service upon an absent defendant under Jud. Code,
§ 57, personal property must be properly localized within the district of suit. P. 74.
2. Promissory notes, secured on land in Mississippi and payable
there, were claimed by C as legatee, unoer wills of the payees of
which she had been made executrix by a Mississippi probate court
which had found, upon her renre p"+'inn- that the deceased were

CRICHTON v. WINGFIELD.
66.

Argument for Appellant.

citizens of that State and that the personal property bequeathed
was located within its jurisdiction. Before qualifying as executrix, C removed the notes to New York, of which she was a
citizen, and there, while the probate proceedings were pending,
brought suit in a federal court to quiet her title to them against a
citizen of Mississippi who claimed under assignment from one of
the decedents. Held that the notes had not such a status as
personal property in New York as Would justify foreign service
under Jud. Code, § 57.
Affirmed.

DIRECT appeal from a judgment of the District Court
quashing a service of process and dismissing the bill of
the appellant, for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. John W. Cutrer and Mr. Thomas B. Felder for
appellant.
The statute uses words of ordinary meaning. The term
"personal property" was designed to mean what it means
in the several States, where the exercise of the jurisdiction
might be sought. It includes all personal property of all
kinds. At any rate, it embraces securities like the mortgage or deed of trust involved in this case, with the accompanying negotiable obligations described therein. De
Ganay v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376. In New York, the appellant's residence, the term embraces such securities.
New York General Construction Law, 1919, c. 27, §39.
So in Mississippi, Code 1906, §1591.
This recognition by the statutes of both States indicates that the common-law notion that pecuniary obligations like these are the evidence only of a debt, has passed
away in both States, as it has in many others where
similar statutes have been enacted. Wheeler v. Sohmer,
233 U. S. 434; Jellenik v. Huron Copper Mining Co., 177
U. S. 1; Matter of Bronson, 150 N. Y. 1; Westbrook v.
Board of Trustees, 48 N. Y. 390; Jefferson v. Smith, 88
N. Y. 576. Any reasonable doubt would be resolved in
favor of the construction of the state statute which has
been adopted by the court of last resort of the "State.
9544°-23-8

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellant.

258 U. S.

Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Adams, 181 U. S.
580.
New York, like Mississippi, has also recognized these
obligations as personal property by permitting their attachment, their replevin,, and their sale under execution,
all irrespective of the domicile of the maker or holder.
They are, also, in both States, declared to be personal
property for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction upon a
Surrogate's Court. Johrer v. Roscoe, 62 Miss. 699; Walden & Co. v. Yates, 111 Miss. 631. See also Blackstone v.
Miller, 188 U. S. 189; New Orleans-v. Stempel, 175 U. S.
309; Fishburnv. Londershausen, 50 Ore. 363.
The question whether securities like these come within
the definition of "personal iroperty" under this statute,
has several times been before the federal courts, and jurisdiction has been maintained. Manning v. Berdan, 132
Fed. 382; Pensacola State Bank v. Thornberry, 226 Fed.
611; Thompson v. Emmett Irrigation District, 227 Fed.
560; Hodgman v. Atlantic Refining Co., 274 Fed. 104;
Jones v. Rutherford, 26 App. D. C. 114.
This court, in Chase v. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 79, refused to
consider bonds as constructively in the State of New York
where executors, appointed in New York, had taken them
to Germany. The actual presence of the securities within
the jurisdiction is essential to the maintenance of an action to cancel liens thereon, or to remove clouds from the
title. Cocke v. Brewer, 68 Miss. 775. Distinguishing
MlcIlvoy v. Alsop, 45 Miss. 365. See also 3 Beale Conflict of Laws, p. 507.
The action is not personal but in rem. Ampro Mining
Co. v. Fidelity Trust Co., 76 N. J. Eq. 555, 557; N. Y. &
N. H. R. R. Co. v. Schuyler, 17 N. Y. 592.
Under § 57, Jud. Code, a cloud on the title to personal
property was removed in Thompson -. imett Irrigation
District, 227 Fed. 560. Similar relief wasgranted in Citizens' Savings & Trust Co. v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 205

CRICHTON v. WINGFIELD.
66.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 46. See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 234 U. S. 369; Freeman v.
Alderson, 119 U. S. 185; Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316;
Hamilton v. Brown, 161 U. S. 256; Wilson v. Graham,
30 Fed. Cas. No. 17804.
Distinguishing McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90;
Chase v. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 88.
In this proceeding we are not resolving an obligation
into its ultimate solution by payment, through the
processes of a court. The opinion of the court below
places its adverse decision on that assumption.
Mr. Louis Marshall and Mr. James Marshall for appellee.
No property "was located in the Southern District of
New York, within the meaning of § 57, Jud. Code, which
affords a basis for the exercise of jurisdiction by the District Court, with respect thereto, as against the appellee,
as resident and citizen of Mississippi, who was not found
or served with process in that district and who did not
voluntarily appear therein.
This is not a case for the removal of a cloud upon the
title to personal property within f" mP.aning of that
phrase as employed in § 57.
The plaintiff wrongfully removed the notes from Mississippi, where they rightfully belong, in violation of the
statute of that State, and taking advantage of her own
wrong, is seeking to bestow upon the District Court of
the Southern District of New York a jurisdiction which
it does not possess.
The plaintiff's case is entirely devoid of equity, because
she has not come into court with clean hands.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Appellant, a citizen of the State of New York and a
resident of the southern district thereof, brought this suit

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

25S U. S.

in the District Court of the United States against the
appellee, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, residing in
the City of Clarksdale, County of Coahoma in that State.
Appellant is the daughter of Ephrain" H. and Eva W.
Lombard, appellee is a sister of Ephraim H. Lombard.
From the bill it appears that a controversy arose concerning the ownership of certain notes, fourteen in number, executed by W. D. Corley at Clarksdale, Mississippi,
on January 1, 1917, and made payable to Eva W. and E.
H. Lombard or bearer at the Bank of Clarksdale, Clarksdale, Mississippi. Seven of the notes were for $31,480
each, and seven were interest notes given for sums aggregating $39,664.80. The bill alleges that these notes
were held in the State of New York within the jurisdiction
of the District Court. From the bill it appears that appellant claims to own the notes by bequests under the
wills of Eva W. and E. H. Lombard, respectively.
The complaint sets forth that E. H. Lombard when in
feeble health executed a certain paper assigning one-half
of all the principal notes, numbered from four to nine
inclusive, and one-half of the interest notes, numbered
from four to nine inclusive, to the appellee. The notes
are alleged to be deferred payments on the sale of a plantation in the State of Mississippi. It is set out that at the
time of the alleged assignment to appellee E. H. Lombard was of unsound mind, memory and understanding,
and incapable of executing the assignment; that the same
was obtained by the appellee by undue influence exercised
upon appellant's father, and that it was without consideration. . The assignment is alleged to constitute a
cloud upon appellant's title to the notes in controversy.
The notes are secured by deeds of trust upon real estate
conveyed in Mississippi, which are duly recorded in the
record of mortgages and trust deeds in that State.
The appellee could not be served with process in the
Southern District of New York, and an order was made

CRICHTON v. WINGFIELD.
66.

.

OpMion of the Court.

under § 57 of the Judicial Code for service. Service was
made upon the appellee at Clarksdale, Mississippi. She
thereupon made special appearance for the purpose of a
motion to quash the service upon the ground that she is a
resident, citizen and inhabitant of the State of Mississippi
and had not been within the New York District; and
she moved for a dismissal of the bill. Upon hearing the
District Court sustained the motion, set aside the service,
and dismissed the bill.
The question here only concerns the jurisdiction of the
District Court. There is much controversy in the record,
embodied in affidavits, as to the manner in which possession of the notes was obtained by the appellant, and the
assignment made to the appellee. So far as we deem
them necessary to be considered, the facts are: The notes
are secured by deeds of trust on lands in Mississippi.
It appears without contradiction that Eva W. Lombard,
the mother, died May 25, 1919. Upon petition of appellant the will was admitted to probate and she was
appointed and qualified as executrix in the Chancery
Court of Mississippi. The decree in the Chancery Court
finds that the last will and testament was fully and
legally established as the last will of Eva W. Lombard,
who at the time of her death was a resident of Coahoma
County, Mississippi; that the lands devised by the will
are situated in Bronxville, New York, and that the personal property bequeathed by the will is all located in the
second district of Coahoma County, Mississippi, the place
of residence of the deceased at the time of her death. It
was before the qualification of appellant as executrix under her mother's will that she took the notes to New York.
After the death of her father, which occurred in New
York after the death of the mother, appellant filed a petition in the Chancery Court of Mississippi, and. a decree
was entered upon her petition, establishing the last will
and testament of her father. In that decree there are

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

findings like those establishing the will of her mother,
namely, that her father was at the time of his death a
resident of Coahoma County, Mississippi; that the personal property bequeathed and devised by the will is
located in the second district of Coahoma County, Mississippi, the place of residence of decedent at the time of
his death. The decree established the last will and testament of E. H. Lombard, admitted the same to probate,
and appointed the appellant executrix.
It further appears that neither of the estates had been
settled in the Chancery Court of Mississippi, the court of
probate, and as to both administration was pending when
this suit was brought. From these recitals it appears that
by the decrees of probate, invoked and obtained by the
appellant, it was found that the decedents had been and
were residents of Coahoma County, Mississippi, and that
the personal property bequeathed under each will was
located in the second district of that county, and hence
subject to the jurisdiction of the court of probate.
By a law of Mississippi, set forth in the record (§ 2102,
Code of Mississippi), it is provided: that an executor or
administrator shall not remove any of the property of the
estate out of the State; and the court, is authorized, when
it appears that the property is about to be removed, to
issue a precept to the sheriff commanding him to seize
the same and hold it until legally disposed of, and the letters of such executor or administrator may be revoked,
on du.e notice, and administration de bonis non granted
to some other person, and suit may be instituted by creditors or distributees of the estate on the bond, and judgment rendered accordingly.
With these facts beyond dispute, did § 57 of the Judicial
Code authorize service in Mississippi to call upon the
respondent to answer in the Itistrict Court in New York
where the notes were physically held, and there litigate
the controversy which had arisen con'cerning them?

CRICHTON v. WINGFIELD.
66.

73

Opinion of the Court.

Section 57 provides:
"When in any suit commenced in any district court of
the United States to enforce any legal or equitable lien
upon or claim to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien or
cloud upon the title to real or personal property within
the district"where such suit is brought, one or more of the
defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of or found
within the said district, or shall not voluntarily appear
thereto, it shall be lawful-for the court to make an order
directing such absent defendant or defendants to appear,
plead, answer, or demur by a day certain to be designated, which order shall be served on such absent defendant or defendants, if practicable, wherever found, and
also upon the person or persons in possession or charge of
said property, if any there be; or where such personal
service upon such absent defendant or defendants is not
practicable, such order shall be published in such manner
as the court may direct, not less than once a week for six
consecutive weeks. In case such absent defendant shall
not appear, plead, answer, or demur within the time so
limited, or within some further time, to be allowed by the
court, in its discretion, and upon proof of the service or
publication of said order and of the performance of the
directions contained in the same, it shall be lawful for the
court to entertain jurisdiction, and procedd to the hearing
and adjudication of such suit in the same manner as if
such absent defendant had been served with process
within the said district; but said adjudication shall, as.
regards said absent defendant or defendants without appearance, affect only the property which shall have been
the subject of the suit and under the jurisdiction of the
court therein, within such district;- and when a part of
the said real or personal property against whicb such proceedings shall be taken shall be within another district,
but within the same State, such suit may'be brought in
either district in said State
"

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

The purpose of this section is to authorize service of
process in suits to remove clouds upon title, liens, and
incumbrances, upon property within the district by bringing in adverse claimants who cannot be reached by the
ordinary methods of personal service. The language used
is primarily applicable to titles to realty. It is true that
the statute also embraces personal property. Used in
this connection, personal property undoubtedly refers to
such as is lawfully localized within the district, and there
held and enjoyed, and thus made subject to the court's
jurisdiction to clear its title from clouds and liens, notwithstanding personal service within the district cannot
be obtained upon those setting up adverse interests. It is
the presence of property real or personal within the district ivhich confers the limited jurisdiction conferred in
§ 57 upon the District Court. Chase v. Wetzlar, 225
U. S. 79.
This court had occasion to consider the statute in Jellenik v. Huron Copper lining Co., 177 U. S. 1, where it
was held in a suit involving title to shares of stock, that
foreign service might be obtained in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Michigan on adverse
claimants to bring in certain alleged owners of shares of
stock held by Massachusetts defendants. This was held
to be so because the company was organized under the
laws of Michigan whose statutes declared that the stock
of the company was to be deemed to be personal property.
For the purpose of the suit it was decided that the property was within the State of Michigan, as the habitation
or domicile of the company was within that State, which
created the corporation, and made the property subject to
its laws.
The appellant insists that the principles declared in
that case control here, and cites statutes of New York and
Mississippi d6fining personal property in terms broad
enough to include written instruments creating pecuniary

CRICHTON v. WINGFIELD.
66.

Opinion of the Court.

obligations. The appellant also relies upon cases decided
in this court such as Wheeler v. Sohmer, 233 U. S. 434, in
which it was held that the New York inheritance tax imposed upon the transfer of property within the State, belonging to a non-resident thereof, was not void under the
due process clause of the Federal Constitution as applied
to promissory notes held in a non-resident's safety deposit
box in New York. In discussing the character of such
property we held that the State might tax such notes as
property having a local situs within its borders. In De
Ganay v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376, this court sustained a
federal tax upon the income from stock, bonds and mortgages owned by alien non 7 residents, but in the hands of
an agent in this country, with full authority over them.
In that case, as in the Wheeler Case, the previous decisions in this court were cited, which have held that notes,
bonds, and mortgages may acquire a situs at a place other
than the domicile of the owner, and be reached and taxed
as localized property by the taxing authority.
We have no disposition to depart from the principle of
those cases, but are of opinion that they do not control
the present controversy. In bur yiew § 57 of the Judicial
Code cannot, uhder the facts of this case, be made the
basis of a departure from statutory enactments which require personal service within the district in order to subject a person to the jurisdiction of a federal court.
In this cause the appellant derives her title, as she sets
forth in her bill, from the bequests made to her by her
father and mother which, subject to the settlement of the
estates, would give her title to the notes in controversy.
Upon her petition she was appointed executrix of the
wills. Upon her representation as to residence of decedents she obtained letters testamentary in each of the estates. The decree of probate dedlared the personal property to be within the jurisdiction of the Mississippi court.
A statute of the State forbade its removal beyond the

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

borders of the State. These estates at the time the bill
was filed remained open and unsettled. Under such circumstances it would be doing violence to the purpose and
provisions of § 57 to hold that the mere physical presence
of the notes in New York, complainant having seen fit to
take them there, made them personal property of that
localized character lawfully within the Southern District
of New York which would justify foreign service upon a
non-resident and bring him or her to the local jurisdiction
to contest title to the notes.
While the District Court put its decision upon different
grounds, we are of opinion that it rightly held that a case
for foreign service was not made out, and 'did not err in
setting aside the service, and dismissing the bill.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in the result

SCHAFF, AS RECEIVER OF THE MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY, v. J. C.
FAMECHON COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 91.

Argued January 16, 1922.--Decided February 27; 1922.

A decision of a state court, denying a carrier's right to make a charge
for refrigerator cars not provided for in tariffs filed at the stations
where the shipments originated, and based wholly on an interpretation of the Interstate Commerce Act and the rule of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, without questioning their validity, does n~t
deny the validity of an authority exercised under the United States
and is therefore not reviewable by writ of error under § 237, Jud.
Code, as amended. P. 80.
Writ of error to review 145 Minn. 108, dismissed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Minnesota, which denied the right of a carrier to recover
charges for refrigerator cars employed in interstate shipments.

