UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
.314.

321

Argument for the United States.

From these cases it results, as said by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, that "the legislature having this power to
give or withhold dower, it follows that it has the power to
declare the manner in which the dower right may be
barred, or the grounds upon which it may be forfeited,
and, if so, it has the right to provide that it may be
barred by the wife's nonresidence in the State."
The action of the court affirming the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 127.

Argued March 16, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.

1. A contract of the United States to pay for its use of a patented
invention is to be implied rather than a tortious appropriation by
the officers acting for the Government. P. 326.
2. When the C-overnment iseN a patented invention with .the permission of the owner and does not repudiate his title, an implied
contract to pay reasonable compensation for the use arises. P. 327.
53 Ct. Clms. 348, aflirmed.

APPEAL by the United States from a judgment sustaining a claim against it.
Mr. Daniel L. Morris, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr.
Harry E. Knight and Mr. Lucius E. Varney, Special Assistarits to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
There must be a definite intention to take private
property for public i[e before a contract, other requirements being .alisfied. will be implied. Bedford v. United

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee.

258 U. S.

States, 192 U. S. 217, 224; United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121; Sanguinetti v. United States, 55 Ct. CIms. 107, 144.
There was no intention, on the part of the Government,
to use the Leibert invention. All the circumstances surrounding the use of the Stockett mechanism indicate that
the officers of the Bureau of Ordnance had no idea that
they were using a mechanism covered by the Leibert
patent." Corning v. Burden, 15 How. 252; Ney Mfg. Co.
v. Superior Drill Co., 56 Fed. 152; Russell v. United
States, 182 U. S. 516; United States v. Berdan Fire-Arms
Mfg. Co., 156 U. S. 552.
The Government believed it had a proprietary right to
use the Stockett mechanism. Harley v. United States,
198 U. S. 229; Schillinger v. United States, 155 U. S.
163; United States v. Palmer, 128 U. S. 262; United
States v. Berdan Fire-Arms Mfg. Co., 156 U. S. 552.
Mr. George W. Dazell and Mr. Clarence P. Byrnes,
with whom Mr. Robert C. Hayden was on the brief, for
appellee.
The claimant's case fulfills the requirements of an implied contract with the Government, as laid down by this
court. Cramp & Sons Co. v. InternationalCurtis Marine
Turbine Co., 246 U. S.-28, 40; United States v. Soci6tg
Anonyme, etc., 224 U. S. 309; United States v. Berdan
Fire-Arms Mfg. Co., 156 U. S. 552; United States v.
Great FallsMfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; Hollister v. Benedict
& Burnham Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59; Bigby v. JUnited
States, 188 U. S. 400; United States v. Palmer, 128 U. S.
262; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
Russell v. United States, 182 U. S. 516; Schillinger v.
United States, 155 U. S. -163; Harleyv. United States, 198
U. S. 229; Bedford v. UnitedStates, 192 U. S. 217; Horstmann Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 138; and Tempel
v. United States, 248 U. S. 121, 131, distinguished.

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
321.

323

Opinion of the Court.

When an implied promise to pay has once arisen, a later
denial by the Government (whether at the time of suit
or otherwise) of its liability to make compensation does
not destroy the right in contract and convert the act into
a tort. Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S.121, 131.
The argument that the Government used the Leibert
patent unwittingly is negatived both' by the transactions
of the parties and by the patent situation.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion ot the

court.
Suit by the Steel Company to recover royalties for
the use b the United States of a patented invention
owned by the Company.
On November 7, 1891, the United States by and
through the Ordnance Bureau of the War Department
contracted with the Bethlehem Iron Company for the
manufacture of 100 guns of 8-inch, 10-inch and 12-inch
calibre, which were to be equipped with the usual breech
mechanism then known as "Model 1888 M 2".
On November 1, 1893, and pending the exeqution of
the contract, Owen F. Leibert, an employee of the Bethlehem, Iron Company, made application for an improvement in breech mechanism for ordnance. The Company
notified the Bureau of the invention and of an application for a patent. It suggested that the Bureau have the
application made special. This the Bureau did and a
patent was issued to Leibert on March 20, 1894.
In February, 1894, the Bureau requested full information as to the patent and that it be permitted to use the
same at the Watervliet Arsenal in an experimental test
on a 12-inch gun. The request was granted and the
Bureau prepared drawings for the test.
On December 23, 1895, while the Leibert mechanism
'was in course of construction the Chief of Ordnance forwarded to the Commanding Officer of the Arsenal a com9544°-2.--24

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

munication showing a form of mechanism, saying that it
seemed to possess marked merit and that it was a modification of the Leibert design, from which it differed
"mainly in the mode of operating the withdrawal of the
block, and in the pitch of the segmental rack to give
increased power for rotation."
The Commanding Officer reported that the design was
deemed superior to the other designs and that he had
ordered its manufacture, as suggested by the Chief of

Ordnance he should do in such case. It was thereafter
manufactured and used by the United States on a number of guns.

The design that was used was prepared by John W.
Stockett, a draftsman in the Ordnance Bureau, and was
known and referred to as the "Stockett design ", and the
"Department design ", but more generally as "Model
1895 ". Stockett applied for and received a patent for
the design.
From tiic to time during 1894 to 1896 the Ordnance
Bureau considered different forms of mechanism. and
the Company notified the Bureau that work under the
contract had reached a point that it was necessary to
know the mechanism to be used, and requested that if
any change was to be made the Company be notified.
The Bureau replied that it had no objection to the use
of the "Model

1895 ".

The Company answered that

it had no objection to conforming to that design, provided no modification be made in the price to be paid

for the guns named in the contract on account of change
in the breech mechanism. March 3, 1898, the Ordnance
Bureau indicated its assent to that proposition.
On August 16, 1901, the Bethlehem Iron Company
assigned all of its rights and franchises to the Bethl,hem Steel Company and the latter Company asked that
it be recognized as the successor to the Iron Company

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
321.

325

Opinion of the Court.

This was refused and the Bureau entered into an independent contract with the Steel Company and Congress
subsequently (June 6, 1902) authorized the Steel Company to be the successor to the Iron Company.
On November 5, 1902, the Steel Company reported
that it was proceeding with its contracts using the compound gear wheel shown in its prints 7374 and 7381,
copies of which it enclosed, also a copy of the Leibert
patent, and said, "We believe that the wheel we are
now putting on the guns, as stated and which we understand the department is also using on its guns built elsewhere, of several calibers, is the same as that described
in claim 1, et seq., of the said patent. We should be
glad if the department, at its convenience, would give
us an opportunity to lay before it more fully our views
in this regard."
In reply to the above quoted letter, the Chief of Ordnance, on February 25, 1903, wrote the Steel Company as
follows: "Referring .to your communication of November 5, 1902, upon the subject of breech mechanism for
guns of 1895 model, I have the honor to state that the
claims in the patent of Owen F. Leibert, owned by you,
are so much involved with the original designs of Farcot
and the patents of F. F. Fletcher and John W. Stockett
that this department does not feel that it is in a position
to pass on the legal aspect of the case. If the Bethlehem
Steel Company will bring suit to establish the points involved, this office will lend its assistance in bringing before
the court all documents on hand pertaining to the subject."
On February 27, 1903, the Steel Company responded to
the above letter of the Ordnance Bureau as follows: "In
accordance with your suggestion we have instructed our
attorney to bring suit against the department, to establish
the points involved."

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

The findings contain a detail of the mechanisms of the
Leibert patent and the Stockett patent with copies of
the letters patent.
The findings also give a list of patents constituting the
prior art at the time of Leibert's application, in which was
included the patent of F. F. Fletcher mentioned in the
last letter (February 25, 1903) of the Chief of Ordnance
to the Steel Company. And it was found that none of the
patents of the prior art anticipated the Leibert design and
that it was a patentable advance upon them, and it was
further found that the combination of claims 1, 2 and 3
of it were found in "Model 1895."
From its findings the court deduced the ultimate facts:
(1) That the breech mechanisms of the Leibert patent
possessed patentable novelty, utility and invention and,
(2) that those mechanisms were used by the United States
"in and as'a part of the said 'Model 1895.' " And it
ordered and adjudged that the Steel Company have and
recover from the United States the sum of sixty-seven
thousand dollars.
There is but one question in the case and that is the
attitude of the Ordnance Bureau, representing the United
States, toward the Leibert patent, whether in recognition
of it, as contended by the Steel Company, or in opposition
to, or, it may be said, in tortious use of it, as contended
by the United States.
We have in other cases expressed our aversion to the
latter conclusion except upon explicit declaration or upon
a course of proceedings tantamount to it. A contract,
express or implied in fact, must, it is true, be established,
but one to pay for a mechanism used will be implied
rather than a tortious appropriation of it-rather than
the exercise by the United States of its sovereignty in
aggression upon the rights of its citizens.
The -Court of Claims so construed our cases; Mr. Justice Booth, speaking for the court, said the difficulty was

UNITED STATES v. BETHLEHEM STEEL CO.
321.

327

Opinion of the Court.

more in the application of the determining rule than in
its ascertainment. And further, "from cases heretofore
adjudicated upon similar principles it may be safely asserted that where the Government uses a patented invention 'with the consent and express permission of the
owner' and does not 'repudiate the title of such owner,'
an implied contract to pay a reasonable compensation for
such usage arises. " United States v. Berdan Fire-Arms
Manufacturing Co., 156 U. S. 552, and United States v.
Soci6t6 lnonyme, etc., 224 U. S. 309, 320, were cited. We
think the cases sustain the principle announced and we
concur in it. And the findings demonstrate that it is sustained in the present case. There can be no doubt that
the Ordnance Bureau knew that the Stockett design could
only be used with the Leibert mechanism, and though
declining, as it said, to pass "on the legal aspect " of such
use, it would "lend its assistance in bringing before the
court all documents on hand pertaining to the subject."
This necessarily means that it would accept the decision
as a determination of the right of the Company and the
obligation of the United States. In other words, its attitude was not that of repudiation, not that even of antagonism, but that of submission to and acceptance of the
right as it should be declared; and certainly consideration
for the rights of inventors, instead of aggression upon
them, is a policy of wisdom regarding the purpose of the
War Department and, it may be, its necessities. It gives
incentive to the inventive genius of the country by assuring recognition and reward to its work, if its work have
merit. It is to be remembered that the Government is the
only user of heavy ordnance and must encourage, not
deter its improvement, if the Government would keep
ready for whatever emergency may come to it.
We think, therefore. that the judgment of the Court of
Claims should be, and it is
Affirmed.

