OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

have been in use in the State it would be but slightly less
than the tax collected.
If this same amount of tax had been imposed upon such
a manufacturing corporation as we have here without
reference being made to the basis of its computation, very
certainly no objection to its validity would have been
thought of (142 U. S. supra,p. 229). Or if the State had
imposed an income tax, a part of which would have been
derived from the net profits on this same interstate business, no valid objection could have been made to it.
(United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, supra.) At most
the assessment, so far as interstate commerce is concerned,
is incidental, remote and, unimportant and it is therefore
constitutional. The judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS concurs in the result.

WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM TEE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 118.

Petition for rehearing and motion to remand for further
finding.7-Decided April 10, 1922.

The Senate, in confirming nominations to office, exercises, not a
judicial, but an executive function; and, if it confirms a nomination to a place in the Army existing only through the President's
removal of another officer, the legal effect is to sustain the removal
no less where the nomination is taken as assurance that a vacancy
exists than where the Senate investigates the facts. P. 298.
Petition for rehearing and motion to remand denied.

O a petition for rehearing and for a remand of the
case to the Court of Claims for a further finding of fact.
See s. c. 257 U. S. 541.

WALLACE v. UN1TED STATES.
296.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frank S. Bright and Mr. H. Stanley Hinrichs, for
appellant, submitted the petition and motion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.
Counsel for the appellant object to the presumption we
indulge in our opinion.in this case that the Senate must
have known of the dismissal of Wallace when it confirmed
the nomination of Lieutenant Colonel Robert Smith,
whose appointment and confirmation filled the place considered vacant by Wallace's dismissal. They insist that
the absence of knowledge by the Senate of Wallace's removal was conceded by the Government in both the Court
of Claims and here. What the Government brief in this
court said was that it did not appear that the Senate was
advised. But appellant's counsel produce evidence from
the record in the Court of Claims upon which they ask
that the case be remanded to the Court of Claims to make
a finding on this point. 'Let us concede for the sake of the
argument, without deciding, that it is properly a matter of
evidence de hors the record, and of a finding thereon. The
chief item of evidence on which the notion is based is a
statement in the record below that
"On orbefore February 21, 1918, it was the practice of
the Adjutant General's office to nominate an officer vice
the particular officer whose promotion or separation from
the service caused the vacancy; and that, after February
21, 19i8, the practice of indicating the specific vacancy
was discontinued on the recommendation of the Executive
Clerk of the Senate."
The contention of the defendant on this showing is that
the Senate adopted the practice of confirming appointments to vacancies made by the President withoit investigation into the cause of the vacancies because of the
exigencies of war and the great number of appointments.
We do not see that if such facts were found, it would alter

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S.

our necessary conclusion. The Senate in confirming
nominations is not exercising a judicial but an executive
function. It does not have to give a hearing or make an
investigation before lawful action, and if it chooses to accept the President's nomination as assurance that there is
a vacancy to which the appointment proposed can be
made, and acts on that assurance, the legal effect of the
confirmation is not affected.
Petition for rehearing and the motion to remand are
denied.
BALZAC v. PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.

Nos. 178, 179.

Argued March 20, 1922.-Decided April 10, 1922.

1. The Act of January 28, 1915, e. 22, 38 Stat. 803, amending ยง 246
of the Judicial Code, and providing that writs of error from this
court may be prosecuted to the supreme courts of Porto Rico and
Hawaii in the same classes of cases as to the courts of last resort
of the States under Jud. Code, ยง 237, meant to assimilate the jurisdiction over those territorial courts to that over the state courts
and is to be construed as embracing subsequent changes in ยง 237
not obviously inapplicable, such as the amendments made by the
Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. P. 300.
2. In prosecutions for criminal libel in a district court of Porto
Rico, defendant demanded a jury under the Sixth Amendment,
which was denied him upon a construction of local statutes, applicable to this and other misdemeanors. Held, that the demand
drew in question the validity of the statutes, within the meaning
of Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended in 1916, and that judgments of
the Supreme Court of Porto Rico affirming the convictions were
reviewable here by writ of error. P. 302.
3. To present the constitutionality of a statute, it is not essential that
an assignment of error should mention the statute in question, if
the record definitely shows that its constitutionality was questioned
and the assignment is clearly directed to that controversy. P. 303.
4. The provisions of the Constitation guaranteeing jury trial in all
criminal prosecutions do not" apply to a territory belonging to the

