130

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

federal courts a suit to secure by indirection a determination whether a statute if passed, or a constitutional
amendment about to be adopted, will be valid. Compare
Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475; Tyler v. Judges of Court of
Rigistrationy 179 U. S. 405.
Decree affirmed.
LESER ET AL. v. GARNETT ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MWARYLAND.

No. 553. Argued January 23, 24, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
1. A suit by qualified voters of Maryland to require the Maryland
Board of Registry to strike the names of women from the register
of voters upon the grounds that the state constitution limits the
suffrage to men and that the Nineteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution was not validly adopted, is maintainable under the
Maryland law and raises the question whether the Nineteenth
Amendment has become part of the Constitution. P. 136.
2. The objection that a great addition to the electorate, made without
a State's consent, destroys its political autonomy and therefore
exceeds the amending power, applies no more to the Nineteenth
Amendment than to the Fifteenth Amendment, which is valid beyond question. P. 136.
3. The Fifteenth Amendment does not owe its validity to adoption
as a war measure and acquiescence. P. 136.
4. The function of a state legislature in passing on a proposed
amendment to the Federal Constitution, is federal, and not subject to limitation by the people of the State. P. 137. Hawke v.
Smith, 253 U. S.221, 231.
5. Official notice from a state legislature to the Secretary of State,
duly authenticated, of its adoption of a proposed amendment to
the Federal Constitution, is conclusive upon him, and, when
certified to by his proclamation, is conclusive upon the courts. P.
137. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 672, 673.
139 Md. 46, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the court below affirming a

decision of the state trial court dismissing a petition by

LESER v. GARNETT.
130.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

which the plaintiffs in error sought to require the members
of the Maryland Board of Registry to strike the names
of specified woman voters from the registration list.
Mr. Thomas F. Cadwaladerand Mr. William L. Marbury, with whom Mr. George Arnold Frick was on the
briefs, for plaintiffs in error and petitioners.
The only power to amend the Constitution is contained
in Article V, and is a delegated power. Hawke v. Smith,
253 U. S. 221, 227; Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 How. 348. It is
a power to "amend," granted in general terms.
In a series of decisions rendered soon after the Civil
War, this court established the doctrine propounded by
Mr. Lincoln in his first inaugural address, that the Union
was intended to be a perpetual Union,-" an indestructible Union of indestructible States,"-and that no power
was conferred upon any of the agencies of government
provided for in the instrument to defeat that intention,that "great and leading intent" of the people, Ex parte
Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, 101,-by destroying any of the States,
by taking away in whole or in part any one of the
"functions essential to their separate and independent
existence" as States. Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall.
71; Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 724-725. Obviously
Article V must be so construed as not to defeat the main
purpose of the Constitution itself.
A "State" within the meaning of the Constitution is
not merely a piece of territory, or a mere collection of
people. It is, as this court has said, "a political community." Who constitute the State in that sense?
Clearly the people who exercise the political power. That
is to say, the electorate and those whom the electors of
a State choose to clothe with the governmental power of
the State. When an amendment is adopted, therefore,
which changes the electorate, the original State is destroyed and a new State created.
9544

-2:-

-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

258 U. S.

Questions of power do not depend upon degree. Brown
v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 439; Keller v. United States,

213 U. S. 138, 148.
The power to amend is granted in no broader language
than that in which the taxing power is granted in ยง 8, Art.
I.

Yet this court held, in Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113,

that it would not construe that language, broad as it was,
as sufficient to authorize Congress to levy a tax upon the
salary of a state judge, for the same reason we urge here.
If the power to maintain a judiciary whose salaries shall
be exempt from taxation by Congress be one of the " functions essential to the existence" of a State of the Union,
a power without which it would not be an indestructible
State, surely the power to determine for itself, by the
voice of its own voters, who shall and who shall not vote
in the election of that judiciary is not less so.
It is argued that there is no provision in the Constitution forbidding the submission or the ratification of such
an amendment. But even so, as said in Collector v. Day,
exemption from such an amendment "rests upon necessary implication, and is upheld by the great law of selfpreservation."
It may be argued, perhaps, that the fact that there are
two express limitations upon the amending power contained in Article V indicates that that power was intended
to be unlimited in other respects. It might be a sufficient answer to that contention to say that the maxim
expressio unius exclusio alterius, while sometimes very

persuasive, is never conclusive as a rule of interpretation,
and that, before adopting it in so doubtful a matter as
this, the courts would certainly look to the consequences
which might follow such an interpretation. SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 78. But perhaps a more conclusive answer will be found in the fact that the same
argument was rejected as applied to the taxing clause.
Collector v. Day, supra; Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245.

LESER v. GARNETT.
130.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The decision of this court in the National Prohibition
Cases, 253 U. S. 350, constitutes no precedent for holding
valid the Nineteenth Amendment. The Eighteenth
Amendment did not attack or interfere with the government of the State---"the structure of the state government"-or deprive it of any function "essential to its
separate and independent existence."
The prohibition against the adoption of any amendment whereby a State is deprived of its equal suffrage in
the Senate without its consent involves two things--first,
that if the State chooses to consent it may be deprived of
its equal suffrage in the Senate; and, second, that it may
not by any amendment be deprived of its power to give or
refuse its consent.
It is easy to see that, if any interference with the electorate of a State be permitted, its power to refuse its consent to any amendment which may hereafter be proposed,
including an amendment reducing the number of its
Senators, may be taken away.
The consent of the State cannot be given or refused
except by the will expressed either directly or indirectly
of the State's own voters. Therefore it follows necessarily that the right of the State's own electorate to vote is
a right reserved and withheld from the scope and operation of the amending power altogether. Hamilton, The
Federalist, No. 59, pp. 238, 239.
The various cases decided by this court since the Civil
War, including Myers v. Anderson, 238 U. S. 368, in
which, without going at all into the question of the scope
and limits of the amending power granted in Article V,
this court nevertheless then recognized the Fifteenth
Amendment as being in effect valid as a part of the Constitution, constitute no precedents for holding the Nineteenth Amendment valid, for the reason that any amendment, however radical, which has redeived the unanimous
assent of the States--has been, in fact, consented to, how-

OCTOBER TERM 1921.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

258 U.S.

ever reluctantly, by each and all of them,-is valid, and
must be accepted by this court as being valid when the
question of its validity was raised for the first time, fortyfive years after its adoption, iro State nor any citizens of
any State having ever disputed its validity prior to that
case.

While it may be true that no formal treaty of peace was
entered into by the Government of the United States and
the Confederate States, or any of them, the substance of
a treaty was enacted in the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and
Fifteenth Amendments. Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36, 67, 71.
It may be true that this involves the contention that
the effect of war and the necessity of taking measures to
prevent the recurrence of war expands the amending
power, but it is submitted that there is nothing unreasonable in that contention. The same effect would undoubtedly be produced by the same causes upon the treatymaking power.
If, after the expiration of a period of forty-five years,
the validity of a treaty, by which this country made the
best terms it could to end a disastrous war, were called in
question as the validity of the Fifteenth Amendment was
called in question for the first time in Myers v. Anderson,
would not this court deal with the objections to its
validity in the same way in which it dealt with the objections urged against the validity of the Fifteenth Amendment in that case, viz: ignore them altogether and decide
all other questions raised with the tacit assumption that
the treaty was valid?
After the Fifteenth Amendment had been proclaimed,
the States which had refused ratification, and their people,
evidenced their consent and acquiescence in tne clearest
possible way, by not only refraining from challenging its
validity for forty-five years, but in passing laws either for
the enforcement of the amendment or in recognition of its
validity.

LESER v. GARNETT.
130.

. Opinion of the Court.

The Nineteenth Amendment. has never been legally
ratified by the requisite number of States. Tennessee
and West Virginia, both of which must be counted to
make the requisite three-fourths, in fact refused to ratify
the Amendment. The votes upon which the certifications were based were illegal under the local law. The
proceedings are subject to judicial inquiry under that law,
and by this court.
The legislatures of five States, Missouri, Tennessee,
West Virginia, Texas and Rhode Island, were, by the provisions of their respective state constitutions, expressly
forbidden to adopt amendments of the character of the
Nineteenth, and were therefore incompetent to ratify that
amendment.Mr. Alexander Armstrong, Attorney General of the
State of Maryland, with whom Mr. Lindsay C. Spencer
was on the briefs, for defendants in error and respondents.
Mr. George M. Brady, with whom Mr. Roger Howell
and Mr. Jacob M. Moses were on the brief, for Caroline
Roberts et al., defendants in error and respondents.,
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amicus curiae on behalf of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
On October 12, 1920, Cecilia Streett Waters and Mary
D. Randolph, citizens of Maryland, applied for and were
granted registration as qualified voters in Baltimore City.
To have their names stricken from the list Oscar Leser
and others brought this suit in the court of Common
Pleas. The only ground of disqualification alleged was
that the applicants for registration were women, whereas
the constitution of Maryland limits the suffrage to men.
Ratification of the proposed Amendment to the Federal

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
-pinion
O
of the Court.

258 U. S.

Constitution, now known as the Nineteenth, 41 Stat. 362,
had been proclaimed on August 26, 1920, 41 Stat. 1823,
pursuant to Rev. Stats., ยง 205. The Legislature of Maryland had refused to ratify it. The petitioners contended,
on several grounds, that the Amendment had not become
part of the Federal Constitution. The trial court overruled the contentions and dismissed the petition. Its
judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the
State, 139 Md. 46; and the case comes here on writ of
error. That writ must be disrissed; but the petition for
a writ of certiorari, also duly filed, is granted. The laws
of Maryland authorized such a suit by a qualified voter
against the Board of Registry. Whether the Nineteenth
Amendment has become part of the Federal Constitution
is the question presented for decision.
The first contention is that the power of amendment
conferred by the Federal Constitution and sought to be
exercised does not extend to this Amendment, because of
its character. The argument is that so great an addition
to the electorate, if made without the State's consent, destroys its autonomy as a political body. This Amendment is in character and phraseology precisely similar to
the Fifteenth. For each the same method of adoption
was pursued. One cannot be valid and the other invalid.
That the Fifteenth is valid, although rejected by six
States including Maryland, has been recognized and acted
on for half a century. See United States v. Reese, 92
U. S. 214; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Guinn v.
United States, 238 U. S. 347; M11yers v. Anderson, 238
U. S. 368. The suggestion that the Fifteenth was incorporated in the Constitution, not in accordance with law,
but practically as a war measure which has been validated
by acquiescence, cannot be entertained.
The second contention is that in the constitutions of
several of the thirty-six States named in the proclamation

LESER v. GARNETT.
130.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Secretary of State there are provisions which render
inoperative the alleged ratifications by their legislatures.
The argument is that by reason of these specific provisions
the legislatures were without power to ratify. But the
function of a state legislature in ratifying a proposed
amendment to the Federal Constitution, like the function
of Congress in proposing the amendment, is a federal
function derived from the Federal Constitution; and it
transcends any limitations sought to be imposed by the
people of a State. Hawke v. Smith, No. 1, 253 U. S. 221;
Hawke v. Smith, No. 2, 253 U. S. 231; National Prohibition Cases, 253 U. S. 350, 386.
The remaining contention is that the ratifying resolutions of Tennessee and of West Virginia are inoperative,
because adopted in violation of the rules of legislative procedure prevailing in the respective States. The question
raised may have been rendered immaterial by the fact
that since the proclamation the legislatures of two other
States--Connecticut and Vermont-have adopted resolutions of ratification. But a broader answer should be
given to the contention. The proclamation by the Secretary certified that from official documents on file in the
Department of State it appeared that the proposed
Amendment was ratified by the legislatures of thirty-six
States, and that it "has become valid to all intents and
purposes as a part of the Constitution of the United
States." As the legislatures of Tennessee and of West
Virginia had power to adopt the resolutions of ratification, official notice to the Secretary, duly authenticated,
that they had done so was conclusive upon him, and, being certified to by his proclamation, is conclusive upon the
courts. The rule declared in Field v. Clark, 143 U. S.
649, 669-673, is applicable here. See also Harwood v.
Wentworth, 162 U. S. 547, 562.
Affirmed.

