OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

258 U. S.

Wilson, 38 Conn. 126, 136. The trial court is given all the
jurisdiction needed to try and hear him by the consent of
the United States, which only insists on his being kept
safely from escape or from danger under the eye and
control of its officer. This arrangement of comity between the two governments works in no way to the prejudice of the prisoner or of either sovereignty.
The question must be answered in the affirmative.
PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. LUCAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 160. Submitted March 10, 1922.-Decided March 27, 1922.
Where a seaman went ashore at a port of call for hospital treatment,
and, being asked only to sign for his past wages without mention
of a discharge, executed with the master a mutual release under
Rev. Stats., § 4552, but was not given a certificate of discharge as
required by § 4551, and the purport of the overt acts in the circumstances was not to release his claim for future wages, maintenance and cure- during the remainder of the ship's voyage, held
(considering also the power given by c. 153, 38 Stat. 1165, to set
aside such releases and "take such action as justice shall require,")
that the release was not a bar to the assertion of such claim in a
libel in admiralty. P. 267.
264 Fed. 938, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a decree of the District Court in admiralty
awarding the libelant the amounts he was compelled to
pay for subsistence and medical treatment at a port of
call where he left the ship for hospital treatment, and the
amount of his wages from that time until the ship completed her voyage.
Mr. Charles J. Heggerty for petitioner.
Mr. Frederick Clayton Peterson for respondent.

PACIFIC MAIL S. S. CO. v. LUCAS.
266.

MR. JUSTICE HOL

Opinion of the Court.

s delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a libel brought by the respondent to recover $219
for wages, subsistence and medical attendance, the libellant having been left at Honolulu, ill, in the course of a
voyage from San Francisco to the Orient and return. The
defence is that he was not ill, that ill or well he should
have remained upon the vessel, and further that he was
discharged, and signed the mutual release required by
Rev. Stats., § 4552, and by that section made a bar. The
Circuit Court of Appeals confirmed the finding of the District.Court that the libellant was not malingering, and, as
we take it, although it is argued otherwise, also in finding
that the doctor and master of the ship were willing that
the libellant should go to the Marine Hospital. The only
question that we see reason for considering is whether
the two Courts were right in holding that the libellant
was not concluded by the release.
Both Courts have found that the respondent was only
asked to sign for his wages, that a discharge was not mentioned, and to put it in our own way, that the purport of
the overt acts in the circumstances was not to release the
libellant's claim.- The petitioner cites the words of Rev.
Stats., § 4552, and Rosenberg,v. Doe, 146 Mass. 191, to
show that such a position is impossible. But the same
case at a later stage, 148 Mass. 560, admitted a different
result where the sailor knew too -little English to understand the nature of the document and there was evidence
that it was misstated to him. In the present case we have
the further very important fact, which does not appear in
the report of Rosenberg v. Doe, that the master did not
give the-respondent a certificate of discharge, as he was
required to, under a penalty of fifty dollars , by Rev. Stats.,
§ 4551,.if the, respondent really was discharged. Moreover, by a: statute later in its present form than Rosenberg
v. Doe, it is provided that notwithstanding the statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

release "any court having jurisdiction may upon good
cause shown set aside such release and take such action as
justice shall require." Act of March 4, 1915, c. 153, § 4,
38 Stat. 1164, 1165. We are not prepared to say that the
finding of the two Courts was wrong.
Decree affirmed.
UNITED ZINC & CHEMICAL COMPANY v. BRITT
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 164. Submitted March 13, 1922.--Decided March 27, 1922.
1. A landowner owes no general duty to keep his land safe for children
of tender years, or even free from hidden danger, if he has not
directly or by implication invited them there. P. 275.
2. A road is not an invitation to leave it elsewhere than at its end.
P. 276.
3. Defendant owned a tract, on the outskirts of a town, on which
was an open and abandoned cellar wherein water had accumulated,
clear in appearance but dangerously poisoned with chemicals resulting from manufacturing operations formerly conducted there
by the defendant. A traveled way passed within 120 feet of the
pool and paths crossed the tract. Children came upon the land,
entered the water, were poisoned and died. Defendant knew the

condition of the water; but the pool, if visible to the children without trespass, was not proven to have caused their entry, nor were
children in the habit of going to it. Held, that no license or invitation could be implied and that the defendant was not liable. P. 274.
264 Fed. 785, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a judgment against the above petitioner in an' action brought in the District Court for
Kansas, by the above respondents, to recover damages for
the death of their two children. See Kans. Gen. Stats.,
1915, §§ 7323, 7324.
Mr. Henry D. Ashley and Mr. William S. Gilbert for

petitioner.

