OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 ;. S.

OKLAHOMA NATURAL GAS COMPANY v. STATE
OF OKLAHOMA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 37.

Argued March 7, 1922.-Decided March 20, 1922.

A gas cQmpany whose franchise obliges it to render efficient service
to the public and whose rates and service are subject, under the
state law and constitUtion, to regulation by a public commission,
and which has charged its customers .the maximum rate allowed,
on the basis of the quantities of gas. furnished, is not (eprived
of property wsithout due process of law by an order of the cominission reducing bills to compensate for poor service (insufficient
gas pressure) and requiring corresponding refunds to consumers.
P. 239.
78 Okla. 5, affirmed.
ERROR:tO a judgment affirming an order of a commission by which the bills of a company engaged in distributing gas supplied by plaintiff in error were reduced
and refunds to consumers were required.

Mr. C. B. Ames for plaintiff in error.
MFr. Charles H. Ruth, with whom Mr. S. P. Freeling,
Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, and Marie
S. Ruth were on the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Error to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma sustaining an order of the Corporation Commission of the State directing, on account of the failure of
the Gas Companies to furnish adequate gas service, a refund in certain districts of Oklahoma City of from eight
to twenty-five per cent. of the bills rendered by the cornpanies during December, 1917, and January, 1918.
The initial steps in the proceedings against the Gas
Companies were petitions filed before the Corporation

,OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
2.34.

235

Opinion of the Courl.

Commission of the State, and numbered 3188,.3192 and
3197. They charged that the Oklahoma Gas and Electric
Company was a corporation of Oklahoma, and was
granted a franchise by Oklahoma City to supply the latter and its inhabitants with natural gas for light, heat
and power, and, as such corporation, exercised the right of
eminent domain. And they alleged that the Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company was also a corporation of Oklahoma for the purpose of transporting gas from Cushing,
Oklahoma, to Oklahoma City, and was under contract to
deliver gas to the pipe lines of the Gas and Electric Company.
The petitions represented in various ways in what the
two companies were deficient and delinquent in the execution of the purpose of their incorporation in the supply
of gas at certain times to. those entitled to be served, and
the prayers of the petitions varied according to the- respective standpoints of the petitioners and their conceptions of remedies.
In No. 3188 it was prayed that the companies reveal
their relationship and contracts in regard to supplying
Oklahoma City with gas, and that the Electric Company
show the daily consumption of gas by the city, the volume and pressure in ounces necessary to provide adequate'service. There was the further prayer that the companies be required to provide and maintain gas storage
facilities.
In No. 3192 it was prayed that the Electric Company
be restrained from forcing collection of gas bills before
the determination of the issue presented, the charge being that, notwithstanding the insufficiency of the gas supply, the company was threatening to require prompt payment of bills and in default thereof to discontinue service.
In No. 3197 (it was presented by the county attorney
and his assistants) the relief asked was that the Cominmission take charge and management of the corporations,

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S

they being delinquent in their duties. It was also prayed
that the companies be declared in contempt of an order
of the Commission previously rendered which required
such efficiency in the distributing systems as to render
adequate service, and dealt with accordingly.
Separate answers were made by the companies in Nos.
3188 and 3197. In No. 3192 the Electric Company alone
answered.
Each company averred the exertion of all means within
its power to supply the needs and requirements of the
City with gas and was specific in the enumeration of its
facilities and powers and their exertion, and denied faults
and delinquencies.
The Corporation Commission by the constitution and
laws of the State is given power and authority, and is
charged with the duty, of supervising and regulating
transportation companies and other public utilities, and,
given the same authority to prescribe rates which the
State might prescribe or make. And the Supreme Court
decided that any of the orders of the Commission prescribing rates and regulating the service of such utilities is as
much a law of the State as if enacted by the legislature,
and that a public utility in furnishing natural gas is as
much subject to the provisions of such orders as if they
had been made an integral part of the contract between
'the consumer and the public utility.
It was in view of the jurisdiction and powers of the
Commission that the petitions in this case were presented
to it. They were consolidated and testimofiy taken for
and against them and the Commission set forth its conclusion in an opinion of great length-too long, we may
say, to make even a summary of it practicable.
* We can only say that the Commission found the quality
ofthe gas deficient but otherwise found for the companies.
For instance, the Commission found that storage facilities
for a reserve supply as prayed were impossible. It found

OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
234.

Opinion of the Court.

also against the charge that the companies had been guilty
of negligence for failure to extend their lines to other and
more abundant sources of supply. Indeed, the Commission, intimating a doubt of its power to do so, refused to
exercise the power against the companies, circumstances
not demanding it.
The final order of the Commission was that discounts of
various amounts from the payments made by consumers
in certain districts (they were named) should be allowed.
The discount, it was ordered, should be applied to bills for
domestic consumption of gas only, and this consumption
was considered to mean only gas used for physical comfort or for cooking in residences.
The prayer in No. 3197 that the Commission take
charge and operate the property of the Oklahoma Gas and
Electric Company was denied; also that fines for contempt
be imposed was denied.
There were' modifications of the order not necessary to
mention. On-error to the Supreme Court by the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company the oider of the Commission
was affirmed.
The Supreme Court in its opinion stated the points in
litigation and said it was not controverted that the service
was inadequate; the contention of the Gas Company being that "natural gas is a commodity for which the utilities are entitled to payment on a quantum basis, as shown
by meter readings, and the adequacy or inadequacy of
service dpes not enter into the payment of bills." The
court rejected the contention and affirmed the order of the
Commission, expressing its understanding of it to be that
it proceeded "upon the theory that, inasmuch as the
maximum compensation of the gas company is allowed
upon the basis of adequate service, where the service is
not kept to this standard the rate charged the public
should be graded in proportion to the falling off in effici-

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

ency." Stating a further contention of the company in
resistance to the order of the Commission, the court said
it seemed to be that thQ company was entitled to the
maximum rate "regardless of ihe efficiency of the service." The court rejected the contention, considering that
the rule announced by the Commission was "entirely just
and reasonable, provided a practical basis for its application" could "be established ", and the court said it could
"see no insuperable barrier in the way of doing" that.
And the court further decided that the Commission had
correctly solved the problem by basing the proportion of
the maximum rate the company could justly collect from
the public upon the quality of the service rendered as well
as upon the quantity of gas furnished. And this solution
of the problem, the court was of the view, the evidence
supported.
The company assails the reasoning and conclusions of
the court and Commission and asserts that they penalize
the company "for failing to supply gas which nature had
not produced." It supplied, is the contention, the maximum amount which it could produce and the Commission
found that it was not negligent in failing to supply more.
It is the contention, therefore, that the order of the Commission and the action of the Supreme Court in sustaining it, are offensive to the( Constitution of the United
States.
The contention is based on a wrong estimate of the
action of the Commission and that of the court. Neither
was based on deficiency in the volume of gas, but upon
the failure of the company to transport it under sufficient
pressure to render efficient service. It was the view of
the Commission and the court that the company owed
efficient service and for failing to supply it there should be
a deduction in the compensation charged in proportion to
the deficiency.
The company assails both conclusions as depriving it of
property without due process of law. We cannot assent.

OKLAHOMA GAS CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
234.

239

Opinion of the Court.

Both the Commission and the Supreme Court decided,
construing the charter of the company, that the company
was required to render efficient service, and we concur in
that view, and that it was competent for the State to compensate the deficiency in the service--deficiency in the
supply of gas-by a rebate of the payments to the company. The percentage of reduction and its adequate relation to a deficiency in service were necessarily determined
by the Commission from the case as presented to it, and
the Supreme-Court upon consideration affirmed the determination as a just and supported relation. In the judgments of the Commission and the court we are unable to
see error, certainly not an infringement of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
We repeat, therefore, the action of the Commission and
court were not, as represented by the company, a requirement of the impossible. It was simply and clearly the
determination of what the franchise of the company required and the obligation to perform it, and the failure to
perform justified a reduction of the fees charged or, if
paid, a proportionate repayment.
We are not called upon, therefore, to review or answer
the interesting argument of the company based upon the
contention that the order of the Commission imposed
upon the company the impossible or the unreasonable. It
imposed, we repeat, the performance of the service that
the Gas Company had agreed to perform.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

