466

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

258 U. S

TEXAS COMPANY v. BROWN, INDIVIDUALLY
AND AS COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE OF
GEORGIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No: 126.

Argued October 13, 14, 1921.-Decided April 17, 1922.

1. The Georgia laws, (Civil Code §§ 1800-1814 as amended; Penal
Code §§ 639, 642) providing for inspection of oil' and gasoline and
collection of inspection fees, are to be construed as remaining applicable to products stored within the 'State or sold in internal
commerce, even if invalid as applied to interstate commerce, in
view of the declaration to that effect in the Act of August 17, 1920
(Ga. Laws 1920, No. 800). P. 473.
2. A statute bearing on the right to an injunction must be given
effect by an appellate court though enacted pending the appeal.
P. 474.
3. As applied to oil and gasoline in interstate commerce, state inspection fees imposed without the consent of Congress and so
clearly exceeding the cost of inspection as to amount to a revenue
tariff, are unconstitutional. P. 475.
4. Goods imported into one State from another, which have reached
their destination and are held in storage in the original packages
awaiting sale, are subject to nondiscriminatory state taxation.
P. 475.
5. A tax levied in respect of goods of a particular kind is not to be
held a discrimination against interstate commerce merely because
goods of that kind are not produced locally but are all imported
from other States. P. 476. Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252
U. S. 444.
6. Oil and gasoline imported from another State in tank cars 'not
used for indefinite storage or as distributing tanks for local sales,
remain in interstate commerce and not subject without the owner's
consent to local inspection fees amounting to taxation until unloaded. P. 477.
7. The Georgia laws, supra, provide for inspection of illuminating
oil and gasoline and for inspection fees, yielding revenue in excess
of inspection cost, fixed at higher rates per gallon for small quantities than for large, and imposed once only, in connection with the

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
Argument for Appellant.

466.

inspection, viz., upon dealers at the time of -first domestic sale or
during storage preliminary to such sale, and upon persons who buy
or bring in these products for their own local consumption, the
latter enjoying an exemption from paying more than a specified
total annually which does not apply to dealers.* Held, that the
charge, as applied to local transactions, is an excise, and is
(a) Not arbitrary or unreasonable, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 479.
(b) Nor-contrary to Art. 7, § 2, par. 1, of the Georgia Constitution,
which requires uniform valuation of.all -property subject to be taxed
and that all taxation shall be uniform on the same class of subjects
and levied and collected under general laws. P. 480.
266 Fed. 577, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree -of the District Court refusing,
in part, an application for an interlocutory injunction in
a suit brought by the appellant to restrain the appellees,
officials of Georgia, from enforcing laws of that State imposing inspection fees, in respect of oil and gasoline
brought in by the appellant from other States.
Mr. John M. Slaton and Mr. Harry T. Klein, with
whom Mr. James L. Nesbitt, Mr. Luther Z. Rosser, Mr.
Benj. Z. Phillips and Mr. Stiles Hopkins were on the brief,
for appellant.
The Georgia legislation is to be construed as providing
for inspection and not~for a privilege or excise tax. If the
inspection fees were intended as a general source of revenue, fairly imposed upon the business of selling oil, it is
hardly conceivable that the legislature would have imposed them solely upon the first sale instead of upon
every one selling oil and its products.
If the tax be a property tax, it is violative of the provision of the Georgia constitution requiring-all property
taxes to be ad valorem.
, Under this legislation, the privilege of storage occasions
no charge against any citizen who stores afterinspection;
the charge is only against the original importer. The
954- -23---- B

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellant.

258 U. S.

case is indistinguishable from Standard Oil Co. v. Graves,
249 U. S. 389.
The right to sell is an integral part of interstate commerce. Gibbons .v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; Foote v. Maryland, 232 U. S. 494;
General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211; Red "C" Oil Co. v.
North Carolina,222 U. S. 380; Neilson v. Garza, 2 Woods,
287; Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S. 158; Standard
Oil Co. v. Graves, 249 U. S. 389; Schollenbergerv. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 22; Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235
U. S. 197; York Mfg. Co. v. Colley, 247 U. S. 21.
As a tax, the excessive inspection fees constitute an
arbitrary and discriminatory burden on interstate commerce. The tax is levied only on the first or original sale
of these products and it is admitted in the pleadings that
no oil is produced in Georgia..
The tax viewed as an excise or privilege tax is directed
against the products of other States because all of such
products must come from other States. American Fertilizer Co. v. Board of Agriculture, 43 Fed. 609. Neither is
the tax rendered valid by the fact that it applies to internal as well as external commerce. Discriminatory
taxes against articles from other States are void. Webber
v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100;
Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Welton v. Missouri, 91
U. S. 275. When consignment is made direct to the customer for his own use the oil can not be at any time in intrastate commerce. Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
The Texas Company is entitled to invoke the protection of the Constitution, whether the tax falls on sales
-made by it or by its customers importing such oils; the
burden on interstate commerce is the same. Savage v.
Jones, 225 U. S: 501; United States Glue Co. v. Oak
Creek, 247 U. S. 328; -Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,
245 U. S. 292.

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
466.

Argument for Appellant.

The difference between the. power of the State to tax
goods and an authority of the State to interfere with the
introduction and disposal of goods in interstate commerce
is clearly drawn in American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed,
192 U. S.522. The power to tax the sale of an article in
consummation of its interstate commerce shipment is very
different from the power to tax that article together with
all other property in the State upon which the burden of
a valid law might equally fall. York Mfg. Co. v. Colley,
247 U. S. 21; (Askren v. Continental Oil Co., 252 U. S.
444, distinguished); Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S.
158.
The tax is violative of the Fourteenth Amendment. On
its face the imposition of inspbct*ion fees amounting to
five times the cost of inspection is arbitrary and unfair.
It takes the same length of time to inspect 50 gallons as
8,000 gallons of oil, and yet the tax is in proportion to the
amount. It is a tax only upon the first sale. It is an
arbitrary assessment. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400. As only the first vendor is taxed, the law carefully excludes the citizens of Georgia from the payment
of these excessive fees, although engaged in the same
business.
Arbitrary selection cannot be justified by 'calling it a
basis of classification. Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia,
253 U. S.412; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis,
165 U. S.150; Cotting.v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co.,
183 U. S.79; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540.
The tax is violative of the-state constitution. Beckett
v. Savannah, 118 Ga. 58.
Mr. Mark Bolding, with whom Mr. Albert Howell, Jr.,
Mr. P: H. Brewster and Mr. Arthur Heyman were on the
brief, for appellees.

470

OCTOBER.TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE PITNEY

258 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity by appellant, a corporation and
citizen of Texas, against appellees, both individually and
as officers of Georgia, to restrain enforcement of laws
respecting fees for inspection of petroleum and petroleum
products, especially kerosene oil and gasoline, so far as
concerns products brought by plaintiff from other States
into Georgia and there disposed of.
The laws in question, as they stood when suit was commenced (March, 1920), comprise provisions found in
Georgia Civil Code, 1910, §§ .1800-1814, which originally
*referred only to illuminating oils; an amendatory Act of
August 19, 1912 (Laws 1912, No. 570, p. 149), which
extended the inspection system to gasoline; an amendatory Act of August 19, 1913 (Laws 1913, No. 258, p.
110); and certain sections of the Penal Code, 1910. They
provide for official state inspection of petroleum and
petroleum products; prescribe tests relating to their fitness for use-a flash test for illuminating oils, a specific
gravity test for gasoline-and establish inspection fees
dependent upon the quantity inspected but at a higher
rate per gallon in small quantities than in large, the fees
being fixed, however, upon a basis that has been found
in practice to yield revenues substantially in excess of the
cost of inspection. The officials in charge of enforcement
of the system, here made defendants, are the commissioner of agriculture, a general inspector of oils, and
,numerous local inspectors, whose duties are set forth in
the cited code sections and in the Act of 1912. Among
other provisions for rendering the acts effective, § 639 of
the Penal Code makes it a misdemeanor to sell or offer
for sale illuminating fluids in violation of the pertinent
provisions of the Civil Code, and § 642, to sell or keep for
sale, or in storage, crude or refi.ned petroleum, naphtha,
kerosene, etc., without having the same inspected and approved by an authorized inspectot.

TEXAS _0.v. BROWN.
466.

471

Opinion of the Court.

The federal jurisdiction was invoked both because of
diverse citizenship and because the suit arose under the
Constitution of the United States. Upon the merits,
questions of state law were and are raised, as they may
be (Greene v. Louisville & InterurbanR. R. Co., 244 U. S.
499, 508), in addition to federal questions.
Enforcement of the inspection fees was and is resisted
upon the ground that they constitute an arbitrary and
unreasonable exaction, not sustainable as a fair exercise
of the taxing power but invalid as violative of the guarantee of due process of law contained in the state constitution, as well as that in the Fourteenth Amendment.
A more specific objection is that the imposition of the
fees is in conflict with Art. 7, § 2, par. 1, of the state constitution, which provides: "All taxation shall be uniform
upon the same class of subjects, and ad valorem on all
property subject to be taxed within the territorial limits
of the authority levying the tax, and shall be levied and
collected under general laws."
But the contention most emphasized is rested upon the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
the insistence being that inspection fees exceeding the cost
of inspection, as imposed upon plaintiff's products, constitute a burden upon interstate commerce. As to this,
defendants denied that the laws in question by proper
construction applied, or as enforced by the state officers
were made to apply, to plaintiff's products while in interstate commerce; they averred that inspections were not
required to be made, nor fees to be paid, until after the
products had arrived at destination in the State and were
held in storage by the consignee for the purposes of sale
in the State.
Upon amended bill and answer, and affidavits pro and
con, an application for interlocutory injunction was heard
before three judges pursuant to § 266 Judicial Code as
amended March 4, 1913, c. 160, 37 Stat. 1013, and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

sulted in a decision June 28, 1920- (one judge dissenting),
pursuant to which an injunction pendente lite was granted
restraining the collection of inspection fees in respect to
kerosene oil, gasoline or other petroleum products of
plaintiff brought into the, State of Georgia from other
States and intended, to be sold in the original packages,
and so sold; but injunction was refused, and restraining
orders theretofore granted were dissolved, as to products
brought in for indefinite storage within the State, or for
sale after breaking the original package, after completion
of the interstate transportation. 266 Fed. 577. An appeal was taken by plaintiff direct to this court, as authorized by.§ 266 Judicial Code.
The controlling facts are not in dispute. Plaintiff carries on in Georgia an extensive business in the distribution
and sale of illurinating oil and gasoline. Neither commodity is produced in Georgia, and all plaintiff's supplies
for that State are brought from points in other States,
principally by rail in tank-cars owned by plaintiff, having
a capacity of approximately 8,000 gallons each. Plaintiff
has thirty-four local agencies or distributing stations at
different points in the State, at which are stAtionary
storage tanks for oil and gasoline respectively, pumps and
other apparatus for transfe. ring the products from tankcar to storage tank, and either a railroad siding, or (in a
few cases) a private track in proximity to the storage
tanks. Plaintiff also maintains wagons for the delivery
of oil and gasoline from the stationary tanks to its customers. The"principal part .of its products comes to the
distributing stations consigned to plaintiff or its manager
or agent. As a rule, and as a part of plaintiff's own sy-tem,
as soon as one of the tank-cars is started from the point
of origin outside the State. a request for inspection together with a check for, the inspection fees is forwarded by
plaintiff to the local inspector nearest the point of destination, notifying him that the shipment is en route and re-

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

questing him to give'it immediate attention upon arrival.
Upon its arrival the local agent notifies the inspector, who
thereupon, in compliance with the previous request, in-.
spects the oil or *gasoline by taking a sample from the
tank-car, after which its contents are conveyed to and
into the storage tank, and then distributed and sold to
patrons, either directly from the tank or by means of the
delivery wagons. In some instances, involving substantial
quantities but only a small proportion of the whole-less
than 5 per cent.-plaintiff sells tank-cars of gasoline and
kerosene direct to its customers in;Georgia, making interstate shipment direct to customer's address:
The majority of the judges held that the provisions for
inspection of petroleum products were a permissible exercise of the State's police power; that in so far as the fees
yielded revenue in excess of the cost of inspection they
were attributable to the taxing power of the State and not
objectionable except as applied to interstate commerce,
as to which they were invalid; that they were not in
conflict with the uniformity ctuse of the state constitution; that so far as plaintiff's products were indefinitely
stored within the State, or sold there after breaking bulk
or original packages, they were subject not only to inspection but to the tax imposed, as soon as the interstate
transportation was ended; and that the State should be
permitted to enforce the inspection fees so soon as the
products passed out of interstate commerce, although restrained with respect to products while in such commerce;
citing Ratterhan v. Western Union Telegraph Co:, 127
U. S. 411.
After the interlocutory decree and pending the appeal,
evidently in view of the controversy raised in this case, the
general assembly passed an Act; approved August 17, 1920
(Ga. Laws 1920, No. 800, p. 163), declaring that the laws
relating to inspection and tests, and prescribing the fees
therefor and the duties of the Commissioner of Agricultuxe

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

and general oil inspector and local inspectors, as set forth
in §§ 1800 to 1814, both inclusive, of the Civil Code, and
in Act of August 19, 1912, and the penalties provided in
§§ 639 and 642 of the Penal Code, " shall never be held or
construed to apply to oils and gasoline, benzine, or naphtha, or other articles mentioned in said laws, imported
into this State in interstate commerce and intended to be
sold in the original and unbroken tank cars or other
original receptacles. or packages, and so sold, while the
same are in interstate commerce."
In view of the provisions of this act we need spend no
time-in discussing whether the judges were right in following the rule of practical separability in administration,
applied by this court to a taxing law single on its face in
Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S.
411, a case followed, since the decision below- in Bowman
v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642. Any question
whether the same or a different rule ought to be applied
to an inspection law employed for the purpose of revenue
taxation, based upon doubt as to the intent of the state
legislature to permit the system to remain in force with
respect to products stored within the State or sold in domestic commerce, when determined to be unenforceable as
to the like goods while in interstate commerce, is set at rest
by the new act, which under the circumstances must be
-accepted as manifesting an intent that the system shall
remain in effect as to products that are subject to the
taxing power of -the State, as clearly as it declares a contrary purpose as to products still remaining in interstate
commerce. Although passed after the decree below, this
atct must be jiven effect in deciding the appeal, since the
qas6 myVolves .only relief by injunction, 'and this operates
wholly in futuro. Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering,

254 U. S.443, 4V4.

.

,That a State is within, its gove.rnmental powers in
eq .ing inspection, including tests as to quahty, as a

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
466.

475

Opinion of the Court.

safeguard with respect to inflammable substances such
as those here involved, when found within its borders, or
even when moving in commerce from State to State
(there being no legislation by Congress upon the subject),
is well settled. Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S. 158,
162. That with respect to such substances when they
have passed out of interstate commerce and have come
to rest within the State and become a part of the general
mass of property or have become the subject of domestic
commerce, the State may impose inspection fees* substantially in excess of the cost of inspection, and thus
make them a source of general revenue, is also free from
doubt, other than any which may arise from its own constitution. But a State may not, without consent of Congress, impose this or any other kind of taxation directly
upon interstate commerce; and inspecti6n fees made to
apply to such commerce, exceeding so clearly and obviously the cost of inspection as to amount in effect to a
revenue tariff, are to the extent of the excess a burden
upon the commerce amounting to a regulation of it, and
hence invalid because inconsistent with the exclusive
authority of Congress over that subject. Standard Oil
Co. v. Graves, 249 U. S. 389, 394-395.
Plaintiff makes the broad contention that inspection
charges amounting in effect to taxation cannot be imposed even upon that part of its product which has come
to rest within the State, or is disposed of in domestic
trade, in view of the fact that all of it has come from other
States. But American Steel- & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192
U. S. 500, 520, settles the principle that goods brought
into a State, not from a foreign country but from another
State, having reached their destination and being held
in storage awaiting sale and distribution, enjoying the
protection which the laws of the State afford, may without violation of the commerce lause be subjectea to nondiscriminatory state taxation, even though still contained

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U.S.

in original packages. This decision is in line with the
previous cases of Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 140,
and Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 632-634; and it
was pointed out that their authority was not overruled
by Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, or other cases of like
character.
Appellant insists that Standard Oil Co. v. Graves, 249
U. S. 389, is inconsistent with the imposition of inspection fees on a revenue basis upon goods brought from
another State, however, held or disposed of in Georgia.
That decision, however, extended the exemption from
such fees of goods brought from State to State, no further
than "while the same are in the originMl receptacles or
containers in which they are brought into the State" (pp.
394-395) ; and so it was interpreted in Askren v. Continental Oil Co. 252 U. S. 444-, 449.
Brown v. Houston, and American Steel & Wire Co. v.
Speed, supra, sustain the power of a State to impose property taxes upon goods brought from another State, after
they have come to rest in the taxing State. But this
carries equally the power to tax, without discrimination,
domestic sales made of personal property similarly freed
from interstate commerce, as is illustrated in Woodruff v.
Parham,8 Wall. 123, 140; Wagner v. City of Covington,
251 U. S.95, 102-103, and cases there cited. The fact that
no goods of the like kind are produced within the taxing
State, and that necessarily all have come from other
States, is not of itself sufficient to show a discrimination
against interstate commerce. The precise point was dealt
with in Askren v. Continental Oil Co., supra, in that part
of the opinion which treated of the excise tax imposed by
New Mexico upon retail sales of gasoline, respecting
which the court said (pp. 449-450): "A business of this
sort, although the gasoline was brought into the State in
interstate commerce, is properly taxable by the laws of
the State. Much is made of the fact that New Mexico

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

does not produce gasoline, and all .of it that is dealt in
within that State must be brought in from other States.
But, so long as there is no discrimination against the products of another State, and none is shown from the mere
fact that the gasoline is produced in another State, the
gasoline thus stored and dealt in, isnot beyond the taxing power of the State." The ruling was reiterated in
the same case at its final stage, Bowman v. Continental
Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642.
Something should be said as to the inspection of plaintiff's products, involving liability for fees, while the products yet remain in the tank-cars. A like question raised
in Pure Oil Co. v. Minnesota, 248 U. S. 158, concerning
the oil inspection law of that State, was unnecessary then
to be decided (p. 164); the court having found the inspection fees there imposed were not shown to be s6
largely in excess of the cost of inspection as to amount
to a tax inadmissible as applied to subjects still in interstate commerce, and hence that they might be imposed
while the products remained in such commerce. In this
case, the fees concededly being a source of revenue, the,
question of so adjusting their application as to avoid
taxing interstate commerce becomes important.
The practice, uniformly followed with plaintiff's consent, indeed at its request and for its convenience, has
been to inspect the oil and gasoline arriving at its distributing stations while remaining in the tank-cars, with
resulting immediate liability for the fees; otherwise as
to direct deliveries to its customers buying in tank-car
lots. In the normal course of the busness, as shown by
this record, the tank-cars are not only the vehicles but.
the original containers for interstate transportation, as
well with respect to products consigned to plaintiff's own
stations as to deliveries made direct to other interstate
consignees. Ordinarily, unless a loaded car be used foi
indefinite, storage, or as a distributing tank for local sales

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

(nothing of either kind appears in the case) it remains
in interstate commerce until unloaded, and the agents
of the State may not lawfully subject its contents to the
inspection charges until transft'rred to the storage tank,.
unless with plaintiff's consent. Neither under a fair construction of the Act of 1920, nor (if that permitted) under
the Constitution of the United States, may such inspection combined with taxation be imposed as a condition
of admitting into the domestic market goods arriving
at destination in interstate commerce. The mere fact
that a loaded tank-car has been halted upon a siding, or
even upon a private track, for the purpose of unloading,
at a station either of plaintiff or of any other interstate
consignee, does not,, under the course of business here
shown, amount to a "coming to rest within the State,"
authorizing state taxation. And although the State may
tax the first domestic sale of the products, or tax them
upon their storage in, stationary tank awaiting sale, it
may not,-without consent of the owner, impose its power
upon the products while yet in the tank-car, but must
resort to other means of collection, if need be.
The evidence strongly tends to show that it may be
more convenient to plaintiff that inspection before unloading of tank-cars, as heretofore practiced, be continued; and there is no legal objection to this, if done with
plaintiff's free consent. Aside from this, the authority
of defendants to tax the products or their storage or sale
commences when they have come to rest; ordinarily when
transferred from the tank-car to the storage tank and
added to plaintiff's stock-in-trade kept therein for local
distribution and sale.
We interpret the decree below as permitting no interference by defendants with the right of plaintiff freely
to carry on its interstate commerce under the Constitution of the United States, as that right is here stated.

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

That matter being out of the way, plaintiff's objections to the inspection and taxing system as arbitrary and
unreasonable, and not a fair exercise of the taxing power,
though magnified by confused manner of statement, are
easily disposed of. Considering not merely the terms but
the practical operation and effect of the statutory provisions, which is the proper method (St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 V. S. 350, 362), we have.
here a combined inspection and revenue law applicable to
petroleum products, not materially differing in main
features (aside from the revenue derived from the fees),
from those adopted by other States, and doubtless chosen
for facility and economy in operation and equitable apportionmen, of the burdens according to the benefits. It
has a two-fold object, first, that these inflammable substances be not stored or distributed among the people of'
Georgia without such assurance of quality and fitness as
the prescribed inspection and tests may afford, secondly,
that charges sufficient to defray the cost, with something
additional for the general treasury, be imposed in a way
to operate as an indirect tax upon the ultimate consumers
of the products, approximately in proportion to the
amounts consumed. That it combines regulation with
revenue-raising is not a valid objection from the standpoint of the Fourteenth Amendment. Gundling v.
Chicago, 177 U. S. 183, 189. The tax, to describe it according to its essential nature, is an excise upon domestic
sale or storage, designed to affect the use of the products,
a tax imposed at the time of inspection, the inspector
acting also as tax-gatherer; inspection and tax-payment
required but once, and that, ordinarily, from the dealer
at the time of the first domestic sale, or during storage
preliminary to such sale. The self-interest of the dealer
and the customs of trade are relied upon to add the tax
to the price of the product, and thus pass it on to the

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

ultimate consumer-a method appropriate in indirect
taxation, and certainly a not unreasonable mode of distributing the burden among those who share in the benefits.
That the legislature intended the effect of the tax to
fall upon the ultimate consumer is evident, not only from
the obviously inevitable result of requiring its payment,
ordinarily, by the first domestic seller, but from the specific'provisions of the amendatory Act of 1913, that the
191-2 Act "shall apply not only to gasolines, benzines and
naphthas sold or offered for sale in the State of Georgia,
' ewise to all such commodities that may be sold
but Il.
elsewhere and brought into the State of-Georgia, for consumption or use. Where such commodities or any of them
may be purchased within the State, or without the State
and brought into the State, by any person, firm or corporatkn, not for the purpose of selling or offering the
same for sale, but for the purpose of use or consumption
by .the purchaser in manufacturing or other lawful uses,
either as fuel or otherwise, the inspections herein prescribed shall be made, and the fees above fixed shall be
paid therefor, except that no such purchaser shall be re-quired to pay more than twelve hundred dollars per year
for. the inspection of all such commodities used or consumed by him as aforesaid, and such payments may, in the
discretion of the Commissioner of Agriculture, be divided
into equal monthly payments of one hundred dollars
each."
No case is shown for the application of this act; the
judges below found no occasion to pass upon it, plaintiff's
products not being brought in for its own consumption.
In this court there has been no discussion as to its proper
.construction, plaintiff's counsel insisting merely. that it
shows the inspection fees'are not imposed as a privilege
tax for the conduct of any particular kind of business.

TEXAS CO. v. BROWN.
466.

Opinion of the Court.

Apparently, it was intended to cover the case of large consumers who otherwise might find it advantageous to bring
in, and store until needed, quantities of oil or gasoline
sufficient for their own consumption, thus escaping
dealer's profit and inspection tax as well. We find in its
provisions iothing to raise a, question about the validity
of the system.
We are unable to see in Article 7, § 2, paragraph 1, of
the state constitution anything to prevent the application
of these statutes to plaintiff's business. The requirement
of uniform valuation upon all property subject to be
taxed, manifestly refers to property taxes imposed by
reason of ownership, which this is not. The clauses requiring that all taxation shall be uniform up6n the same
class of subjects, and levied and collected under general
laws, are not violated by the tax in question. Classification is in terms permitted, and a law based on reasonable classification must be deemed a general law, in the
sense of the constitution.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Georgia hold
that, while property taxes must be strictly on an ad
valorem basis-without variance even as between real
and personal property (Verdery v. Village of Summerville,
82 Ga. 138; Mayor v. Weed, 84 Ga. 683, 687;)--other
subjects of taxation may be resorted to, and the taxes
adjusted according to reasonable methods of classification.
Atlanta National Association v. Stewart, 109 Ga. 80, 87.
Thus, inheritance taxes, being not a tax upon property
but an excise upon the privilege of transfer upon death of
an owner, were held valid although not ad valoren, in
Farkas v. Smith, 147 Ga. 503, 512.
The peculiar qualities of illuminating oils and gasoline
seem to us a sufficient warrant for putting them in a class
by themselves for excise taxation upon their sale or use.
So we held, in Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., supra,with
respect to an excise upon the sale or use of gasoline, under

482

OCTOBER TERM) 1921.
Opinion ot the Court.

258 U. S.

a provision of the constitution of New Mexico not differing materially.
While some of the Georgia decisions indicate a rather
strict view of the uniformity required (Johnston v. Mayor,
etc., of Macon, 62 Ga. 645; Beckett v. Mayor, etc., of
Savannah, 118 Ga. 58;) we have found none going so far
as it would be necessary to go in order to overthrow the
inspection tax now in question. That it is imposed, as a
rule, only upon the dealer who makes the first domestic
sale, not upon those who may make subsequent sales, is
consistent with the nature of the tax and the purpose to
distribute its burden among those who-ultimately consume the product. To impose a like tax each time the
commodity changed hands in retail trade might place so
heavy, a burden upon those purchasing other than at first
hand as to render it impossible for the retailer to compete
and thus seriously obstruct general distribution. The
graduation of the inspection charges according to the
quantity that may be inspected at one time-/2 cent per
gallon in lots of 400 gallons and upwards, 1 cent in quantities between 200 and 400 gallons, 11/2 cents in quantities
less than 200 gallons-speaks for itself, and plainly is sustainable on the'ground that the travel, care, and responsibility of the inspector may be greater than uniform fees
per gallon .would compensate in the case of the smaller
lots. The only other diversity we have noticed in the
operation' of the tax is that which may arise out of the
Act of 1913 entitling a purchaser who buys not for resale
but for his own use or -consumption, to a limitation of inspection fees to $1,200 per annum. No point is made of
this, but a rather obvious ground of classification suggests
itself, in that the purchaser for his' own use or consumptian has no opportunity to make a profit out of resale, as
plaintiff and other de9 lerswho pay the full inspection fees
,may do.'

FEDERAL TRADE COMM. v. WINSTED CO.
466.

483

Syllabus.

Finally, our attention is called to an Act approved
August 10, 1921 (Laws 1921, No. 173, p. 83), providing for
an occupation tax upon all distributors selling gasoline
and other motor fuels in the State, requiring them to register and make.returns, and "(except those importing and
selling it in the original packages in which it is brought
into the State)" to pay an occupation tax based upon the
quantities sold. It is conceded that this does not repeal or
affect the inspection laws, and no argument is rested upon
it except in support of contentions already disposed of.
The decree of the District Court must be, and it is
Affirmed.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. WINSTED"
HOSIERY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 333.

Argued March 13, 14, 1922..-Decided April 24, 1922.

1. Findings of fact made by the Federal Trade Commission are
conclusive when supported by evidence. P. 491.
2. A manufacturer's practice of selling underwear and other knit
goods made partly of wool but labeled as "natural merino,"
"natural worsted ", "natural wool-" and with other like terms
taken by a substantial part of the consuming public and sometimes in the retail tradd a indicating pure wool fabrics, with the
result of misleading part of the public into buying, as all-wool,
garments made largely of cotton and of aiding and encouraging
misrepresentations by unscrupulous retailers and their salesmen,
is an unfair method of competition as against manufacturers of
like garments made of wool or wool and cotton, who brand their
products truthfully, and is subject to be suppressed under § 5 of
the Federal Trade Commission Act. P. 491.
3. Such a method of competition, inherently unfair, does not cease
to be. so because competitors become aware. of it or because it
"9544°-23-----34

