OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

was done, .by the county assessor and not by the State
Board of Equalization. The amount of the tax payable
was, therefore, the only matter in controversy. Under
such circumstances a plaintiff seeking an injunction must
aver payment or tender of the amount of taxes confessedly due, or at least offer to pay such amount as the
court may find to be justly and equitably due. People's
National Bank v. M1'arye, 191 U. S. 272; Raymond v. Chicago Union Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20, 38. The bill contains no such allegation.
Decree affirmed.
FAIRCHILD v. HUGHES, AS SECRETARY OF
STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 148.

Argued January 23, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.

1. The general right of a citizen to have the government administered
according to law and the public moneys not wasted does not en-

title him to institute in the federal courts a suit to secure by indirection a determination whether a statute, if passed, or a constitutional amendment about to be adopted, will be valid. P. 129.
2. Though in form a suit in equity, this is not a case within Art. III,
ยง 2, of the Constitution. P. 129.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the court below affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which dismissed a bill by which the appellant sought to
have the Nineteenth Amendment declared unconstitutional and to enjoin the Secretary of State from proclaiming its ratification and the Attorney General from taking
steps to enforce it.
APPEAL

Mr. William L. Marbury and Mr. Thomas F. Cadwalader, with whom. Mr. Everett P. Wheeler and Mr.
Waldo G. Morse were on the briefs, for appellant.

FAIRCHILD v. HUGHES.
126.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr..Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr.Robert P.
Reeder and Mr. W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTCE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
On July 7, 1920, Charles S. Fairchild of NeWv York
brought this suit in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia against the Secretary of State and the Attorney General. The prayers of the bill are that "the
so-called Suffrage Amendment [the Nineteenth to the
Federal Constitution] be declared unconstitutional and
void "; that the Secretary of State be restrained from
issuing any proclamation declaring that it has been ratified; and that the Attorney General be restrained from
enforcing it. There is also a prayer for general relief and
for an interlocutory injunction. The plaintiff, and others
on whose behalf he sues, are citizens of the United States,
taxpayers and members of the American Constitutional
League, a voluntary a.ssociation which describes itself
as engaged in diffusing " knowledge as to the fundamental
principles of the American Constitution, and especially
that which gives to each State the right to determine for
itself the question as to who should exercise the elective
franchise therein."
The claim to relief was rested upon the following allegations- The legislatures of thirty-four of the States have
passed resolutions purporting to ratify the Suffrage
Amendment; and from one other State the Secretary of
State of the United States has received a certificate to that
effect purporting to come from the proper officer. The
proposed Amendment cannot, for reasons slated, be made
a part of the Constitution through ratification by the legislatures; and there are also specific reasons why the resolutions already adopted in several of the States are inoperative. But the Secretary has declared that he i

OCTOBER TERMI, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

258 U. S.

without power to examine into the validity of alleged
acts of ratification, and that, upon receiving from one
additional State the customary certificate, he will issue
a proclamation declaring that the Suffrage Amendment
has been adopted. Furthermore, "a force bill" has been
introduced in- the Senate which provides fine and imprisonment for any person who refuses to allow women
to vote; and if the bill is enacted, the Attorney General
will be required to enforce its provisions. The threatened
proclamation of the adoption of the Amendment would
not be conclusive of its validity, but it would lead election
officers to permit women to vote in States whose constitutions limit suffrage to men. This would prevent ascertainment of the wishes of the legally qualified voters, and
elections, state and federal, would be void. Free citizens
would be deprived of their right to have such elections
duly held; the effectiveness of their votes would be diminished; and election expenses would be nearly doubled.
Thus irremediable mischief would result.
The Supreme Court of the District granted a rule to
show cause why an interlocutory injunction should not
issue. The return was promptly made; and the defendants also moved to dismiss the bill. On July 14, 1920,
the rule was discharged; a decree was entered dismissing
the bill; and an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals
of the District. The Secretary, having soon thereafter
received a certificate of ratification from the thirty-sixth
State, proclaimed, on August 26, 1920, the adoption of
the Nineteenth Amendment. The defendants then moved
to dismiss or affirm. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the decree on the authority of United States v. Colby,
49 App. D. C. 358; 265 Fed. 998, where it had refused to
compel the Secretary to cancel the proclamation declaring that the Eighteenth Amendment had been adopted.
The grounds of that decision were that the validity of
the Amendment could be in no way affected by an order

FAIRCHILD v. HUGHES.
126.

129

Opinion of the Court.

of cancellation; that it depended on the ratifications
by the States and not on the proclamation; and that the
proclamation was unimpeachable, since the Secretary was
required, under Rev. Stats., ยง 205, to issue the proclamation upon receiving from three-fourths of the States official notice of ratification and had no power to determine
whether or not the notices received stated the truth. But
we have no occasion to consider these grounds of decision.
Plaintiff's alleged interest in the question submitted is
not such as to afford a basis for this proceeding. It is
frankly a proceeding to have the Nineteenth Amendment
declared void. In form it is a bill in equity; but it is not
a case within the meaning of ยง 2 of Article III of the Constitution, which confers judicial power on the federal
courts, for no claim of plaintiff is "brought before the
court[s] for determination by such regular proceedings
as are established by law or custom for the protection
or enforcement of rights, or the prevention, redress, or
punishment of wrongs." See In re Pacific Railway Commission, 32 Fed. 241, 255, quoted in Muskrat v. United
States, 219 U. S. 346, 356. The alleged wrongful act of
the Secretary of State, said to be threatening, is the
issuing of a proclamation which plaintiff asserts will-be
vain but will mislead election officers. The alleged wrongful act of the Attorney General, said to b9 . threatening,
is the enforcement, as against election officers, of the
penalties to be imposed by a contemplated act of Congress
which plaintiff asserts would be unconstitutional. But
plaintiff is not an election officer.; and the State of New
York, of which he is a citizen, had previously amended its
own constitution so as to grant the suffrage to women
and had ratified this Amendment. Plaintiff has only the
right, possessed by every citizen, to require that the Government be administered according to law and that the
public moneys be not wasted. Obviously this general
right does not entitle a private citizen to institute in the

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

258 U. S.

federal courts a suit to secure by indirection a determination whether a statute if passed, or a constitutional
amendment about to be adopted, will be valid. Compare
Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475; Tyler v. Judges of Court of
Rigistrationy 179 U. S. 405.
Decree affirmed.
LESER ET AL. v. GARNETT ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MWARYLAND.

No. 553. Argued January 23, 24, 1922.-Decided February 27, 1922.
1. A suit by qualified voters of Maryland to require the Maryland
Board of Registry to strike the names of women from the register
of voters upon the grounds that the state constitution limits the
suffrage to men and that the Nineteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution was not validly adopted, is maintainable under the
Maryland law and raises the question whether the Nineteenth
Amendment has become part of the Constitution. P. 136.
2. The objection that a great addition to the electorate, made without
a State's consent, destroys its political autonomy and therefore
exceeds the amending power, applies no more to the Nineteenth
Amendment than to the Fifteenth Amendment, which is valid beyond question. P. 136.
3. The Fifteenth Amendment does not owe its validity to adoption
as a war measure and acquiescence. P. 136.
4. The function of a state legislature in passing on a proposed
amendment to the Federal Constitution, is federal, and not subject to limitation by the people of the State. P. 137. Hawke v.
Smith, 253 U. S.221, 231.
5. Official notice from a state legislature to the Secretary of State,
duly authenticated, of its adoption of a proposed amendment to
the Federal Constitution, is conclusive upon him, and, when
certified to by his proclamation, is conclusive upon the courts. P.
137. Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 672, 673.
139 Md. 46, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the court below affirming a

decision of the state trial court dismissing a petition by

