OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

question that is presented when state and Federal views
conflict. But it was recognized at the beginning that the
Nation could not prosper if interstate and foreign trade
were governed by many masters, and, where the interests
of the freedom of interstate commerce are involved, the
judgment of Congress and of the agencies it lawfully
establishes must control.
In conclusion: Reading the order in the light of the report of the Commission, it does not appear that the Commission attempted to require the carriers to reduce their
interstate rates out of Shreveport below what was found
to be a reasonable charge for that service. So 'far as these
interstate rates conformed to what was found to be reasonable by the Commission, the carriers are entitled to maintain them, and they are free to comply with the order by
so adjusting the other rates, to which the order relates, as
to remove the forbidden discrimination. But this result
they are required to accomplish.
The decree of the Commerce Court is affirmed in each
case..
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissent.

CITIZENS BANKING COMPANY v. RAVENNA
NATIONAL BANK.
CERTIFICATE FFIOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 288.

Argued March 16, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The failure by an insolvent judgment debtor and for a period of one
day less than four months after the levy of an execution upon his
real estate, to vacate or discharge such a levy, is not a final disposition of the property affected by the levy under the provisions of
§ 3a (3) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898.

CITIZENS BANK v. RAVENNA BANK.
234 U. S.

Argument for Citizens Banking Co.

An insolvent debtor does not comimit an act of bankruptcy rendering
him subject to involuntary adi[udication as a bankrupt under the
Bankruptcy Act of 1898 merely by inaction for the period of four
months after levy of an execution upon his real estate.
All of the threeelements specified in § 3a (3) of the Bankruptcy Act of
1898 must be present in order to constitute an act of bankruptcy
within the meaning of that provision.
Questions certified, 202 Fed. Rep. 892, answered in the negative.

THE

facts, which involve the construction of §3a of the

Bankruptcy Act of 1898, are stated in the optnion.
Mr. G. Ray Craig, with 'Whom Mr. Edward H. Rhoades,
Jr., and Mr. John D. Rhoades were on the brief, for Citizens Banking Company:
The failure by an insolvent judgment debtor for a period
of one day less than four months after the levy of an execution upon his real estate to vacate or discharge such
levy is not a "final disposition of the property" affected
by such levy, within the provisions of § 3a (3) of the
Bankruptcy Act.
An insolvent debtor does not commit an act of bankruptcy merely by inaction for a period of four months
after the levy of an execution upon his real estate.
In support of thes6 conteiations, see Re Baker-Ricketson
Co., 97 Fed. Rep. 489; Bogen v. Protter, 129 Fed. Rep.
533; Re Brightman,4 Fed. Cas. 136; Colcord v. Fletcher, 50
Maine, 398; Re Empire Bedstead Co., 98 Fed. Rep. 981;
French v. Spencer, 21 How. 228; Re TIeller, 9 Fed. Rep.
373; Jenney v. Walker, 80 Oh. St. 100; Metcalf v. Barker,
187 U. S. 165; Re National Hotel Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 947;
Poor-v. Considine, 6 Wall. 458; Re Rome PlaningMill, 96
Fed. Rep. 813; Ex parte Russell, 13 Wall. 664; Re Seaboard
Casting Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 75; Thornley v. United States,
113 U. S. 310; Re Truitt, 203 Fed. Rep. 550; Re Vastebinder, 126 Fed. Rep. 417; Re Vetterman, 135 Fed. Rep.
443; Wilson v. City Bank, 17 Wall. 473; Wilson v. Nelson,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Ravenna National Bank.

234 U. S.

183 U. S. 191; Re Windt, 177 Fed. Rep. 584; Yturbide v.
United States, 22 How. 290.
Mr. A. T. Brewer for Ravenna National Bank:
The failure by an insolvent judgment debtor for a period of one day less than four months after the levy of an
execution upon his real estate, to vacate or discharge such
levy, is a "final disposition of the property," affected by
the levy, under the provisions of § 3a (3). of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898, making the debtor subject to involuntary
adjudication as a bankrupt under said § 3a (3), and it is
not essential that the debtor shall do anything at all.
It is assumed that the judgment debtor, being insolvent,
the levy constitutes a lien and works a preference. Wilson
v. Nelson, 183 U. S. 191; Bogen v. Protter, 129 Fed. Rep.
533; Folger v. Putnam, 194 Fed. Rep. 793; In re Tupper,
163 Fed. Rep. 766..
The judgment levied on the property of Curtis on
April 9, 1908, created a lien thereon in favor of the Citizens Bank of Norwalk, the judgment creditor, the judgment debtor being then insolvent.
This lien existed for a period one day less than four
months, to-wit, until August 10, 1908, when the petition
in involuntary bankruptcy was filed by the Ravenna
National Bank, being so filed within four months, as August 9th was Sunday, these facts constituting a "final disposition" of said property by the bankrupt to the extent
of the judgment.
To establish the bankruptcy through the foregoing facts
it was not necessary for Cora M. Curtis to do anything.
Her act of bankruptcy was therefore complete in all respects when the involuntary petition was filed and the
adjudication by the district judge was fully authorized.
She permitted the judgment.
She was then insolvent.
The judgment worked a preference.

CITIZENS BANK v. RAVENNA BANK.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

She did nothing to vacate it.
Except in bankruptcy the judgment was unassailable.
The involuntary petition alone prevented the consummation of the preference and the defeat of the main purpose
of the Bankruptcy Law in securing an equal distribution
among all creditors of the property of insolvent persons.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
Upon a petition filed in the District Court for the
Northern District of Ohio by one of her creditors, Cora
M. Curtis was adjudged a bankrupt. In addition to matters not requiring notice, the petition charged that within
four months next preceding its filing the respondent committed an act of bankruptcy, in that (a), while insolvent,
she suffered and permitted the Citizens Banking Company
to recover a judgment against her for $1,598.78 and costs,
in the Common Pleas Court of Erie County, Ohio, and to
have an execution issued under the judgment and levied
on real estate belonging to her, whereby the company obtained a preference over her other creditors, and (b) at the
time of the filing of the petition, which was one day less
than four months after the levy of the execution, she had
not vacated or discharged the levy and resulting preference.
The company appeared in the bankruptcy proceeding
and challenged the petition on the ground that it disclosed
no act of bankruptcy, but the court, deeming that such
an act was charged, overruled the objection, and, there
being no denial of the facts stated in the petition, adjudged
the respondent a bankrupt. The company appealed to
the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court, having
briefly reviewed the opposing views touching the point in
controversy (202 Fed. Rep. 892), certified the case here,
with a request that instruction be given on the following
questions:

"(1)

Whether the failure by an insolvent judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

debtor, and for. a period of one day less than four months
after the levy of an execution upon his real estate, to vacate or discharge such levy, is a 'final disposition of the
property' affected by such levy, under the provisions of
section 3a (3) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898.
"(2) Whether an insolvent debtor commits an act of
bankruptcy rendering him subject to involuntary adjudication as a bankrupt, under the Bankruptcy Act of
1898, merely by inaction for the period of four months
after the levy of an execution upon his real estate."
It will be observed that no reference is made to an accomplished or impending disposal of the property in virtue
of the levy, although the mode of disposal prescribed by
the local law is by advertisement and sale. 2 Bates' Ann.
Ohio Statutes, §§ 5381, 5393.
The answers 'to the questions propounded turn upon the
true construction of § 3a (3) of the Bankruptcy Act, which
declares:

"Acts of bankruptcy by a person shall consist of his
having

.

.

.

(3) suffered or permitted, while insolv-

ent, any creditor to obtain a preference through legal proceedings, and not having at least five days before a sale or
final disposition of any property affected by such preference vacated or discharged such preference." Chapter
541, 30 Stat. 544, 546.
Looking at the terms of this provision, it is manifest
that the act of bankruptcy which it defines consists of
three elements. The first is the insolvency of the debtor,
the second is suffering or permitting a creditor to obtain a
preference through legal proceedings, that is, to acquire a
lien upon property of the debtor by means of a judgment,
attachment, execution or kindred proceeding, the enforcement of which will enable the creditor to collect a greater
percentage of, his claim than other creditors of the same
class, and the third is the failure of the debtor to vacate
or discharge the lien and resulting preference five days

CITIZENS BANK v. RAVENNA BANK.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

before a sale or final disposition of any property affected.
Only through the combination of the three elements is the
act of bankruptcy committed. Insolvency alone does not
suffice, nor is it enough that it be coupled with suffering or
permitting a creditor to obtain a preference by legal proceedings. The third element must also be present, else
there is no act of bankruptcy within the meaning of this
provision. All this is freely conceded by counsel for the
petitioning creditor.
The questions propounded assume the existence of the
first two elements and are intended to elicit instruction
respecting the proper interpretation of the clause describing the third, namely, "and not having at least five days
before a sale or final disposition of any property affected
by such preference vacated or discharged such preference."
It is to this point that counsel have addressed their arguments.
Without any doubt this clause shows that the debtor is
to have until five days before! an approaching or impending
event within which to vacate or discharge the lien out of
which the preference arises. What, then, is the event
which he is required to anticipate? The statute answers,
"a sale or final disposition of any property affected by
such preference." As these words are part of a provision
dealing with liens obtained, through legal proceedings, and
as the enforcement of such a lien usually consists in selling
some or all of the property affected and applying the proceeds to the creditor's demand, it seems quite plain that
it is to such a sale that the clause refers. And as there are
instances in which the property affected does not require
to be sold, as when it is money seized upon execution or
attachment or reached by garnishment,1 it seems equally
' See Turner v. Fendall, 1 Craneh, 117, 133; Sheldon v. Root, 16 Pick.
567; Crane v. Freese, 16 N. J. L. 3205; Green v. Palmer, 15 California,
411, 418; 2 Bates' Ann. Ohio Statutes, §§ 5374, 5383, 5469, 5470, 5483,
5531, 5548, 5555.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

plain that the words "or final disposition" are intended
to include the act whereby the debtor's title is passed to
another when a sale is not required. No doubt, the terms
"sale or final disposition," explained as they are by the
context, are comprehensive of every act of disposal;
whether by sale or otherwise, which operates as an enforcement of the lien or preference.
But we do not perceive anything in the clause which
suggests that .the time when the lien is obtained has any
bearing upon when the property must be freed from it
to avoid an act of bankruptcy. On the contrary, the
natural and plain import of the language employed is that
it will suffice if the lien is lifted five days before a sale or
final disposition of any of the property affected. This is
the only point of time that is mentioned, and the implication is that it is intended to be controlling.
To enforce a different conclusion counsel for the petitioning creditor virtually contends that the clause has
the same meaning as if it read "and having failed to vacate
or discharge the preference at least five days before a sale
or final disposition of any of the property affected, or at
most not later than five days before the expiration of four
months after the lien was obtained." But we think such
a meaning cannot be ascribed to it without rewriting it,
and that we cannot do. The contention puts into it an
alternative which is not there, either in terms or by fair
implication, and to which Congress has not given assent.
Indeed, it appears that in the early stages of its enactment
the bankruptcy bill contained a provision giving the same
effect to a failure to discharge the lien within a prescribed
period after it attached as to a failure to discharge it within
a designated number of days before an intended sale, and
that during the final consideration of the bill that provision was eliminated and the one now before us was
adopted. This, of course, lends strength to the implication
otherwise arising that the clause names the sole test of

CITIZENS BANK v. RAVENNA BANK.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

when the lien must be vacated or discharged to avoid an
act of bankruptcy.
The contention to the contrary is sought to be sustained
by a reference to §§ 3b, 67c and 67f. But we perceive
nothing in those sections to disturb the plain meaning of
§ 3a (3). It defines a particular act of bankruptcy and
purports to be complete in itself, as do other subsections
defining other acts of bankruptcy. Section 3b deals with
the time for filing petitions in bankruptcy and limits it to
four months after the act of bankruptcy is committed. 'It
says nothing about what constitutes an act of bankruptcy,
but treats that as elsewhere adequately defined. Sections
67c and 67f deal with the retrospective effect of adjudications in bankruptcy, the former declaring that certain liens
obtained in suits begun within four months before the filing
of the petition shall be dissolved by the adjudication, and
the latter that certain levies, judgments, attachments and
other liens obtained through legal proceedings within the
same period shall become null and void upon the adjudication. Both assume that the adjudication will be
grounded upon a sufficient act of bankruptcy as elsewhere
defined, and give to every adjudication the same effect
upon the liens described whether it be grounded upon one
act of bankruptcy or another. And what is more in point,
there is no conflict between § 3a (3) and the sections indicated. All can be given full effect according to their
natural import without any semblance of interference
between § 3a (3) and the others.
But it is said that unless § 3a (3) be held to require the
extinguishment of the lien before the expiration of four
months from the time it was obtained the result will be
that in some instances the lien will not be dissolved or
rendered null through the operation of §§ 67c and 67f, because occasionally the full four months will intervene
before an act of bankruptcy is committed and therefore
before a petition can be filed. Conceding that this is so,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

it proves nothing more than what is true of all liens obtained through legal proceedings more than four months
prior to the filing of the petition. And while it may be
true, as is suggested, that if the debtor is not restricted
to less than four months within which to extinguish the
lien there will be instances in which general creditors will
be affected disadvantageously, it must be reflected that
there also will be instances in which an honest and struggling debtor will be able to extinguish the lien the requisite
number of days before a sale or final disposition of any of
the property affected and thereby to avoid bankruptcy,
without injury to any of his creditors. But with this we
are not concerned. The advantages and disadvantages
have been balanced by Congress, and its will has been expressed in terms which are plain and therefore controlling.
.Lastly it is said that the term "final disposition" is not
used in the sense hereinbefore indicated, but as denoting
the status which a lien acquires through the lapse of four
months before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy. This
is practically a reiteration of the contention already noticed, but probably is intended to present it from a different angle. It overlooks, as we think, the influence
which rightly must be given to the context, and also the
manifest inaptness of the term to express the thought suggested. When one speaks of a sale or final disposition of
property he means by final disposition an act having substantially the effect of a sale-a transfer of ownership
and control from one to another--and especially is this
true when he is referring to a sale or final disposition in the
enforcement of a lien. We regard it as, entirely clear that
the term is so used in this instance, and that it signifies an
affirmative act of disposal, not a mere lapse of time which
leaves the lien intact and still requiring enforcement. To
illustrate, let us take the instance of a provisional attachment of real property, which the creditor is not entitled
to enforce unless he sustains the demand which is the sub-

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
234 U. S.

369

Syllabus.

ject of the principal suit; and let us suppose that the
debtor defends against the, demand, and that the suit is
pending and undetermined four months after the levy. Of
course, an adjudication in bankruptcy upon a petition
filed thereafter would not disturb the attachment. But
could it be said that the property attached was finally
disposed of at the end of the four months? An affirmative
answer seems quite inadmissible.
W conclude that both of the questions propounded by
the Circuit Court of Appeals should be resolved in the
negative.
As shown by the reported cases, some diversity of opinion has arisen in other Federal courts in disposing of similar questions (In re Rome Planing Mill, 96 Fed. Rep. 812,
815; In re Vastbinder, 126 Fed. Rep. 417, 420; In re Tupper, 163 Fed. Rep. 766, 770; In re Windt, 177 Fed. Rep.
584, 586i In re Crafts-RiordonShoe Co., 185 Fed. Rep. 931,
934; Folger v. Putnam, 1194 Fed. Rep. 793, 797; In re
Truitt, 203 Fed. Rep. 550, 554), and so we deem it well to
observe that the conclusion here s'ted has been reached
only after full consideration of those cases.
Questions answered "No."

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD CO. v.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 337.

Argued March 20, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

On a direct appeal under § 238, Judicial Code, from a judgment of the
District Court dismissing thE, bill for want of jurisdiction on the
ground that neither of the parties was a resident of that district and
that the suit was one that could only be brought in a district in which

VOL. CCXxxIv-24

