OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

case stands as it has always stood without regulation unless it be supplied by local authority. The most that can
be said is that inquiries have been made, but that Congress
has not yet decided to establish regulations, either directly
or through its subordinate body, as to the appliance in
question. The intent to supersede the exercise of the
State's police power with respect to this subject cannot
be inferred from the restricted action which thus far has
been taken. Missouri Pacific v. Larabee Mills, supra;
Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533.
The judgment is affirmed.
Affirmed.

THE LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE. 1
APPEAL FROM THE COMMERCE COURT.

No. 98. Argued January 14, 15, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission requiring railway
companies to desist from exacting charges for delivering and receiving
carload freight to and from industries located upon spurs and sidetracks within the switching limits of a terminal city when such carload freight is moving in interstate commerce incidentally to a
system line haul is not open to the objection that it rests upon a
construction of the Act to Regulate Commerce which would forbid
a carrier from separating its terminal and haulage charges on the
same shipment.
Quwre, and not involved in this decision, whether the rate which the
Act to Regulate Commerce requires to be published is a complete
rate including not only the charge for hauling but also the charge
for the use of terminals at both ends of the line.
I Docket title of this case is Interstate Commerce Commission, The
United States of America, Associated Jobbers of Los Angeles, and
Pacific Coast Jobbers and Manufacturers Association, appellants, v.
Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company, Southern Pacific
Company, and San Pedro, Los Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad
Company.

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

StatemE nt of the Case.

The delivery and receipt of goods on an industrial spur-track within
the switching limits in a city is not necessarily an added service for
which the carrier is entitled to make, or should make, a charge additional to the line-haul rate to and from that city when that rate embraces a receiving and delivery service for which the spur-track
service is a substitute.
Industrial spur-tracks established within the carrier's switching limits,
within which the team tracks are also located, may constitute an
essential part of the carrier's terminal system; and whether or not
delivery on the spur-track is an additional service on which to base
a charge or merely a substituted service, which is substantially a like
service to that included in the line-haul rate and not received, is a
question of fact for the Interstate CommerceConmnission to determine.
Findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission as to the character
and use of industrial spur-tracks within the switching limits of a
city are conclusions of fact and not subject to review.
Although the Interstate Commerce Commission may not have found
that a switching charge if legal was unreasonable in amount or that
the shippers had objected thereto, as the service must be performed
according to the law of the land, the shippers are not estopped from
bringing the matter before the Commission to the end that the carrier's charges should not be unjustly discriminatory.
It is permissible for a'railway company to establish a terminal district;
and it is for the Commission to determine according to the actual
conditions of operation, whether an extra charge for spur-track delivery within that district, regardless of the variations in distance,
is either unreasonable or discriminatory.
This court cannot substitute its judgment for that of the Interstate
Commerce Commission upon matters of fact within the province of
the Commission.
The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission that the carriers
desist from making a switching charge for carload freight moving in
interstate commerce to industrial spur-tracks within the switching
limits of Los Angeles, California, sustained.
Pursuant to the act of October 22, 1913, c. 82, judgments of the Commerce Court reversed by this court are remanded to the District
Court of the United States for the district where the case would have
been brought had the Commerce Court not been established.
188 Fed. Rep. 229, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in regard to switching

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

charges within the yard limits of Los Angeles, California;
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on the
brief, for the United States, Intervenor:
The action of the Commerce Court in refusing to sustain the motions of the United States to dismiss the bills,
and in holding, on the face of the bills alone, that the court
had the power to decide, notwithstanding the findings of
the Commission based on the evidence, that the service of
making deliveries on the spur tracks was different from
the service of making deliveries on the team tracks, with
a consequent difference in the cost, was so flagrantly erroneous as to require a reversal of the judgments and the
dismissal of the bills.
The question as to what are and what are not terminal
facilities is manifestly a question of fact to be determined
according to the circumstances of each particular case.
The findings made by the Commission, after a careful review of all of the attending facts and circumstances, that
the spur tracks in question are a part of the carriers terminal facilities, to the same extent as the stations, team
tracks, and freight sheds, are conclusive upon the courts.
The findings of the Commission are not only in accord
with the facts before it, but they are also in accord with
the express provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce,
as well as with certain well considered judicial decisions,all of which the Commerce Court ignored. See § I of the
act approved June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539, 544, 545, which
reenacted, in its original form, § 1 of the act of June 29,
1906, 34 Stat. 584; Vincent v. Chicago & Alton R. R. Co.,
49 Illinois, 33, 41; Chicago & North West. Ry. Co. v. The
People, 56 Illinois, 365, 382; Coe & Milsom v. Louis. &
Nash. R; R. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 775, 778; Covington StockYards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, 135.

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

.Argument for the United States.

The case at bar is not that of a carrier making delivery
"to a point off its line" by 'means of a terminal company,
for which it is entitled to make an extra charge, as in Int.
Com. Comm. v. Stickney, 215 U. S. 98.
The present controversy is limited to the single question of the right of tbe appellees to make an extra charge
for deliveries made on spurs which constitute a part of their
terminals, tracks, facilities, and equipment. The carriers
established, and for many years maintained, the practice
of making deliveries on the spurs as a part of their terminals and facilities. The shippers have, at all times, acquiesced in that practice. On complaint duly filed, and
after a full hearing, the Commission dealt with the practice in all of its aspects. Its order, in pursuance of its
investigation, is a mere regulation. The terminal facilities
of carriers, with these spurs as a part, have time and again
been the subject of consideration by Congress. Against
the judgment of the carriers, the shippers, the Commission,
the Congress, and the courts, the Commerce Court, with
its holding, stands alone.
It is manifest, from its report, that the Commission
considered all of the facts and circumstances. No claim
to the contrary ix made. The Commission also considered
the difference between the American and English systems
of dealing with terminal services and charges. The findings of the Commission are also supported by facts of such
common observation as to be within the scope of judicial
knowledge. Without the use of the spurs as terminal
facilities, all of the enormous carload tonnage into or out
of Greater-New York must be handled on a common team
track, or in a common depot. The same situation would
obtain at Chicago, Pittsburgh, and all other large terminals. The livestock, ore, coal, oil, lumber, grain, and
all other carload freight, would be unloaded on a common
team track, or in a common depot, and crudely handled
by the consignees through the streets of the cities. That

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

the Commerce Court substituted its judgment, on these
facts and circumstances, for that of the Commission, is
beyond question. A comparison of the language used by
the Commission with that of the court conclusively
demonstrates it.
The Commerce Court reviewed the element of the socalled water competition, and substituted its judgment
that. the industrial track service is not the same as the
team track or depot service, for the contrary judgment of
the Commission. In doing so, the Commerce Court assumed an authority which this court, for the past ten
years, has persistently condemned in every decision relating to the respective functions of the Commission and the
courts.
The Commission found that these spurs and sidetracks
were a part of the terminal facilities; that deliveries
thereon were the same, in cost and character, as the deliveries on the public team tracks; that the line haul rates
for all other shippers embraced, without additional charge,
deliveries on the terminals; and that out of 10,000 cities
in the United States where terminal services are performed, only in the cities of San Francisco, Los Angeles,
and San Diego, was this spur track charge imposed. Having made these findings, the conclusion of the Commission
that the extra charge was unlawful followed as a matter of
course.
No justification is given for the extra charge of $2.50 for
spur track delivery. The appellees are practically the only
carriers who may compete for the freight, and it is easy
for them to agree. When competition is inimical to their
interests, they'do not compete. When asked by the Commission why this charge was made at these points, the
traffic manager, of one of the roads replied, "Because we
can get it." Another railroad official who appeared before
the Commission explained the non-existence of such a
charge at all other points on his line, as well as throughout

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

the country at large, by saying that the absence of such a
charge was "a tribute to competition."
The Commerce Court held that "the ultimate conclusion of the Commission is a mixed question of law and fact
which certainly ought not to be conclusive upon this
court." But this court has held that even on a mixed
question of law and fact the findings of the Commission
are conclusive. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
206 U. S. 441, 455, 459.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Fred H. Wood and Mr.GardinerLathrop, with whom
Mr. Robert Dunlap, Mr. T. J. Norton, Mr. C. W. Durbrow,
Mr. W. F. Herrin and Mr. J. P. Blair were on the brief,
for appellees.
There was no abuse of power in issuing injunction pendente lite.
The switching charge is not embraced in regular rate.
It covers a special service rendered under special contract
and separate charge therefor is legal.
There. is no dispute as to meaning of tariffs.
The charge is imposed for special service not rendered
to public in general and properly stated separately and in
addition to freight rate.
The charge is separately. stated in pursuance of § 6 of the
Interstate Commerce Law.
There are other instances iii which a separate charge has
been imposed in addition to usual rate.
It is not obligatory upon a railway company to construct
industrial spurs and deliver and receive freight thereon.
Any obligation is wholly contractual and a separate charge
for such service is proper.
The Government's cases are not in point.
The charge is not violative of § 2 of the act concerning
unjust discriminations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellees.

234 U. S.

The charge was not found to be violative of § 3 of the
act concerning undue preferences.
It is error to consider the supposed practice of railway
companies, in general, making free deliveries at private industries, as they would not disclose the legal duties of
carriers complained against under the Interstate Commerce Law, and the Commission was confined to ascertaining and determining whether these particular railway companies in making the charge complained of were doing or
omitting to do something in contravention of some provision of that law.
It conclusively appears from the form of the order and
the face of the Commission's report that the order is not
based upon any finding of discrimination under either the
second or third sections, but upon a construction of the
statute which would forbid any carrier from separating its,
terminal and haulage charges on the same shipment.
The Commission's construction of the law is erroneous.
By the plain intendment of the language used, carriers
performing a road service between termini may separately
state the charges for carriage between places named in the
tariffs and their own terminal services performed at the
places between which such transportation is conducted.
%The Commission's construction is contrary to the purposes and scope of the statute as shown by its legislative
history.
The Commission's construction is contrary to the construction of the English act at the time of the passage of
the Act to Regulate Comnmerbe.
In the construction of this statute no assumed custom of
embracing within a single charge compensation for these
two services can weigh against the plain reading of the
statute and the contemporaneous construction of similar
provisions in the English law.
In so far as the order is predicated upon any assumption
that the cost of team track delivery and industry track

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

delivery is the same, it is based upon an assumption warranted by no finding of the Commission, contrary to the
undisputed evidence before the Commission, and contrary
to the specific allegation of the petition, admitted by the
motions of appellants, that the cost Of industry track
delivery is greater than the! cost of team track delivery.
Waiving the form of the order, the tariffs of the carriers
in imposing a terminal charge for industry track delivery
when made in connection with a line haul by the carrier
making such delivery, while making no terminal charge
for team track delivery incident to a line haul, vioi',ted
no provision of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
The two services in question are not like services performed under similar circumsLances and conditions; and
the resultant difference in charges results in no undue
preference, but is justified both by the dissimilar circumstances and conditions under which rendered, and by the
added value of the service in connection with industry
track delivery, for which it is just to make an additional
charge.
In support of these contentions, see Central Stock. Yards
Co. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 192 U. S. 568; Chalk v. Charlotte &c. R. Co., 85 N. Car. 371; Evershed v. London &c.
R. Co., 2 Q. B. D. 254; Fenner v. Buffalo &c. R. Co., 44
N. Y. 505; Francis v. Dubuqu3 &c. R. Co., 25 Iowa, 60;
Hall v. London & Brighton Ry. Co., 15 Q. B. D. 505; Imperial Wheel Co. v. St. L., I. M. & S. Ry., 20 I. C. C. 56;
Import Rate Case, 162 U. S. 197, 219; In re Investigation of
Coal Rates, 22 I:C. C. 604; Int. Com. Comm. v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 326; Int. Com. Comm. v. Balt. & Ohio
R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 284; Int. Com. Comm. v. ChicagoG. West.
Ry. Co., 209 U. S. 108; Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash.
R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 100; Int. Com. Comm. v. Stickney,
215 U. S. 98; McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; Missouri Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 474; New Orleans &c. R. Co. v. Tyson, 46 Mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

sissippi, 729; Party Rate Case,.145 U. S. 284; Ralston Townsite Co. v. M. P. Ry., 22 1. C. C. 354; South &c. Ala. R. Co.
v. Wood, 66 Alabama, 167; State v. Republican Valley R.
Co., 17 Nebraska, 647; Tex. & Pac. R. R. Co. v. Int. Com.
Comm., 162 U. S. 197, 219; Witbeck v. Holland, 45 N. Y.
13; Winters Paint Co. v. C., M. & St. P. Ry., 16 I. C. C.
587; Union PacificR. R. Co. v. United States, 117 U. S. 355;
United States v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 231 U. S. 274.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company,
the Southern Pacific Company and the San Pedro, Los
Angeles and Salt Lake Railroad Company, brought this
suit against the Interstate Commerce Commission in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas, first division, to restrain the enforcement of an order
of the Commission made in April, 1910. The order required these companies to desist 'from exacting their
present charge of $2.50 per car for delivering and receiving
carload freight to and from industries located upon spurs
and sidetracks within their respective switching limits' in
Los Angeles, California, when such carload freight 'is
moving in interstate commerce incidentally to a systemline haul.' It also prohibited the exaction of any charge
whatever, other than the charge for transportation from
points of origin to destination, for delivering or receiving
carload freight in such cases.'
'The order is as follows:
"This case being at issue on complaint and answer on file, and having been duly heard and submitted by the parties, and full investigation of the matters and things involved having been had, and the commission having, on the date hereof, made and filed a report containing
its findings of fact and conclusions thereon, which said report is hereby
referred to and made a part hereof, and having found that the present
charge of $2.50 per car exacted by the several defendants for delivering

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

After answer had been filed by the Commission, the
suit was transferred to the Commerce Court, and the
United States, the Associated Jobbers of Los Angeles and
the Pacific Coast Jobbers' and Manufacturers' Association,
intervened. The United States thereupon moved to dismiss the bill for want of equity and the petitioners asked
for a preliminary injunction. The Commerce Court,
denying the Government's motion, suspended the Commission's order until the further order of the court (188
Fed. Rep. 229, 929); and this appeal is prosecited.
The complaint of the petitioners in substance is that
they have established in the city of Los Angeles their
public terminals, including what are known as team tracks
and freight sheds, for the accommodation of the public
in receiving and delivering carload freight; that these
facilities are entirely adequate for the purpose, and are
and receiving carload freight to and from industries located upon spurs
and sidetracks within their respective switching limits at Los Angeles,
Cal., when such carload freight is moving in interstate commerce incidentally. to a system-line haul, is in violation of the at to regulate
commerce:
"It is ordered, That said-defendants be, and they are hereby, notified
and required to cease and desist, on or before the 1st day of July, 1910,
and for a period of not less than two years thereafter abstain, from
exacting their present charge of $2.50 per car for delivering and receiving carload freight to and from industries located upon spurs and sidetracks within their respective switching limits in the said city of Los
Angeles, Cal., when such carload freight is moving in interstate commerce incidentally to a system-line haul.
"It is further ordered, That said defendants be, and they are hereby,
notified and required to cease and desist, on or'before the 1st day of
July, 1910, and for a period of not less than two years thereafter abstain, from exacting any charge whatever, other than the charge for
transportation from points of origin to destination, for delivering or
receiving carload freight to or from industries located upon spurs or
sidetracks within their respective switching limits in the said city of
Los Angeles, Cal., when such carload freight is moving in interstate
commerce incidentally to a system-line haul."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

sufficient to handle all the carload freight shipped or delivered in the city, including that now received or delivered
upon the industrial spur tracks in question; that the spurtrack service has been established simply for the convenience of the shippers thus served; that it is a service essentially distinct from the line haul, and additional thereto,
being of great benefit in the saving of cartage charges to
the favored shippers for whose use the spur tracks were
constructed; that the industries or plants located upon the
spurs are distant from the main tracks, in the case of the
Atchison Company from 1-5 mile to 32 miles, in that of'
the Southern Pacific Company from 200 feet to 7 miles,
and in that of the San Pedro Company from 1-5 mile to
4 miles, and that the special switching service involves a
much greater expense than if the carload freight were received or delivered on the team tracks or at the freight
sheds of the carriers respectively; that the charge of $2.50
per car for this service is entirely reasonable and one which
the carriers are entitled to make in addition to the linehaul rate; and that as such it has been duly specified in
their published tariffs. It is also averred that, while in
the ,contracts governing the construction and maintenance
of the spur tracks no specific sum was prescribed for the
service of receiving and delivering carload freight thereon,
the charge above mentioned had been generally established; that at the time of the making of these contracts
the shippers understood and willingly consented that,
if the railway company performed this special service,
there should be additional compensation and that such
charge has generally been maintained. and collected.
The adequacy of the public terminal facilities for carload
freight in Los Angeles (consisting of the team tracks and
freight sheds of the carriers respectively), the facts set
forth with respect to the construction of the spur tracks,
their location, the acquiescence in the switching charge
and its maintenance, were established before the Corn-

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of th. Court.

mission, it is alleged, by undisputed evidence. It is further
stated that on account of water and other competition,
the rates of transportation. to and from Los Angeles have
been forced to an exceedingly low basis so that the companies do not receive the amount to which they are justly
entitled and that they ought not to be required to perform
the service in question without reasonable reward. The
Commission's order was assailed as beyond its authority,
involving a discrimination in favor of the owners of plants
located upon the spur tracks and a deprivation of the
property of the carriers without due process of law.
The report of the Commission (18 I. C. C. 310) was
made a part of the bill. It appears that the proceeding
before the Commission was instituted by the Associated
Jobbers of Los Angeles and was directed against two
distinct practices, involving the spur-track switching
charges incident to a system-line haul and to a foreign-line
haul respectively. The propriety of such a charge when
the line haul was by a foreign carrier was sustained, and
the prohibitory order was confined to cases where the
charge was made in connection with a system-line haul.
The pertinent facts as found by the Commission are substantially as follows:
Each of the carriers has designated certain territory
as within its switching or yard limits in the city of Los
Angeles, extending for 6 or 7 miles in a general easterly
and westerly direction, and including numerous tracks,
main lines, branch lines, industry spurs, classification
tracks, team tracks, freight-shed tracks, hold tracks, repair tracks, and others, and also their stations, freight
sheds, derricks, roundhouses, and other structures.
Freight moving in carloads is delivered at team tracks,
at freight sheds, or at industry spurs. At team tracks
and freight sheds no charge is imposed for the receipt or
delivery of such carload freight over the freight rate
named in the tariffs, while at industry spurs an additional
VOL. ccxxxiv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

charge of $2.50 is imposed on every loaded car moving
either in or out. These industry spurs vary in length,
some leading directly from the main track into or alongside of the industries served, while others are of greater
length and branch at one or more points, short spurs
running off from what is known as the 'lead' to serve
other industries in the, immediate neighborhood. These
spurs have been constructed under substantially uniform
contracts.1 None of the industries at Los Angeles fur1The

standard form of the Southern Pacific Company provides as

follows:
"1. Undersigned (shipper) will pay cost of constructing abovedescribed track (rails, splices, bolts, switches, frogs, switch stands, and
connections to be furnished by and at the cost' of Southern Pacific
Company), whether such cost may be more or less than amount of
foregoing approximate estimate.
"2. Said track shall be under full control of Southern Pacific Company, and may be used at discretion of said company for shipments
or delivery of any freight, but the business of the undersigned shall
always have preference.
"3. All material in.said track furnished at expense of Southern
Pacific C6mpany,- whether in original construction or by any way of
replacements or repairs, shall be and remain exclusive property of
Southern Pacific Company, and said Southern Pacific Company shall
keep said track in repair.
"4. In case said track shall not be used by undersigned for period
of one year, said Southern Pacific Company may, at its Option, remove
said track.
"5. All goods shipped from or to said track by rail, routing of which
is controlled, or may be reasonably held to be controlled, by or through
undersigned, shall, when forwarded, be over such railroads as may be
selected by Southern Pacific Company, provided rate of charge shall
be as low as that from or to point in question by any other rail route."
The Saute Fe contract contains this provision:
"The title to said track, -and to all the rails, ties, bolts, switches,
fastenings, and fixtures -connected therewith, and to all other property
which may be furnished by the railway company in the maintenance
*Of said track, shall at all times be and remain in said railway company, and said railway company may use the same for other purposes
than the delivery of freight to or -the receipt of freight from the second

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
-234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nishes its own motive power, and interline switching is
done from the interchange track to the industry by the
locomotives of the delivering line, the carrier performing
the switching service.
The Commission found that these spur tracks were
portions of the terminal facilities of the carriers with
whose lines they connected, being distinguished from mere
plant facilities such as were under consideration in Chicago
& Alton Ry. Co. v. United States, 156 Fed. Rep. 558,
and in the cases of the General Electric Cbmpany and
Solvay Process Company, 14 I. C. C. 237, 246. Each of
the spurs, here considered, said the Commission, is in a
real sense a railroad terminal at which the carrier receives
and delivers freight. It further appears from the report
that the charge for spur-track delivery has been made by
all of the carriers at Los Angeles as long as the railroads
have had access to that city; that it was first imposed
by the Southern Pacific and as the other lines came in
they adopted the policy of the line already there; that
as to certain commodities the charge was not imposed
until quite recently and at all times until the Hepburn
Act went into effect there was great variation in charge
as between individual shippers, It is added that there
are 97 places in California to which what are known as
coast terminal rates apply, rates lower than to intermediate points; only in Los Angeles, San Franciso and San
Diego is there such a charge for spur-track delivery,
though in many of these places such delivery is furnished.
To the north, in Portland, Seattle, Tacoma, and a large
number of other points which also enjoy coast terminal
party, provided -that such use shall inconvenience the business of the
second party as little as possible consistent therewith; and at any
time after the termination of this contract or the obligation of the
railway company, as herein provided, to maintain such track, the railway company shall have the right to remove said track and every part
thereof."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

rates, the Southern Pacific, Northern Pacific and Great
Northern lines, impose no such charge, and to the east
where defendants' lines have their termini in cities competing *ith Los Angeles, this charge is also unknown.
The Commission thus described the character of the
service in question: "Spur-track delivery is a substitute
service, a service which it has solicited the right to give,
as the evidence here shows, a service which costs the industry for the installation of the track and the use of its
property as 'a railway terminal. It is a service over the
carrier's own. rails to a point where it yields possession of
the, property transported and which involves no greater
expense than would team-track delivery. It relieves the
carrier's team tracks and sheds, necessitating less outlay
for expense of yards in a crowded city, promotes the
speedy release of equipment, and vastly aids in conducting a commerce- which is greater than the carrier's own
facilities could freely, adequately, and economically
handle.
"Again it is not to be overlooked that the delivery given
on an industry spur is not supplemental to any other delivery. Cars destined to industry spurs are not placed
first at a spur, depot, or on the team tracks, or at the sheds,
and later switched to oblige the consignee. A train of
freight cars goes to the breaking-up yards which lie at
the entrance to the city, and there it is divided up with
respect to the character of the freight in the various cars
and their destination. No one has access to the cars at
this point. This yard is purely a railroad facility. After
the cars are segregated they are taken to the tracks to
which they are ordered-some to the various team tracks
distributed along the main line, some to different industries,
some perhaps to the railroad shops or to freight sheds or
to the stock yards. Before the cars are placed the consignees are given notice of the tracks to which they are
to be sent, so that there is no confusion, and the switch

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

engines which place the cars on one track also serve to
haul the 'loads' in and 'empties' out at the.other tracks.
After a most exhaustive inquiry we cannot find, taking
this service as a wh6le in the same way that it is treated by
the carriers, that the service is more expensive to the carrier than if all cars were given team-track delivery.
"An additional charge may be made when an additional
service is given. But the service here given is not additional to that for which the rate pays. If the shipper
pays for team-track delivery and does- not receive it,
but asks instead and is given a sidetrack delivery which
costs the carrier no more, he may not be compelled to pay
an additional charge upon the assumption that he has received a terminal team-track service which has not been
given. A carrier may not so construct its rates as to compel an extra charge for like service, and this, in our judgment, the defendants at Los Angeles have done." 18 I. C.
C. pp. 317, 318.
1. It is urged that the Commission's order rests upon a
construction of the statute which would forbid any carrier from separating its terminal and haulage charges on
the same shipment, and that this is a fundamental misconception of the law.
We do not think that the order is open to this objection.
It is true that the Commission directed attention to the
distinction between the American and English methods
of stating rates, pointing, out that the English practise
of fixing separate schedules for 'conveyance' and .'station
terminal' rates had not obtained in this country so far
as the records of the Commission show. The opinion was
expressed that the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce were enacted with reference to the American method
of rate-making and that the rate which the statute requires to be published is "acomplete rate,' including 'not
only the charge for hauling but the charge for the use of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the terminals at both ends of the line.' 18 I. C. C. pp. 315,
316. We need-not stop to consider whether this is a correct
interpretation of the act, for the question of a segregation
of haulage and terminal charges (meaning, by the latter,
charges- for the use of ordinary terminal stations in receiving and delivering goods) was not before the Commission and its propriety was not necessarily involved
in the decision. No such segregation had been attempted
by the carriers here. On the contrary, it was undisputed
that the line haul carload rate comprehended. receipt
and-delivery on team tracks or at freight sheds.
The Commission conceded the right of the carrier to
charge for any terminal service that was accessorial.
But it was held that an additional charge was not justified if additional service was not in fact rendered.
2. Nor do we understand that the Commission ruled
that the receipt and delivery of goods at plants located
upon spurs or side-tracks could not, in any circumstances,
bb regarded as a distinct service for which separate compensation might be demanded. Cases of an interior
movement of plant traffic to and from various parts of
the establishment, and of deliveries through a system of
interior switching tracks constructed as plant facilities,
were expressly distinguished by the Commission (18 I.
C. C. pp. 313, 314); and it is apparent that the ruling of
the Commission would not apply in any case where by
reason of the location and extent of the spur tracks and
the character of the movement the facts were essentially
different from those upon which the decision was based.
(Interstate Commerce Commission v. Stickney, 215 U. S.
98, 105.)
3. On the other hand, it cannot be maintained that
the delivery and receipt of goods on industrial spur tracks
within the switching limits in a city is necessarily an
added service for which the carrier is entitled to make,
or should make, a charge additional to the line-haul rate to

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or from that city, when the line-haul rate embraces a receiving and delivering service for which the spur-track service is
a substitute. It is said that carriers are bound to carry only
to or from their- terminal stations. But when industrial
spur tracks have been established within the carrier's
switching limits, within which also various team tracks
are located, these spurs may in fact constitute an essential part of the carrier's terminal system. It was stated
by the Commission that carriers throughout the country
treat industry spurs of the kind here in question 'as portions of their terminals, making no extra charge for service
thereto when the carrier receives the benefit of the line
haul out or in.' It was added that while this general statement covered perhaps ten thousand cities and towns in
the United States, the carriers before the Commission
could name only three exceptions, to wit,. the cities of
Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Diego. But, laying
the generalization on one side, it is plain that the question
whether or not there is at any point an additional service
in connection with industrial spur tracks upon which to
base an extra charge., or whether there is merely a substituted service which is substantially a like service to
that included in the line-haul rate and not received, is a
question of fact to be determined according to the actual
conditions of operation.
Such a question is manifestly one upon which it is the
province of the Commission to pass.
4. We must therefore take the findings of the Commission in the present case as to the character and manner
of use of .the industrial spurs in Los Angeles-that they
constituted part of the carrier's terminals and that under
the conditions there existing, the receipt and delivery of
goods on these spurs was a like service as compared with
the receipt and delivery of goods at team tracks and freight
sheds-as conclusions of fact. Assuming that they were
based upon evdence, they are not open to review. Balti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

more & Ohio R. R. Co. v. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481,
495; Interstate Commerce Commission v. D., L. & W. R. R.
Co., 220 U. S. 235, 251; Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547, 548; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co., 227 U. S. 88, 92; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Rwy.
Co. v. United States, 232 U. S. 199, 221.
In this view, we find no ground for holding the order of
the Commission to be invalid. It is not denied that the
complaining shippers and these carriers were heard before
the Commission and that evidence disclosing the terminal
situation in Los Angeles, and the nature and use of the
various tracks within the switching limits, was presented;
and it cannot be doubted that the case demanded an
appreciation of a variety of details, or minor facts, in
Qrder that the ultimate questions of fact could be determined. It is said that. it was established by undisputed
evidence that the team tracks and freight sheds provided
by the carriers were fully adequate for all carload freight.
Putting aside the denial by the Commission of this allegation, it is evident that the question was not simply as to
such adequacy, but as to the .actual use of the various
tracks, the services thereon relatively considered, and
whether there was really an extra service in the circumstances shown. Again, it is said that the Commission did
not find the switching charge in itself, that is, taken
separately, to be unreasonable, but the inquiry was
whether in view of the conditions of the distribution of
the carload freight through a large area thee was in fact
such a similarity of moyement as to negative the basis for a
separate charge. It is further urged that while the contracts for the construction of these spurs did not fix the
charge, it was proved by undisputed evidence that at the
time these contracts were made the shippers consented to
a special charge, if freight were received and delivered
thereon, and that the charge in question had been generally

LOS ANGELES SWITCHING CASE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

maintained. The service, however, was performed subject to the law of the land iequiring that the carrier's
charges should not be unreasonable or unj ustly discriminatory. (See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 467, 482; Phila., Bait. & Wash. R. R. Co. v. Schubert,
224 U. S. 603, 613, 614.) If it became apparent that the
shippers were subjected to an arbitrary and unwarranted
exaction, they were in no way estopped from bringing the
matter before the body created by law to deal with such
questions and from securing its order directing the carriers
to stop the objectionable practise.
But it is contended that the finding of the Commission is
opposed to the admitted physical facts, and reference is
made to the transportation' to and from industrial plants
located from 1-5 of a mile to 7 miles from the main track
of the carrier. We find no such fundamental unsoundness
in the Commission's conclusions. It appeared, as already
stated, that the carrier had designated certain territory
as within its switching or yard limits in Los Angeles
extending for 6 or 7 miles and 'including numerous tracks,
main' lines, branch lines, industry tracks, team tracks,
freight-shed tracks and various structures.' It does not
appear-how many industries were within a short distance
or to how many the statement as to the greatest distance
above-mentioned applied. The carrier did not fix a charge
according to the comparative service in the case of these
various industrial plants. It made the same switching
charge whether the distance was 200 feet or 7 miles, that
is, it dealt with the situation upon an average basis making
the same charge for all this switching in a given area which
constituted its terminal district. It was the service within
these switching limits, that the Commission was considering. Manifestly it was permissible to establish such a
district, and taking the te'am-track and freight-shed service in that area, and the average spur-track service, the
Commission reached the conclusion set forth. It is said

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

that the finding of the Commission as to the comparative
cost of the service was not affirmative, but was merely a
negative statement to the effect that the Commission was
unable to find that the cost of spur-track delivery was more
expensive to the carrier. While this form of expression
was used at one place in the Commission's report, at
another the service in question was described as one which
involved 'no greater expense than would team-track
delivery' and we cannot but regard this as the Commission's finding upon the evidence. It is then insisted
that the contrary of this finding is self-evident, but the
facts with respect to .the movement of freight in a great
terminal district are by no means so simple that the
deliberate judgment of the Commission can be regarded
as contradicting the obvious.
The argument for the petitioners necessarily invites the
court to substitute its judgment for-that of the Commission upon matters of fact within the Commission's province. This is not the function of the court. We cannot
regard the Act to Regulate Commerce as justifying an
increased or extra charge for a substantially similar service
and upon the case made it cannot be said that the Commission has overstepped its authority in forbidding the
charge in question as one, which was unjustly discriminatory.
In our opinion the Commerce Court erred in denying
the Government's motion to dismiss and in granting the
petitioners' motion for injunction. The order of the
Commerce Court is therefore reversed and the cause is
remanded to the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of California, southern division,
with instructions to dismiss the bill. Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32; Stat. 1913, p. 221.
It is so ordered.

