BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

669

Syllabus.

total of the township, leaving 13,815.67 acres, which
amount was accounted for in the patent." The certificate
stands uncontradicted in the record and was accepted by
the Supreme Court of the State as determinative of the
facts recited in it (100 Arkansas, 94, 97). Nothing more,
need be said upon this point.
that we ,erred in
Another statement in the petition is,
treating the meandered areas embodying the lands in
controversy as unsurveyed lands. The record (p. 1)
shows that the complaint filed in the court of first instance,
and which counsel seek to maintain, alleged that these
lands " were left unsurveyed by the United States Government." The sunk lands were also described by the representative of the State as "not yet surveyed," when the
State's claims under the Swamp-land grant were being
adjusted and settled in 1895. H. R. Rep. No. 1634, 54th
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 5 and 32. This will suffice upon this
point.
Leave to file petition denied.

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
LAMPRECHT v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 279, 280.

Argued January 13, 14, 1913.-Decided June 22, 1914.

The act of July 27, 1866, making a grant of alternate odd numbered
sections of public land to.the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
in aid of the construction of its main-line railroad did not include
mineral lands, but on the contrary excluded them from its operation

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

and provided that the company should receive other lands as indemnity for them.
The administration of the grant, including the issue of patents following the construction of the road, was committed to the Land Department of which the Secretary of the Interior is the supervising officer.
It was contemplated by the granting act that the mineral or nonmineral character of the lands should be determined by the Land
Department and that, depending upon the result, patents should
issue or indemnity be allowed.
The patents Were to be the legally appointed evidence that the lands
described in them had passed to the company under the grant.
A patent issued under such a grant is to'be taken, upon a collateral
attack, as affording conclusive evidence of the non-mineral character
of the land and of the regularity of the acts and proceedings resulting in its issue, and, upon a direct attack, as affording such presumptive evidence thereof as to require plain and convincing proof to
overcome it.
If the land officers are induced by false proofs to issue such a patent
for mineral lands, or if they issue it fraudulently or through mere
inadvertence, a bill in equity on the part of the Government will lie
to cancel the patent and regain the title; or, in the like circumstances,
a prior mineral claimant who had acquired such rights in the land
as to entitle him to protection may maintain a bill to have the patentee declared a trustee for him; but such a patent is merely voidable, not void, and cannot be successfully attacked by a stranger
who had no interest in the land at the time the patent was issued
and'was not prejudiced by it.
One who relocates land under the mining law (Rev. Stat., § 2324) by
reason of the failure of a prior locator to perform the required annual
assessment or development work is not in privity with such prior
locator.
The officers of the Land Department are without authority to insert in
patents exceptions not contemplated by law, and when they place
unauthorized exceptions in patents the exceptions are void.
An exception inserted in patents issued under the grant here under
consideration to the effect that if any of the lands described should
be found to be mineral the same should be excluded from the operation of the patents is unauthorized and void, because the granting
act contemplated that the patents should effectually and unconditionally pass the title.
An agreement between the railroad company and the land officers that
such an exception in the patents should be effective is of no greater

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

671'

Opinion of the Court.

force as an estoppel than the exception itself, and the latter is of
no force whatever
The terms of the patent whereby the Government transfers its title to
public land are not open to negotiation or agreement. The patentee
has no voice in the matter. It in no wise depends upon his consent
or will. Neither can the land officers enter into any agreement
upon the subject. They are not principals but agents of the law,
and must heed only its will.
If the land officers enter into any forbidden arrangement whereby
public land is transferred to one not entitled to it, the patent may
be annulled at the suit of the Government, but those officers cannot
alter the effect which the law gives to a patent while it is outstanding.
The joint resolution of June 28, 1870, relating to this grant did not
authorize the use of any excepting clause in the patents.

THE facts, which involve the construction and validity

of patents for land issued to the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company under the Land Grant Act of July 27, 1866, and
the effect of provisions in the patents as to the effect of subsequent discovery of minerals, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic R. Kellogg and Mr. Roberts Walker, with
whom Mr. Edmund Burke, pro se, was on the brief, for
Burke.
Mr. D. J. Hinkley, with whom Mr. T. J. Butler was on
the brief, for Lamprecht and Aiken, trustees.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. Henry W. Clark,
Mr. Gordon M. Buck and Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., were
on the brief, for the Southern Pacific Railroad Co.
By leave of court, The Solicitor General filed a memorandum on behalf of the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.
In 1910 Edmund Burke filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. ,S.

of California, against-the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, the Kern Trading and Oil Company, and several
individuals, wherein he sought a decree establishing certain rights claimed by him in five sections of land in
Fresno County, California, and enjoining the defendants
from asserting any right or interest therein. A cross-bill
was filed by J. I. Lamprecht and other individual defendants, and the two corporate defendants demurred to
both bills. The demurrers were sustained and a decree
was entered dismissing the bills, for reasons assigned in an
opinion announced the same day in Roberts v. Southern
Pacific Co., 186 Fed. Rep. 934. The complainant and
cross-complainants appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and it certified the case here under the Judicial
Code, § 239, for instruction upon designated questions
of law.
According to the certificate, the bill alleged, in substance, that in 1892 the five sections were public lands
and were located as placer mining claims under the mining
laws of the United States, each location being preceded
by a discovery of mineral within its limits; that on May 9,
1892, the railroad company, with knowledge of these
locations, made application at the local land office to have
the five sections, with others, patented to it under the
land grant made to it by the act of July 27, 1866, c. 278,
14 Stat..292, §§ 3, 4,18, and the joint resolution of June 28,
1870, 16 Stat. 382, No. 87, and did then corruptly cause
one Madden, its land agent, to make and present at such
land office, in support of such application, a false and
fraudulent affidavit stating that the application contained
a correct list of lands inuring to the railroad company
under its grant, and that the listed lands were, vacant,
unappropriated and not interdicted, mineral or reserved
lands; that no notice of such application was given to any
of the placer claimants, and no hearing was had in the local
office or in the Land Department with the purpose of

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234

U. S.

673

Opinion of the Court.

determining the character of the lands; that on July 10,

1894, without any such investigation or determination,
a patent was issued to the railroad company purporting
to convey to it, among other lands, the five sections in
controversy; that the patent contained a clause reading:
"Excluding and excepting all mineral lands should any
such be found in the tracts aforesaid, but this exclusion
and exception, according to the terms of the statute, shall
not be construed to include coal and iron lands"; that the
railroad company accepted the patent and caused it to
be recorded in Fresno County; that in virtue of the patent
the railroad company clairs to own all the lands described
therein, including the five sections; that in March, 1909,
the original mineral claimants having failed to perform
the required assessment or development work for the
preceding year, the complainant and certain associates
of his entered upon the five sections and relocated the
same as placer mining claims under the mining laws of the
United States, each of the new, locations being preceded
by a discovery of mineral within its limits; that the lands
contain petroleum in commercial quantities, which makes
them more valuable for mining than for agricultural purposes; that the complainant is the owner of an undivided
one-tenth interest in the mining claims created by the
new locations; and that the oil company, although claiming
as a lessee of the railroad company, is a mere instrument
of the latter, being entirely owned, dominated and controlled by it.
According to the certificate, the cross-bill set forth substantially a like state of facts, sought the same relief, and
also contained the following allegation: "These crosscomplainants further say and show unto the court that
the said Southern Pacific Railroad Company, with full
knowledge of all the facts and circumstances herein stated
and alleged, did, for itself, its successors and assigns forever, accept and, assent to, and submit to, and agree to
VOL. ccxxxiv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

be bound by each and all of the provisions, stipulations,
terms, conditions, restrictions, limitations, exclusions and
reservations in said Act and Joint Resolution, and in said
patent, or either or any of them contained, and so accepting the same and assenting and submitting thereto, and
agreeing to be bound thereby, did receive and accept said
alleged patent and cause the same to be recorded in the
office of the Recorder of the County of Fresno, and State
of California, and that said defendant, Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, and all persons claiming any interest
in said lands or any part thereof, under or through it by
virtue of said Act of Congress and Joint Resolution, and
said patent or any or either of them, are bound by all
of said provisions, stipulations, terms, conditions, restrictions, limitations, exclusions, exceptions and reservations,
and are in equity and in conscience estopped to resist or
deny the binding force and effect of same or any part or
any thereof."
The questions propounded in the certificate are as
follows:
"FIRST. Did the said grant to the Southern Pacific
Railroad Company include mineral lands which were
known to be such at or prior to the date of the patent of
July 10, 1894?
"SECOND.

Does a patent to a railroad company under

a grant which excludes mineral lands, as in the present
case, but which is issued without any investigation upon
the part of the officers of the Land Office or of the Department of the Interior as to the quality of the land, whether
agricultural or mineral, and without hearing upon or determination of the quality of the lands, operate to convey
lands which are thereafter ascertained to be mineral?
"THIRD. Is the reservation and exception contained in
the grant in the patent to the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company void and of no effect?
"FOURTH. If the reservation of mineral lands as ex-

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

675

Opinion of the Court.

pressed in the patent is void, then is the patent, upon a
collateral attack, a conclusive and official declaration
that the land is agricultural and that all the requirements
preliminary to the issuance of the patent have been complied with?
"FIFTH. Is petroleum or mineral oil within the meaning
of the term 'mineral' as it was used in said acts of Congress reserving mineral land from the railroad land grants?
"SIXTH. Does the fact that the appellant was not in
privity with the Government in any respect at the time
when the patent was issued to the railroad company
prevent him from attacking the patent on the ground of
fraud, error or irregularity in the issuance thereof as so
alleged in the bill?
"SEVENTH. If the mineral exception clause was inserted
in the patent with the consent of the defendant, Southern
Pacific Railroad Company, and under an understanding
and agreement between it and the officers of the Interior
Department, that said clause should be effective to keep
in the United States title to such of the lands described
in the patent as were, in fact, mineral, are the defendants,
Southern Pacific Railroad Company and the Kern Trading and Oil Company, estopped to deny the validity of
said clause?"
At the outset it is well to observe that this is not a suit
by the Government to cancel or annul a patent for fraud
practiced upon the land officers in its procurement or for
any fraudulent act, error of law, or mistake committed
by them in issuing it (see United States v. Minor, 114 U. S.
233; United States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273;
United States v. TrinidadCoal Co., 137 U. S. 160; Germania
Iron Co. v. United States, 165 U. S. 379); nor is it a suit
to have one to whom a patent has issued declared a trustee
for another who, at the time of its issue, had acquired
such a right to the land as to entitle him to that form of
equitable relief (see Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall. 219, 228; Lee v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Johnson, 116 U. S. 48; Duluth & Iron Range Railroad Co.
v. Roy, 173 U. S. 587; Svor v. Morris, 227 U. S. 524). On
the contrary, the suit is one wherein rights asserted under
a patent are called in question by parties whose only claim
to the land was initiated more than fourteen years after
the date of the patent.
As the fifth question has been presented in separate
briefs and the occasion for considering the other questions
turns upon the answer to it, we take it up first. It is:
"Is petroleum or mineral oil within the meaning of the
term 'mineral' as it was used in said acts of Congress reserving mineral land from the railroad land grants?"
This granting act, like several others of that period, expressly excluded from its operation "all mineral lands"
other than iron and coal lands. No attempt was made at
defining "mineral lands," and doubtless the ordinary or
popular signification of that term was' intended. Apparently it was used in a sense which, if not restricted, would
embrace iron and coal lands, else care hardly would have
been taken to declare that it should not include them.
This was deemed a reasonable inference in Northern Pacific
Railway Co. v. Soderberg, 188 U. S. 526, where a contention
that it embraced only metalliferous lands was rejected.
The question there was, whether it included lands containing valuable bodies of granite, and the holding was
that it did. While avoiding an exact definition, the court
was of opinion that it comprehended all lands "chiefly
Valuable for their deposits of a mineral character, which
are useful in the arts or valuable for purposes of manufacture."
Petroleum has long been popularly regarded as a mineral oil. As its derivation indicates, the word means
"rock oil," an oily substance so named be.cause found
naturally oozing from crevices in rocks. Its existence
in this country was known from very early times, and
when this and other railroad land grants, containing an

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

677

Opinion of the Court.

exception of mineral lands, were made, the extraction of
oil from its natural reservoir in subterranean rocks had
come to be a promising industry and was extending over
an increasing area through discoveries of new oil fields.
An official report laid before Congress a few months before this grant was made showed that the daily output
of the oil wells in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, and'
Kentucky was 12,000 barrels. H. R. Ex. Doc. No. 51,
39th Cong., 1st Sess. In the same year the Supreme Court.
of Pennsylvania, in disposing of an oil-land controversy,
not only treated the oil as a mineral but spoke of the work
of extracting it from the containing rocks as "mining for
oil," and, in concluding the opinion, said: "Until our
scientific knowledge on the subject is increased, this is'
the light in which the courts will be likely to regard this
valuable production of the earth." Funk v. Haldeman,
53 Pa. St. 229. And in another case that court said: "It
is a mineral substance obtained from the earth by a process
of mining, and lands from which it is obtained may with
propriety be called mining lands." Gill v. Weston, 110
Pa. St. 312, 317. Its mineral character has also been
affirmed by the courts of other States. Williamson v.
Jones, 39 W. Va. 231, 256; Kelley v. Ohio Oil Co., 57 Oh.
St. 317, 328; Murray v. Allred, 100 Tennessee, 100; Wagner
v. Mallory, 169 N. Y. 501,,505. Congress at different times
has spoken of it as a mineral (15 Stat. 58, 59, c. 41, § 1;
Id. 125, 167, c. 186, § 109; 29 Stat. 526, c. 216; 32 Stat.
691, 702, c. 1369, § 42; 36 Stat. 847, c. 421), and this
court did so in Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190,
202.
In the legislation of Congress the term "mineral lands"
is not confined to railroad land grants. It occurs in the
mining laws, in an excepting clause in the homestead law,
and in like clauses in other public-land laws. Evidently it
has the same meaning in all. The administration of these
laws has rested with the: Land Department, and there-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

fore its course of action in respect of oil-bearing landswhether it has held them to be mineral or otherwiserequires to be noticed. The various mining circulars,
instructions and decisions, as published from time to time,
show that the matter probably was not considered prior
to the first mining circular, July 15, 1873, but that since
then the Department has regarded petroleum as a mineral
and has treated lands chiefly valuable therefor as mineral
lands.' With a single exception, the rulings have been
uniform, and lands of great value have passed into private
ownership under them. The single exception is the case
of Union Oil Co., 23 L. D. 222, 226, decided August 27,
1896, which was revoked on a motion for review November 6, 1897, 25 L. D. 351 It appears from the later
decision that action upon other pending cases turning
upon the same question had been suspended in the meantime, so, practically speaking, there has been no break in
the Department's rulings. The case of Union Oil Company presented a controversy between that company and
the Southern Pacific Railroad Company over a tract of
land in California, the former claiming under a placer
mining claim and insisting that the land was chiefly valuable for petroleum and therefore mineral, and the latter
seeking a patent under its land grant and insisting that
the land, even if chiefly valuable for petroleum, was not
mineral. In the original decision the Secretary of the
Interior held that the word "mineral" embraced only
"the more precious metals," such as "gold, silver, cinnabar, etc.," but on the rehearing this view was rejected
and the prior rulings holding petroleum to be a mineral
1 Circular

July 15, 1873, Copp's Mineral Lands, 61; Letter of Com-

missioner Burdett, January 30, 1875, Sickles' Mining Laws, 491; Maxwell v. Brierly, 10 Copp's L. 0. 50; Instructions January 30, 1883,
1 L. D. 572; Roberts v. Jepson, 4 L. D. 60; Piru Oil Co., 16 L. D. 117;
Union Oil Co., 25 L. D. 351; McQuiddy v. California, 29 L. D. 181;
Tulare Oil Co. v. Southern Pacific Railroad Co., 29"L. D. 269.

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

679

Opinion of the Court.

were reaffirmed and applied, the railroad company's application for a patent being denled.
Notwithstanding these persuasive considerations for
now regarding petroleum lands as mineral lands within
the meaning of the excepting clause in the granting act,
we are asked to give effect to the strictly scientific view
that petroleum is a resultant of the decomposition of organic matter under certain conditions of temperature and
pressure and therefore is not a mineral. As we understand it, scientists are not in full accord upon this point,
some ascribing to petroleum an inorganic origin., Encyclopaedia Britannica, 11th ed., Vol. 21, p. 318. But,
passing this seeming divergence in opinion and assuming
that when subjected to a strictly scientific test petroleum
is not a mineral, we think that is not the test contemplated
by the statute. It was dealing with a practical subject
in a practical way, and we think it used the words "mineral lands," and intended that they should be applied,
in their ordinary and popular sense. In that sense, as
before indicated, they embrace lands chiefly valuable for
petroleum.
Our answer to the fifth question must therefore be in
the afflrmative.
The other questions are so closely related one to another
and turn so largely upon -principles of general application
to controversies arising out of the public-land laws, including railroad land grants, that it seems the better
course to consider them 'in a general way in connection
with those principles, and then to come to the specific
answers to be given to them separately.
We first notice a contention advanced on the part of
the mineral claimants, tothe effect that the grant to the
railroad company was merely a gift from the United States,
and should be construed and applied accordingly. The
granting act not only does not support the contention
but refutes it. The act did not follow the building of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the road but preceded it. Instead of giving a gratuitous
reward for something aleady done, the act made a proposal to the company to the effect that if the latter would
locate, construct and put into operation a designated line
of railroad, patents would be issued to the company confirming in it the right and title to the public lands falling
within the descriptive terms of the grant. The purpose
was to bring about the construction of the road, with the
resulting advantages to the Government and the public,
and to that end provision was made for compensating the
company, if it should do the work, by patenting to it the
lands indicated. The company was at libertyto accept
or reject the proposal. It accepted in the mode contemplated by the act, and thereby the parties were brought
into such contractual relations that the terms of the proposal became obligatory on both. Menotti V. Dillon, 167
U. S. 703, 721. And when, by constructing the road and
putting it in operation, the company performed its part
of the contract, it became entitled to performance by
the Government. In other words, it earned the right to
the lands described. Of course, any ambiguity or uncertainty in the terms employed should be resolved in
favor of the Government, but the grant should not be
treated as a mere gift.
Two distinct land grants were made to the Southern
Pacific Railroad Company, one on behalf of the construction of a main line, and the other (act March 3, 1871,
16 Stat. 573, 579, c. 122, § 23) on behalf of a branch line.
We are not here concerned with the latter. The former
was made by the act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292, c. 278.
That act first made provision for the construction of a
line of railroad, by the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company, from Springfield, Missouri, westward through
northern Arizona to the Pacific Ocean, and by its third
and fourth sections made the following grant of public
lands to that company:

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

681

Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 3. That there be, and hereby is, granted to the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company, its successors
and assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction
of said railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific coast,
and to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the
mails, troops, munitions of war, and public stores, over
the route of said line of railway and its branches, every
alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated
by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side of said railroad line, as said
company may adopt,' through the Territories of the
United States, and ten alternate sections of land per mile
on each side of said railroad whenever it passes through
any State, and whenever, on the line thereof, the United
States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption or other
claims or rights, at the time the line of said road is designated by a plat thereof, filed in the office of the commissioner of the general land office, and whenever, prior to
said time, any of said sections or parts of sections shall
have been granted, sold, reserved, occupied by homestead
settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed of, other
lands shall be selected by said company in lieu thereof,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in
alternate sections, and designated by odd numbers, not
more than ten miles beyond the limits of said alternate
sections, and not including the reserved numbers:
Provided, further, That all mineral lands be, and the same
are hereby, excluded from the operations of this act, and in
lieu thereof a like -quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands in odd-numbered sections nearest
to the line of said road, and within twenty miles thereof, may
be selected as above provided: And provided further, That the
word 'mineral,' when it occurs in this act, shall not be
held to include iron or coal:
"SEC. 4. That whenever said Atlantic and Pacific Rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

road Company shall have twenty-five consecutive miles
of any portion of said railroad and telegraph line ready
for the service contemplated, the President of the United
States shall appoint three commissioners to examine the
same, who shall be paid a reasonable compensation for
their services by the company, to be determined by the
Secretary of the Interior; and if it shall appear that
twenty-five consecutive miles of said road and telegraph
line have been completed in a good, substantial and workmanlike manner, as in all other respects required by this
act, the commissioners shall so report under oath, to the
President of the United States, and patents of lands, as
aforesaid, shall be issued to said company, confirming to
said company the right and title to said lands situated
opposite t6 and coterminous with said completed section
of said road. And from time to time, whenever twentyfive additional consecutive miles shall have been constructed, completed, and in readiness as aforesaid, and
verified by said commissioners to the President of the
United States, then patents shall be issued to said company conveying the additional sections of land as aforesaid, and so on as fast as every twenty-five miles of said
road is completed as aforesaid."
By its eighteenth section the act made provision for the
construction by the Southern Pacific Railroad Company
of a connecting line of railroad from the eastern boundary
of California to San Francisco, and in that connection
made the grant now under consideration. That section
reads:
"That the Southern Pacific Railroad, a company incorporated under the laws of the State of California, is hereby
authorized to connect with the said Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad, formed under this act, at such point, near the
boundary line of the State of California, as they shall
deem most suitable for a railroad line to San Francisco,
and shall have a uniform gauge and rate of freight or fare

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

683

Opinion of the Court.

with said road; and in consideration thereof, to aid in its
construction, shall have similar grants of land, subject to
all the conditions and limitations herein provided' and
shall be required to construct its road on the like regulations, as to time and manner, with the Atlantic and Pacific
Railroad herein provided for."
Turning to §§ 3 and 4, as must be done, to ascertain
the nature, extent, conditions and limitations of the grant
made by this section, it will be seen that it was of "every
alternate section of public land, not mineral, 'designated
by odd nufihbers," etc., and was accompanied by a declaration "That all mineral lands be, and the same axe hereby,
excluded from the operations of this act, and in lieu thereof
a like quantity of unoccupied and unappropriated agricultural lands in odd-numbered sections nearest to the line
of said road, and within twenty miles thereof, may be
selected as above provided." Words hardly could make
it plainer that mineral lands were not included but expressly excluded. This is fully recognized by counsel on
both sides. But by whom and when was it to be determined whether lands otherwise within the grant were
mineral and therefore excluded, or non-mineral and therefore included? How long was the question of the exclusion
or inclusion of particular sections to be an open one? Was
it to depend upon a discovery of mineral at any time in
the future, even a hundred years after the completion of
the railroad, or was it intended that the mineral or nonmineral character of the lands should be determined in
administering the grant, and that, depending on the result, patents should issue or indemnity be allowed? We
think these questions find clear and decisive answers in the.
granting act when considered in the light of settled principles of general application to the administration of the
public-land laws, including railroad land grants.
As has been seen, the exclusion was of "all mineral
lands." It was not a mere reservation of minerals, but

084

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

an exclusion of mineral lands, coupled with a provision
that the company should receive other lands, not mineral,
in lieu of them. This shows that a determination of the
character; of the lands, as mineral or non-mineral, was
plainly contemplated. Besides, there was an exclusion of
all sections and parts of sections "granted, sold, reserved,
occupied by homestead settlers, ,or preempted, or otherwise disposed of" when the line of the road should be
definitely located, and this was followed by a similar
provision for lieu lands. The two exclusions and the indemnity provisions made it practically imperative that
there be an authoritative identification of the lands passing under the grant and of those excluded, for otherwise
great uncertainty in titles, conflicting claims, and vexatious litigation would be inevitable. Appreciative of this,
Congress confided the identification of the lands, both
included and excluded, to the Land Department, of which
the Secretary of the Interior is the supervising officer.
We say their identification was confided to that Department, because the granting act expressly provided for the
issue of patents "confirming to said company the right
and title to said lands," obviously meaning the lands
granted but not the excluded lands, and also directed that
the indemnity lands be selected "under the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior," and because that Department was already expressly charged with the administration and execution of all public-land laws as to which
it was not specially provided otherwise. Rev. Stat.,
§§ 441, 453, 2478. In. Catholic Bishop of Nesqually v.
Gibbon, 158 U. S.155, 166, 167, which related to a grant,
the identification and extent of which depended, as here,
upon an ascertainment of matters of fact made material
by the granting act, this court said: "While there may
be no specific reference in the act of 1848 of questions
arising under this grant to the land department, yet its
administration comes within the scope of the general

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

685

Opinion of the Court.

powers vested in that department. . . . It may be
laid down as a general rule that, in the absence of some
specific provision to the contrary in respect to any particular. grant of public land, its administration falls wholly
and absolutely within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the supervision
of the Secretary of the Interior. It is not necessary that
with each grant there shall go a direction that its administration shall be under the authority of the land department. It, falls there unless there is express direction to
the contrary."
True, the grant now under consideration was in presenti in the sense that the title to the granted lands, when
they should be identified, passed as of the date of the
granting act; but, as has been indicated, the act did not
itself identify them, and in. the nature of things that was
not practicable. It was not certain that the road would
be constructed, or what lands would be free from other
claims at the time of its definite location, or what would
be mineral. This led to the use of general descriptive
terms which required to be applied to particular lands,
should the road be constructed. And so it was that provision was made for issuing patents "confirming to said
company the right and title to said lands" after construction. A real necessity would then arise for identifying
the lands passing under the grant. This was obviously
the purpose of the patents. They were to be in confirmation of the company's "right and title," and so were to
be the legally appointed evidence that the lands described
in them had passed to the'company under the grant.
As it plainly was not intended that patents should issue
-forexcluded lands, to which the company was not to have
any right or title, the direction respecting the issue of
patents necessarily carried with it the power and the duty
of determining in every ir(stance whether the land came
within the terms of the grant, or for any reason was ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

cluded from it, and of giving appropriate effect to the
result by granting or refusing a patent. This is the theory
upon which the Land Department uniformly has proceeded
in the administration and adjustment of this and other
railroad land grants, and this court repeatedly has pronounced it the true theory. The departmental view and
practice are shown in Central Pacific Railroad Co. v.
Valentine, 11 L. D. 238, where it was said by Secretary
Noble (p. 243): "It is not questioned that the Land Department has jurisdiction until patent, or certification,
as the case may be, to the company, to determine whether
any of the lands within the lateral limits of the grant had
been, at the time the line of the road was definitely fixed,
'sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of,' or was subject
to 'a preemption or homestead claim,' and therefore excepted from the grant. That such jurisdiction exists,
there can be no doubt, and I am unable to perceive upon
what principle of logic or process of reasoning it can be
claimed that a like jurisdiction does not exist for the purpose of determining whether the lands are mineral, and
for that reason, excepted from the grant. Manifestly,
the jurisdiction to determine the exception is the same,
whether the inquiry is instituted as to the character of
the land, or as to its particular status, at the date when the
rights of the company attached under the grant." Again
(p. 244): "All the lands within tihe primary limits of a
railroad grant do not necessarily pass to the railroad, but
only such as are not within the exceptions named in the
grant, and the Secretary of the Interior is clothed with the
authority of determining in the first instance which lands
pass by the grant and which do not pass, and this he does
by approving lists for certification or patent." And
again (p. 246): "Now, this jurisdiction is in the Land
Department, and it continues, as we have seen, until the
lands have been either patented or certified to, or for the
use of, the railroad company. By reason of this jurisdic-

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

687

Opinion of the Court.

tion it has been the practice of that Department, for many
years past, to refuse to issue patents to railroad com-'
panies for lands found to be mineral in character, at any
time before the date of the patent."
The same subject came before this court in Barden v.
Northern Pacific Railroad Co., 154 U. S. 288. The case
arose under a grant (July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365)
containing an exclusion of mineral lands, provisions for
indemnity, and a direction for patents, identical with
those now under consideration; the grant being followed
by a joint resolution (January 30, 1865, 13 Stat. 567)
which, referring to that and other grants made at the
same session, declared that none "shall be so construed
as to embrace mineral lands, which in all cases shall be,
and are, reserved exclusively to.the United States, unless
otherwise specially provided in the act or acts making the
grant.". On the part of the railroad company it was insisted that the conditions existing when the line of railroad
was definitely located should be taken as decisive of
whether lands were mineral or otherwise in the sense of
the mineral-land exclusion, and much apprehension was
expressed lest a different ruling would put the matter
so at large that a discovery of mineral at any time in the
future would defeat titles supposedly complete. By leave
of the court, the Solicitor General appeared on behalf of
the Government, and took the position shown by the
following extract from his brief (154 U. S.296-298; Brief,
pp. 4-7):
"The act itself provides for the issuing. of patents to
the railroad company, and contemplates therefore that
the Secretary of the Interior, prior to such issue, shall determine whether the lands sought to be patented come
within the terms of the grant; in other words, whetier
they are in odd sections, unappropriated, not mineral, etc.
"But it is said that the Secretary of the Interior has no
authority to patent mineral lands, and that a patent for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

lands, in fact mineral, would afford no protection to the
railroad company in the event of the future discovery of
precious metals therein. This is a mistake. After the
Secretary of the Interior has decided that any particular
lands are not mineral, and. has issued a patent therefor, the
title is not liable to be defeated by the subsequent discovery of minerals. The authorities upon this point'are
cited in Mr. Shields' original brief (pp. 46 to 60).
"The point is also covered by the case of Davis v.
Weibbold, 139 U. S. 507, where a patent was issued for a
town site, and minerals were subsequently discovered in
-the lands patented. But it was held that the title was
not affected by such discovery, and that the provision of
the town-site act (Rev. Stat., § 2392) that 'no title shall
be acquired to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar, or copper,' does not apply where the mines were discovered
after a patent has been issued.
"Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court,
quotes with approval, at page 521, the following language
of Judge Sawyer in Cowell v. Lammers [21 Fed. Rep. 200,
206]:' There must be some point of time when the character of the land must be finally determined, and, for the
interest of all concerned, there can be no better point to
determine this question than at the time of issuing the
patent.'
"And again, at page 523, he quotes with approval the
following language of Mr. Justice Lamar, while Secretary
of the Interior [5 L. D. 194]: 'The issue of said patent
was a determination by the proper tribunal that the lands
covered by the patent were granted to said company,
and hence, under the proviso of said act, were not mineral
at the date of the issuance of said patent.'
"And again, page 524: 'The grant or patent, when issued, would thus be held to carry with it the determination of the proper authorities that the land patented was
not subject to the exception stated.'

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

689

Opinion of the Court.

"In Moore v. Smaw, 17 California, 199, it was decided,
in the first opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Field as chief
justice of the supreme court of California, tlat the patent
of the United States passes title to minerals.
"Of course, if the railroad company knows at the time
of receiving a patent that the lands covered by it are
mineral, a case of fraud is presented which entitles the
Secretary of the Interior to have the patent canceled, as
was done in Morton v. Nebraska, 21 Wall. 660, and in The
Western Pacific Railroad Company v. The United States,
108 U. S.510. But, barring cases of fraud, the issuing of
a patent by the Secretary of the Interior to the railroad
company gives it an absolute title, not liable to be defeated by the subsequent discovery of minerals.
"Here, then, is a method of adjusting the company's
grant according to the procedure contemplated by the
act itself, which protects fully the interests of both the
Government and the railroad, and which is in accordance
with the practice which has always prevailed in the Department of the Interior." Citing Secretary Noble's decision in Central PacificRailroadCo. v. alentine, supra.
The court rejected the contention that the conditions
existing at the date of definite location were decisive of
whether the land was mineral or non-mineral, and held
that the question remained an open one until the issue
of a patent. In the latter connection the court referred
to prior decisions respecting the power and duty of the
Land Department, in issuing patents, to inquire and determine whether the lands are of the class prescribed, whether
there are other claims to them, and whether the applicant
is entitled to a transfer of the title; reaffirmed its ruling in
Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S.636, 640, that a patent
not only "operates to pass the title, but is in the nature
of an official declaration by that branch of the Government to which the alienation of the public lands, under
the law) is intrusted, that all the requirements preliminary
VOL. ccxxxiv-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

to its issue have been complied with;" and further said
(pp. 328, 329):
"If the Land Department must decide what lands shall
not be patented because reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, or because not free from prei mption
or other claims or rights at the time the line of the road
is definitely fixed, it must also decide whether lands are
excepted because they are mineral lands. . . . If, as
suggested by counsel, when the Secretary of the Interior,
has under consideration a list of lands to be patented to
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, it is shown that
part of said lands contain minerals of gold and silver,
discovered since the company's location of its road opposite thereto, he would not perform his duty, stated in
Knight v. Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 178, as the
'supervising agent of the government to do justice to all
claimants and preserve the rights of the people of the
United. States,' by certifying the list until corrected in
accordance with the discoveries made known to the department.
"There are undoubtedly many cases arising before the
Land Department in the disposition of the public lands
where it will be a, matter of much difficulty on the part
of its officers to ascertain with accuracy whether the lands
to be disposed of are to be deemed mineral lands or agricultural lands, and in such cases the rule adopted that
they will be considered mineral or agricultural as they are
more valuable in the one class or the other, may be sound.
The officers will be governed by the knowledge of the
land s obtained at the time as to their real character. The
determination of the fact by those officers that they are
one or the other will be considered as conclusive."
And then, after quoting approvingly what we have
already extracted from Secretary Noble's decision in
Central Pacific Railroad Co. v. Valentine, supra, it was
added (p. 330): "It is true that the patent has been issued

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

691

Opinion of the Court.

in many instances without the investigation and consideration which the public interest requires; but if that has
been done without fraud, though unadvisedly by officers
of the Government charged with the duty of supervising
and attending to the preparation and issue of such patents,
the consequence must be borne by the Government until
by further legislation a stricter regard to their duties in
that respect can be enforced upon them."
Of the decision in that case it was concisely said in
Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. 8. 312, 339: "It is true there was
a division of opinion, but that division was only as to the
time at which and the means by which the non-mineral
character of the land was settled. The minority were of
the opinion that the question was settled at the time of the
filing of the map of definite location. The majority, relying on the language in the original act of 1864 making the
grant, and also on the joint resolution of January 30, 1865,
which expressly declared that such grant should not be
'construed as to embrace mineral lands, which in all cases
shall be and are reserved exclusively to the United States,'
held that the question of mineral or non-mineral was open
to consideration up to the time of issuing a patent. But
there was no division of opinion as to the question that
when the legal title did pass-and it passed unquestionably by the patent-it fassed free from the contingency
of future discovery of minerals."
The exclusion of mineral lands is not confined to railroad land grants, but appears in the homestead, desertland, timber and stone, and other public-land laws, and
the settled course of decision in respect of all of them has
been that the character of the land is a question for the
Land Department, the same as are the qualifications of the
applicant and his performance of the acts upon which the
right to receive the title dt-pends, and that when a patent
issues it is to be taken, upon a collateral attack, as affording conclusive evidence of the non-mineral character of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the land and of the regularity of the acts and proceedings
resulting in its issue, and, upon a direct attack, as affording such presumptive evidence thereof a.s to require plain
and convincing proof to overcome it. Smelting Co. v.
Kemp, 104 U. S. 636, 641; Steel v. Smelting Co., .106 U. S.
447; Maxwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 379-381;
Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 573, 585; Noble v. Union River
Logging Railroad, 147 U. S. 165, 174; Burfenning v. Chicago, &c. Railway Co., 163 U. S. 321, 323. In this respect
no distinction is recognized between patents issued under
railroad land grants and those issued under other laws;
nor is there any reason for such a distinction.
Of course, if the land officers are induced by false proofs
to issue a patent for mineral lands under a non-mineralland law, or if they issue such a patent fraudulently or
through a mere inadvertence, a bill in equity, on the part
of the Government, will lie to annul the patent and regain
the title, or a mineral claimant who then had acquired
such rights in the land as to entitle him to protection may
maintain a bill to have the patentee declared a trustee for
him; but such a patent is merely voidable, not void, and
cannot be successfully attacked by strangers who had no
interest in the land at the time the patent was issued and
were not prejudiced by it. Colorado Coal & Iron Co. v.
United States, 123 U. S. 307, 313; Diamond Coal Co. v.
United States, 233 U. S. 236, 239; Germania Iron Co. v.
United States, 165 U. S. 379; Duluth & Iron Range Railroad Co. v. Roy, 173 U.. S. 587, 590; Hoofnagle v. Anderson,
7 Wheat. 212, 214-5. In the last case this court said,
speaking through Chief Justice Marshall: "It is not
doubted that a patent appropriates land. Any defects
in the preliminary steps, which are required by law, are
cured by the patent It is a title from its date, and has
always been held conclusive against all those whose rights
did not commence previous to 'its emanation. .
If the patent has been issued irregularly, the Government

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

693

Opinion of the Court.

may provide means for repealing it; but no individual
has a right to annul it, to consider the land as still vacant,
and to appropriate it to himself." Of the same import are
Cooper v. Roberts, 18 How. 173, 182; Spencer v. Lapsley,
20 How. 264, 273; Ehrhardtv. Hogaboom, 115 U. S.67, 68.
The patent here in question was issued July 10, 1894,
Apparently, the Government never brought a bill to have
it vacated or annulled, and the time for doing so apparently expired in 1900 or 1901. Acts, March 3, 1891, 26
Stat. 1093, c. 559; March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, c. 39, § 1;
United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 209 U. S. 447, 450.
Apparently, also, the prior mineral claimants never sought
to have the patentee declared a trustee for them, for-it is
admitted that they abandoned their locations. The
present mineral claimants, who are assailing the patent,
claim under relocations made in March, 1909, more than
fourteen years after the date of the patent and eight years
after the apparent expiration of the time within which
the Government could ask that it be vacated or annulled.'
Plainly, there is no privity between the earlier and later

mineral claimants, for the relocations were not made in
furtherance of the prior locations but in hostility to them.
See Rev. Stat., § 2324.
But, referring to the clause in the patent, "excluding
and excepting all mineral lands should any such be found
in the tracts aforesaid," the contention is made, first,
that the patent shows that the Land Department did not
consider or determine whether the lands were mineral or
not, and, second, that all lands embraced in the patent
which then had been or thereafter should be discovered
to be mineral Were expressly excepted from the operation
of the patent and therefore remained public lands. This
contention must be tested in the light of the established
practice in the Land Department in such matters and of
the office which the granting act intended the patents to
perform. The clause relied upon is not peculiar to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

patent or to those issued under this grant, but appears in
all the patents issued from 1866 to 1904 under railroad
land grants containing an exclusion of mineral lands. Its
first mention in any public document was inthe annual
report of the Commissioner of the General Land Office
for 1868. It was there said (pp. i52-154):
"In every case reported from the district land officers
of selections made under the acts of 1862 and 1864, for
the Pacific Railroad, the agent of the company in the first
instance is required to state in his affidavit that the selections are not interdicted, mineral nor reserved lands, and
are of the character contemplated by the grant. Upon
the filing of lists with such affidavits attached, it is made
the duty of registers and receivers to certify to the correctness of the selections in the particulars mentioned, and
in other respects. They subsequently undergo scrutiny
in this office, are tested by our plats, and by all the data
on our files, sufficient time elapsing after the selections
are made for the presentation of any objections to the
department before final action is taken; and to more effectually guard the matter, there is inserted in all patents
issued to said railroad company a clause to the following
effect: 'Yet excluding and excepting from the transfer
by these presents all mineral lands, should any such be
found to exist in the tracts described in this patent, this
exception, as required by statute, not extending to coal
and iron land.'
.
.
It has been suggested to this
office that the Government should appoint a commission
to segregate the mineral from the residue of the public
lands; but let anyone consider the vast amount of money
expended by practical miners in excavations to test the
value of mines, subsequently abandoned as worthless, and
some idea may be formed of the time and expense such an
undertaking would require, and how little confidence it'
would be likely to inspire. . . . The regulation of
filing affidavits is simply a means of ascertaining the class

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

695

Opinion of th6 Court.

to which a particular tract of land may belong, and although it may not be the best that could be devised, it is
the only practical 'mode that has suggested itself to meet
the difficulty of disposing of different classes of land mingled together in such a way as to render it frequently impossible to tell, without great labor and expense, whether
a particular subdivision belongs to one or the other class."
In addition to ivhat was thus said respecting the affi-.
davits and certificates required and the examination of
whatever data were available, regulations were promulgated calling attention, among other things, to the mineralland exclusion in the grants, directing that the lists be
carefully and critically examined by the Register and Receiver. and mineral lands be excluded therefrom, and
prescribing forms of affidavits and certificates reciting,
among other things, that the listed lands were non-mineral
and of the character contemplated by the grant.1 It also
appears from the published land decisions that hearings
were often had in the local land offices to determine
whether lands sought to be listed were mineral or otherwise, and that appeals in such matters were not infrequently heard by the Secretary of the Interior.2 From
all this it is manifest that the excepting clause never was
intended to take the place of an inquiry into the character
of the land or to dispense with a determination of that
question, and that its presence in the patents does not
at all signify that no inquiry or determination,was had.
On the contrary, it appears that it was the accustomed
practict to exact proofs respecting the character of the
.1See 2 Lester's Land Laws, 362-365; 2 Copp's Land Laws, 715, 719,
727; 19 L. D. 21.
See Central Pacific Rdilroad Co., 8 L. D. 30; CentralPacific Railroad
Co. v. Valentine, 11 L. D. 238; North Star Mining Co. v. Central Pacific
Railroad Co., 12 L.fD. 608; Southern Pacific Railroad Co. v. Allen Gold
Mining Co., 13 L. D. 165; California & Oregon Railroad Co., 16 L. D.
262; Barden v. Northern Pacific Railroad Co., 19 L. D. 188."

oCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

land, to give opportunity for contests, and to give effect
to whatever information was obtained. At most according to the Commissioner's report, the clause was intended
to serve merely as an additional safeguard; and its words
suggest that its use was with an eye to future discoveries
rather than to existing conditions.
Coming to its effect in a patent, which is of more importance than how it came to be there, we find that this
question came before the Land Department in the case of
Samuel W. Spong, 5 L. D. 193. The tract in question
had been patented to the Central Pacific Railroad Company under its grant, the patent containing the excepting
clause. Spong applied at the local land office to enter
the tract under the mining law, claiming that it was
mineral and therefore excepted from the patent. The
local officers refused his application, assigning as a reason
that the title had passed to the company under the patent,
and the Commissioner of the General Land Office affirmed
their decision. The matter was then taken before Secretary Lamar, who sustained the decisions below, saying
(p. 194): "The issue of said patent was a determination
by the proper tribunal that the lands covered by the patent were granted to said company, and hence, under the
proviso of said act, were not mineral at the date of the
issuance of said patent." Again (p. 195): "In the case of
Deffeback v. Hawke (115 U. S. 393), the court reviewed and
commented on the several acts of Congress relative to the
disposition of mineral lands, and held that the officers of
the Land Department have no authority to insert in a
patent any other terms than those of conveyance, with
recitals showing a compliance with the law and the conditions which it prescribed." And again (p. 196): "While
the exception of mineral lands from the grant to said company is clear and explicit, yet it does not appear from a
careful consideration of the language of said grant that
Congress intended to grant only such lands which may

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

697

Opinion of the Court.

after the lapse of an indefinite number of years prove to
be agricultural in character." The question was also presented in Courtright v. Wisconsin Central Railroad Co.,
19 L. D. 410. The land involved had been patented under
a railroad land grant like that now before us, the patent
containing the same exception. Courtright, claiming that
the land was mineral, and was known to be such since
before the patent, insisted that it remained public land
and sought to make entry of it. The local officers held
that this could not be done in the presence of the patent,
and their ruling was sustained by the Commissioner. On
appeal, Secretary Smith affirmed the action of the other
officers, saying (p: 413):
"The issuing of patent is a determination by the Department that the lands embraced therein are of the
character described in the grant.
"If it was the intention of the officers of the Government to leave as an open question the character of the
lands embraced in the patent, then they acted without
authority, for when patent issued, that was the end of the
jurisdiction of the Department over the lands. The exception contained in the patent went beyond 'giving expression to the intent of the statute,' as construed by the
supreme court, and added a restriction upon the grant
which is not to be found in the granting act.
"I am therefore of the opinion that the Department has
not jurisdiction to determine the character of the land in
controversy after issuance of patent. If it be true that
the lands in question contain minerals in paying quantities, and that this fact was known to the officers or agents
of the company at the date of selection, or date of patent,
and they failed to make the fact known to the Department, such conduct was a fraud upon the Government, and
the courts can grant relief."
It thus appears that the Land Department has regarded

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the issuing of such a patent as a determination of the nonmineral character of the land and as effectually and unconditionally passing the title. There has been no departmental decision to the contrary. Indeed, on December 10,
1903, the Secretary of the Interior directed that the excepting clause be omitted from future patents, because
he regarded it as without any warrant in law and void.
.
32 L. D. 342.
This clause was extensively considered by Circuit
Judge Sawyer in Cowell v. Lammers, 21 Fed. Rep. 200.
The patent in that case had been issued under the Central
Pacific grant. The suit was to enjoin a trespass in the
nature of waste, the complainant being the grantee of the
railroad company and the defendant a miner who had
located part of the patented tract as a lode mining claim.
He had applied to the Land Department to enter the claim
under the mining law, and his application had been rejected because the patent was outstanding. In granting
the injunction the court said (p. 206): "The lands are
either patentable under the act or they are not. If patentable, the issue of a patent is authorized. If not patentable,
it is unauthorized, and the issue of a patent is, clearly, as
conclusive evidence of the determination of the fact of
patentability, upon a collateral attack, in the one case as
in the other. Suppose it should afterwards turn out that
all is mineral land. The exception would be as broad as
the grant, and be void as an exception. Is it any the less
so, in this class of cases, as to a part? . . . There
must be some point of time when the character of the
land must be finally determined, and, for the interest
of all concerned, there can be no better point-to determine
this question than at the time of issuing the patent."
Again (p. 208): "A patent upon its face should either
grant or not grant. It must be seen from a construction
of the language of the grant [patent] itself whether anything is granted or not, and, if anything be granted, what

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

699

Opinion of the Court.

it is. There is no authority to issue a patent which, in
effect, only says if the lands herein described hereafter
turn out to be agricultural lands, then I grant them, but
if they turn out to be mineral lands, then I do not grant
them. Such a patent would be so uncertain that it would
be impossible to determine, from the face of the patent,
whether anything is granted or not."
In principle, the effect of the excepting clause in the
patent is not an open one, under the decisions of this
court. It is foreclosed by what has been held upon full
consideration. In Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392,
where was involved the iight to certain valuable townsite
improvements upon land patented as a placer mining
claim, the contention was advanced that as the owner
of the improvements was the prior occupant the patent
should have contained a reservation excluding them and
all rights necessary to their enjoyment from its operation,
but the contention was declared untenable, the court
saying (p. 406): "The land officers, who are merely agents
of the law, had no authority to insert in the patent any
other terms than those of conveyance, with recitals showing a compliance with the law and the conditions which it
prescribed." The case of Davis v. Weibbold, 139 U. S.
507, directly involved the validity of a clause in a townsite patent declaring that no title should be thereby "acquired to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar or copper."
By the mining laws mineral lands were withdrawn from
disposal under other laws and the townsite law specially
declared that no title to any mine of gold, silver, cinnabar,
or copper should be acquired under its provisions. The
defendanl claimed under the townsite patent and a deed
of release and quit-claim from the probate judge, who
was the townsite trustee, and the plaintiff claimed under
a later patent for a mining claim located upon part of
the townsite and based upon an actual discovery of a
valuable vein of gold after the issue of the townsite patent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

The decision and the reasons-for it are fully comprehended
in the following extracts from the opinion:
(p. 519) "The exceptions of mineral lands from preemption and settlement and from grants to States for
universities and schools, for the construction of public
buildings, and in aid of railroads and other works of internal improvement, are not held to exclude all lands in
which minerals may be found, but only those where the
mineral is in sufficient quantity to add to their richness and
to justify expenditures for its extraction, and known to be so
at the date of the grant." (As shown in Barden v. Northern Pacific Railroad Co., [19 L. D. 188] the word "grant"
here means the patent and not the act making the grant.)
(p. 524) "It would seem from this uniform construction
of that Department ' of the Government specially intrusted
with supervision of proceedings required for the alienation
of the public lands, including those that embrace minerals,
and also of the courts of, the mining States, Federal and
state, whose attention has been called to the subject, that
the exception of mineral lands from grant in the acts of
Congress should be considered to apply only to such lands
as were at the time of the grant [patent] known to be so
valuable for their minerals as to justify expenditure for
their extraction. The grant or patent, when issued, would
thus be held to carry with it the determination of the
proper authorities that the land patented was not subject
to the exception stated. There has been no direct adjudication upon this point by this court, but this conclusion is a legitimate inference from several of its decisions.
It was implied in the opinion in Deffeback v. Hawke, already referred to, and in the cases of the Colorado Coal &
Iron Co. v. United States, 123 U. S. 307, 328, and United
States v. Iron Silver Mining Co., 128 U. S. 673, 683."
1The reference is to several LandDepartment decisions cited and reviewed in that opinion.

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

701

Opinion of the Court.

(p. 525) "It would in many instances be a great impediment to the progress of such towns if the titles to the
lots occupied by their inhabitants were subject to be overthrown by a subsequent discovery of mineral deposits
under their surface. If their title would not protect them
against a discovery of mines in them, neither would it
protect them against the invasion of their property for
the purpose of exploring for mines. The temptation to
such exploration would be according to the suspected
extent of the minerals, and being thus subject to indiscriminate invasion, the land would be to one having the
title poor and valueless, just in proportion to the supposed
richness and abundance of its products. We do not think
that any such results were contemplated by the act of
Congress, or that any construction should be given to
the provision in question which could lead to such results."
(p. 527-8) "But we do not attach Any importance to the
exception, for the officers of the Land Department, being
merely agents of the government, have no authority to
insert in a patent any other terms than those of conveyance, with recitals showing compliance with the conditions
which the law prescribes. Could they insert clauses in
patents at their own discretion they could limit or enlarge
their effeat without warrant of law. The patent of a
mining claim carries with it such rights to the land which
includes the claim as the law confers, and no others, and
these rights can neither be enlarged nor diminished by
any reservations of the officers of the Land Department,
resting for their fitness only upon the judgment of those
officers. Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, 406. . .
The laws of Congress provide that valuable mineral deposits in lands of the United States shall be open to exploration and purchase. They do not provide, and never
have provided, that such mineral deposits in lands which
have ceased to be public, and become the property of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

private individuals, can be patented under any proceedings
before the Land Department, or otherwise."
The case of Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S. 312, related to a
claim or right, conferred by statute, entitling its owner
to select in a body about 100,000 acres "of vacant land,
not mineral," in New Mexico, it being the duty of the
Surveyor General "to make survey and location of the
lands so selected," and this action being subject to the
supervision of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office. The owner of the right having made the selection,
applied to the surveyor general in 1862 for the survey
and location of the tract, and that officer reported the
application to the Commissioner, saying in that connection that he had theretofore been informed that the
purpose of the owner was to make such a selection as
"would cover rich minerals in the mountains." The
Commissioner replied that it was essential to the approval of the application by him that "it be'accompanied
by the certificates of the surveyor general and the register
and receiver that the land- selected is vacant and not
mineral." Such certificates were furnished, but the Commissioner hesitated to act upon them because they were
not based upon personal knowledge, but information
informally elicited from others, the lands being remote
and in an unsurveyed region. Finally, the Commissioner
concluded that "the difficulty" could "be avoided" by
directing the Surveyor General to proceed and in approving the survey to add to his certificate of approval "the
special reservation stipulated by the statute, but not
to embrace mineral land." Being instructed accordingly, the Surveyor General, after the field notes and plat
of the ,survey were completed, endorsed upon the field
notes a mere approval and upon the plat an approval
qualified by the words "subject to the conditions and
limitations" of the statute, naming it. The field notes and
plat were then forwarded to and accepted by the Commis-

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC, R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

703

Opinion of the Court.

sioner. No patent was issued, the approved survey taking
the place of one under the statute. A few years later, when
inquiries were made respecting the right of prospectors to
take advantage of mineral discoveries in the tract, the
Commissioner took the position that the approval of the
survey operated as a determination that the land was of
the class and character designated in the act; that the
title had passed from the Government, and that, notwithstanding the apparently conditional approval, the
Land Department was without authority to reopen the
question of the character of the land. The case, as presented to this court, involved the possession of a mine
located within the tract after the approval of the survey.
The plaintiff claimed under the selection of 1862 and the
defendant under the mining laws, the controversy turning
upon the effect to be given to the condition in the approval
of the survey. In disposing of that question the court reaffirmed and applied its rulings in Deffeback v. Hawke, and
Barden v. Northern Pacific Railroad Co., supra, and said
(p. 337):
"What is the significance of, and what effect can be
given to, the clause inserted in the certificate of approval
of the plat that it was subject to the conditions and provisions of the act of Congress? We are of opinion that the
insertion of any such stipulation and limitation was beyond the power of the Land Department. Its duty was
to decide and not to decline to decide; to execute and not
to refuse to execute the will of Congress. It could not
deal with the land as an owner and prescribe the conditions upon which title might be transferred. It was an
agent and not principal. Congress had made a grant,
authorized a selection within three years, and directed
the Surveyor General to make survey and location, and
within the general powers of the Land Department it
was its duty to see that such grant was carried into effect
and that a full title to the proper land was made. Un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

doubtedly it could refuse to approve a location on the
ground that the land was mineral. It was its duty to
decide the question-a duty which it could not avoid or
evade. It could not say to the locator that it approved
the location provided no mineral should ever thereafter
be discovered, and disapproved it if mineral were discovered; in other words, that the locator must take the
chances of future discovery of minerals. It was a question
for its action and its action at the time. The general
statutes of Congress in respect to homestead, preemption
and townsite locations provide that they shall be made
upon lands that are non-mineral, and in approving any
such entry and issuing a patent therefor could it be tolerated for a moment that the Land Department might limit
the grant and qualify the title by a stipulation that if
thereafter mineral should be discovered the title should
fail? It cannot in that way avoid the responsibility of
deciding and giving to the party seeking to make. the entry
a full title to the land or else denying it altogether."
(p. 341) "But, it is said, no patent was issued in this
case, and therefore the holding in the Barden Case, that
the issue of a patent puts an end to all question, does not
apply here. But the significance of a patent is that it is
evidence of the transfer of the legal title. There is no
magic in the word 'patent,' or in the instrument which
the word defines. By it the legal title passes, and when
by whatsoever instrument and in whatsoever manner that
is accomplished, the same result follows as though a
formal patent were issued."
(p. 343) "While the approval entered upon the plat by
the Surveyor General underthe direction of the Land Department was in terms 'subject to the conditions and provisions of section 6 of the act of Congress, approved
June 21, 1860,' such limitation was beyond the power of
executive officers to impose."
According to the statute relating to placer mining claims

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R., CO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the patent, save in an instance not material here, should
contain an exception of any vein or lode known to exist
within the boundaries of the claim at the date of the application for patent, but in the early patents the exception was
so stated that it embraced any vein or lode claimed or
known to exist at the date of the patent. The change was a
material one, not only because of the difference between
"claimed" and "known" but also because a year or so
sometimes elapsed between the date of the application
and that of the patent, and in the meantime a vein or
lode might be discovered within the boundaries of the
placer claim. Ultimately cases presenting the question
of the effect of the exception as stated in the patents came
before this court, and it was held that "the exception of
the statute cannot be extended by those whose duty it is
to supervise the issuing of the patent." Sullivan v. Iron
Silver Mining Co., 143 U. S. 431, 441, and cases cited.
These decisions are applicable and controlling here.
The reasoning upon which they proceed compels their
reaffirmance, and, besides, they have come to be recognized as establishing a rule of property. Not only has
the Land Department accepted them as determinative of
the invalidity of the excepting clause now before us, but
innumerable titles within the limits of the western railroad
land grants have been acquired with a like understanding
and are now held in the justifiable belief that they are
impregnable.
We come now to a contention which seeks to distinguish
patents under this grant from those under other railroad
grants. It is that the insertion of the excepting clause in
the former was expressly authorized by Congress. Evidently this has not been the view of the Land Department.
It not only began to use the clause before- this grant was.
made, but used it in all patents of this class; and when,
in December, 1903, its use was discontinued, the order
embraced this grant along with the others. But passing
VOL. ccxxxiv-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

this as suggestive but not controlling, we turn to the joint
resolution of June 28, 1870, upon which the contention is
rested. Its chief purpose was to sanction a route which
the Secretary of the Interior had disapproved. Southern
Pacific Railroad Co. v. United States, 183 U. S. 519, 523.
It reads as follows (16 Stat. 382, * No. 87):
"That the Southern Pacific Railroad Company of California may construct its road and telegraph line, as near
as may be, on the route indicated by the map filed by said
company in the Department of the Interior on the third
day of January, eighteen hundred and sixty-seven; and
upon the construction of each section of said road, in the
manner and within the time provided by law, and notice
thereof being given by the company to the Secretary of
the Interior, he shall direct an examination of each such
section by commissioners to be appointed by the President,
as provided in the act making a grant of land to said company, approved July twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred
and sixty-six, and upon the report of the commissioners
to the Secretary of the Interior that such section of said
railroad and telegraph line has been constructed as required by law; it shall be the duty of the said Secretary
of, the Interior to cause patents to be issued to said company for the sections of land coterminous to each constructed section reported on as aforesaid, to the extent
and amount granted to said company by the said act of
July twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred and sixty-six,
expressly saving and reserving all the rights of actual
settlers, together with the other conditions and restrictions provided for in the third section of said act."
It will be observed that there is no direct mention of
mineral lands, nor any indirect reference to them save
such as is involved in the general mention of the "conditions and restrictions" of § 3 of the granting act.
As stated in one .of the briefs, the contention is this:
"The resolution provided in express terms that these

BURKE v., SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

707

Opinion of the Court.

patents should cover all of the lands coterminous with the
constructed sections of the railroad, and in effect provided
that the patents should save and reserve the lands excepted by the provisions of section 3 of the original granting act, which included the exception of mineral lands."
In other words, it is meant that the resolution required
that all the odd-numbered sections within the primary
limits of the grant and coterminous with the constructed
road should be patented to the railroad company without
any inquiry or investigation to determine which of those
sections were sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, preempted, or otherwise 'disposed of at the date of
definite location, or were mineral, and that a general
exception conforming to that in the granting act was to
be inserted in the patents. This would mean that lands
already sold were to be patented to the company, that
reserved lands were to be patented to it, and that lands
occupied by homestead settlers or preempted were to be
dealt with in the same way; in short, that the grant, instead of being administered and adjusted in an orderly
way by 'the officers customarily charged with that duty
and in possession of the records and data without which
little could be done, was to be administered and adjusted
in the courts through the ordinary channels of litigation.
Manifestly, that is not what Congress contemplated. It
did not intend that the company's title should be so uncertain, and clearly it did not intend that the title to lands
already sold or those reserved should be thus beclouded
or that homesteaders and preemptioners should be placed
in a situation which would be so embarrassing and discouraging to them. What would become of the indemnity
provisions under that theory? Certainly, it was not intended that the company should receive a patent for
lands in the place limits and also indemnity for the same
lands. We think there is a more reasonable view of the
provision in the resolution than the one suggested. Omit-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

ting its saving clause, the provision is not materially different from § 4 of the original act, being the section providing for patents. As already said, the chief purpose of the
resolution was to sanction a route-the one indicated on
the map mentioned. The Secretary of the Interior had
disapproved it because not within prior authorization.
If it was to be approved it was but reasonable that the
existing right to the patents should be applied to it. This
evidently is what was intended. Another matter also
claimed consideration. Three years had passed since the
filing of the map, and in the meantime the situation had
been complicated by a withdrawal of the adjacent lands,
a revocation of the withdrawal and a suspension of the
revoking order. The validity of the route shown on the
map and of the withdrawal had been the subject of differing opinions, and some of the lands had come to be occupied by settlers, whose status was uncertain in view of the
withdrawal. See 16 Op. A. G. 80. As reported to the
Senate by one of its committees, the resolution was in its
present form without the saving clause. That was added
when the resolution was under consideration.' Without
it the resolution had two purposes, one to sanction the
route which had been pronounced unauthorized, and the
other to make secure the right to patents along that route.
What was the purpose of the saving clause? Its words
and the situation just mentioned leave no doubt that one
purpose was to take care of the actual settlers then on the
lands. Another, equally plain, was to require that the
conditions and restrictions, that is, the exclusions and
exceptions, of § 3 (the granting section) of the original act
be applied to that route. But how were these purposes
to be accomplished? Was it to be by patenting all the
lands to the railroad company, even those occupied by
'Congressional Globei 41st Cong., 2d Sess., parts 4 and 5, pp. 33493351, 3828-3830, 3950-3953.

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

709

Opinion of the Court.

actual settlers, and inserting saving clauses in the patents?
Or was it to be by giving effect to the rights of the settlers
and to the exclusions and exceptions in the normal and
rational way, that is, by patenting to the company no
lands occupied by actual settlers or otherwise excluded or
excepted from the grant? The latter seems to us the only
admissible conclusion.1
Lastly, it is urged that the railroad company accepted
the patent with the mineral-land exception therein and
also expressly agreed that the latter should be effective
as one of the terms of the patent, and so is bound by it
or at least estopped to deny its validity. There are insuperable objections to this contention. The terms of the
patent whereby thL Government transfers its title to
public land are not open to negotiation or agreement.
The patentee has no voice in the matter. It in no wise
depends upon his consent or will. He must abide the action of those whose duty and responsibility are fixed by
law. Neither can the land officers enter into any agreement upon the subject. They are not principals but
agents of the law, and must heed only its will. Deffeback
v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392, 406; Davis v. Wiebbold, 139 U. S.
507, 527; Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S. 312, 337, 343. Nor
can they indirectly give effect to what is unauthorized
when done directly. Of course, if they enter into any forbidden arrangement whereby public land is transferred to
one not entitled to it the patent may be annulled at the
suit of the Government, but they cannot alter the effect
which the law gives to a patent while it is outstanding.
Taking up the several questions in the light of what we
have here said, we answe:r them as follows:
1. Did the said grant to the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company include mineral lands which were known to
'See Tome v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 5 Copp's L. 0. 85; Southern
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Rakall, 3 L. D. 321.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

be such at or prior to the date of the patent of July 10,
1894?
Answer.-Mineral lands, known to be such at or prior
to the issue of patent, were not included in the grant but
excluded from it, and the duty of determining the character of the lands was cast primarily on the Land Department, which was charged with the issue of patents.
2. Does a patent to a railroad company under a grant
which excludes mineral lands, as in the present case, but
which is issued without any investigation upon the part
of the officers of the Land Office or of the Department
of the Interior as to the quality of the land, whether
agricultural or mineral, and without hearing upon or
determination of the quality of the lands, operate to convey lands which are thereafter ascertained to be mineral?
Answer.-A patent issued in such circumstances is
irregularly issued, undoubtedly so, but as it is the act of
a legally constituted tribunal and is done within its jurisdiction, it is not void and therefore passes the title (Noble
v. Union River Logging Railroad, 147 U. S. 165, 174-175),
subject to the right of the Government to attack the patent by a direct suit for its annulment if the land was
known to be mineral when the patent issued. McLaughlin
v. United States, 107 U. S. 526; Western Pacific Railroad
Co. v. United States, 108 U. S. 510.
3. Is the reservation and exception contained in the
grant in the patent to the Southern Pacific Railroad
Company void and of no effect?
Answer.-The mineral land exception in the patent is
void.
4. If the reservation of mineral lands as expressed in
the patent is void, then is the patent, upon a collateral
attack, a conclusive and official declaration that the land
is agricultural and that all the requirements preliminary
to the issuance of the patent have been complied with?
Answer.-It is conclusive upon a collateral attack.

BURKE v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

711

Opinion of the Qourt.

5. Is petroleum or mineral oil within the meaning of
the term "mineral" as it was used in said acts of Congress
reserving mineral land from the railroad land grants?
Answer.-Petrleum lands are mineral lands within the
meaning of that term in railroad land grants.
6. Does the fact that the appellant was not in privity
with the Government in any respect at the'time when the
patent was issued to the railroad company prevent him
from attacking the patent on the ground of fraud, error
or irregularity in the issuance thereof as so alleged in the
bill?
Answer.-It does.
7. If the mineral exception clause was inserted in the
patent with the consent of the defendant, Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, and under an understanding and
agreement between it and the officers of the Interior Department that said clause should be effective to keep in
the United States title to such of the lands described in
the patent as were in fact mineral, are the defendants,
Southern Pacific Railroad Company and the Kern Trading
and Oil Company, estopped to deny the validity of said
clause?
Answer.-No; such an agreement is of no greater force
as an estoppel than the exception in the patent. The
latter being void, the patent passes the title and is not
open to collateral attack or to attack by strangers whose
only claim was initiated after the issue of the patent.

