OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

statute, as already pointed out, does not at all affect the
ground of recovery, or the measure of recovery; it deals
only with a question of costs, respecting which Congress
has not spoken. Until Congress does speak, the State
may enforce it in such a case as the present.
-Judgmentaffirmed.

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 802. Argued May 1, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Where complainant's entire case rests on the construction of treaties
with Indians in regard to reservations and on the claim that certain
of such treaties have been repealed by the subsequent admission of
the Territory within which the reservations are situated, this court
has jurisdiction of a direct appeal from the District Court under
§ 238, Judicial Code.
The provision in Article VII of the treaty with the Minnesota Chippewa Indians of 1855, that the laws of Congress prohibiting the manufacture and introduction of liquor in Indian country shall be in force
within the entire boundaries of the country ceded by that treaty to
the United States until otherwise provided by Congress, relates to
the outer boundaries and includes all the reservations that lie within.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress to prohibit the manufacture, introduction or sale of intoxicants upon Indian lands, including not only land reserved for their special occupancy, but also lands
outside of the reservations to which they may naturally resort; and
this prohibition may extend even with respect to lands lying within
the bounds of States.
Article VII of the Chippewa treaty of 1855 was not repealed directly or
by implication by the subsequent act of Congress admitting Minnesota into the Union, nor was that article repealcd by the effect of the
subsequent treaties with the same bands of Chippewas of 1865 and
1867; but the intent of treaties of 1855, 1865 and 1867, as construed

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Statememt of the Case.

together, was that the acts of Congress relating to the introduction
and sale of liquor in Indian country should continue in force within
the entire boundaries of the country in question until otherwise
provided by Congress.
Article VII of the Chippewa Treaty of 1855 has not been superseded
by any of the provisions of the Nelson Act of 1889, or the cessions
made by the Indians to the United States pursuant thereto; nor has
that article been superseded by reason of any change in the character
of the Territory affected by the treaty and the status of the Indians
therein.
The abrogation of an article in an Indian treaty prohibiting the sale of
liquor within territory specified therein until Congress otherwise
provides is, in the absence of any considerable number of Indians
remaining in that territory, a question primarily for Congress and
not for the courts.
The fact that there has been a recent communication and recommendation from the President to Congress on a particular subject and Congress has not acted thereon is evidence that the problem is not so
entirely obvious of solution that the courts can declare it to be beyond
the range of legislative discretion.
Article VII of the Chippewa Treaty of 1855 having provided for the
prohibition against sale of liquor within the entire territory ceded
by that treaty until Congress should otherwise provide, held that
notwithstanding the subsequent admission of Minnesota to the
Union, and the later treaties with the Chippewas of 1865 and 1867
and the changed condition of the country and the status of the Indians, Congress not having otherwise provided, the prohibition is
still in force throughout that entire territory including the City of
Bemidji in which there are 'but few Indians and in the vicinity of
which there is a large area of territory unrestricted by the prohibitions
of Article VII.
183 Fed. Rep. 611, reversed.

THis is a direct appeal from. a final decree of the District Cohrt, rendered April 20, 1912, granting to appellees
(who were complainants below, .and will be so designated),
a permanent injunction against appellants (defendants
below), in accordance with the prayer of the amended bill
of complaint. It appears that complainants are severally
residents and citizens of the City of Bemidji, Beltrami
County, Minnesota, and at the time of the filing of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

bill were, and for a considerable time had been, engaged
in business there as saloon-keepers, selling at retail spirituous, vinous and malt liquors at their respective places of
business in that city, each of them having paid to the
Federal and state governments respectively, the necessary
tax and license fees, and having a receipt from the Federal
Government and a liquor license issued under the authority of the State of Minnesota by the municipal council
and officials of the city. The bill alleged that each of the
complainants had refrained from selling or disposing of
any liquor to Indians, or individuals of Indian blood, and
had complied with the Federal and state laws in this and
in other respects; that each of them had built up and established a profitable and lucrative trade; and that the
jurisdictional amount was involved. It averred that defendants, being citizens of other States, and acting in
conjunction as special officers under the Interior Department of the United States Government, were threatening to enforce within the City of Bemidji the provisions
of §§ 2139 and 2140 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States and amendments thereto, and on December 9, 1910,
had ordered complainants and other licensed saloonkeepers in Bemidji to close their saloons and cease sales of
liquor, and ship away their stock, threatening that otherwise they would destroy the stocks of liquor in the possession-of complainants, on the ground that under Article VII
of a treaty made on the twenty-second day of February,
1855, between the United States and certain bands of
Chippewa Indians, certain territory mentioned in the
treaty, including what is now the City of Bemidji, was
subject to the laws of the United States respecting the
sale of liquors in the Indian country.
To the bill as orginally filed defendants interposed a
demurrer, which was overruled, and a temporary injunction was granted. 183 Fed. Rep. 611. Thereafter, the
cause was brought to final hearing upon an amended bill

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and a reamended answer, and the court, adhering to its
former conclusion, rendered a final decree, as already mentioned.
The pertinent historical facts, as deduced from the averments of the amended pleadings, are as follows: On and
prior to February 22, 1855, certain bands of the Chippewa
Tribe of Indians, known as the Mississippi bands and the
Pillager and Lake Winnibigoshish bands, were in possession of the greater portion of the lands north of parallel 46,
within the boundaries of the then Territory of Minnesota.
Their country constituted a wilderness, almost wholly
uninhabited by civilized people. On the date mentioned,
these bands entered into a treaty with the United States,
which was approved by the Senate and proclaimed by
the President shortly thereafter (10 Stat. 1165). By its
first article the Indians ceded and conveyed to the United
States "all their right, title, and interest in, and to, the
lands now owned and claimed by them, in the Territory
of Minnesota, and included within the following boundaries:" [Here follows a particular description, by natural
boundaries, of a tract of country said to contain about
21,000 square miles.] By the same Article the Indians
further relinquished and conveyed to the United States
any and all right, title, and. interest, of whatsoever nature,
that they then had in and to any other lands in the Territory of Minnesota or elsewhere. This Article mentions
no exception or reservation from the lands ceded or
granted. By Article II there was "reserved and set apart,
a sufficient quantity of land for the permanent homes of
the said Indians: the lands so reserved and set apart to
be in separate tracts, as follows." The separate tracts
were then briefly described or indicated. For the Mississippi bands seven reservations were set apart, which
came to be known as the Mille Lac, Rabbit Lake, Gull
Lake, Pokagomon Lake, Sandy Lake, and Rice Lake
reservations; and besides these, a section of land was

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

reserved for one of the Indian chiefs. For the Pillager
and Lake Winnibigoshish bands, three reservations were
set apart, known from their respective locations as the
Leech Lake, Lake Winnibigoshish, and Cass Lake reservations.
The seventh Article of the treaty is as follows:
"Article VII. The laws which have been or may be
enacted by Congress, regulating trade and intercourse
with the Indian tribes, to continue and be in force within
and upon the several reservations provided for herein;

and those portions of said laws which prohibit the introduction, manufacture, use of, and traffic in, ardent spirits,
wines, or other liquors, in the Indian country, shall continue and be in force, within the entire boundaries of the
country herein ceded to the United States, until otherwise
provided by Congress."
By act of February 26, 1857, c. 60, 11 Stat. 166, the
inhabitants of a portion of the Territory, including the
lands ceded by the Chippewas as above, were authorized
to form a state government and come into the Union on
an equal footing with the original States. The act contained no condition with reference to the Treaty of 1855
or the rights of the Indians to any lands within the boundaries of the State. A state constitution was formed, by
which Indians were given the right to vote under certain
circumstances, and persons residing on Indian lands were
declared entitled to enjoy the rights and privileges of
citizens as though they lived in any other portion of the
State, and to be. subject to taxation. This constitution
having been ratified and adopted by the people, Congress,
by act of May 11, 1858, c. 31, 11 Stat. 285, admitted the
State "on an equal footing with the original States in
all respects whatever." And by §3 it was enacted that
all the laws of the United States, not locally inapplicable,
should have the same force and effect within that State
as in other States of the Union.

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Another treaty was made between the Mississippi,
Pillager, and Lake Winnibigoshish bands of Chippewas
and the United States under date May 7, 1864, which was
ratified and proclaimed in the following year and is known
as the Treaty of 1865 (13 Stat. 693). It took the place
of a.treaty of March 11, 1863 (12 Stat. 1249). By its
first section the Gull Lake, Mille Lac, Sandy Lake, Rabbit Lake, Pokagomon Lake, and Rice Lake reservations as
described in the Treaty of 1855, were ceded to the United
States, with an exception not now pertinent; and in consideration of this cession, the United States agreed to set
apart for the future home of the Chippewas of the Mississippi a considerable tract of land (part of the great tract
ceded in 1855), 'embraced within designated boundaries,
expressly excepting however the reservations made in the
Treaty of 1855 for the Pillager and Lake Winnibigoshish
bands, which were included within the boundaries mentioned. The lands thus set apart for the Chippewas of the
Mississippi contained all the territory now within the limits
of the City of Bemidji and the lands adjacent to it for a
distance of several miles in. all directions.
By a treaty made between the United States and the
Chippewas of the Mississippi dated March 19, 1867,
ratified and proclaimed in the same year (16 Stat. 719),
these bands ceded to the United States the greater portion (estimated at 2,000,000 acres) of the lands secured
to them by the treaty of 1865, and in consideration of this
cession, the United States set apart for the use of the same
Indians a tract to be located in a square form as nearly
as possible, with lines corresponding to the Government
surveys, the reservation to include White Earth Lake
and Rice Lake, and to contain thirty-six townships. This
reservation came to be known as the White Earth Reservation. It lies within the exterior boundaries of the cession of 1855.
The territory ceded to the United States by the treaty

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

of 1867 contains what is now the City of Bemidji and the
country about it for miles inevery direction.
By an act of January 14, 1889, known as the Nelson
Act, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642, the President was authorized to
designate Commissioners to negotiate with all the different bands of Chippewa Indians in Minnesota for the
complete cession and relinquishment of their title and
interest in all their reservations, except the White Earth
and Red Lake Reservations, and in so much of these two
reservations as in the judgment of the Commission was
not required to make and fill the allotments required
by this and existing acts. The act provided that a census should be taken, and that after the cession and
relinquishment had been approved, all the Chippewa Indians in the State, except those on the Red Lake Reservation, should be removed to the White Earth Reservation, and lands should theh be allotted to the Indians in
severalty, in conformity with the act of February 8, 1887,
c. 119, 24 Stat. 388, and the surplus lands disposed of by
sale, and the proceeds placed in the Treasury of the United
States to the credit of all the Chippewa Indians in the
State of Minnesota as a permanent fund, to bear interest
payable annually for fifty years, and at the end of that
period the fund to be divided and paid to all of said Chippewas, and their issue then living, in cash. By the first
section of this act the acceptance and approval of the
cession and relinquishment of the lands by the President
of the United States was to be deemed full and ample
proof of the assent of the' Indians, and to operate as a
complete extinguishment of the Indian title without
further act or ceremony. Commissioners were appointed
accordingly, and agreements were entered into between
them and the several bands of Chippewas, by which
the Indians accepted and ratified the provisions of the
act and ceded to the United States all their right, title,
and interest in their reservations, excepting portions of

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the White Earth and Red Lake Reservations, and these
cessions were approved by the President on the fourth
day of March, 1890.
Since the making of the Treaty of 1855 the country then
ceded to the United States, with the exception of the portions set apart as Indian reservations, has been largely
developed, gradually at first, but with great rapidity during recent years, and all the land has become populated by
white people and opened up to settlement and organized
as political subdivisions of the State, and in the larger
portion of the territory industries have been established
and commercial interests have grown up, so as to materially change the situation that existed at the time of the
making of the treaty. According to the census of 1910,
the counties affected by that treaty show a total white
population of 382,191. Bemidji is the county seat of
Beltrami County, and is a municipal corporation, organized under the laws of the State as a city, containing within
its corporate limits about 7,000 inhabitants, and, in connection with adjacent municipalities, constituting a population of about 9,000 people. The city is reached by five
lines of railroads, three of which have transcontinental
connections. The country surrounding it is highly developed, and there are no Indian habitations within twenty
miles in any direction from the city.
The original Red Lake Indian Reservation lay immediately north of the great tract covered by the cession of
1855, and was not subject to the treaty of that year. Pursuant to the Nelson Act of January 14, 1889, a considerable
portion of this reservation was relinquished to the United
States, and has been opened up to settlement, with the
result that there is now a strip of territory about fifteen
miles in width, lying a few miles north of Bemidji, which
is admittedly exempt from the provisions of any treaty
or law relative to the introduction of intoxicating liquors
in the Indian country; and in that strip the sale of intoxi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

234 U. S.

cating liquors is actually conducted without interference
on the part of the Government of the United States.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for appellants:
This court has jurisdiction under .§238, Judicial Code,
because the construction or validity of Article VII of the
Treaty of 1855 is drawn in question; the construction or
application of the Constitution is involved; the construction of Treaties of 1865 and 1867 is drawn in question.
United States v. Wright, 229 U. S. 226. "Validity" involves existence of treaty. The Minnesota Enabling Act
did not expressly repeal Article VIL
The question of implied repeal depends on the relative
potency of state police power and the Federal interstate
commerce power.
The court below erred in holding that the state police
power was dominant.
Article VII of the treaty was in force in 1910.
It was not repealed by the Minnesota Enabling Act.
Webb Case, 225 U. S. 663, and Wright Case, 229 U. S.
226, control this case.'
The Perrin, Dick, and Whisky Cases are like the case at
bar, except that Congress acted here before, and there
after, Statehood.
If Congress still had power after Statehood, implied
repeal by Enabling Act is not possible.
A reservation of power in Enabling Act is not necessary.
Congress could not reserve a power it might not enjoy
without reservation.
The State has no police power over Indian commerce.
The McBratney and Draper Cases are distinguished in
the Donnelly Case, and Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504,
is distinguished.
The Friedman Case was overruled by the Circuit Court
of Appeals in 180 Fed. Rep. 1006.

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Article VII was not repealed by Treaties of 1865 or 1867,
and there has been no express repeal.
It was not necessary to repeat prohibition in 1865 or
1867 because Article VII in the 1855 treaty covered and
protected the whole area.
The need for protection of Article VII, was as great in
1865 and 1867 as in 1855.
The rule that reconveyance to a grantor cancels existing
covenant is not applicable in this case, because there has
been no such reconveyance in fact and because that rule
does not apply to treaties.
Article VII had not become a purely arbitrary regulation in 1910.
Three classes of Indians are concerned: full-blood White
Earth and all Leech Lake allottees holding prior to act of
May 9, 1906. These may be citizens but cannot alienate
lands.
All of the above are holding allotments only since the
act of 1906. These are not citizens and cannot alienate.
Mixed-blood White Earth allottees are citizens of the
United States and of the State.
All save class 3 are still in wardship (without regard to
other reasons), because the trust period has not expired.
The wardship of mixed blood White Earth allottees depends on whether they are still regarded as a dependent
people by the executive and legislative branches of the
Government.
The pleadings do not show that this protection is purely
arbitrary as applied to tract A.
The open 15-mile strip never was protected by treaty.
There is present need of 10,000 Indians for this protection, and there is inadequacy of state laws to keep the liquor out.

In support of these contentions, see Altman & Co. v.
United States, 224 U. S. 583; The Cherokee Tobacco, 11
Wall. 616; Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 U. S. 445,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellees.

234 U. S.

451; Cornell v. Green, 163 U. S. 75; Couture v. United
States, 207 U. S. 581; Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559;
Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 340; Donnelly v. United
States, 228 U. S. 243; Draper v. United States, 164 U. S.
240, 247; Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663; Foster v. Neilson,
2 Pet. 314; Friedmanv. United States Exp. Co., 180 Fed.
Rep. 1006; Georgia Rd. &c. Co. v. Walker, 87 Georgia, 204;
Green v. Edwards, 15 Tex. Civ. App. 382; Holder v. Aultman, 169 U. S. 81; Hallowell v. United States, 221 U. S.
312; Jones v. Walker, 2 Paine, 288; Loeb v. Township, 179
U. S. 472; Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488; Matter of Rickert,
188 U. S. 432; McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458, 466;
Mosier v. United States, 198 Fed. Rep. 54; Muse v. Arlington Hotel Co., 168 U. S. 435; People's Bank v. Gibson, i61
Fed. Rep. 286, 291; PerrinV. United States, 232 U. S. 478;
Petit v. Walshe, 194 U. S. 216; Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How.
212; Silverman v. Loomis, 104 Illinois, 142; Tiger v. Western Invest. Co., 221 U. S. 286; United States v. Celestine, 215
U. S. 287; United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407; United
States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621; United States v. Pelican,
232 U. S. 442; United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28;
United States v. Sutton, 215 U. S. 291; United States v.
Wright, 229 U. S. 226; United States v. 43 Gallons of
Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188; United States Exp. Co. v. Friedman,
191 Fed. Rep. 673; Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504;
Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S. 24, 33.
Mr. Charles P. Spooner, with whom Mr. Marshall A.
Spooner, Mr. John C. Spooner, Mr. Fred W. Zollman and
Mr. Joseph P. Cotton, were on the brief, for appellees:
This court has'not jurisdiction of this appeal under
§ 238, Judicial Code, because the construction or validity
of Article VII of the treaty of 1855 is not drawn in question; the construction or application of the Constitution
is not involved; the construction of the treaties of 1865
and 1867 is not drawn in question.

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U..S.

Opinion of the Court.

Article VII of the treaty of 1855 was repealed by the
Minnesota Enabling Act; it was also repealed by the
treaties of 1865 and 1867-; and it had expired in 1910 because of the act of January 14, :1889, and the change in
the character of territory and the status of Indians.
In support of these contentions, see Bates v. Clark, 95
U. S. 204; Balt. & Poto. R. R.Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210;
Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 U. S. 445; Clough v.
Curtis, 134 U. S. 361; Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414;
Linford v. Ellison, 155 U. S. 503; Matter of Heff, 197 U. S.
488; McLean v. Railroad Co., 203 U. S. 38; Miller v. Cornwall R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 131; New Orleans v. Water Works
Co., 142 U. S. 79; Snow v. United States, 118 U. S. 346;
Swearingen v. St. Louis, 185 U. S. 38; Tiger v. Western
Invest. Co., 221 U. S.286; United States v. Celestine, 215
U. S. 278, 290; United States v. Dick, 208 U. S.340; United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358; United States v. Forty
Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188; United States v. Lynch,
137 U. S. 280; United Siates v. Perrin, 232 U. S. 478;
United States v. Sandoval, 231 U. S. 28; United States v.
Wright, 229 U. S. 226; Wiggan v. Connolly, 163 U. S. 56.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This direct appeal is taken under § 238,. Jud. Code (act
of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36 Stat. 1087, 1157), which allows
such an appeal (inter alia) "in any case that involves the
construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States; in any case in which the constitutionality
of any law of the United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty made under its authority is drawn in
question."
Our jurisdiction is invoked upon three
grounds: (a) that the construction or validity of Article
VII of the Treaty of 1855 is drawn in question; (b) that
the construction or application of the Constitution is
VOL.. ccxxxiv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

involved; (c) that the construction of the Treaties of 1865
and 1867 is drawn in question. There is a motion to dismiss, based upon the ground thht none of these contentions is well founded. We think the motion must be
denied. The Court below, in overruling the demurrer,.
based its decision upon the ground that the treaty of 1855
was necessarily repealed by the admission of the State of
Minnesota into the Union upon an equal footing with the
original States. This decision was based upon the bill as
originally framed, but the amendments made no change
affecting this ground of decision; and it is evident from
the record that in granting the final decree the court adhered to the view expressed in overruling the demurrer.
It is insisted by appellants, with some force, that this view
was based upon grounds that involved the construction
or application of the Constitution of the United States;
and that for this reason the direct appeal lies. We find
it unnecessary to consider the point, since it seems to us
that the entire case for complainants rests at bottom upon
grounds that involve the construction of the three treaties
referred to, especially that of 1855.
The bill, either in its original or its amended form, did
not expressly assert as a ground for relief that the treaty
of 1855 had been repealed, in whole or in part, by the
admission of the State. On the contrary, relief was prayed
upon the ground that the second clause of Article VII
(that which related to the liquor traffic and was to remain
in force until otherwise provided by Congress) applied only
to the ceded territory, and not to the reservations set
apart within that territory; that by the Treaty of 1865
those reservations were ceded to the United States, and
ceased to be Indian country in any sense; and that by the
subsequent cession in the Treaty of 1867 the reservation
of 1865 in turn was vested in the United States, -and therefore ceased to be Indiarl cotintry; and, finally, that Article VII of the treaty of 1855 had expired at the time of

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the acts complained of in the bill (1910) by virtue of the
provisions of the act of January 14, 1889, and the cessions
made to the United States by the Chippewas of Minnesota pursuant to that act, and because of the changes
wrought by time in the character of the territory included
in the Treaty of 1855 and the status of the Indians therein.
These grounds of relief are reiterated in the amended bill,
and the averments of the amended answer are calculated
to meet them. And the principal force of the arguments
on both sides is addressed to the construction of the several
treaties referred to. For this reason, if for no other, the
direot appeal is well taken.
Upon the merits, we may well begin with the disputed.
portion of the Treaty of 1855:
"Articld VII. The laws which have been or may be
enacted by Congress, regulating trade and intercourse
with the Indian tribes, to continue and be in force within
and upon the several reservations provided for herein; and
those portiofis of said law,. which prohibit the introduction, manufacture, use of, and traffic in, ardent spirits,
wines, or other liquors, in the Indian country, shall continue and be in force, within the entire 'boundaries of the
country herein ceded to the United States, until otherwise
provided by Congress."
The reference to previous laws clearly points to the act
of June 30, 1834, entitled " An Act to regulate trade and
intercourse with the Indian tribes, and to preserve peace
on the frontiers" (c. 161, 4 Stat. 729), and kindred acts.
The act of 1834 was a revision of previous enactments,
and contains many provisions for the regulation of trade
and intercourse. Its twentieth and twenty-first sections
(4 Stat. 732)'prohibit the introduction or manufacture of,
or traffic in, spirituous liquor or wine within the Indian
country. From them, §§ 2139, 2140, and 2141, Rev. Stat.,
were derived.
By the first section of the act of 1834, the term "Indian

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

country" was defined, for the purposes of that act, as
meaning land to which the Indian title had not been
extinguished. At the making of the treaty, therefore, the
restriction respecting the liquor traffic was in force within
the ceded area, because until then the Indian title had not
been extinguished. It was the evident purpose of Article VII to continue the restriction in force in the ceded
territory, notwithstanding the extinguishment of the Indian title. Such stipulations were not unusual. A contemporaneous treaty with the Winnebagoes contained a
similar one. 10 Stat. 1172, 1174, Article VIII. And it has
been uniformly recognized that such stipulations amount
in effect to an amendment of the statute, so as to make
the restriction effective throughout the ceded territory.
United States v. Forty-three Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S.
188, 196; Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S.204, 208.
The fundamental contention that underlies the entire
argument for complainants is that the first part of Article VII had for its object that the laws of Congress, present and future, regulating trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes, were to continue and be in force within the
reservations created by the treaty; while the latter portion

of the Article had for its object to keep in force in the
ceded country-which, it is said, excludes the reservations-those portions of the laws that prohibited the introduction, manufacture, use of, and traffic in ardent
spirits, etc., in the Indian country until otherwise provided
by Congress; the particular insistence being that the latter
clause applies merely to the so-called ceded territory, and
not to the lands included within the reservations.
With this construction of the treaty we cannot agree.

We think it rests upon a misconception of the fair import
of the terms employed in Article VII, whether considered
:alone or together with the context, and fails to give due
effect to the reason'and spirit of the stipulation.
It seems to us that in the qualifying clause-" within

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the entire boundaries of the country herein ceded to the
United States" ;-the words "entire boundaries'! are
equivalent to "outer boundaries," and therefore include
the reservations that lie within. .And this agrees with the
context; for, if we turn back to see what is "herein ceded,"
we find, that by the terms of Article I the cession is of all
the right, title, and interest of the Indians in the lands
owned and claimed by them included within designated
boundaries (this being the great tract in question), and
then, in a separate clause, a relinquishment and conveyance of all right, title, and interest of the Indians in any
other lands in the Territory of Minnesota or elsewhere.
There is here no suggestion that the reservations are
excepted out of the cession. On the contrary, Article I
in terms vests the Indian title in the United States as to
all the described lands, including the reservations mentioned in Article II. The latter article reserves a number
of comparatively small and isolated tracts "for the permanent homes of the said Indians." Of these, all are
within the outer boundaries of the cession excepting the
Mille Lac Reservation, which lies outside. Reading the
two articles together, it is evident that the framers of the
treaty intended that the reservations themselves should
become the property of the United States, subject only
to a trust for the occupancy of the Indians. This is placed
beyond controversy when we observe that by the latter
part of Article IIit was provided that the President of the
United States might cause the reservations or portions
thereof to be surveyed; assign a reasonable quantity, not
exceeding eighty acres irLany case, to each head of a
family or single person over twenty-one years of age for
his or their separate use; issue patents for the tracts so
assigned, which tracts were to be exempt from taxation,
levy, Sale; or forfeiture, and not to be aliened or leased for
a longer period than two years at one time, unless other,
wise provided by the legislature of the State with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

assent of Congress; not to be sold or aliened in fee for a
period of five years after the date of patent, and not then
without the assent of the President; and that prior to the
issue of the patents the President might make rules and
regulations respecting the disposition of the lands in case
of the death of the allottee, etc.
The subdivision of the reservations, allotments to individual Indians, and the ultimate alienation of allotments, being thus in view at the making of the treaty,
it is unreasonable to give such a construction to the stipulation contained in the second portion of Article VII as
would defeat its object, by removing the restriction from
scattered parcels of land whenever it should come to pass
that the Indian title therein was extinguished. The restriction would be of little force unless it covered the entire
ceded area en bloc, so that no change in the situation of
the reservations by way of extinguishing the residue of
Indian title or otherwise should operate to limit its effect.
And so, upon the whole, we deem it manifest that the
second clause of Article VII dealt with the entire ceded
country, including the reservations, as country proper
to be subjected to the laws relating to the introduction,
etc., of liquor into the Indian country. until otherwise
provided by Congress. It was evidently contemplated
that the bands of Indians, while making their permanent
homes within the reservations, would be at liberty to
roam and to hunt throughout the entire country, as before. The purpose was to guard them from all. temptation to use intoxicating liquors.
That it is within the constitutional power of Congress
to prohibit the manufacture, introduction, or sale of intoxicants upon Indian lands, including not only lands
reserved for their special occupaniy, but also lands outside
of the reservations to which they may naturally resort;
and that this may be done even with respect to lands
lying within the bounds of a State, are propositions so

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

thoroughly established, and upon grounds so recently
discussed, that we need merely cite the cases. Perrin v.
United States,*232 U. S. 478, 483; United States v. Fortythree Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188, 195, 197; Dick v.
United States, 208 U. S.:340.
And we cannot .agree with the District Court that
Article VII of the treaty of 1855 was repealed by the
Minnesota Enabling Act, or by the admission of that
State into the Union upon equal terms with the other
States. Neither the Enabling Act nor the Act of Admission contains any reference to the treaty, although the
latter was so recent that it can hardly have been overlooked. The court seems to -have considered that the
continued existence of Article VII, so far as it prohibited
the introduction, manufacture, and sale of liquors within
the ceded country outside of the reservations, was inconsistent with the "equal footing" clause of the Enabling
and Admitting Acts. That there is no such inconsistency results very plainly, as we think, from the reasoning and authority of the. cases above cited. The court
deemed that United States v. Forty-three Gallonsof Whiskey,
supra, and Dick v. United States, supra, were distinguishable Upon the ground that in each of those cases the
treaty under consideration was made after the State had
been admitted into the Union. But if the making of such
a treaty after the admission of the State is not inconsistent
with the "equal footing" of that State with the othersas, of course, it is not-it seems to us to result that there
is nothing in the effect of "equal footing" clauses to operate as an implied repeal of such a treaty when previously
established.
In Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663, we had to deal with
the effect of the Oklahoma Enabling Act (June 16, 1906,'
c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267) upon a previous statute (act of
March 1, 1895, c. 145, § 8, 28 Stat. 693, 697), which prohibited (inter alia), the "carrying into said [Indian] Terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tory any of such liquors or drinks," in view of the fact,
that the Enabling Act itself required that the constitution
of the new State should prohibit the manufacture, sale,
or otherwise furnishing of intoxicating liquors within that
part of the State formerly known as the Indian Territory;
and we held that in view of the existing treaties between the
United States and the Five Civilized Tribes, and because
the Enabling Act and the constitution established thereunder dealt only with the prohibition of the liquor traffic
within the bounds of the new State, the act of 1895 remained in force so far as pertained to the carrying of liquor
from without the new State into that part of it which was
the Indian Territory.
In United States v. Wright, 229 U. S.226, we held that
the prohibition against the introduction of intoxicating
liquors into the Indian country found in § 2139, Rev.
Stat., as amended by the acts of July 23, 1892, c. 234,
27 Stat. 260, and January 30, 1897, c. 109, 29 Stat. 506,
was not repealed, with respect to intrastate transactions,
by the Oklahoma Enabling Act, in spite of the provision
respecting internal 'prohibition contained therein as already mentioned.
Upon the whole, we have no difficulty in concluding
that Article VII of the Treaty of February 22, 1855, was
not repealed by the admission of Minnesota into the
Union.
We come, therefore, to the principal contention of complainants and appellees, which is that the Article was
repealed by the effect of the Treaties of 1865 and 1867.
The argument in support of this contention may be outlined as follows: that by the earliest of the three treaties
the several bands of Indians ceded to the United States
the great tract of approximately 21,000 square miles, but
excepted from that cession the several reservations created
for the Mississippi bands and for the Pillager and Lake
Winnibigoshish bands;. that when the Treaty of 1865 was

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made the Mississippi bands were the owners of their reservations within the exterior limits of the cession of 1855,
which reservations were not covered by the second portion
of Article VII, but were subject to all of the laws of the
United States regulating commerce and intercourse with
the Indian tribes, simply because of being Indian country
in fact; that by the Treaty of 1865 the Mississippi bands
ceded outright to the United States these reservations,
and in return the United States ceded to them the. tract
of territory already mentioned (including Bemidji and
the country surrounding; it), excepting those portions
included within the reservations of the Pillager and Lake
Winnibigoshish bands; and that when, in 1867, in return
for the White Earth reservation, the Mississippi Chippewas receded to the United States the greater portion of
the tract set apart for them in 1865, they ceded the same
title and the same right and power over the lands that
the three original tribes would have had; that is to say,
they ceded them free and clear of Article VII of the
Treaty of 1855.
It will at once be observed that the argument rests At
bottom upon the erroneous construction to which we have
already called attention, viz., that the second portion
of Article VII did not apply to the reservations that were
within the exterior limits of the ceded territory. We repeat that, in our opinion., the restriction applied to all the
territory that was included within the terms of the cession;
as much to those portions set apart for reservations as to
the surrounding territory. There was nothing in the
Treaty of 1865, therefore, to make the receded reservations
unrestricted territory; nor was there anything in the Treaty
of 1867 to remove the restriction from the territory then
receded. Reading the series of treaties together, it is plain
enough, we think, that the contracting parties, in all that
was done, were resting upon the plain language of the second part of Article VII, which declared that the laws relat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

ing to the introduction, etc., of liquor in the Indian country
should continue in force within the entire boundaries of
the country in question until otherwise provided by Congress.
Finally, it is contended that Article VII .of the Treaty of
1855 had been superseded at the time of the acts complained of in the bill (1910), by'virtue of the provisions
of the Nelson Act of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25 Stat. 642,
and the cessions made to the United States by the Indians
pursuant to that act, and by reason of the change in the
character of the territory included in the Treaty of 1855
and the status of the Indians therein.
As already pointed out, this act provided that Commissioners to be appointed by the President should negotiate
with the different bands of Chippewas in the State of
Minnesota for the complete cession and relinquishment of
their title and interest in all their reservations in the State.
except so much of the White Earth and Red Lake reservations as was not required for allotments, and that acceptance and approval of such cession and relinquishment by
the President should be deemed full and ample proof of
the cession and should operate as a complete extinguishment of the Indian title without other or further act or
ceremony.
From the averments of the amended bill and answer it
is not easy to gather a precise statement of the present
situation of the Indian lands and of the Indians themselves, so far as it affects the question before us. Some
reference is made to the situation at the Red Lake reservation; but since it is not clear that the restriction contained
in the Treaty of 1855 was intended for the protection of
the Indians within that reservation, we prefer to confine
our attention to the situation as it existed in 1910 within
the boundaries of the great tract that was the subject of
the cession of 1855. Within those bounds there would
seem to be remaining only fragments of the White Earth

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and Leech Lake reservations; both reservations being in
process of allotment under the acts of February 8, 1887,
c. 119, 24 Stat. 388, and of January 14, 1889, c. 24, 25
Stat. 642, and amendatory acts. Of the lands that have
been allotted, a-considerable portion are still held in fee
by the United States, and are non-alienable by the allottees until the expiration. of the trust period. Upon the
White Earth reservation, and also at Leech Lake, the Government maintains an Indian Agency and Superintendent,
as well as Indian schools. At the White Earth Agency,
5,600 Indians are carried upon the annuity rolls; at Leech
Lake, 1,750 Indians. The majority of these reside upon
lands embraced within the original reservation, and they
are the same Indians, or descendants of the same, that
were parties to the treaties of 1855, 1865, and 1867. In
consequence of their elevation to the plane of citizenship
by the- operation of the allottment acts, tribal relations
have for most purposes ceased to exist, but are recognized
for the purpose of the distribution of annuities under the
Nelson Act. And it is admitted that for purposes of business, pleasure, hunting, travel, and other diversions, these
Indians traverse parts of the region comprised in the cession of 1855, outside of the reservations, and thus visit
the towns, villages, and cities in the territory, including
Bemidji. On the other hand it is admitted that their
visits to Bemidji are infrequent, and that there are no
Indian habitations within a range of twenty miles in any
direction from that city. And, as pointed out in the prefatory statement, the diminished Red Lake reservation is
admittedly surrounded by a strip of land, approximately
fifteen miles in width, which never was subject to the
Treaty of 1855, and upon which saloons are maintained in
close proximity to that reservation. This strip extends
along the northerly boundary of the cession of 1855, which
is perhaps ten or twelve miles north Of Bemidji.
The argument for treating the restriction of 1855 as no

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

longer in force rests not upon any denial of the fact that
there are some thousands of Indians at the White Earth
and Leech Lake agencies, who are still more or less under
the guardianship of the Government, and for whose protection the liquor restriction ought to be maintained, but
rather upon the fact that these Indians are surrounded
by territory in which liquor is lawfully obtainable. In
support of this, it is said that the former Mississippi reservations ceded to the United States in 1865 are unrestricted territory; that so much of the Leech Lake and
Lake Winnibigoshish reservations as. were conveyed to
the United States in 1890 are such territory; that 'every
allotment from either of these reservations as to which
the trust period has expired is such territory, and that
lands sold to white men in the reservations is such territory. It will be observed, again, that each of these contentions rests upon the fundamental error that the reservations mentioned in the Treaty of 1855 are not within
the liquor restriction of Article VII.
In view of the interpretation we have placed upon that
Article, it seems to us that the contention as to changed
conditions must be based not upon the supposed fact, that
the tract covered by the cession of 1855 "is already dotted
with wet territory," but rather upon the question whether
the restriction--entered into more than half a century
ago, when the country was a wilderness-ought to be
treated as still in force, in view of. the small number
of Indians entitled to protection as compared with the
large population of whites who now .form the great majority of the inhabitants, and in view of the high state
of' civilization and development of the territory in question,
In Perrin v. United States, 232 U. S. 478, 486, we had
to deal.with a somewhat similar question. That was a
review of a conviction for unlawfully selling intoxicating
liquors upon ceded lands formerly included in the Yank-

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ton Sioux Indian reservation in the State of South Dakota.
The reservation was created in 1858, and originally embraced 400,000 acres. A considerable part of it was allotted in severalty to members of the tribe under the act
of 1887, the allotments being in small tracts scattered
through the reservation. By an agreement ratified and
confirmed by Congress August 15, 1894 (c. 290, 28 Stat.
286, 314, 318), the tribe ceded and relinquished to the
United States all the unallotted lands, and by Article 17
of the agreement it was stipulated: "No intoxicating
liquors nor other intoxicants shall ever be sold or given
away upon any of the lands by this agreement ceded and
sold to the United States, nor upon any other lands within
or comprising the reservations of the Yankton Sioux or
Dakota Indians as described in the treaty between the
said Indians and the United States, dated April 19th,
1858, and as afterwards surveyed and set off to the said
Indians. The penalty for the violation of this provision
shall be such as Congress may prescribe in the act ratifying
this agreement." In the ratifying act a penalty was prescribed. The ceded lands were opened to disposition under the homestead and town site laws and passed largely
into private ownership, and the place at which the intoxicating liquors were sold was within the defendant's own
premises in a town located upon a part of the ceded lands
held in private ownership by. the inhabitants, none of
whom was an Indian. After overruling the contention
that the restriction was invalid because the power to
regulate the sale of intoxicating liquors upon all ceded
lands rested exclusively in the State (citing United States
v. Forty-three Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S.188, and Dick v.
United States, 208 U. S.340), the opinion dealt with the
further contention that the power of Congress was necessarily limited to what was reasonably essential to the
protection of Indians occupying the unceded lands, and
that this limitation was transcended by the provision in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

* question because it embraced territory greatly in excess of
what the situation required, and because its operation
was not confined to a designated period reasonable in
duration, but apparently was intended to be perpetual.
As to this the court said (p. 486):
"As the power is incident only to the presence of the
Indians and their status as wards of the Government, it
must be conceded that it does not go beyond what is
reasonably essential to their protection,. and that, to be
effective, its exercise must not be purely arbitrary, but
founded upon some reasonable basis. Thus, a prohibition
like that now before us, if covering an entire State when
there were only a few Indian wards in a single county,
undoubtedly would be condemned as arbitrary. And a
prohibition valid in the beginning doubtless would become
-inoperative when in regular course the Indians affected
were cQmpletely emancipated from Federal guardianship
and control. A different view in either case would involve
an unjustifiable encroachment upon a power obviously residing in the State. On the other hand, it must also be
conceded that, in determining what is reasonably essential to the protection of the Indians, Congress is invested
with a wide discretion, and its action, unless purely arbitrary, must be accepted and given full effect by the
courts."

Although the circumstances of the present case are different, and we are here dealing with a question of obsolescence rather than of original invalidity, the language
just quoted indicates the point of view, from which the
question should be approached. But we must not forget
that the question is one, primarily, for the consideration
of the law-making body; nor axe we in danger of doing so,
since by the very terms of the stipulation *nowunder consideration the prohibition of the liquor traffic was to continue "until otherwise provided by Congress." We do
not mean to say that if it appeared that no considerable

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

number of Indians remained wards of the Government
within the territory in question; the courts would not be
justified in declaring that, since the constitutional warrant
for the restriction no longer existed the restriction must
expire with it. But Where the question confessedly turns
not upon a total, nor even upon an approximately complete, emancipation of the Indians from the Federal
guardianship, but upon their unimportance as compared
with the interests of the population at large, we think the
question is legislative rather than judicial.
Indeed, it has only recently been under consideration
by Congress. On February 17, 1911 (Senate Doe. No. 824,
61st Cong., 3d Sess., Vol. 85), the President, in a special
message, called attention to the situation in Minnesota,
resulting from the operation of the old Indian treaties
under present conditions; and with respect to tie'area
ceded by the Chippewas in 1855, he stated: "The records
of the Indian Bureau show that there are within said area,
under the jurisdiction of the superintendents of the White
Earth and Leech Lake Reservations, 7,196 Indians who
can be amply protected by limiting the territory as to
which said treaty provisions shall remain in force and
effect, to the area within and contiguous to said reservations, particularly described as follows: . . . I therefore recommend that Congress modify the article of said
treaty quoted above so as to exclude from the operations
of its provisions all of the territory ceded by said treaty
to the United States, except that immediately above described."
That Congress has not yet acted upon this recommendation is evidence that the problem is not so entirely
obvious of solution that it can be judicially declared to be
beyond the range of legislative discretion.
Since it must be admitted that complainants have no
ground of relief against defendants if the restriction remains in force at Bemidji, as we hold that it does, it follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus

234 U. S.

that the decree of the District Court should be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the
bill.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTCE LURTON dissent upon grounds expressed in the opinion of the District
Court, reported in 183 Fed. Rep. 611.

EQUITABLE SURETY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, TO THE USE OF McMILLAN.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 861.

Argued April 15, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The obligation given by the surety under the District of Columbia
Materialmen's Act of 1899 which is modeled after the General Materialmen's Act of 1894, has a dual aspect, being given not only to
secure the Government the faithful performance of all the obligations
assumed towards it by the contractor, but also to protect third persons from whom the contractor may obtain materials and labor;
these two agreements being as distinct as though contained in separate instruments, the surety cannot claim exemption from liability
to pbrsons supplying materials merely on account of changes made
by the Government and the contractor without its knowledge and
which do not alter the general character of the work. United States v.
National Surety Co., 92 Fed. Rep. 549, approved.
Under the rule of strictissimijuris, the agreement altering the contract
must be participated in by the obligee or creditor as well as the principal in order to discharge the surety; in the case of a bond under the
Materialmen's Acts of 1894 or 1899, there is no single obligee or
creditor to consent thereto and the rule of strictissimijuris does not

