FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES.

167

Counsel for Appellant.

234 U. S.

same opinion by which the other case was disposed of, and
there thus being no distinction between the two cases, for
reasons given in the other case, No. 254,
The judgment is reversed.

FLORIDA EAST COAST RAILWAY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COMMERCE COURT.

No. 383. Argued January 15, 16, 1913.-Decided June 8, 1914.
The rule that a finding of fact made by the Interstate Commerce Commission'concerning a matter wAthin the scope of the authority delegated to it is binding and may not be reexamined in the courts, does
not apply where the finding was made without any evidence whatever to support it; the consideration of such a question involves
not an issua of fact, but one of 'law which it is the duty of the courts
to examine and decide.
The record does not disclose any evidence justifying the order of the
Commission directing a reduction of rates which had been held to be
reasonable by a prior order of the Commission.
In a proceeding against several railroads, testimony as to the condition
of traffic on certain railroads does not tend to establish conditions ow
another road in regard to which no testimony is given and where the
record shows essential differences between it and those roads in
regard to which the testimony was given.
200 Fed. Rep. 797, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission establishing rates on
citrus fruits and vegetables from points of production in
Florida to exterior points of consumption, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Frederick C. Bryan and Mr. Alex. St. Clair-Abrams

for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Mr. Solicitor GeneralBullitt
was on the brief, for the United States:
The investigations before the Interstate Commerce
Commission into the rates on citrus fruits, vegetables, and
pineapples from southern Florida to the north engaged the
attention of the Commission for a number of years in
several separate proceedings to which the appellant was a
party. The Railroad Commissioners of Florida, in pursuance of their statutory duty and authority, instituted the
present proceedings against all of, the railroads in the State
for the purpose of unifying throughout the State the gathering rates. The Interstate Commerce Commission, after
bringing before it all the records in the previous investigations, gave notice of further hearings and took a vast
amount of additional evidence. In all of those investigations the appellant was represented before the Commission
by its present counsel, who was assisted by its officers,
traffic officials and other agents, and the voluminous
records before the Commission consist principally of
matter which they offered.
The appellant has stipulated out of the record all of the
evidence taken, by the Commission in the previous proceedings. It has further stipulated that the court may
refer to the reports of the Commission as correct statements of the issues and facts of those proceedings. The
statement- attributed to counsel and the Commissioner
taking the evidence in December, 1909, that the appellant's rates were not involved in those proceedings are
not in the present record. The alleged statements are of
no consequence or counsel would not have stipulated them
out. The absence from the opinion of the Commerce
Court, which reviewed fully all of the evidence and the
various proceedings before the Commission, of any reference to the alleged statements is conclusive that they
were not seriously pressed at the hearing. It is now

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 169
234 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

beyond the power of the appellant to shake the presumptions in favor of the validity of the order. Chi., R. I. &
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 218 U. S. 88, 110, 111.
The order is also effective against the Atlantic Coast
Line and the Seaboard Air Line companies. During
the season of 1910, the Atlantic Coast Line handled
2,901,936 boxes of citrus fruits and 1,500,000 miscellaneous crates; total, 4,401,936. The Florida East Coast
handled 669,584 boxes of citrus fruits, 600,000 crates
pineapples, and 1,890,000 miscellaneous crates; total,
3,159,584. The Seaboard Air Line handled 780,387 boxes
of citrus fruits and 1,391,335 miscellaneous crates; total,
2,171,722. In the volume of traffic handled the appellant
stands between the Atlantic Coast Line and the Seaboard
Air Line. They appeared before the Commission with the
appellant, occupied similar positions, had similar interests
at stake, and were accorded the same treatment. Those
companies forthwith published the reduced rates and have
since maintained them without protest. Neither company joined in the petition before the Commerce Court
and, while at all times cognizant of the litigation which
would inure to their benefit, if successful, neither has ever
intervened.
The present order of the Interstate Commerce Commission unified the gathering charges on citrus fruits, vegetables and pineapples throughout the entire State of
Florida. The rates from the west coast, traversed by the
Atlantic Coast Line and the Seaboard Air Line, are not
contested. If the court annuls the present order of the
Commission and allows the appellant to restore its former
rates, a drastic discrimination will result, and the shippers
on the east coast will be at an advantage over the shippers
on the west coast.
Appellant's railroad consists of two sections: (1) the
line and branches from Jacksonville to Homestead, consisting of 506.47 miles, or the main line; (2) the line over

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

the Keys from Homestead to Key West, consisting of
122 miles, or the Over-Sea Extension; total, 628.47 miles.
The capitalization of the entire mileage consists of
$10,000,000 of first mortgage bonds, $21,000,000 of second
mortgage bonds, and $5,000,000 of stock; total $36,000,000;
of this, $15,000,000 applies to the main line and $21,000,000
to the Over-Sea Extension. The entire capital stock is
and always has been owned by a single individual and no
stockholders' meeting was ever necessary to determine his
action. The cost of the Over-Sea Extension was approximately $175,000 per mile, or about $21,000,000. The
Keys are undeveloped, vegetation will not grow because
of blight resulting from the salt water, and there is little
or no population. The act of the legislature of Florida
authorizing its construction recites that it is desirable and
important to the State to secure a fair proliortion of the
traffic passing through the Panama Canal. It is conceded that the handling of the cars from the north into
southern Florida, the loading of the cars, the handling of
the citrus fruits, vegetables and pineapples, and the shipping thereof from southern Florida to the north, were not
even among the considerations which resulted in the construction to the south of the Over-Sea Extensiin.
For the year ending June 30, 1911, the net operating
revenue from the main line was $1,272,908.19. According
to the showing made by appellant that sum would more
than pay a dividend of 8 per cent on the capitalization of.
$15,000,000 for the main line, and would more than pay a
dividend of 4 per cent on the total bonded indebtedness of
$31,000,000 for the entire system. The ordinary rate of
interest on railroad stocks and bonds is less than 8 per
cent, and runs from 4 to 5 and 6 per cent. The reasonableness of the rates paid by the growers and shippers of
southern Florida, whose freight is transported northward,
should not be tested by a return of 8 per cent, or by any
per cent, on the fair value of 122 miles of railroad built

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 171
234 U. S. Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

southward over the barren Keys at a cost of $175,000 per
mile, and which does not pay operating expenses,.for the
purpose of securing business from the Panama Canal, not
yet opened, or for some other purpose, though confessedly
not for the use of those shippers. Covington Turnpike
Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, 596; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 549.
On the subject of confiscation the absence of the Atlantic
Coast Line and the Seaboard Air Line companies from
the case is again significant. As to them the rates have
been published without protest and maintained as just
and reasonable rates for similar tralsportation services.
The railroads of those companies were built upon lands
open to development where traffic may be secured. If
the appellant erred in its judgment in building a railroad
at such enormous cost over the barren Keys, into the
Atlantic Ocean, the growers of the State of Florida who
ship in the opposite direction should not be called upon to
pay the bill
Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce
Commission:
The order does not violate the provisions of the Constitution of the United States guaranteeing due process of
law and requiring that just compensation be paid for
property taken for public use.
Confiscation cannot be predicated on a reduction of
total revenue of the carrier caused by an order of the Commission reducing a single rate or rates upon a particular
traffic.
The Commission, in the -proceeding in which the order
was entered, conformed to statutory authority.
In support of their contentions, see Florida Shippers'
Protective Assn. v. Atl. Coast Line R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C.
476; S. C., 17 I. C. C. 552; Den v. Hoboken Land Co., 18
How. 272; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78; Reeves

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Railroad Commissioners of Florida.

234 U. S.

v. Ainsworth, 219 U. S. 296; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506; Blinn v. Nelson, 222 U. S. 1; United States v.

B. & 0. S. W. R. R., 222 U. S. 8; Standard Oil Co. v.
Missouri, 224 U. S. 270; Jordan v. Massachusetts, 225
U. S. 167; Procter & Gamble v. United States, 225 U. S.
282, 297; Int. Com. Comm. v. U. P. R. R. Co., 222 U. S.
541, 547; Int. Com. Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S.
452; Arkansas Rate Case, 187 Fed. Rep. 290; Reagan v.
Farmers' L: & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362, 397; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 541, 544, 547; St. L. & San F. Ry. v. Gill,
156 U. S. 649, 657, 665; Minneapolis &c. Ry. v. Minnesota,
186 U. S. 257, 266, 268; Covington Turnpike Co. v. Sand-

ford, 164 U. S. 578, 594; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Co., 204 U. S. 426, 444; Southern Ry. Co. v.
St. Louis Hay Co., 214 U. S. 297, 301; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Burnham, 218 U. S.88, 111; Atl. Coast Line v. Nor. Car.
Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1, 24, 25; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Chi., R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S. 88, 102; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Chi., B. & Q. R. R., 218 U. S.113; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co.
v. Int. Com. Comm., 206 U. S.441; Cincinnati &c. Ry. v.
Int. Com. Comm., 206 U. S. 142, 154; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Un. Pac. Ry. Co., 222 U. S. 415, 446.

Mr. Frederick M. Hudson for the Railroad Commissioners of Florida:

This case is not controlled by Smyth v. Ames. It is not a
case in which the value of the property is the proper basis
of calculation as a test of reasonableness. Petitioner's

theory of the case is therefore wholly erroneous.
The cost of the service rendered would have been a
sounder basis of calculation in this case, and petitioner
has not met that requirement.
Petitioner might have used the average freight receipts
as a test, but has not met that requirement.
Even if this case were controlled by Smyth v. Ames, the
petitioner is not within the terms of that rule because

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 173
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there is no separation or apportionment of interstate and
intrastate business.
Even if this case were controlled by Smyth v. Ames the
petitioner is not within the terms of that rule because its
theory of the case assumes that the carrier is entitled to a
profit on its investment regardless of qualifying circumstances.
Mr. A. A. Boggs filed a brief for the Florida Fruit and
Vegetable Shippers' Protective Association and the East
Coast Fruit and Vegetable Growers' Association, intervening appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WH]:TE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission concerning which the appellant, hereafter called the East
Coast Line, complained before the court below and which
that court refused to enjoin was made on a second supplemental petition presented in controversies which had been
long pending and twice before decided, such controversies
involving many railroads and being concerned with the
rates -s to pineapples, citrus fruits and vegetables from
places of production in Florida to exterior points of distribution or consumption. While the report here under
consideration made on the second supplemental petition
deals with only a few of the railroads concerned in the
previous inquiries and with only a part of the controversies
involved in the previous cases, yet the reports in the
previous cases and the reasons stated by the Commission
for its action in those cases are so connected with its action
complained of in this case that it is impossible to understand this controversy without recurring to and stating
the previous reports of the Commission in the controversies to which we have referred.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

We observe before coming to make that statement that
none of the testimony taken before the Commission in the
cases prior to this one is in the record, it having been
stipulated that the facts stated by the Commission in its
reports in such previous cases should be taken as the facts
of such controversies. For the purpose of the statement
which we shall make the record therefore consists of the
reports in such previous cases, of the report in this case and
the testimony taken in this case before the Commission
and in the court below. The future application of the
facts which we shall state will be facilitated by giving a
description of the East Coast Line as stated in the several
reports of the Commission to which we shall immediately
recur.
The East Coast Line is wholly within the State
of
Florida, the main line extending from Jacksonville south
along the Atlantic coast to Miami, a distance of 366 miles,
then to Homestead, 28 miles south, and thence across the
Florida Keys to Key West. At the time of the final hearing
before the Commission on March 2, 1911, the road was not
fully constructed and was only completed and beiiig
operated to Knight's Key, about 83 miles below Homestead. The total mileage of the road was about 583 miles,
including 477 miles of main line from Jacksonville to
Knight's Key and about 106 miles of branch line above
Miami. The cost of the construction from Homestead on
was enormous, amounting to nearly $175,000 per mile,
and the total cost of the extension from Homestead to
Knight's Key, 83 miles, nearly equalled the entire cost of
the balance of the road, 500 miles. On July 3, 1907, a
petition was filed by the Florida Fruit & Vegetable Shippers' Protective Association against the Atlantic Coast
Line, the Seaboard Air Line and Southern Railway Companies and the East Coast Line complaining of and asking
a reduction in interstate rates on pineapples, citrus fruits
and vegetables. The East Coast Line was the only one

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 175
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the defendant railroads whose traffic was confined to
the prdducing regions in Florida because while the other
lines also undoubtedly penetrated to the area of production, their lines were not confined to Florida but were
trunk lines carrying not only the product committed to
them by producers in Florida, but also the products committed by producers to roads like the East Coast Line
which did not extend beyond Florida and had therefore
to be transshipped if destined to points beyond the State
by other roads. In coming to make its report in the case
thus referred to, the Commission thus stated the general
situation of the railroad traffib of all the roads in Florida
concerning the subjects under discussion (No. 1168, 14
I. C. C. 483):
"The shape and location of the state of Florida is such
that these railroads which handle this traffic from the point
of production up to the base point necessarily do but a
limited business. They extend south considerable distances through a sparsely settled country which neither
originates nor consumes a considerable amount of traffic.
Some of them reach the seacoast, but none of them connect or can connect with railroads leading beyond, and
the amount of through business handled is extremely light.
Their traffic is confined almost entirely to bringing out the
products which originate upon their lines, and carrying in
the supplies which are consumed in the territory served by
them. Fruits and vegetables, lumber, naval stores, and in
some cases cotton and phosphate rock are the principal
commodities carried, and of these, fruits and vegetables
produce the most revenue."
In the report by which the Commission disposed of this
controversy (No. 1168, 14 I. C. C. 476) it divided the
rates to be considered into two classes:, (a) gathering
charges from production points in Florida to base points
of which Jacksonville was the only one on the East Coast
Line, and (b) rates from base points to points of final

OCTOBER TERM, 1913. ,
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

destination in other States, the sum of the two rates being
the joint through rate.
Considering the three products whose traffic charges
were under consideration, the Commission said:
(a) Citrus fruits:
"From an examination of the elaborate figures which
were introduced upon the trial showing the character of
the traffic handled by these Florida roads, the conditions
under which it is handled, their earnings, and the cost of
operation running through a series of years, it is difficult
to see how these railroads can be expected to transport in
a suitable way this fruit and vegetable traffic from points
of production to these basing points for a less sum than
they now receive. It is difficult to see how, even upon the
present traffic, those lines can in the immediate future expect to pay any considerable return upon their investment.
We feel that these local rates, although they are high in
comparison with other local rates, are as low as should
be established under all the circumstances." (p. 484.)
(b) Vegetables:
"The. same observations which have been made upon
the orange rates to base points apply with equal pertinency
to those upon vegetables. They are named by the railroad
commission of Florida. They are made with the understanding that they are really parts of through rates from
the point of production to the market of consumption.
They are low in comparison with other rates because it is
understood that this industry is an important one to the
State of Florida, and that a low cost of transportation is
essential to its development.
"While these local rates are essentially part of the
through charge and should be dealt with by this Commission as such, it is difficult to see how these Florida railroads
can render a proper service upon a lower scale of rates
than is now applied. It must be remembered that without
the railroad this industry could not exist at all, and that

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 177
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to its satisfactory carrying on the character of the service
is fully as important as the rate. It is better that these
fruits and vegetables should reach the market on time, and
in good condition, than that a few cents per box should be
subtracted from the carrying charge.,, There was very
little complaint as to the service; nor did the shippers who
testified manifest any desire that these carriers should be
required to accept less than reasonable compensation for
that service. Our conclusion upon this branch of the case
is that the present rates up to the base points, while high
in comparison with similar rates in .other localities are as
low as'they ought to be under the conditions obtaining
upon these Florida lines, so that here, as in case of oranges,
the real question arises upon the rate from the base point
to the northern market." (p. 496.)
(c) Pineapples:
"Pineapples are mainly produced in Florida, upon the
line of the Florida East Coast Railway, which extends, as
already said, down the east- side of Florida. This industry
has within recent years developed rapidly. Florida pineapplies today sell in all the markets of the United States
in competition with foreign pineapples, usually commanding much higher prices, than the foreign article. While
the period of production in the United States and in Cuba
is not exactly the same, still it may fairly be said that the
two products do compete.
"It was said that Jansen might be selected as a typical
producing point upon the Florida East Coast Railway.
This station is 257 miles south of Jacksonville and the
rate on pineapples is 24 cents per box of 80 pounds. Rates
from other points are relatively about the same as ,from
Jansen; somewhat lower, it will be seen, for the same distance, than from most producing points upon oranges."
(p. 502.)
Presumably, deeming that the particular situation on
the East Coast Line as to the character, of its business, its
VOL. 'ccxxxiv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

location, its cost, etc., etc., required to be specially pointed
out in addition to what was said in the passages quoted,
the Commission said:
"The Florida East Coast Railway was built as part of
a hotel scheme, and its principal business is the carrying
of passengers who frequent these Florida winter resorts.
Over 50 per cent. of its total receipts are from passenger
traffic. Its most important freight business is the transportation of fruits and vegetables, and of these pineapples
afford the' most considerable amount of revenue. The
management of the railroad has paid great attention to
the development of this business. In the pineapple region
highways are few and transportation by wagon is therefore
costly. To relieve this difficulty sidings have been put
in the pineapple region at frequent intervals. The traffic
representative of this railroad stated that it was possible
to load pineapples every half mile upon his line in the
pineapple-producing region. When once loaded great attention is paid to sending the fruit to Jacksonville upon a
reliable and expeditious schedule.
"Very elaborate -tables were introduced showing the
cost of constructing this railroad and the financial results
of its past operations. These statements and tables have
been examined by the Commission, but it does not seem
necessary to reproduce them here or to state in detail the
grounds of our conclusions. But for this railroad the pineapple industry in Florida would not today exist. The
quality of the service rendered that industry by this road
is not criticised. The shippers of this fruit ought not to
object, nor do they .object to paying a fair compensation
for the service, and in our opinion the present rates do not
exceed such just compensation for the transportation of
pineapples from various producing points to Jacksonville,
and we so hold." (p. 503.)
And concerning the earnings of the East Coast Line, it
was said:

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 179
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"The total earnings of the Florida East Coast Railway
for the same year (ending June 30, 1907) were $5,911 per
mile, and its operating expenses $4,502. The greater part
of the receipts of this railroad are from its passenger service. The evidence shows that a considerable portion of
what little freight revenue it has comes from the trans-.
portation of fruits and vegetables. It has given in the past
great attention to this service, and has apparently satisfied
its patrons in this respect. It makes no through rates, but
receives its full local in all cases up to Jacksonville."
(p. 484.)
Giving effect to the foregoing, the Commission held that
the complaint as to gathering charges was wholly unfounded, and they were maintained. A different conclusion, however, was reached as to charges from the base
points to points of distribution or consumption, as to
which some reduction was made. It consequently follows
that all the other roads who were defendants were subjected to some reduction as to their rates, while the East
Coast Line because of its being a purely gathering road
was subjected to no reduction whatever.
Within a year after this action by the Commission the
same complainant commenced a new proceeding (No.
2566) against two hundred railroads, including among
others the East Coast Line, to establish carload rates from
base points in Florida to interstate points. At the same

time in No. 1168, which as we have seen had been previously passed upon by the Commission and de'cided in
favor of the East Coast Line, a supplemental petition was
filed against that road, the sole complaint against the East
Coast Line in such petitions being as to its gathering rates
on pineapples from points of production to Jacksonville.
And it is to be presumed that the complaint as to pineapplegathering rates was made only against the East Coast
Line because as we have seen, as stated by the Commission, that road was almost the exclusive carrier of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

product, and in fact had virtually buil-t up that industry.
The controversy while it involved a claim of reduction, in
its broad aspect presented only a controversy as to whether
there should be put in force carload and less-than-carload
instead of any-quantity rates in the performance of its
duty of gathering pineapples: On the filing of the new
and original as well as of the supplemental petition the
Commission directed the rescinding of its previous order
concerning the reasonableness of gathering rates, as well as
its finding on the subject of rates from base points and directed the matter to be reheard. Without referring to the
conclusion of the Commission concerning the controversy
as to the many railroads who were before it as to their interstate rates, we come to state the ruling of the Commission as to the East Coast Line (17 I. C. C. 552, 564):
"The evidence produced upon the present hearing
suggests no change in what was said so far as that applies
to the Florida East Coast Railway. That line operates
at the present time 477 miles of main line and 106 miles
of branches. It has a first mortgage of $10,000,000, a
second mortgage of $20,000,000, and a capital stock of
$3,000,000, making in all $33,000,000. This capitalization, with the exception of about $4,000,000, represents
an actual cash investment.
"It is urged by the complainant that the portion of the
line from Miami south, which has cost some $14,000,000,
was notoat the present time a paying investment and that
the balance of the line from Jacksonville to Miami, which
is used by the growers of pineapples, ought not to be taxed
with the cost of this construction. Admitting this to be so
and laying out of view altogether the $14,000,000 which
have been invested in that part of the property, it is still
true that during the entire existence of the Florida East
Coast Railway, so far as this record shows, that property
has neyer earned in any single year 6 per cent. upon the
money invested, with the single exception of the year 1909.

FLORIDA EAST COAST LiNE v. UNITED STATES. 181
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

During much of the time its net earnings have been but
little above its operating expenses. We certainly cannot
hold that these rates should be reduced because for a
single twelve months, under what may be termed abnormal conditions, this railway earned about 6 per cent. on
the money which has been actually invested in its construction. The years when no return has been received
must certainly be given some consideration. Upon no
other theory could privat~e capital be induced to invest
in the construction of railroads.
"While, however, we adhere to what was said in the
previous case, we do think, upon more careful examination,
that these rates of the Florida East Coast Railway on
pineapples ought to be somewhat revised. They are not
consistent with one another, and in our opinion those from
the more distant points are too high as compared With
rates from nearby points.
"The present rates are in any quantity. About 60
per cent. of these pineapples move from the point of origin
in carloads, 40 per cent. in less than carloads. Carload
shipments are stripped and loaded by the shipper and are
not unloaded at Jacksonville, which probably saves the
carrier not far from 2 cents per box. The less-than-carload
shipment is loaded by the railway and usually unloaded
at the station in South Jacksonville or Jacksonville. In
our opinion carload rates should be established which are
less than the present any-quantity rates by 3 cents per box.
"The establishment of such carload rates will not of a
certainty work a decrease in the net earnings of the carriers. It is a false theory of transportation which seeks
to force the shipper to avail himself of a less-than-carload
service, which is more expensive to render, for the purpose
of increasing the gross revenues of the carrier. The true
object should be to perform the service in the most
economical manner and to charge for that service reasonable compensation. In the end this makes to the advan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tage of both the carrier and its patron. The vice-president
of the Florida East Coast Railway stated that he had
always thought that carload rates should be established
and that in his opinion to establish carload rates 3 cents
per box less than the present any-quantity rates would
not prejudice the net revenues of his company, since he
would make up. by saving in operating expenses what he
lost in gross income."
The order of the Commission which gave effect to these
views entered February 8, 1910, changed gathering charges
on pineapples and citrus fruits on the East Coast Line
from any-quantity to carload and less-than-carload rates
and modified the mileage basis. On attention being directed to the fact that the complaint related only to pineapples, while the order applied to that product and to
citrus fruits, the order was modified and restricted to the
subject complained of, pineapples. The East Coast Line
conformed to the order and indeed shortly after doing so
also voluntarily put into effect carload and less-thancarload gathering rates on citrus fruits and vegetables,
and although the rates thus fixed were somewhat higher
than the rates on pineapples which the Commission had
established, they were lower than the citrus fruit and
vegetable rates which had been expressly sustained by the
Commission. Some months after this was done the same
complainant who had filed the previous petitions presented
in No. 1168 a second supplemental complaint against the
East Coast Line, and new petitions against the Seaboard
Air Line and Atlantic Coast Line Railways (No. 3808).
So far as the East Coast Line was concerned the complaint
was against the citrus fruit and vegetable-gathering rates
and asked that they be equalized with or made the same
as the pineapple rate. The Florida Railroad Commission
intervened and asked the same relief. The Commnission
in effect granted the prayer of this second supplemental
complaint, found. the rates of the East Coast Line on

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 183
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

citrus fruits and vegetables to be unjust and unreasonable,
and directed the putting into operation of a lower stated
schedule of gathering rates which was made applicable not
only to the East Coast Line but also to the other roads
which were parties to the proceeding. And it is this order
which the railroad refused to obey and to enjoin the enforcement of which this suit was brought.
Without going into detail it suffices to say that the
report of the Commission concerning the action just
stated did not purport to question the correctness of its
previous findings sustaining the citrus fruit and vegetable
rates of the East Coast Line, but was based upon what was
deemed to be a change in conditions since the previous
decisions. After pointing out that it had previously
ordered a change from any-quantity to carload and lessthan-carload rates on pineapples from gathering points
to the base point on the East Coast Line and on all fruits
and vegetables from base points outward, and that on
both the Atlantic Coast Line and the Seaboard Air Line
any-quantity rates yet remained from gathering points as
to all fruits and vegetables, although such was not the
case as to the East Coast Line because of the change
which it had voluntarily made, it was said (22 I. C. C.
11, 14, 15):
"No material change. has taken place since then (that
is, since the previous decisions) so far as this record discloses which would lead to a different conclusion if the
same subject were before us today. The volume of business transacted has increased, but the expenses of operation have also increased to an extent which offsets the
greater amount of business. ...
"It appeared in the original case that citrus fruits to
some extent, and vegetables to a much greater extent,
were shipped in small lots to Jacksonville and there reloaded for movement beyond. It was our impression in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

establishing carload rates- from the base point that this
would permit the movement in small lots up to the base
point and the consolidation at such point, and that the
carload movement would in fact be mainly beyond the
base point. Such has not been the result. In order to
obtain the carload rate beyond the base point it seems to
be necessary for the shipper, in actual practice, to present
a full carload at the point of origin, and from this it follows
that the movement up to the base point at the present
time is entirely different from what it was when we
approved these any-quantity rates. At that time the
loading was by the carrier; now it is mainly by the shipper.
The loading of the cars from the point of origin to the
base points is much heavier now than formerly. In 1907
the average loading of citrus fruits and pineapples upon
the Atlantic Coast Line up to the base point was 215
boxes. In 1910 this loading had increased to 279 boxes.
In case of vegetables the increase is even more marked.
The number of cars now required to transport the same
amount of this traffic from points of origin to base points
would be materially less than in 1908. Otherwise stated,
it costs the shipper more to handle his business today and
it costs the railroad less."
And upon that changed circumstance an order was
awarded directing the change from any-quantity to carload and less-than-carload and fixing a rate which was the
same as that previously fixed for pineapples. Of course,
as the East Coast Line had voluntarily put in carload and
less-than-carload rates, it was only affected by this order
to the extent that it lowered the traffic charge as contained in the schedule which had been previously voluntarily established.
It is* insisted that the order of the Commission was
wrongfuland that the court below erred in not restraining
its enforcement for the following reasons: (a) because the
order complained of was rendered without any evidence

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 185
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whatever to sustain it; (b) because it confiscated the
property of the railway in a two-fold aspect, first, by fixing
a rate so unreasonably low as to afford no remuneration to
the corporation for the use of its property, and second,
Decause although the Commission in order to justify the
rate which it fixed took into account the revenue derived
from the extended road, it nevertheless declined to at all
consider the value of the extended road and the right to
earn a return thereon. We come as briefly as possible
to consider these contentions separately.
(a) That there was no evzdence whatever tending to sustain
the reduction of the rates on citrus fruits and vegetables as to
the East Coast Line which the Commission ordered.
While a finding of fact made by the Commission concerning a matter within the scope of the authority delegated to it is binding and may not be reexamined in the
courts, it is undoubted that where it is contended that an
order whose enforcement is resisted was rendered without
any evidence whatever to support it, the consideration of
such a question involves not an issue of fact, but one of
law which it is the duty of the courts to examine and
decide. (Int. Com. Comm. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 227
U. S. 88, 91, 92, and cases cited.)
In view of what we have said concerning the state of the
record, the solution of the question must depend upon an
examination and analysis of two subjects, the one the
reports of the Commission in the previous cases, and the
other, the testimony which was before it and the report
made in this case. As to the first, in view of the statements made by the Commission in its report in the original case .(No. 1168, 14 I. C. C. 476) as to the earning
power of the road, the nature of its business and the
reasonableness of its rates and the express finding that the
citrus fruit and vegetable rates were just and reasonable
and should not be changed and the further fact that they
were not called in question in the second proceeding it

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

follows that the inquiry narrows itself to the mere consideration of the testimony taken in this proceeding, and
the report of the Commission in such proceeding, and the
testimony taken before the court below in so far as it is
proper to consider it in connection with the particular
question under consideration. But coming to make a
review of the testimony before the Commission on the
issue raised by the second supplemental petition, we fail
to find the slightest proof tending to sustain the reduction
in rates as to the East Coast Line, which was made.
There are only three subjects referred to in the testimony which can in any view be considered as having any
possible tendency to show such a change as would cause
the rate which was found by the Commission in the past
reasonable and not to justify a change to be unreasonable
and therefore require reduction. The three subjects are
these: (a) testimony by the chairman of the Florida
R;iroad Commission that there had been a considerable
increase in the volume of traffic in citrus fruits and vegetables since the previous finding; (b) a further statement
or admission made by an officer of the East Coast Line
in a colloquy which took place at the hearing in this case
to the effect that as shippers under carload rates loaded
their own cars there was some difference in cost to the
advantage of the road over the cost of loading when the
any-quantity rates prevailed; (c) testimony with reference
to the Atlantic Coast Line and the Seaboard Air Line
(but none as to the East Coast Line) to the effect that on
those roads it had come to pass that there was a saving in
expense and an increase in earning capacity because even
under the any-quantity rates carload shipments had
greatly increased and cars so shipped were much more
heavily loaded and moved from the point of production
through the base point to their ultimate destination, when
such was not the case at the time the previous order was
made. Testimony which as we have seen was expressly

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES. 187
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

declared by the Commission to be in effect the cause which
gave rise to the reduction. But at once it.is to be observed
that so far as any inference alone from the difference
between carload and less-than-carload rates and anyquantity rates is concerned it had no application to the
East Coast Line since that road had put in the carload and
less-than-carload rates while the other two roads had not.
And so far as the consideration of the increased loading is
concerned as stated by the Commission, whatever may
have been the proof as to the Seaboard Air Line and the
Atlantic Coast Line, it is beyond controversy that no
such proof can -be found in the record as to the East Coast
Line except the vague intimation to which we have -referred.
Thus by analysis the case comes to this: Did the facts
as to the increased loading which the Commission found
to exist in the case of the Seaboard Air Line and the
Atlantic Coast Line support or tend to support the order
as to the East Coast Line in the absence of all testimony
in the record concerning the existence of such fact as to the
traffic on that road? In other words, the question is,
Because there was testimony as to the traffic of those
roads, can such testimony be said to tend to establish the
same condition on the East- Coast Line? Conceding that
from an abstract point of view an affirmative answer
would have to be given to such question we think such is
not the case here for the following reasons: (a) because of
the difference in business carried on by the two roads
named and the East Coast Line, they being not only
gatherers of the local product but trunk line carriers;
(b) because of the difference in the situation and traffic of
the two trunk lines named and the East Coast Line, as
deduced solely from the peculiar environment and movemert of business on that road so aptly stated in the
passages from the reports of the Commission which we
have quoted. Differences which presumably gave rise to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

separate statements in the previous reports in considering
that road. While we do not say that the conclusion is
affirmatively sustained, nevertheless we think the state
of the record at least tends to give some support to the
suggestion in the argument that the greater magnitude
and importance of the consideration of the business and
rates of the two trunk line carriers concentrated attention
in that direction and therefore caused the inquiry on that
subject and the facts concerning the same to eclipse the
distinctions between those lines and the East Coast
Line-distinctions which if otherwise taken under consideration should have produced a different result.
As it follows from these views that the order in question
as to the East Coast Line and its enforcement should have
been enjoined by the court below, our duty is to reverse
the action of that court and to remand the case to the
proper District Court with directions to grant the prayer
of the East Coast Line and restrain the enforcement of the
order in question and it is so ordered.
Reversed.

VAN DYKE v. CORDOVA COPPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.
No. 735.

Motion to dismiss submitted May 11, 1914.-Decided June 8,
1914.

Although words may be superfluous, if the statute be construed in
accordance with the obvious intent of Congress, the courts should
not, simply in order to make them effective, give them a meaning
that is repugnant to the statute looked at as a whole, and destructive of its purpose.
Under §§ 32 and 33 of the Arizona Enabling Act of June 20, 1910, the
judgment of the state court in a case transferred to it from the

