LOUISIANA v. McADOO.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

STATE OF LOUISIANA v. McADOO, SECRETARY
OF THE TREASURY.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION.
Original.

Argued April 14, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914

The United States may not be sued in the courts of this country without its consent.
Whether the United States is in legal effect a party is not always determined by whether it appears as a party on the record -but by
the effect of the decree that can be rendered.
A State which happens to operate sugar plantations by its convict
labor may not review the action of the Secretary of the Treasury in
determining the rate of duty to be collected on foreign sugar any
more than any other producer of sugar may do so.
A suit against the Secretary of the Treasury to review his action
in determining the rate of duty to be collected, under statutes
and treaties, on an imported article, and to mandamus him to collect a specific amount, is in effect a suit against the United
States.
Even an importer may not invoke the aid of the courts to clog the
wheels of government by attempting to review by mandamus the
action of the Secretary of the Treasury in determining the rate of
duty to be collected on imported articles.
Determining the rate of duty to be collected under the existing statutes
and treaties on foreign sugar is not a mere ministerial act on the part
of the Secretary of the Treasury, but one involving judgment and
discretion.
While a public officer may by law, and at the instance of one having
a particular legal interest, be required to perform a mere-ministerial
act not requiring the exercise of judgment or discretion, he may not
be so required in respect to matters committed to him by law and
requiring the exercise of judgment and discretion.
The courts will not interfere with the ordinary functions of the executive department of the Government.
Application for leave to file a petition for writ of mandamus against
the Secretary of the Treasury to compel him to collect a different
amount of duty on sugar imported from Cuba under the provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

of the existing statute and the treaty of 1902 with Cuba, denied,
without expressing any opinion on the merits of the questions involved.

THE facts, Which involve the jurisdiction of this court to
entertain an- original suit against the Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States, and the determination of
whether the suit is one against the United States, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Ruffin G. Pleasant, Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, and Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr.
Paul J. Christianwas on the brief, for petitioner.
The Solicitor General,with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Adkins was on the brief, for the United States.
MR..JusTICE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
The State of Louisiana has appeared at the bar of this
court, through its Attorney General, for the purpose of
obtaining permission to file this petition against the
Honorable William Gibbs McAdoo, Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States, and the Honorable C. S.
Hamlin, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury of the United
States. The United States, by its Solicitor General, has
appeared in opposition, contending that the suit is one
against the United States and cannot, therefore, be
brought without its consent.
No principle is better established than that the United
States may not be sued in the courts of this country without its consent. If, therefore, this be a suit against the
United States, the Stste, though entitled as a State to
appeal to the original jurisdiction of this court, must show
some authority .from Congress under which such a suit
may be brought, or leave to file must be denied. United

LOUISIANA v. McADOO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 436; United States v. Lee, 106
U. S. 196; Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331, 333.
That the United States is -not named on the record as
a party is true. But the question whether it is in legal
effect a party to the controversy is not always determined
by the fact that it is not named as a party on the record,
but by the effect of the judgment or decree which can
here be rendered. Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373,
387; Kansas v. United States, supra.
The facts, briefly stated, upon which relief is asked are
these:
The State, as a part of its economic policy, operates
with its convicts three sugar plantations and three sugar
mills. It is therefore a producer of sugar, which must
find a market in competition with that imported from the
Republic of Cuba and other sugar exporting countries.
The petition avers that under the instructions of the
defendant Treasury officials Cuban sugar, since March 1,
1914, the date upon which the Underwood Tariff Act
became effective, is admitted into the United States at a
rate of 1 1-100 cents per pound, being 80% of 75% of the
rate of duty on sugar imposed by the Dingley Tariff Act
of July 24, 1897, c. 11, 30 Stat. 151, which was 1 685-1000
cents per pound. The contention made is that the rate
which should be collected on Cuban sugar is the rate imposed by the Dingley tariff bill, less a reduction of 20%,
making the net rate legally collectible 1 348-1000 cents
per pound, as provided in the commercial treaty between
the United States and the Republic of Cuba of December 1, 1902, as made effective by the act of Congress of
December 17, 1903, c. 1, 33 Stat. 3, "or, in the alternative,
the duty on all such sugar imported into the United States
should be 75% of the Dingley bill rate, or 1 26-100 cents
per pound, as provided . . . in the Underwood bill of
October 3, 1913, without any preferentialrate whatever being
allowed in favor of said Cuban sugar."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Article II of the convention referred to provides that
the products of the soil or industry of Cuba not included
in Article I "shall be admitted at a reduction of 20% of
the rate of duty as provided by the tariff act of the United
States approved July 24, 1897, or as may be provided by
any tariff law of the United States subsequently approved."
A proviso to Article VIII is in these words:
"That while this convention is in force, no sugar imported from the Republic of Cuba, and being the product
-of the soil or industry of the Republic of Cuba, shall be
admitted into the United States at a reduction of duty
greater than twenty per centum of the rates of duty
thereon as provided by the tariff act of the United States
approved July 24, 1897, and no sugar, the product of
any other foreign country, shall be admitted by treaty or
convention into the United States, while this convention
is in force, at a lower rate of duty than that provided' by
the tariff act of the United States approved July 24,
1897."
The reduction in all sugar duties made by the Tariff
Act of 1913, effective March 1, 1914, is 25% upon the
former rate of the Dingley bill, and the same act after
May 1, 1916, provides for the free admission of all sugar.
The contention seems to be that the proviso, that no
sugar "shall be admitted into the United States at a reduction of duty greater than 20%" of the rate of duty provided by the Dingley Act, operates to prevent any reduction in favor of Cuban sugar after March 1, 1914, since
the reduction made in duty on all .imported sugar, including Cuban sugar, is 25% of the Dingley rate, and that as
such reduction is more than the preferential under the
Cuban convention, the preferential duty under that convention' ceases. Upon the other hand, the contention is
that. the Underwood Act manifested a plain purpose to
continue a preferential of 20% upon the reduced duties
provided therein, a purpose manifested by the abrogation

LOUISIANA v. McADOO,
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the proviso of Article VIII which might have interfered
with such intent.
It is not the purpose of the court to intimate any opinion
upon the merits of the contentions thus presented, and
we have only stated the opposing views far enough to
enable us to decide whether the suit is or is not one against
the United States.
The petition proceeds by averring that the action of the
defendant Treasury officials in instructing customs officers
to admit Cuban sugar after March 1, 1914, at a reduction
of 20% of the rate effective on that date, was "arbitrary,
illegal and unjust

.

.

and will work great and

irreparable injury to your petitioner unless they are restrained and inhibited from demanding and collecting
the said illegal charges on Cuban sugar imported into the
United States; and another, and higher duty, as shown
above, be exacted and collected by said officials on said
sugar instead." It is then contended that this direction
to continue the allowance of a reduction of 20% upon
the reduced rates fixed by the Underwood Act is such a
flagrant exercise of arbitrary power as to make it the duty
of a-court of equity, upon application of anyone having a
definite and distinct interest, to prohibit the allowance
of the reduction and require the collection of the full duty
imposed by the Underwood Act, or, if any preferential be
allowed, it be only upon the higher duty exacted- by the
act of 1897.
But what definite and distinct interest has the State of
Louisiana whether the rate collected be too high or too
low? She is a producer of sugar which must be sold in
competition with foreign sugar, and the petition avers
that the lowering of the duty upon Cuban sugar will lower
the price for which she must sell her sugar yet unsold.
But if Louisiana, as a mere producer and seller of sugar
may review the action oi! the Secretary of the Treasury in
determining the rate to be collected on Cuban sugar, why

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

may not any consumeh, though not an importer, make a
similar complaint if in his judgment the Secretary of the
Treasury is exacting a higher rate than justified by the
law, thereby enhancing the price he must pay in the market upon imported articles which he uses? Obviously
such suits to review the official action of the Secretary
of the Treasury in the exercise of his judgment as to the
rate which should be exacted under his construction of
the Tariff Acts would operate to disturb the whole revenue
-system of the Government and affect the revenues which
arise therefrom. Such suits would obviously, in effect,
be suits against the United States. New York Guaranty
Co. v. Steele, 134 U. S. 230; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S.
711; Hopkins v. Clemson College, 221 U. S. 636, 642.
There have always been remedies by which an importer
may recover an excess rate of duty exacted from him by a
customs collector' either by common law action against
the collector, as in Elliott v.' Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137, or
by statute, § 2931, Revised Statutes; act of June 10, 1890,
c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, 137; act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36
Stat. 11. But the claim that even an importer may complain by appeal or otherwise of the exaction of too low a
rate of duty seems not to have been asserted until 1912,
when an appeal by an importer against an assessment as
too low was sustained by the Customs Court of Appeals,
3 Customs Appeal, 24, upon the theory that one might be
aggrieved by an assessment too low as well as by one too
high. But this Idecision did not meet with favor and the
remedy by appeal was confined to cases in which the duty
imposed was claimed to be higher than authorized by
existing law. Act of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat.,
§ III, part N.
But we can discover no precedent where even an importer has sought to clog the wheels of government by reviewing the action of the Secretary of the Treasury by a
bill such as this.

LOUISIANA v. McADOO.
234 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

The duties imposed upon the Secretary of the Treasury
in the collection of sugar tariffs are not'ministerial. They
axe executive and involve the exercise of judgmlent and
discretion. The facts show a situation in which the Secretary of the Treasury was confronted with the necessity
of construing the law and then instructing the customs
officers as to whether the twenty per cent.' preferential
duty on Cuban sugar required by the convention and the
act of 1903 confirming that treaty had been superseded
or in any wise affected by the later provisions of the Underwood Act.
By statute originally enacted in 1792 (May 8, 1792,
c. 37, 1 Stat. 280), now -§249, Revised Statutes, it is expressly provided that the Secretary of the Treasury is to
"superintend the collection of customs duties as he shall
think best." His interpretation of any custom law is made
conclusive and binding upon all officers of customs, and
upon his successors, until reversed by judicial decision.
Revised Statutes, § 2652; act of March 3, 1875, c. 136,
18 Stat. 469, § 2. In the discharge of his duties, semijudicial in character, the Secretary of the Treasury is, by
statute, entitled to the opinion of the Attorney General,
which,; as we may judicially know, was obtained in this
matter. 30 Ops. Att. Gen., February 14, 1914.
There is a class of cases which hold that if a public
officer be required by law to do a particular thing, not
involving the exercise of either judgment or discretion, he
may be required to do that thing upon application of one
having a distinct legal interest in the doing of the act.
Such an act Would be ministerial only. But if the matter
in respect to which the action of the official is sought, is
one in which the exercise of either judgment or discretion
is required, the courts will refuse to substitute their judgment or discretion for that of the official entrusted by law
with its execution. Interference in such a case would be
to interfere with the ordinary functions of government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U.-S.

Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137; Kendall v. United
States, 12 Peters, 524, 610; United States v. Schurz, 102
U. S. 378, are examples of instances where the duty was
supposed to be ministerial. Cases upon the other side
of the line are, Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Peters, 497, 514,
et seq; Mississippi V. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475; Cunningham
v. Macon &c. Railroad, 109 U. S. 446; United States, ex
rel. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40; United States ex rel.
v. Lamont, 155 U. S. 303; Roberts v. United States, 176
U. S. 221; Riverside Oil Company v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S.
316; Ness v. Fisher,223 U. S. 683.
This applicationfor leave to file must be denied.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the decision of this

case.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA concurs upon the ground last

stated.

COLLINS v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 35.

Submitted April 22, 1914.-Decioed June 22, 1914.

A state penal statute which prescribes no standard of conduct that it
is possible to know violates the fundamental principles of justice
embodied in the conception of due process of law.
International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, ante, p. 216, followed to the
effect that the provisions in regard to pooling crops in chapter 117
of the Laws of Kentucky of 1906 as amended by chapter 8 of the
Laws of 1908, as construed by the courts of that State, in connection
with the anti-trust act of 1890 and § 198 of the Kentucky constitution of 1891 do not prescribe any standard of conduct, and there-

