UNITED STATES v. BUTLER COUNTY R. R. CO. 29
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

authority and it is its duty to reach all unlawful discriminatory practices resulting: in favoritism and unfair advantages to particular shippers or carriers. It is not only
within its power, but the law makes it the duty of the
Commission to make orders which shall nullify such
practices resulting in rebating or preferences, whatever
form they take and in whatsoever guise they may appear.
If the divisions of joint rates are such as to amount to
rebates or discriminations in favor of the owners of the
tap lines because of their disproportionate amount in
view of the service rendered, it is within the province of the
Commission to reduce the amount so that a tap line shall
receive just compensation only for what it actually does.
For the reasons stated, we think the Commerce Court
did not err in reaching its conclusion and decision, and its
judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. BUTLER COUNTY RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 837.

Argued April 13, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

The Tap Line Cases, ante, p. 1, followed to the effect that:
The fact that the same ownership controls the freight offered
and the stock of a railroad company which is a common carrier,
does not justify a different rate imposed upon the same kind of
traffic.
Under the Commodities Clause it is not unlawful for a common
carrier to carry lumber owned by it, and until the law otherwise
provides, it may treat freight owned by it in the same manner as
like freight independently owned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellee.

234 U. S.

If the division of rates between a trunk line and a common
carrier controlled by the same interest as controls the bulk of the
freight moved by the carrier, is a mere cover for rebates and discriminations, the Interstate Commerce Commission has power
to prevent such practices.
209 Fed. Rep. 260, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the status of a lumber tap line
and the powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission
in regard to establishment of joint rates thereover, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, with whom The Solicitor General and Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. Joseph W.
Folk was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., with whom Mr.James M.
Beck was on the brief, for appellee:
The Commerce Court had jurisdiction of the complainant's bill and power to grant the relief prayed.
The Interstate Commerce Commission by its supplemental report of May 14, 1912, finds that the Butler
County Railroad Company is a common carrier subject to
the Act to Regulate Commerce.
The Interstate Commerce Commission required the
Butler County Railroad Company, with the St. Louis &
San Francisco Railroad Company and the St. Louis, Iron
Mountain and Southern Railway Company, respectively,
to reestablish the through routes and joint rates theretofore in effect "in accordance with their respective tariffs,"
thereby fixing what was and is the proper and legal joint
rate on lumber and forest products, from stations on the
Butler County Railroad.

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER COUNTY R. R. CO. 31
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Having fixed the proper and legal joint rate on lumber
and forest products, the Commission had no power to prescribe the "proportion or division of such rate to be received by each carrier party thereto," unless the carriers
"shall fail to agree among themselves upon the apportionment or division thereof."
It was beyond the power of the Commission to require
that the Butler County :Railroad Company should not
receive out of the joint rate a greater division that $1.50
per car on lumber and forest products carried for the
Brooklyn Cooperage Company, when at the same time
providing for proper -divisions of the joint rate to the
Butler County Railroad Company on traffic carried for
other shippers under the same tariffs containing the provision as to milling in transit.
In support of these contentions, see Act to Regulate
Commerce, §§ 1 and 15; Central Yellow Pine Ass'n v.
Vicksburg S. & P. R. Co., 10 I. C. C. 193; Chicago & N. W.
Ry. Co. v. Osborne, 52 Fed. Rep. 912; S. C., 146 U. S. 354;
CraneRailroadCo. v. Phila. & Reading Ry. Co., 15 I. C. C.
248; Division of Joint Rates, 10 I. C. C. 385; Hooker v.
Knapp, 225 U. S. 302; Int. Com. Comm. v. Nor. Pac.
Ry. Co., 216 U. S. 538; Judicial Code of March 3, 1911,
§ 207; Malvern &c. R. R. Co. v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 182
Fed. Rep. 685; Procter & Gamble v. United States, 225
U. S. 282; Re Allowances to Elevators, 14 I. C. C. 309;
Star Grain Case, 17 I. C. C. 338
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, the Butler County Railroad Company,
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission its petition asking for the reestablishment of through routes and
joint rates with certain trunk lines, which was consolidated
with and decided upon the same record as the complaints
before the Commission in the Tap Line Cases involved in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the previous cases, Nos. 829 to 836, just decided, ante,
p. 1. The general statement of the Commission in its
report and supplemental report filed April 23, and May 14,
1912 (23 I. C. C. 277, 549) referred to in those cases preceded the following findings of fact:
The Butler County Railroad Company, the Brooklyn
Cooperage Company, which owns the Railroad Company,
and the Great Western Land Company, owning most of
the timber reached by the railroad, are all subsidiaries of
the American Sugar Refining Company.
The tap line, which was acquired from the Cooperage
Company, consists of a section of track at Linstead, near
Poplar Bluff, Missouri, extending into the plant of the
Cooperage Company and connecting it with the St. Louis,
Iron Mountain & Southern Railway and the St. Louis &
San Francisco Railroad, which are within three-quarters
of a mile of the plant, and the principal track extending
about seven miles from Lowell Junction, a station on the
Iron Mountain 7Y2 miles from Poplar Bluff, to Baileys,
with a branch about 3 miles from Rossville, an intermediate point, and with trackage rights over unincorporated spurs from Baileys belonging to the Cooperage
Company, and over the Iron Mountain from Lowell
Junction to Poplar Bluff, paying for the latter 65c a
train mile for 25 cars. It has 2 locomotives, 2 passenger coaches, 3 cabooses and about 100 freight and log
cars.
The tap line hauls the logs, all of which are hardwood,
from a connection with the unincorporated track to Lowell
Junction, then over the Iron Mountain to Linstead and
thence to the mill over its own track, where they are unloaded by the Cooperage Company. The regular manufacturing rate under the Missouri distance tariff is charged
the Cooperage Company by the tap line, 1 to 11 c per 100
pounds, approximately $4 per car. The loaded cars are
switched to the Frisco or Iron Mountain, less than one

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER COUNTY R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

33

Opinion of the Court.

mile, and the appellee receives from them an allowance of
from 2 to 5c per 100 pounds. The rates from tap line
points, including the mill at Linstead, are in all cases
2c higher than the rates of the trunk lines, from Poplar
Bluff, excepting to New Orleans and New York, to which
points most of the shipments of the Cooperage Company
go, and to which Poplar Bluff rates apply.
One hundred and eighty-four thousand six hundred and
eighty-eight tons of forest products and 2,475 tons of other
freight were hauled during the year ending June 30, 1910;
of the first amount 107,527 tons being furnished by the
controlling interests, 77,161 tons by outsiders, but all the
timber coming from the lands of the Great Western Land
Company, and of the miscellaneous freight 1,195 tons of
inbound machinery and coal being for the proprietary companies. Passenger revenues were $4,104.22. Three mixed
trains in each direction are operated daily between Linstead and Melville, a point beyond Baileys on the unincorporated track, two being used principally for passenger
service.
The Great Western Land Company furnishes timber to
several independent industries on the tracks of the tap line
near Linstead, the tap line switching their product to the
trunk lines. Their factory sites are leased from the
Cooperage Company, the purpose of making such leases
being to secure traffic upon which the tap line might obtain
divisions. A few independent producers on the main track
of the tap line team their supplies and ship their products
over the tap line. They pay the local rate of the tap line
and the trunk line rate, or a through rate that is 2 cents
higher than the Poplar Bluff rate.
The Commission found that the Sugar Company, having refineries at New Orleans and New York, so adjusted
the rates to such places as to induce movements to them
and restrict movements to other points, and limited the
amount the tap line might receive on proprietary traffic
VOL. ccxxxiv-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

moved from the mill to the Iron Mountain and Frisco
to a switching charge fixed at $1.50 per car.
The order of the Commission, so far as it related to the
appellee, required the trunk lines named to reestablish and
maintain with it the through interstate routes and joint
rates in effect, in accordance with their respective tariffs
filed with the Commission on April 30, 1912; provided
that the rates on yellow-pine lumber and articles taking
the same rates from points on the line of the appellee
should not exceed the current rates in effect from the
junction points, and
"Provided further, That the allowances or divisions out
of such joint rates to be paid by said principal defendants
[the trunk lines], respectively, to the said last-named parties to the record [the appellee and others] on the products
of the mills of the said respective proprietary companies
named in said report shall not exceed the divisions or allowances specified in the aforesaid supplemental report of
the Commission [in this instance the switching charge of
$1.50 per car] which are hereby fixed as maximum divisions
or allowances thereon, until further order, the Commission
finding upon the record that any allowances or divisions
in excess thereof result in undue preferences and unjust
discriminations and are unlawful."
The appellee then brought suit in the United States
Commerce Court seeking to enjoin and annul the order of
the Comnfission in so far as it forbade a.division out of the
joint rates of more than $1.50 per car. The Commerce
Court held, after stating that the Commission had found
this road to be a common carrier both of logs and of lumber, and not a plant facility, but had denied it the right
to receive either a division or allowance for the log traffic
and only an allowance for the lumber traffic of the proprietary mill, while permitting it to receive a division out of
the joint rate for both log and" lumber traffic of nonproprietary companies, that the reasons stated in the other

UNITED STATES v. BUTLER COUNTY R. R. CO.
234 U. S.

35

Opinion of the Court.

opinion applied here and that the distinctions made were
arbitrary and the order beyond the power of the Commission, and the Commerce Court decreed that that part of
the order of the Commission above quoted, with reference to the divisions and allowances to be made out of
the joint rates, be vacated and set aside as to the appellee.
209 Fed. Rep. 260.
The United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, the latter having intervened in the proceeding in
the Commerce Court, prosecuted this appeal.
This case was argued on the same day with the other
tap line cases, and much that is said in those cases is applicable here. The Commission ordered the restoration
of the schedule of tariffs of April 30, 1912, thus recognizing
the right of this road to participate in joint tariffs with
other common carriers and to receive a division out of
the joint -rates. But the Commission excepted from this
right traffic offered to the appellee by its proprietary company, evidently upon the theory enforced in the other
cases before the Commission that as to such traffic the
Railroad Company had not the rights of a common carrier, and as to such traffic limited the compensation of
the Railroad Company to a switching charge of $1.50 per
car.
We think the Commerce Court correctly held that the
fact that the same ownership controlled the freight offered
and the Railroad Company would not justify the different
rate imposed upon the same kind of traffic. Under the
Commodities Clause of the Act to. Regulate Commerce,
as amended (June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584), the
right of a carrier, as we have said in the former opinion in
these cases, to carry this class of freight although owned
by it, is recognized as lawful. This being so, such carrier,
iintil the law otherwise provides, has the right to treat
such freight in the same manner as it does like freight independently owned. Of course, if the division of the rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

is a mere cover for rebates or discriminations, such practices may be controlled by the Commission under the authority given to it in the Act to Regulate Commerce.
We find no error in the disposition the Commerce Court
made of this case, and its judgment is therefore
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. AXMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 242.

Argued March 9, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Where, after default of the original contractor, the contract is relet,
the original contractor is not bound for difference unless the contract
as relet is the same as the original contract.
Where a contract for dredging requires the dredged material to be de,posited in a specified location, changes made as to the location for
depositing such materials amount to such an important variation
that the first contractor cannot be held for difference. United States
v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460, distinguished.
Change in location for depositing material dredged under a government contract is not to be regarded as a minor change; it is clearly
an important one.
193 Fed. Rej. 644, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the rights and liabilities of
a contractor and his surety under a contract with the
Government, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor Generalfor the United States:
After the annulment of the contract by reason of the
contractor's default it became the duty of the Government
to complete the work at reasonable cost and to diminish

