OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BUFFALO PITTS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 369.

Submitted May 5, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

In cases brought under the Tucker Act and coming to this court from
a District or Circuit Court the findings of fact of the trial court are
conclusive, and the question here, unless the record would warrant
the conclusion that the ultimate facts are not supported by any evidence whatever, is whether the conclusions of law are warranted by
the facts found. Chase v. United States, 155 U. S. 489.
Where property is left with the officer of 'the Government who has
charge of the work by the owner relying upon the fact that his title
is not disputed and upon representations made to him that payment would be recommended for such use, and Congress has given
authority to appropriate property necessary for the particular work
and to pay therefor, there is an implied contract on the part of the
Government to pay for the property and jurisdiction exists under
the Tucker Act. United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, followed, and
Harley v. United States, 198 U. S. 229, distinguished.
When in the exercise of its governmental rights it takes property, the
ownership of which it concedes to be in an individual, the United
States, under the constitutional obligation of the Fifth Amendment,
impliedly promises to pay therefor. United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445, 464, followed. Hooe v. United States, 218 U. S. 322, distinguished.
193 Fed. Rep. 905, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the liability of the Government
under the Fifth Amendment for the rental value of property used by it, are stated in the opinlion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the
.United States:
The plaintiff had no such title to the engine as would
enable it to contract for its use.
There was no intention to make a contract for the use of

UNITED STATES v. BUFFALO PITTS CO.

234 U. S.

229

Opinion of the Court.

said engine, nor conduct of the parties from which such

contract might be implied.
It was not shown that there was any fund out of which
judgment might be legally paid.
The engine having been taken under a claim of right,
and not in recognition of a paramount title in plaintiff, no
action upon an implied contract will lie. Gibbons v.
United States, 8 Wall. 269, 275; Harley v. United States,
198 U. S. 229; Hill v. United States, 149 U. S. 593, 598;

Hooe v. United States, 218 U. S. 322; Knapp v. United
States, 46 Ct. Cls. 601, 643; Langford v. United States,
101 U. S. 341.

Mr. Edward'P. White for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Buffalo Pitts Company in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of New York to recover for the value of the use
of a certain engine which it was alleged the United States
was under an implied contract to pay. The action was
.begun under the Tucker Act of March 3, 1887, c. 359, 24
Stat. 505, and the court of original jurisdiction, as required by the statute, ยง 7, made findings of fact and conclusions of law under which it held the Government liable
and rendered judgment for the plaintiff's claim. On writ
of error the Circuit Court of Appeals. affirmed that
judgment (193 Fed. Rep. 905), and the case is brought
here.
The findings of fact show that: The plaintiff is a corporation organized under the laws of New York and having its principal place of business at Buffalo, New York,
manufacturing, among other things, traction engines. On
May 20, 1905, it sold a traction engine with appurtenances
to the Taylor-Moore Construction Company, delivered

.OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

at Roswell, New Mexico, and took a chattel mortgage
thereon to secure the payment of $1600 of the purchase
price. The chattel mortgage conveyed the engine and
appurtenances to the plaintiff on condition that if the
mortgagor should fail to pay the sum of $1600 according
to certain notes or should attempt to dispose of or injure
the property or remove the same from the County of
Chaves, New Mexico, or if the mortgagor should not take
proper, care of the property, or if the mortgagee should
at any time deem itself unsafe or insecure, then the whole
amount unpaid should be considered immediately due and
payable and it should be lawful for the mortgagee to take
the property and remove the same and hold or sell it and
all equity of redemption at public auction with notice as
provided by law. The mortgage was duly recorded
May 22, 1905, and no part of the money thereby secured
has ever been paid to the mortgagee which has ever since
been the owner and holder of the mortgage. The engine
was put to work by the Construction Company upon the
so-called Hondo Project, being part of the Reclamation
Service undertaken by the Department of the Interior of
the United States, which work was being prosecuted under
a contract between the United States and the Construction
Company, the engine being located at or near Roswell,
New Mexico.
The Construction Company having made default in the
performance of its contract, on or about June 7, 1905, work
was suspended thereunder and the Construction Company
then assigned all its interest in the contract to the United
States, which, pursuant to the contract, took possession of
all material, supplies and equipment belonging to the Construction Company, including the engine and appurtenances. On June 16, 1905, at Roswell, New Mexico, the
plaintiff by its agents made a demand upon the defendant
through Wendell M. Reed, District Engineer of the Reclamation Service under the Department of the Interior,

UNITED STATES v. BUFFALO PITTS CO.
234 U. S.

231

Opinion of the Court.

for the possession of the engine and appurtenances, which
the defendant then and there refused, and thereafter it
retained and used the property in the work under the contract until June 21, 1906. Reed was during, and before
and after, such period, the local representative of the Government in charge of the work under the contract at and
near Roswell, and as such took possession of the engine
and appurtenances for the United States. Thereafter the
defendant by the Director of the United States Geological
Survey to whom the Secretary of the Interior referred the
matter, and by the Chief Engineer and .Assistant Chief
Engineer of the Reclamation Service under the direction
of the Department, ratified and adopted the acts of Reed
in respect to the possession of the engine and appurtenances. The mortgagor has never made any claim to the
property since the suspension and assignment of the contract to the defendant.
Plaintiff, on or about June 16, 1905, and also on or
about September 30, 1905, notified the defendant of the
execution and filing of the chattel mortgage and that the
plaintiff claimed the property under the title thereby
vested in it and claimed the right of possession because of
the default by the mortgagor in the conditions thereof,
and the defendant at all times well knew of the existence
and filing of the chattel mortgage and did not at any time
-dispute the validity thereof. On September 30, 1905, the
defendant represented to the plaintiff that it was using
and would continue to use the engine and appurtenances
in its work and that any legal proceedings to recover the
possession thereof would be resisted by the defendant, and
further represented to the plaintiff that if such property
was left in the defendant's possession its attorney would
recommend payment therefor. The plaintiff relied upon
the fact that its title to the property under the chattel
mortgage was not disputed by the defendant and upon
the representations .made to it as aforesaid and consented

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

to defendant's retaining possession of the property in expectation of receiving due compensation therefor.
The question in this case is, Did these facts warrant the
deduction that the Government was liable upon an implied contract to pay for the use of the engine? In cases
brought under this act coming up from a District or Circuit Court of the United States the findings of fact of the
trial court are conclusive, and the question is whether the
conclusions of law were warranted by the facts found
(Chase v. United States, 155 U. S. 489, 500). Exceptions
to the rule may exist if the record enables the court to conclude that the ultimate facts found are not supported by
any evidence whatever (Collier v. United States, 173 U. S.
79).
We think the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals were right in concluding that under the facts
found the United States was liable upon an implied contract. As to the plaintiff, it is specifically found that it left
the property with the defendant, relying upon the fact
that its title to the property under the mortgage was not
disputed and upon the representations made to it, and
consented to the defendant's retaining possession of the
property in expectation of receiving compensation for it;
as to the Government it is found that it was well known
to it that the chattel mortgage existed and its validity was
undisputed, and that it would continue the use of the engine and appurtenances, and if left in its possession payment would be recommended for such use.
True it is that under the Tucker Act there is no jurisdiction in the Court of Claims or District Courts of the
United States to recover for acts merely tortious, the
statute providing that there shall be no recovery except
in cases not sounding in tort, It was said in a case cited
for the Government, Harley v. United States, 198 U. S. 229,
that there must be some meeting of the minds of the parties upon the fact that compensation will be made. In

UNITED STATES iv. BUFFALO PITTS CO.
234 U. S.

233

Opinion of the Court.

that case it was found that there was no demand based
upon a convention between the parties or coming together
of minds, for while the plaintiff, an employ6 of the Government in the Bureau of Printing and Engraving, supposed and understood he would be entitled to compensation for certain improvements made in printing presses
which were used for many years by the Bureau, the findings also set forth in express terms that it was supposed
and understood by the officers of the Government that
the claimant would neither expect nor demand remuneration, and this fact, said this court, distinguished it from
McKeever v. United States, 14 Ct. Cl. 396, affirmed by this
court; also from United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445, and
the other cases cited by appellant.
In the present case, as we have said, there is nothing to
show that the Government expected touse the engine and
appurtenances without compensation. It did not dispute
the mortgage, and the findings of fact clearly show that if
the Government had the right to take the property, notwithstanding the mortgage interest which the plaintiff
had in it, it made no claim of right to take and use it without compensation as against the prior outstanding mortgage, which distinctly reserved the right to take and sell
the property under the circumstances shown and which
after the breach of condition vested the right of possession
and the right to convert the property in the mortgagee.
Kitchen v. Schuster, 14 New Mex. 164.'
Furthermore, the Government was authorized by ยง 7 of
the act of June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388, under which
this improvement was being made to acquire any property
necessary for the purpose and if need be to appropriate it.
It may be said, as contended, that under the contract with
the Construction Company the Government had a right
to take possession of this engine which was in possession of
the Company as mortgagor and by virtue of the terms of
the agreement complete the work, but it could not in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

manner extinguish the rights of the mortgagee, nor did it
undertake to do so. Under such circumstances we think
the former decisions of this court, recognizing the general
principles of justice which give rise to implied obligations,
and. enforcing the right of compensation when private
property is taken for a public use, require the Government
to make compensation for the use of this engine, and that
the facts bring this case within United States v. Great Falls
Mfg. Co., 112 U. S. 645, and United States v. Lynah, supra.
In the latter case, where it was sought to recover damages
for the alleged taking of the plaintiff's property in the
construction of a dam which had the effect to overflow
lands belonging to him and destroy their value, after an
extended review of the previous cases in this court, it was
said (p. 464):
"The rule deducible from these cases is that when the
government appropriates property which it does not claim
as its own it does so under an implied contract that it will
pay the value of the property it so appropriates. It is
earnestly contended in argument that the government had
a right to appropriate this property. This may be conceded, but there is a vast difference between a proprietary
and a governmental right. When the government owns
property, or claims to own it, it deals with it as owner and
by virtue of its ownership, and if an officer of the government takes possession of property under the claim, that it
belongs to the government (when in fact it does not) that
may well be considered a tortious act on his part, f9r there
can be no implication of an intent on the part of the government to pay for that which it claims to own. Very different from this proprietary right of the government in
respect to property which it owns is its governmental right
to appropriate the property of individuals. All private
property is held subject to the necessities of government.
The right of eminent domain underlies all such rights of
property. The government may take personal or real
-

UNITED STATES v. BUFFALO PITTS CO.
234 U. S.

235

Opinion of the Court.

property whenever its necessities or the exigencies of the
occasion demand. So the contention that the government
had a paramount right to appropriate this property may
be conceded, but the Constitution in the Fifth Amendment
guarantees that when this governmental right of appropriation-this asserted paramount right-is exercised it
shall be attended by compensation."
(P. 465) " . . .
Whenever in the exercise of its
governmental rights it takes property, the ownership of
which it concedes to be in an individual, it impliedly
promises to pay therefor. Such is the import of the cases
cited as well as of many others."
In Hooe v. United States, 218 U. S. 322, the attempt to
make the Government liable for rent was in the face of a
statute of the United States which provided that no contract should be made for rent until an appropriation for
that purpose had been made by Congress. In the present
case the Government had the right to contract for this
work under statutory authority and to acquire property
necessary to that end. UMider the contract it might take
possession of the Construction Company's property, and,
it may be conceded, finish the contract with such property,
but it had no right to use the property of- others without
compensation, and in this case it did not assume to do so.
The mortgagee had a distinct right in the property which
had accrued to it before the property was entered upon,
and was authorized to take and hold the same as against
the attempted transfer of the mortgagor. While the Government claimed the right to thus take and use the property, it nevertheless held it without denying the right of
the owner to compensation. When it takes property under
such circumstances for an authorized governmental use it
impliedly promises to pay therefor. This accords with the
principles declared in the previous cases in this court and
arises because of the constitutional obligation embodied
in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

States, guaranteeing the owner of property against its appropriation for a governmental use without compensation.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. UNITED ENGINEERING AND
CONTRACTING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 381.

Submitted May 8, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

While reasonable contracts for liquidated damages for delay are not
to be regarded as penalties and may be enforced between the parties,
Sun Printing Ass'n v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642, one party must not
prevent the other party from completing the work in time, and if
such is the case, even if the subsequent delay is the fault of the latter,
the original contract cannot be insisted upon and the liquidated
damagcs are waived.
Where the original contract for government work provided for iq.uidated damages for delay beyond a specified date but supplemental
contracts contained no fixed rule for the time of completion, the
Government is limited in its recovery to the actual damages sustained by reason of the delay for which the contractor was respon-

sible.
It is the English rule, as well as the rule in some of the States, that
where both parties are responsible for delays beyond the fixed date,
the obligation for liquidated damages is annulled; and, unless there
was a provision substituting a new date, the recovery for subsequent
delay is limited to the actual loss sustained.
Where the Government has by its own fault prevented performance
of the contract and thereby waived the stipulation as -to liquidated
damages, it cannot insist upon it as a rule of damages becL use it may
be impracticable to prove actual damages.
47 Ct. Cl. 489, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for Government work and the rights and obligations of
THE

