OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

States, guaranteeing the owner of property against its appropriation for a governmental use without compensation.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and it is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. UNITED ENGINEERING AND
CONTRACTING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 381.

Submitted May 8, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

While reasonable contracts for liquidated damages for delay are not
to be regarded as penalties and may be enforced between the parties,
Sun Printing Ass'n v. Moore, 183 U. S. 642, one party must not
prevent the other party from completing the work in time, and if
such is the case, even if the subsequent delay is the fault of the latter,
the original contract cannot be insisted upon and the liquidated
damagcs are waived.
Where the original contract for government work provided for iq.uidated damages for delay beyond a specified date but supplemental
contracts contained no fixed rule for the time of completion, the
Government is limited in its recovery to the actual damages sustained by reason of the delay for which the contractor was respon-

sible.
It is the English rule, as well as the rule in some of the States, that
where both parties are responsible for delays beyond the fixed date,
the obligation for liquidated damages is annulled; and, unless there
was a provision substituting a new date, the recovery for subsequent
delay is limited to the actual loss sustained.
Where the Government has by its own fault prevented performance
of the contract and thereby waived the stipulation as -to liquidated
damages, it cannot insist upon it as a rule of damages becL use it may
be impracticable to prove actual damages.
47 Ct. Cl. 489, affirmed.

facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for Government work and the rights and obligations of
THE

UNITED STATES v. UNITED ENGINEERING CO. 237
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Government and the contractor thereunder, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson and Mr. P. M.
Ashford for the United States.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, Mr. John S. Flannery and
Mr. William Hitz for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Suit was brought in the Court of Claims by the United
Engineering and Contracting Company to recover of the
United States upon a contract, dated the fifteenth of September 1900, for the construction within seven calendar
months from the date of the contract, namely by April 15,
1901, of a pumping plant for Dry Dock No. 3 at the New
York Navy Yard, the work to be done in accordance with
certain plans and specifications annexed to and forming
a part of the contract. The claimant recovered a judgment (47 Ct. Cl. 489), and the United States brings this
appeal.
The principal question in the case involves the correctness of that part of the judgment of the Court of Claims
which permitted the claimant to recover $6,000, which
the Government had deducted as liquidated damages for
240 days' delay in the completion of the work, at the rate
of $25 per day. To understand this question the terms of
the contract and certain facts found by the Court of
Claims, upon which the case is to be considered here, must
be had in view.
The claimant commenced the construction of the work
in accordance with the contract, and after a portion thereof
had been done the Navy Department concluded to connect
Dry Dock No. 2 with Dry Dock No. 3 and to build a single
pumping plant for both docks. To that end on July 21,

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

1901, a supplemental contract was entered into with the
United States,. whereby the claimant agreed, for an
additional sum, to furnish all the material and labor necessary to carry out the changes in and additions to the
plant originally contracted for and to complete the work
on or before October 15, 1901, to which date the 6riginal
contract was extended.
While the work was progressing under the original and
supplemental contracts, a controversy arose between the
claimant and the civil engineer in charge as to the proper
method of designing and constructing the floor of the
pump well and as to the correct interpretation of the requirements of the specifications concerning other matters,
which resulted in considerable delay and the cessation of
work without the fault of the claimant. On January 13,
1903, the chief of the Bureau of Yards and Docks appointed a board to consider changes in the bottom of the
pump well and the compensation to be paid therefor, of
which the claimant was advised by letter and it was informed that it would be expected to immediately resume
work under its contract and push the same to completion
with utmost dispatch, otherwise the Bureau would annul
the contract and take over the entire work. The claimant
thereupon promised to push the work to completion as
rapidly as possible, with which promise the Bureau
appears to have been satisfied.
On February 15, 1903, after the date fixed for the completion of the work under the original and supplemental
contracts, a second supplemental contract was entered
into, whereby the claimant agreed to construct three
hatches in the roof of the pump well for additional compensation. Nothing was said in this contract as to the
time of completion or as to delays under prior contracts.
The board of officers appointed to consider the design
of the floor of the pump well and other matters in controversy reported February 16, 1903, that there were, as

UNITED STATES v. UNITED ENGINEERING CO. 239
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

conceded by the Bureau, errors in the design of the pump
well floor; that the work done and materials furnished by
the claimant complied with the specifications, and that
it was not chargeable with improper work or procedure,
and the board estimated the increased compensation for
the new work and made certain allowances to the claimant.
On March 7, 1903, a third supplemental contract was
entered into, which embodied the changes found necessary in the original plan for the construction of the floor
of the pump well and the increased compensation to
claimant therefor. Nothing was said in this contract as
to the date of the completion of the work theretofore
contracted for, nor as to prior delays.
The claimant proceeded under the contracts with
reasonable dispatch and without delay on its part until
May 1, 1903, when the work was ready for the installation
of the machinery. Up to -this date the claimant was delayed by the Government in making changes and alterations in the work and in the use of the docks for docking
vessels while the work was going forward. No delays were
chargeable to the claimant, up to October 15, 1901, the
time fixed for the completion of the work, nor thereafter
to May 1, 1903. During this period, due to the delays
of the Government, the claimant incurred additional expenses for superintendence adfd maintenance. During
the period from May 1, 1903, to April 21, 1904, the work
was delayed by the claimant's subcontractors in not
getting the pump castings in place, for which the Government was not responsible. The claimant was also delayed
for a few days during said. period by the Government
while using the docks for docking vessels.
At the request of the Bureau a civil engineer made a
review of the matter of delays and in February, 1905,
reported that, notwithstanding the increased work required by the supplemental agreements and the restrictions placed upon the work, the claimant was up to time

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

on its contracts to May 1, 1903, but that subsequent to
that date and up to April 21, 1904, ithad taken,seven
calendar months more time than was necessary. After
the plant was completed a board was appointed to pass
upon it, which recommended certain deductions from the
contract price for failure to strictly comply with the
specifications. On March 24, 1905, the civil engineer in
charge transmitted to the claimant a supplemental agreement covering the deductions, which agreement contained
a reservation that nothing therein and no action taken
under it should affect the rights of either party in the
matter of delay and the completion of the work or otherwise except as specifically stated, which supplemental
agreement claimant refused to execute. In February,
1906, long after the plant had been accepted, the Bureau
h~ld the claimant responsible for 240 days' delay, and
deducted as liquidated damages for the delay the sum of
$25 per day, or $6,000, from the balance due under the
contract, which the claimant accepted under protest, and
it subsequently filed with the Bureau a written protest
against the deductions for delays and disallowances. The
work was completed and accepted finally by the Government on April 5, 1905.
Notwithstanding the delays of the Government, the
Court of Claims found that the claimant with reasonable
diligence could have completed the plant for tests during
the period by about September 21, 1903, and found that
if it was chargeable for the delay according to the liquidated damage clause of paragraph 12 of the specifications of $25 per day, the deduction would be $750 less
than the Government had deducted. But it found that,
if the claimant was only liable for actual damages, and it
did so determine, since there was no evidence.as to such
damages, the claimant was entitled to recover the entire
amount deducted.
In the original contract the specifications provided,

UNITED STATES v. UNITED ENGINEERING CO. 241
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

paragraph 12, for liquidated damages for delay, as follows:
"12. Damages for delay.-In case the work is not completed within the time specified in the contract, or the
time allowed by the Chief of the Bureau of Yards and
Docks under paragraph 11 of this specification, it is distinctly understood and agreed that deductions at the rate
of $25 per day shall be made from the contract price for
each and every calendar day after and exclusive of the
date within which completion was required up to and including the date of completion and acceptance of the work,
said sum being specifically agreed upon as the measure of
damage to the United States by reason of delay in the
completion of the work; and the contractor shall agree and
consent that the contract price, reduced by the aggregate
of damages so deducted, shall be accepted in full satisfaction for all work done under the contract."
Under the provisions of this paragraph, if there had
been nothing subsequently changing the rights of the
parties, and the delay had resulted from the failure of the
claimant to complete the work within the time specified,
the deduction at the rate of $25 per day might have been
made by the United States as liquidated damages. This
was the suin estimated and agreed upon between the
parties as the damages which might be regarded as sustained by the Government in event of the breach of the
claimant's obligation to complete the work within the
stipulated time. Such contracts for liquidated damages
when reasonable in their character are not to be regarded
as penalties and may be enforced between the parties.
See Sun Printing& Publishing Ass'n v. Moore, 183 U. S.
642, in *which the matter is fully discussed.
The precise question here is whether, when the work was
delayed solely because of the Government's fault beyond
the time fixed for its completion and afterwards the work
was completed without any definite time being fixed in
vot. ccxxxiv-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

which it was to be done, the claimant can be charged for
the subsequent delays for which he was at fault by the
rule of the original contract stipulating liquidated damages, or was that stipulation waived by the conduct of the
Government and was it obligatory upon it in order to
recover for the subsequent delays to show the actual
damages sustained? We think the better rule is that when
the contractor has agreed to do a piece of work within a
given time and the parties have stipulated a fixed sum as
liquidated damages not wholly disproportionate to the
loss for each day's delay, in order to enforce such payment
the other party must not prevent the performance of the
contract within the stipulated time, and that where such
is the case, and thereafter the work is completed, though
delayed by the fault of the contractor, the rule of the
original contract cannot be insisted upon, and liquidated
damages measured thereby are waived. Under the original
and first supplemental agreements, the claimant knew
definitely that he was required to complete the work by
a fixed date. Presumably the claimant had made its
arrangements for completion within the time named.
Certainly the other contracting party ought not to be
permitted to insist upon liquidated damages when it is
responsible for the failure to complete by the stipulated
date, to do this would permit it to recover damages for
delay caused by its own conduct.
It may be that damages were sustained by the failure
to carry out the subsequent agreement. But the Government, as well as the claimant, saw fit to go on with the
work with no fixed rule for the time of its completion, so
that it be reasonable, and the Government required no
stipulation in the second and third supplemental contracts
as to damages in a fixed and definite sum for failure to complete the work as required. Under such circumstances
we think it must be content to recover such damages as it
is able to prove were actually suffered.

UNITED STATES v UNITED ENGINEERING CO. 243
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This conclusion is in accord with the rule of the English
cases. In Dodd v. Churton, L. R., 1 Q. B. 1897, 562, 568,
Chitty, L. J., said:
"The law on the subject is well settled. The case of
Holme v. Guppy, (3 M. & W. 387), and the subsequent
cases in which that decision has been follawed are merely
examples of the well known principle stated in Comyns'
Digest, Condition L (6), that, where performance of a
condition has been rendered impossible by the act of the
grantee himself, the grantor is exonerated from performance of it. The law on the subject was very neatly put
by Byles, J., in Russell v. Bandeira,(13 C. B. (N. S.) 149.).
This principle is applicable not to building contracts only,
but to all contracts. If a man agrees to do something by
a particular day or in default to pay a sum of money as
liquidated damages, the other party to the contract must
not do anything to prevent him from doing the thing
contracted for within the specified time."
The same rule was followed with approval by the New
York Court of Appeals in a well considered case, Mosler
Safe Co. v. Maiden Lane S. D. Co., 199 N. Y. 479, in
which it was held that, even where both parties are responsible for the delays beyond the fixed time, the obligation for liquidated damages is annulled, and in the absence of a provision substituting another date it cannot be
revived, and the recovery for subsequent delays must
be fo r actual loss proved to have been sustained.
This principle is applicable here, the conduct of. the
Government's agents had caused the delays up to May 1,
1903, and the subsequent delays though chargeable to
the claimant would only give rise to a claim for damages
measured by the actual loss sustained. Mosler Safe Co.
v. Maiden Lane S. D. Co., supra. We think the application of this rule is iioi changed by the difficulty suggested
that it might be impracticable to prove actual damages.
This fact, if such it be, would not permit the Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

by its own fault to prevent the performance of the contract and to do that which amounts to a waiver of the
stipulation and then insist upon it as a rule of damages.
We think the Court of Claims was right upon this principal branch of the case.
There are certain minor assignments of error to the
conclusions and judgment of the Court of Claims. The
Goverriment was held responsible for the extra cost of
enclosing certain machinery in casing necessitated by its
building a plank walk across the top of the pipe in the
pumping plant to protect its workmen -from high speed
gearing. The Court of Claims found that this expense
was made necessary by the Government and allowed for
it. We find no error in this. Also, as to the assignment
of error to the judgment of the Court of Claims under'
Finding XI, awarding damages for repairs made necessary by the breakage of certain pipes caused by sudden
increase in the pressure in the salt and fresh water systems
in the Navy Yard, the Court of Claims found that these
breaks were caused by the Government without notice'
to the claimant and without its fault. We find no error
in the judgment of the Court of Claims awarding damages under this finding.
It follows that the judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.

