N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

to do more than direct attention to the fact that this
proposition is necessarily disposed of by what we have
said, that is, by the lawfulness, in view of the state of the
existing and filed tariff, of the refusal until the Commission
had acted, we think all the contentions under this last
head are completely answered by the- statement that the
suit was based upon the unlawfulness of the action of the
Railway Company in refusing to carry the ties in view of

the filed tariffs, and therefore the contentions are not
open for our consideration..
It results that error was committed by the court in declining to sustain the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction and therefore it is our duty to reverse.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

NEW YORK LIFE

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

HEAD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 254.

Argued March JO, 1914.-Decided June 8,1914.

There is a clear distinction between questions concerning the operation
and effect of the law of a State within its borders and upon the conduct of persons within its jurisdiction, and questions concerning the
right of the State to extend its authority beyond its borders with
the same effect; and a decision upon the former does not constitute
a ground for refusing to entertain a writ of error to review the judgment of the state court involving the latter.
A State maynot extend the operation of its statutes beyond its borders
into the jurisdiction of other States, so as to destroy and impair the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

right of persons not its citizens to make a contract not operative
within its jurisdiction and lawful in the State where made.
Under the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution the
courts of one State are not bound to declare a contract, which was
made in another State and modified a former contract, illegal because it would be illegal under the law of the State where the
original contract was made and of which neither of the parties is
a resident or citizen.
The power that a State has to license a foreign insurance company to
do business within its borders and to regulate such business does
not extend to regulating the business of such corporation outside of
its borders and which would otherwise be beyond its authority.
The Constitution and its limitations are 'the safeguards of all the
States preventing any and all of them under the guise of license or
otherwise from exercising powers not possessed.
A statute of Missouri regulating loans on policies of life insurance by
the company issuing the policy, held not to operate to affect a modifying contract made in another State subsequent to the loan by the
insured and the company neither of whom was a resident or citizen
of Missouri.
41 Missouri, 403, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the state court and also the
power of a State to regulate the business beyond its
borders of a foreign corporation licensed to do business
therein, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James H. McIntosh, with whom Mr. Gardiner
Lathrop, Mr. Cyrus Crane, Mr. 0. W. Pratt and Mr. S. W.

Moore were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The original contract of insurance was entered into between non-residents of Missouri, who agreed that it should
be controlled by the laws of New York.

This was a valid

provision and cannot be annulled by the courts of Missouri.
Smith v. Mutual Benefit L. I. Co., 173 Missouri, 329; Burridge v. New York Life Ins. Co., 211 Missouri, 158; Gibson
v. Connecticut Fire Ins. Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 561; London

Assurance v. Companhia de Moagens, 167 U. S. 149;

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Kroegher v. Calivada Colonization Co., 119 Fed. Rep. 641,
652; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Dingley, .100 Fed. Rep. 408.
The cases relied on by defendant in error which dealt
with contracts of residents or citizens of Missouri, such as
Cravens v. Insurance Co., 148 Missouri, 583, 593; Price v.
Insurance Co., 48 Mo. App. 281; Horton v. Insurance Co.,
151 Missouri, 604, 612.; Burridge v. Insurance Co., 211
Missouri, 162; Smith v. Mutual Ins. Co., 173 Missouri,
329; Whitfield V. Insurance Co., 205 U. S. 489' Equitable
Life Ins. Co. v. Clements, 140 U. S. 226; Life Ins. Co. v.
Russell, 77 Fed. Rep. 94, are distinguishable.
The policy loan agreement was not a Missouri contract.
It was signed and delivered outside the State of Missouri
by parties who were non--residents of that State and cannot be controlled or governed by the Missouri nonforfeiture laws.
The original contract could be lawfully amended or
changed by the loan agreement. 1 Cooley's Briefs Insurance, 900; S. S. White Co. v. Delaware Ins. Co., 105
Fed. Rep. 642; Leonard v. Charter Oak Ins. Co., 65 Connecticut, 529; Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v. Dunn, 22 Ind.
App. 333; Kattelman v. Fire Assn., 79 Mo. App. 447.
The right of plaintiff in error to make contracts is protected by § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment and to attempt to deprive it of this right raises a constitutional
question and gives this court jurisdiction. Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.
45, 52; Door Co. v. Fuelle, 215 Missouri, 421, 458; Pennoyer
v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 722; Union Bank v. Commissioners,
90 Fed. Rep. 7; Olcutt v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 677, 690;
Havemeyer v. Iowa County, 3 Wall. 294; Keller v. Insurance Co., 58 Mo. App. 557; Whitfield v. Insurance Co., 205
U. S. 480; Greenhood on Public Policy, 2.
Mr. Buckner F. Deatherage, with whom Mr. Goodwin
Creason, Mr. James S. Botsford, Mr. W. P. Borland and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

234 U. S.

Mr. James A. Reed were on the brief, for defendant in
error:
The defendant, although a foreign corporation created
and existing under the law of New York, came into Missouri under its license and permission and made the contracts of insurance sued upon in these actions, in the State
of Missouri, with the same force and effect and subject to
the insurance laws of Missouri the same as if it had been
and were a corporation created under the laws of Missouri
instead of the laws of New York, and for the purposes of
this case defendant must be taken to be the same in all
respects as a Missouri corporation.
The contracts in these cases having been entered into in
Missouri, have the same legal effect and force as if the
insured had lived in Missouri, in which State he was born,
instead of living in New Mexico, at the time of making
these contracts. The people of all the States and Territories of the United States have the right to buy and
sell real estate in Missouri, own property therein and
enter into contracts therein, the same as citizens and
residents of MissoUri. See § 748, Statutes Missouri, regarding aliens, 1 Rev. Stat. Missouri of 1909, p. 355.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment plaintiffs were guaranteed the same right as if they had lived in Missouri.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 369; R. W. Co. v.
Mackey, 127 U. S. 205, 209; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S.
377; Frazer v. McConway Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 257; Templar
v. Bankers Board Ex., 131 Michigan, 254; Steed v. Hamey,
18 Utah, 367; Pearsonv. Portland, 69 Maine, 278.
The question of the situs of contracts in cases where the
question of their validity depends upon the laws of the

State where they are made does not depend upon the residence of the parties. Napier v. Bankers.Ins. Co., 100 N. Y.
Supp. 1072.
The policy was issued upon the life of a man residing,
at the date of the issuing thereof, in the city of Chicago

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

in the State of Illinois; and, so far as the evidence in this
case shows, that continued to be his residence up to the
date of his death. If this policy is to be construed as an
Illinois contract, the statute above referred to would not
apply. Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Hill, 193 U. S. 551; Mutual Life Ins. Co. of New York v. Cohen, 179 U. S.262.
Notwithstanding the fact that the policy was written upon
the life of a person residing out of the State of New'York,
upon the evidence in this case the contract must be
deemed to be a New York contract. The policy purports to be signed and delivered at the city of New
York.
The residence of the parties has no influence in determining the place where a contract is made. Milliken
v. Pratt, 125 Massachusetts, 374; Golden v. Ekerb, 52 Missouri, 260; Richardson v. DeGinesville, 107 Missouri, 422;
Ruhe v. Byck, 124 Missouri, 178; Reed v. Telegraph Co.,
135 Missouri, 661; Horton v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 151 Missouri, 604; Elliott v. Des Moines Life Ass., 163 Missouri,
132; Thompson v. Traders Ins. Co., 169 Missouri, 12; Park
v. Connecticut Ins. Co., 26 Mo. App. 511; Clothing Company v. Sharpe, 83 Mo. App. 385; Pietri v. Seguenot, 96
Missouri, 258.
The contention of defendant's counsel that its offer to
pay $89.00 to satisfy a liquidated indebtedness for which
the judgment given was for about $7500.00 and that such
offer of $89.00 extinguishes plaintiff's liquidated demands,
is not supported by anything in the law. 1 Cyc. 319;
Wetmore v. Crouch, 150 Missouri, 671, 672, 682, 683. See
Cravens v. Insurance Co., 148 Missouri, 583; aff'd Insurance Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S.389.
These policies were and are Missouri contracts. Cravens
v. Ins. Co., 148 Missouri, 583; S.C., aff'd 178 U. S.389;
Equitable Life v. Clements, 140 U. S.226; Whitfield v. Ins.
Co., 205 U. S.489; Moore v. Ins. Co., 112 Mo. App. 696;
Ins. Co. v. Russell, 77 Fed.. Rep. 94, 23 C. C. A. 43; Ins.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Co. v. Twyman, 92 S. W. Rep. 335; Capp v. Ins. Co., 94
S. W. Rep. 734; Horton v. Ins. Co., 151 Missouri, 604;
Joyce on Ins., § 194; Napier v. Ins. Co., 100 N. Y. Supp.
1072; Burridge v. Ins. Co., 211 Missouri, 158, 178.
Defendant's proposition that the loan contracts of 1904
had the effect of wiping out the policies is erroneous.
Smith v. Insurance Co., 173 Missouri, 329, 341; Burridge
v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 211 Missouri, 158,
178; Cristensen
v. N. Y. Life Ins. Co., 152 Mo. App. 551.
Defendant had no right to come into Missouri and make
contracts in defiance of law. The right of contract is not
an unlimited, unqualified one, but is always subject to the
law in force at the time of making the contract. Wilson
v. Drumrite, 21 Missouri, 325; Villa v. Rodriguez, 12 Wall.
339; State v. Fireman's Ins. Co., 152 Missouri, 1; State v.
Cantwell, 179 Missouri, 245; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366; Karness v. Insurance Co., 144 Missouri, 413; Havens
v. Insurance Co., 123 Missouri, 403; Henry v. Evans, 97
Missouri, 47.
The relation between an insurance company and a
policyholder is fiduciary in its character, and one that
calls for the protection of the legislature by wholesome
legislation. Cases supra and Smith v. Mutual Benefit Ins.
Co., 173 Missouri, 329; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Twyman,
92 S. W. Rep. 335.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
In March, 1894, Richard G. Head, a citizen and resident
of New Mexico, being temporarily in Kansas City, Missouri, made application at a branch office of the New York
Life Insurance Company for two policies of insurance for
ten thousand dollars each on his own life for the benefit of
his minor son, Richard G. Head, Jr. The application
stated the residence of Head in New Mexico and it was
stipulated that the policy applied for when issued should

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be considered as having been issued in New York and be
treated as a New York contract. When Head made the
application he handed a note for the premium to the agent
with instructions when the policies came to turn them
over to a friend to hold for him. The policies were issued,
were delivered as directed and were subsequently turned
over to Head when he again came to Kansas City. All
the premiums but the first, with perhaps one exception
were paid in New Mexico or at an agency of the company
in Colorado. Nine years after the issue of the policies,
that is, in 1903, in New Mexico, Head transferred one of
the policies to his daughter, Mary E. Head, the transfer
having been either by way of original authority or ratification duly sanctioned by the proper probate court in the
county of New Mexico where Head was domiciled. In
1904, Mary E. Head, under the policy of which she thus
became the beneficiary borrowed from the New York Life
Insurance Company the sum of $2,270. The loan was
requested by a letter written from Las Vegas, New Mexico,
to New York, and accompanied by the policy and an
executed loan agreement in the form usually required by
the company and which conformed to the requirements
of the New York law. The loan bore 5 per cent. interest
and the agreement provided that it should be payable
at the home office in New York and that if any premium
on the policy or any interest on the loan were not paid
when due, "settlement of said loan and ,of any other indebtedness on said policy shall be made by continuing
said policy, without further notice, as paid-up insurance of
reduced amount, in accordance with Section 88, Chapter
690, of the Laws of 1892 of the State Of New York."
There was default in April, 1905, in the payment of the
interest on the loan and the premium on the policy and
pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement and the law
of New York the policy was settled, the sum remaining
from the accumulated surplus after paying the loan and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the past due premium being applied to the purchase of
paid up insurance and the policy was at the request of
Head and his daughter, sent to them in New Mexico in
May, 1905, and was in the possession of the daughter
when Head died in April, 1906.
In September, 1906, this suit was commenced in a court
of the State of Missouri, by Mary E. Head, the beneficiary,
to recover the full amount of the policy. Stating the
grounds for relief which were relied upon not as literally
expressed in the pleadings, but with reference to the ultimate assumption upon which the right to recover was
essentially based, it was as follows: That although it was
true that if the face of the policy was adhered to and the
terms of the loan agreement were considered and the law
of New York applied the settlement of the policy would
be binding, it was not so binding, but on the contrary was
void because at the time the policy was written there were
statutes in force in the State of Missouri which made i
the duty of the company to retain from the accumulated
surplus a given percentage thereof and in case it was necessary to save forfeiture to apply the sum of such retained
percentage to the payment of premium on temporary insurance as far as it would go and if this duty had been discharged when the failure to pay took place the sum of the
retained percentage would have been adequate to extend
the insurance to such a period as would have caused the
full amount of the policy to be a valid and existing risk
at the death of Head. Resting thus upon the Missouri
statutes, of course the fundamental assumption upon
which the right to recover was based was the controlling
operation and effect of the Missouri law upon the policy,
upon the terms of the loan agreement and upon the law of
the State of New York which would otherwise govern,
as New York was the place where the loan agreement was
made and the adjustment of the policy took place. As
there is no controversy concerning the meaning of the

'N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri statutes if they were controlling, we content ourselves with referring to the sections of the Revised Statutes
of Missouri which are relied upon as having produced the
consequences stated:. Sections 5856-5859 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri of 1889, and 7897-7900 of the Revised
Statutes of Missouri of 1899. And the defense, considered
also in its ultimate aspect, but asserted the validity of the
settlement made in New York under the loan agreement,
denied the applicability of the statutes of Missouri to that
settlement and expressly 'insisted that such statutes could
not be applied to the situation without violating the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and depriving of the right of freedom of contract guaranteed by
that Amendment and giving rise to the impairment of the
obligation of a contract contrary to the provisions of,§ 10,
Article I of the Constitution of the United States.
There was recovery in the court of first instance for the
amount claimed under the policy, the court maintaining
the supremacy of the Missouri statutes. In the Supreme
Court to which the case was taken after a hearing in a
division thereof the judgment below was affirmed on an
opinion which expressly held that the policy of insurance
was a Missouri contract controlled by the Missouri law,
and that by the operation and effect of that law the loan
agreement made in the State of New York and the settlement effected in that State in accordance with that agreement conformably to the laws of New York was controlled by the Missouri statute and was void.' And the
opinion-go holding was in- express terms adopted by the
court in bane where the case was reheard.
The rights under the Contract Clause of the Constitution of the United States and the Fourteenth Amendment
which, as we have stated, were asserted below, form the'
basis of the assignments of error. As the conflicting contentions concerning these constitutional questions advanced to refute on the one hand and to sustain on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

other the reasons which led the court below to its conclusion involve the whole case, to briefly state at the outset
the propositions upheld below will concentrate the issues
and serve to give bold relief to the questions which require
to be decided. (a) Determining whether the contract was
a Missouri contract made in that State and governed by
its laws, the court held that the express stipulation in the
contract to the effect that the policy was to be
considered
as issued from the home office and be treated as a New
York contract was overborne by the fact that the application for the policy was made to the Kansas City agency,
that the policy was sent there for delivery and that the
first premium was there paid. (b) In deciding that this
view was not modified by the fact that the insured was a
non-resident of Missouri and by the further fact that on
the face of the policy it was clearly manifest that it was
executed not for the purpose of having effect in Missouri
but to be operative outside of that State, the court said:
"It has been repeatedly ruled in this State since the
enactment of sections 5856 et seq. of the revision of 1889
(now R. S. 1909, sec. 6946) and the Act of 1891 (Laws
1891, p. 75), R. S. 1899, sees. 1024 and 1026 (now R. S.
1909, secs. 3037, 3040), that foreign insurance companies
admitted to carry on their business in this State, can only
contract within the limits prescribed by our statutes, and
that in the conduct of the business under the license
granted by. this State, they 'shall be subjected to all the
liabilities, restrictions and duties which are or may be
imposed upon corporations of like character organized
under the general laws of this State, and shall have no
other or greater powers.' The effect of these decisions is to
write into, every insurance contract made by a foreign insurance company, so licensed, in this State all of the provisions of the statutes of this State appurtenant to the
making of such contract, and which define and measure
the reciprocal rights and duties of the parties thereto.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

These statutes are declaratory of the public policy of this
State, and inhibit the doing of the business of insurance in
this State by any corporation contrary to their regulations
by annulling all the stipulations which offend the provisions of the statutes. (Horton v. Ins. Co., 151 Missouri,
604; Smith v. Ins. Co., 173 Missouri, 329;" Burridge v.
Ins. Co., 211 Missouri, 158; Cravens v. Ins. Co., 148 Missouri, 583; Ins. Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S. 389; Whitfield v.
Ins. Co., 205 U. S. 489, affirming Keller v. Ins. Co., 58 Mo.
App. 557.)" (241 Missouri, p. 413:)
(c) In disposing of the contention that as the loan
agreement was made in New York by persons not citizens
of Missouri and was sanctioned by the law of New York
it could not be treated as void by extending the Missouri
statutes into the State of New York without a violation of
the Fourteenth Amendment and without impairing the
obligation of a contract, the court said (p. 418):
"It is not an open question in this State,' that all subsidiary contracts made by. the parties to an insurance contract are within the contemplation and purview of the
original contract, and are not to be treated as independent
agreements. This being so, they are inefficacious to alter,
change or modify the rights and obligations as they existed under the original contract of insurance. (Burridge
v. Ins. Co., supra; Smith v. Ins. Co., supra.)"
Before approaching the constitutional questions relied
upon in the light of these rulings we must dispose of a motion to dismiss. It rests upon the ground that as the court
below sustained its ruling by reference to a line of state
decisions, a leading one of which had been affirmed by this
court (New York Life Insurance Co. v. Cravens, 178 U. S.
389) prior to the decision below, therefore as the basis for
jurisdiction had been demonstrated to be unfounded by a
decision of this court announced prior to the time the
writ of error was prosecuted, there was no substantial
ground upon which to base the suing out of the writ and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

must be dismissed. But the contention rests upon a plain
misconception as to what was involved and decided in
the Cravens Case, since that case but concerned a contract
,of insurance made in Missouri as to a citizen of that State
and required it only to be determined whether rights under
the Constitution of the United States had been denied by
the ruling of the state court holding void a forfeiture of a
policy which had been declared by the corporation for a
failure to pay in Missouri a premium there due when such
forfeiture was in direct violation of the prohibition of the
state law. The difference therefore between that case
and this is that which in the nature of things must obtain
between questions concerning the operation and effect of a
state law within its borders and upon the conduct of persorns confessedly within its jurisdiction, and its right to
extend its authority beyond its borders so as to control
contracts made between, citizens of other States and virtually in fact to disregard the law of such other State§ by
which the acts done were admittedly valid.
Coming to the merits, to narrow the subject to be decided as much as possible, we pass the consideration of the
ruling below holding that under the proof the contract was
a.Missouri contract and therefore for the sake of argument
-only concede that there was power in the State to treat the
contract made for the purposes stated as a Missouri contract and to subject it as to matters and things which were
legitimately within the state authority to the rule of the
state law. And this concession brings us to consider the
second general inquiry which is the power of the State of
Missouri to extend the operation of its statutes beyond
its ,borders into the jurisdiction of other States, so as in
such other States to destroy or impair the right of persons
not citizens of Missouri to contract, although the contract
could in no sense be operative in Missouri and although
the contract was sanctioned by the law of the State where
made. That is to say, the right of a State where a contract

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

concerning a particular subject-matter not in its essence
intrinsically and inherently local is once made within its
borders not merely to legislate concerning acts done or
agreements made within the State in the future concerning
such original contract, but to affect the parties to such
original contract with a perpetual contractual paralysis
following them outside of the jurisdiction of the State of
original coritract by prohibiting them from doing any act
or making any agreement concerning the original contract not in accord with the law of the State where the contract was originally made. In other words, concretely
speaking we must consider the validity of the loan agreement, that is, how far it .was within the power of the State
of Missouri to extend its authority into the State of New
York and there forbid the parties, one of whom was a
citizen of New Mexico and the other a citizen of New
York, from making such loan agreement in New York
simply because it modified a contract originally made in
Missouri. Such question, we think, admits of but one
answer since it would be impossible to permit the statutes
of Missouri to operate beyond the jurisdiction of that
State and in the State of New York and there destroy
freedom of contract without throwing down the constitutional barriers by which all the States are restricted within
the orbits of their lawful authority and upon the preservation of which the Government under the Constitution depends. This is so obviously the necessary result of the
Constitution that it has rarely been called in question and
hence authorities directly dealing with it do not abound.
The principle however lies at the foundation of the full
faith and credit clause and the many rulings which have
given effect to that clause.'
Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U.. S. 657; Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43;
Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230; American Express Co. v. Mullins, 212
U. S. 311; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243. And see Bedford v.
Eastern Building Ass'n, 181 U. S. 227.

VOL. ccxxxIv-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

It is illustrated as regards the right to freedom of contract by the ruling in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578,
and it finds expression in the decisions of this court affirmatively establishing that a State may not consistently
with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
extend its authority beyond its legitimate jurisdiction
either by way of the wrongful exertion of judicial power
or the unwarranted exercise of the taxing power.1
And an analysis of the opinion of the court below makes
it clear that its ruling was rested not upon any doubt concerning the obvious operation of the Constitution which
we have pointed out, but because it was deemed that the
peculiar facts and circumstances of this case took it out
of the general rule and caused it to be therefore a law unto
itself. We say this because while it is true the court based
its conclusion upon a line -of cases previously decided in
that State, as all the cases thus relied upon involved only
policies of insurance issued in Missouri to citizens of Missouri and were solely concerned with the effect of acts done
in Missouiri which it was asserted were forbidden by the
statutes of that State existing at the time when the acts
were done, it could not have been that the cases were
deemed to be controlling upon the principle of stare decisis,
but they must have been held to be controlling because
of the persuasive force of the reasoning upon which they
had been decided. Indeed, this is not left to inference,
since the court below in its opinion summarized the reasoning in tje previous cases as shown by the passage which
we have quoted and made it the 'ground work of its ruling
in this case, that reasoning being as follows: Insurance
companies chartered by Missouri took their existence from
'Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214, 222;
Old Wayne Life Ass'n v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8; Louisville & J. Ferry
Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Delaware, L* & W. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Buck
v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 38.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the grant of the State and therefore had no power to contract in excess of that which was conferred upon them by
the State; hence all acts done by them which were prohibited by the state law were ultra vires and void. But, as
foreign insurance companies have no right to come into
the State and there do business except as the result of a
license from the State and as the State exacts as a condition of a license that all foreign insurance companies shall
be subject to the laws of the State as if they were domestic
corporations, it follows. that the limitations of the state
law resting upon- domestic corporations also rest upon
foreign companies and therefore deprive them of any power
which a domestic company could not enjoy, thus rendering
void or inoperative any provision of their charter or condition in policies issued by them or contracts made by
them inconsistent with the Missouri law. But when this
reasoning is analyzed we think it affords no ground whatever for taking this case out of the general rule and making
the distinction relied upon. This is so as the proposition
cannot be maintained without holding that because a
State has power to license a foreign insurance company
to do business within its borders and the authority to
regulate such business, therefore a State has power to
regulate the business of such company outside its borders
and which would otherwise be beyond the State's authority. A distinction which brings the contention right back
to the primordial conception upon which alone it would be
possible to sanction the doctrine contended for, that is,
that because a State has power to.regulate its domestic
concerns, therefore it has the right to control the domestic
concerns of other States. Itis apparent therefore that to
accept the doctrine it would have to be said that the distribution of powers and the limitations which arise from
the existence of the Constitution are ephemeral and depend simply upon the willingness of any of the States to
exact as a condition of a license granted to a foreign cor-

, OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

poration to do business within its borders that the Constitution shall be inapplicable and its limitations worth
nothing. It would go further than this, since it would
require it to be decided not only that the constitutional
limitations on state powers- could be set aside as the result
of a license but that the granting of such license could be
made the means of extending state power so as to cause
it to embrace subjects wholly beyond its legitimate authority.
It is true it has been held that in view of the power of
a State over insurance, it might, as the condition of a
license given to a foreign insurance company to do business
within its borders, impose a condition as to business within
the State, which otherwise but for the complete power to
exclude would be held repugnant to the Constitution. In
other words that a company having otherwise no right
whatever for any purpose to go in without a license would
not be heard after accepting the same to complain of
exactions upon which the license was conditioned as unconstitutional because of its voluntary submission to the
same. But even if it be put out of view that this doctrine
has been either expressly or by necessary implication overruled or at all events so restricted as to deprive it of all ap-

plication to this case (see Harrison v. St. L. & San Francisco R. Co., 232 U. S. 318, 332, and authorities there cited,)
it here can have no possible application since such doctrine
at best but recognized the power of a State under the circumstances stated to impose conditions upon the right
to do the business embraced by the license and therefore
gives no support to the contention here presented which is
that a State by a license may acquire the right to exert
an authority beyond its borders which it cannot exercise
consistently with the Constitution. But the Constitution
and its limitations are the safeguards of all the States
preventing any and all of them under the guise of license
or otherwise from exercising powers not possessed.

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

As it follows from what -we have said that the primary
conception upon which the court below assumed this case
might be taken out of the general rule and thereby the
State of Missouri be endowed with authority which could
not be exercised consistently with the Constitution, was
erroneous, it results that the necessity for reversal is
demonstrated without requiring us to consider other propositions. But before we come to direct the judgment of
reversal, we briefly refer to another aspect of the subject,
that is, the ruling of the court below as to the subsidiary
nature of the loan agreement and its consequent control
by the broader principle upon which its conclusion was
really based. Of course under the view which we have
taken of the case, that is, of the want of power of the State
of Missouri because the contract of insurance was made
within its jurisdiction to forever thereafter control by its
laws all subsequent agreements made in other jurisdictions
by persons not citizens of Missouri and lawful where made,
that is, to stereotype, as it were, the will of the parties contracting in Missouri as of the date of the contract, it is unnecessary to consider whether the loan agreement was or
was not subsidiary, but see on this subject Leonard v.
CharterOak Life Ins. Co., 65 Connecticut, 529; Fireman's
Ins. Co. v. Dunn, 22 Ind. App. 332; S. S. White Dental Mfg.
Co. v. Delaware Ins. Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 642; 2 Wharton
Conflict of Laws, § 467g and cases cited; and see note 63
L. R. A. 833.
Reversed.

