OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

640

Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

ORDER OF ST. BENEDICT OF NEW JERSEY v.
STEINHAUSER, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS ADMINISTRATOR OF WIRTH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 267.

Argued. March 11, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

In a suit by an ecclesiastical society to recover from the administrator
of a deceased member assets of the estate as community property
under the provisions of the constitution and membership, the question for the courts is not one of canon law or ecclesiastical polity,
but one solely of civil rights.
Where the State has chartered a society as one of "religious men
living in community," a provision in its constitution for community
ownership, with renunciation of individual rights in private property
during continuance of membership, with freedom of withdrawal, is
not invalid as opposed to the public policy of, but is directly sanctioned by, the State creating the society.
An agreement to live in community and renounce individual rights of
property, but with a right to withdraw at any time invades no constitutional right; nor, in this case, does it transgress any statute of
the State of New Jersey which chartered the society with which the
agreement is made.
Subject to the inhibitions of the Constitution of the United States the
legislature of each State is the arbiter of its public policy.
In this case hed that an agreement made by a member of a religious
order, chartered as a society of religious men living in community,
that his individual earnings and acquisitions, like those of other
members, should go into the common fund, included his earnings
from copyrights of books; and also held, that as such agreement contained a right to withdraw at any time there was no infringement of
any right protected by the Constitution of the United States nor
was it against the public policy of the State of New Jersey which
granted the charter to the society.
194 Fed. Rep. 289, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the laws of
New Jersey and the public policy of that State of ap agree-

ST. BENEDICT ORDER v. STEINHAUSER.
234 U. S.

641

Opinion of the Court.

ment between an ecclesiastical order and one of its members, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Morgan J. O'Brien, with whom Mr. Otto Kueffner,
Mr. Albert Schaller, Mr. Frederick C. Gladden, Mr. J.
Warren Greene and Mr. Frank W. Arnold were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William H. Pitzer and Mr. William Hayward for
defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE HUGHs delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by The Order of St. Benedict of
New Jersey, a corporation of that State, to establish its
title to personal property left by Augustin Wirth, deceased, a member of the Order who died at Springfield,
Minnesota, in December, 1901. The defendant, Albert
Steinhauser, as administrator of the estate of the decedent,
holding letters from the Probate Court of Brown County,
Minnesota, filed a cross-bill asserting ownership in his
representative capacity and praying discovery and account with respect to whatever part of the estate had
come into the complainant's possession. The Circuit
Court entered a decree dismissing the cross-bill and granting the relief sought by the complainant's bill. 179 Fed.
Rep. 137. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed this
decree, directing the dismissal of the original bill and the
granting of the prayer of the cross-bill. 194 Fed. Rep.
289. Certiorari was allowed.
The monastic brotherhood known as the Order of St.
Benedict was established by St. Benedict in the early
part of the sixth century at Subiaco, Italy, whence it
spread over western Europe. It was brought to the United
States in 1846. The members of the brotherhood follow
what is known as 'The Rule of St. Benedict,' a collection
VOL. ccxxxiv-41

OCTOBER TERM, .1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

of mandates essentially unchanged from the beginning.
The vows are those of obedience, stability, chastity and
poverty.
We are not concerned in the present case with any
question of ecclesiastical requirement or monastic discipline. The question is solely one of civil rights. The
claim in suit rests upon the constitution of the complainant
corporation, and the obligations inherent in membership.
The Order of St. Benedict of New Jersey was incorporated in 1868 by special act of the legislature of that
State. The incorporators were described as 'being a
society of religious men living in community and devoted
to charitable works and the education of youth.' The
corporation was empowered to hold property and to
make by-laws for the government of the Order, provided
that these should not be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States or of the State of New Jersey, that
the clear yearly income of the real estate should not exceed
a sum stated, and that no one should remain an incorporator 'except regular- members of said religious society,
living in community and governed by the laws thereof.'
Under this charter the Order adopted a constitution,
among the provisions of which are the following:
"Section XI. Membership is lost at once:
"1. By. being dismissed according to the disciplinary
statutes of the Order of St. Benedict of New Jersey approved of by Pope Pius IX for the American Cassiness
Congregation of Benedictines.
"2. By voluntarily leaving the Order for any purpose
whatsoever.
"3. By joining any other order or secret society or any
other religious denominations.
"Section XII. Since the Order of St. Benedict of New
Jersey is solely a charitable institution, the real estate of
said Order and the individual earnings of its members,
are and must be considered as common property of the

ST. BENEDICT ORDER v. STEINHAUSER.
234 U. S.

643

Opinion of the Court.

Order of St. Benedict of New Jersey from which the members of said Order derive their support and the balance of
which income and property should serve for following up
and carrying out the charitable objects of the Order.
"It is therefore agreed upon by all the members of the
said Order of St. Benedict of New Jersey that no member
can or will claim at any time or under any circumstances
more than their decent support for the time for which
they are members of the Charter of the Order of St. Benedict of New Jersey, and no further.
"And, moreover, that each member individually pledges
himself to have all property, which he now holds or hereafter may hold, in his own name conveyed as soon as
possible, to the legal title of the Order of St. Benedict of
New Jersey."
Augustin Wirth was born in Bavaria in 1828. He
came to this country in 1851; and, in the next year, he
took the solemn vows of the Order at St. Vincent's Abbey
in Pennsylvania and was ordained to the priesthood. For
a few years he had charge of a church at Greenburgh,
Pennsylvania, near St. Vincent's, and in 1857 he went to
Kansas where he established a college and a church which
afterwards became an abbey. He continued his' work in
Kansas until 1868 and then. was sent to Minnesota where
he remained until 1875. He then resumed his pastorate
at Greenburgh, Pennsylvania, and later had charge of a
parish at Elizabeth, New Jersey, until 1887. It is evident
that while in Kansas he had joined the monastery of St.
Benedict there established and in 1887, with the permission of both Abbots, he transferred his stability to St.
Mary's Abbey in Newark, New Jersey, the home of the
complainant, the New Jersey Order, of which he thus
became a member. He remained continuously at this
Abbey for about two years, until 1889; he was in ill-health
and was taken care of by the Order. He was then sent
to a church in Wilmington, Delaware, and after a few

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

months he returned to his pastorate in Elizabeth, New
Jersey, in which he continued until 1897. After traveling
for some time in Europe for his health, visiting Rome and
various monasteries, he took a parish, in 1898, at ,Springfield, Minnesota, with the requisite permission ad tempus
from the Abbot of St. Mary's; and there he remained until
his death. At the request of the New Jersey Abbot he
was buried in the cemetery of the Benedictine Order in
Minnesota. The Circuit Court found that his membership in the complainant Order continued to the last, and
this finding was not disturbed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. We regard the fact as satisfactorily established.
His absence from the Abbey when engaged in pastoral
work was upon the consent of the Abbot and he was subject to recall at any time.
Father Wirth published many works on religious subjects. He obtained copyrights for his books, and made
his contract with the publishers, in the name of "Augustine Wirth, 0. S. B." The property here in question
consists chiefly of the proceeds received from sales of
these books (including notes and mortgages in which
they had been invested), credits on account of sales made
before and after his death, and the copyrights. He received the royalties personally during his lifetime; and
after his death, until October 17, 1906 (when suit was
brought against the publishers by the administrator), the
accruing royalties were paid to the complainant. The
New Jersey Order also, through the Abbot of St. John's
Abbey in Minnesota, collected certain sums on outstanding notes held by the decedent and paid therefrom the
decedent's debts.
It is clear that, according to the principles of the complainant's organization, Father Wirth was not entitled
to retain for his own benefit either the moneys which he
received for his services in the various churches with
which he was connected or those which he derived from

ST. BENEDICT ORDER v. STEINHAUSER.
234 U. S.

645

Opinioa of the Court.

the sale of his books. By the -explicit provision of the
constitution of the complainant (ยง XII), it was a necessary consequence of his continued membership, that his
gains-from whatever source-belonged to it, and that as
against the complainant he could not assert title to the
property which he received. The claim of the Order,
based upon this conception of its rights, is resisted upon
the grounds, (1) that the decedent had the permission
of the Abbot to retain, as his own property, the proceeds
of the sales of his books, and (2) that the obligation sought
to be enforced by the complainant is void as being against
public policy.
1. While there was evidence that Father Wirth was
required to account to the Abbot for the salary and perquisites received in his church work, it appeared that the
income from his books was treated in a different manner.
This income he was allowed to retain and use. When he
joined the complainant, in 1887, he did not make a transfer of any property to the Order although already he had
some property as a result of his literary labors. The evidence showed that he made loans and investments; and
from the moneys in his hands, he paid his personal expenses including his outlays on his visit to Europe. Because of his going to Rome without leave and his expenditures on this trip, he was admonished by the Abbot
Primate, 0. S. B., who had already written to the Abbot
of St. Mary's that Father Wirth should be required to
account. But no such account was given, and it would
seem that such disagreements as arose between the decedent and his ecclesiastical superiors in this country related to church moneys and not to the proceeds of book
sales. The Circuit Court of Appeals, disagreeing with
the finding of the Circuit Court, concluded that Father
Wirth was permitted by the Abbot of St. Vincent's, and
by the complainant's Abbot, to retain these proceeds as
his own property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

It is undisputed that the decedent did have a special
permission with respect to the use of this income. Originally given by the Abbot of St. Vincent's, it was continued by the Abbot-of St. Mary's. It was given in recognition of the fact that his literary work was in addition
to the duties which he was normally required to perform.
But, as we think, the conclusion of the court below does
not give proper weight to the testimony as to the nature
and scope of the privilege thus accorded. It was explicitly
testified by the Abbot that Father Wirth was permitted
to keep the moneys in question, not as his own, but to
have their use for charitable purposes with the permission of his superiors. It was this permission which was
originally given and which the complainant's Abbot renewed. This testimony was not controverted and, in
view of the constitution of the Order, we find no ground
for treating the permission as being of a different character. It is said that it does not appear how the decedent
while in Minnesota, for example, could have expended
the money for the charitable purposes of the Order in
New Jersey. But the purposes of this Order were broadly
charitable and religious; the decedent prosecuted his educational and religious work with the Abbot's consent and
the use of these moneys for charitable purposes, wherever
he was located for the time, might well be in furtherance
of the objects of the Order. It may have been the concession of a special privilege to permit the decedent to
act directly in the distribution of the moneys which he
had earned by his additional labors, instead of turning
them over to the head of the Order, but we cannot say
that it was a permission without restriction or one which
essentially altered his relation to the Order and his fundamental duty while he remained a member of it.
On the contrary, we agree with the Circuit Court, not
only in its finding of fact that the permission was limited
as stated, but also in its holding that in view of the basic

ST. BENEDICT ORDER v. STEINHAUSER.
234 U. S.

647

Opinion cf the Court.

law of the organization, there is no warrant for the conclusion that the Abbot had any authority to allow Father
Wirth to assert an independent title or to hold the property as absolutely his own. It is said that the 'Rule of
St. Benedict' recognizes the right of the member of the
Order to keep whatever the Abbot permits him to have.
But this plainly refers to the necessities of life and not
to accumulations in direct antagonism to the principles
of the society. Whatever indulgence may have been
shown to the decedent with respect to the submission of?
appropriate accounts, it cannot be said that while his
membership continued he bad, or could have, the privilege
of accumulating an individual estate for his own benefit
and free from his obligations to the Order. This could
not but be regarded as violative of the constitution of the
complainant and beyond the competency of its official
head to grant.
2. We are thus brought to the question whether the
requirement, which lies at the foundation of this suit, is
void as against public policy; that is, whether, by reason
of repugnance to the essential principles of our institutions, the obligation though voluntarily assumed, and
the trust arising from it, cannot be enforced. In support
of this view, it seems to 'be premised that a member of
the Order can be absolved from his vows only by the
action of the Head of the Church and that unless the requisite dispensation is thus obtained the member is bound
for life in temporal, as wel as in spiritual, affairs. This,
it is said, is the necessary import of testimony given by
the Abbot. It is thus assumed that the vows in connection with the 'Rule' bind the member in complete servitude to the Order for life or until the Head of the Church
absolves him from his obligations; and it is concluded that
an agreement for such a surrender, being opposed to individual liberty and to the inherent right of every person
to acquire and hold property, is unenforceable in the civil

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

courts and cannot form the basis for an equitable title
in the complainant.
This argument, we think, disregards the explicit provision of the complainant's constitution as to voluntary
withdrawal. It overlooks the distinction between civil and
ecclesiastical rights and duties; between the Order of
St. Benedict of New Jersey, a corporation of that State,
and the monastic brotherhood subject to church authority; between the obligation imposed by the corporate
organization and religious vows. As we have said, the
question here is not one of canon law or ecclesiastical
polity. The requirement of complainant's constitution
must be read according to its terms and its validity must
be thus determined. Granted that it is to be examined in
the light of that to which it refers, still, obligations which
are inconsistent with its express provisions cannot be imported into it. This constitution, as already stated, definitely provides: "Membership is lost at once :-2. By voluntarily leaving the, Order for any purpose whatsoever."
(Section XI.) This language cannot be taken to mean
other than what it distinctly says. So far as the corporation, and the civil rights and obligations incident to membership therein, are concerned, it leaves no doubt that
the member may voluntarily leave the Order at any time.
His membership in the corporation, and the obligation
he assumes, are subject to that condition. If he severs his
connection with the corporation, it cannot be heard to
claim any property he may subsequently acquire. His
obligation runs with his membership and the latter may
be terminated at will.
With this privilege of withdrawal expressly recognized,
we are unable to say that the agreement--expressed in
ยง XII of the complainant's constitution-that the gains
and acquisitions of members shall belong to the corporation, must be condemned. These go to the corporation in exchange for the privileges of membership and

ST. BENEDICT ORDER v. STEINHAUSER.
234 U. S.

649

Opinion of the Court.

to further the common purpose to which the members
are devoted. No constitutional right is invaded and no
statutory restriction is transgressed. The legislature of
New Jersey which, subject to constitutional inhibition
is the arbiter of the public policy of that State, granted
the charter by special act to the Benedictine Society of
'religious men living in community' and it cannot be
said that the constitution adopted by the Order was repugnant to the charter provisions or exceeded the authority plainly intended to be conferred. It would seem
to be clear that the obligation assumed instead of being
opposed to the public policy of the State where it was
created was directly sanctioned.
The validity of agreements providing for community
ownership with renunciation of individual rights of property during the continuance of membership in the community, where there is freedom to withdraw, has repeatedly been affirmed. The case of Goesele v. Bimeler,
14 How. 589, related to a religious society called Separatists. By an agreement made in 1819, the members of the
society agreed to unite in a 'communion of property.'
They renounced 'all individual ownership of property,
present or future, real or personal.' Amendatory articles of like import were signed in 1824. As to these
agreements, the court said: "The articles of 1819 and 1824
are objected to as not constituting a contract which a
court of equity would enforce. . . . What is there in
either of these articles that is contrary to good morals,
or that is opposed to the policy of the laws? An association of individuals is formed under a religious influence,
who are in a destitute condition, having little to rely on
for their support but their industry; and they agree to
labor in common for the good of the society, and a comfortable maintenance for each individual; and whatever
shall be acquired beyond this shall go to the common
stock. This contract provides for every member of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

community, in sickness and in health, and under whatsoever misfortune may occur. . . .- By disclaiming all
individual ownership of the property acquired by their
labor, for the benefits secured by the articles, the members
give durability to the fund accumulated, and to the
benevolent purposes to which it is applied. No legal objection is perceived to such a partnership." (Id., pp. 606,
607). In Schwartz v. Duss, 187 U. S.8, the controversy
related to the property of the Harmony Society, a community in Pennsylvania. It was said that the cardinal
principle of the society was 'self-abnegation,' which was
manifested 'not only by submission to a religious head,
but by a community instead of individual ownership of
property, and the dedication of their labor to the society.'
It had been held by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
that the agreements constituting the community were
not offensive to the public policy of that State (Schriber
v. Rapp, 5 Watts, 351), and, as to this, it was said by
this court: "The Supreme Court observed that the point
made against the articles as being against public policy
was attended with no difficulty, and Chief Justice Gibson
said for the court: 'An association for the purposes expressed is prohibited neither by statute nor the common
law."' (Id. p. 26.) In Burt v. Oneida Community, 137
N. Y. 346, in describing the character of that society, the
Court of Appeals of New York said that its main purpose
was the 'propagandism of certain communistic views as
to the acquisition and enjoyment of property' and 'the
endeavor to put into practical operation an economic and
industrial scheme which should embody and illustrate
the doctrines which they held and inculcated.' Necessarily, said the court (p. 353), "the basic proposition of
such a community was the absolute and complete surrender of the separate and individual rights of property
of the persons entering it; the abandonment of all purely
selfish pursuits, and the investiture of the title to their

ST. BENEDICT ORDER v. STEINHAUSER.
234 U. S.

651

Opinion of the Court.

property and the fruits o:f their industry in the common
body, from which they could not afterwards be severed
or withdrawn except by unanimous consent. It was
fashioned according to the pentecostal ideal, that all who
believed should be together and have all things common.
It was intended to be in fact, as they frequently styled
themselves, but a single family upon a large scale with
only one purse, where self was to be abjured and the
general good alone considered." The court, viewing it
solely as a business undertaking, held that the organization 'was not prohibited by any statute or in contravention of any law regulating the possession, ownership or
tenure of property.' See also Speidel v. Henrici, 120
U. S. 377; Gasely v. Separatists, 13 Oh. St. 144; Waite v.
Merrill, 4 Maine, 102; Gass v. Wilhite, 2 Dana (Ky.),
170; State v. Amana Society, 132 Iowa, 304; 8 L. R. A.
(N. S.) 909, note; 11 Ann. Cas. 236, note.
It is said that in these cases, the contracts had been fully
performed, and that the effort was made either to partition or distribute the property of the society, or to recover
the value of property which had been actually conveyed
or services which had been rendered to it. But the validity
of the agreements there in question, against the objection
based upon public policy, was distinctly recognized.
In the present case, there was no infringement of Father
Wirth's liberty or right to property. He did not withdraw
from the Order. He had agreed, by accepting membership
under the complainant's censtitution, that his individual
earnings and acquisitions, like those of other members,
should go into the common. fund and, except as required
for the maintenance of the! members, should be used in
carrying out the charitable objects of the Order. It is not
unlikely that the copyrights upon his books derived their
commercial value largely, if not altogether, from his
membership. Certainly, the equitable ownership of these
copyrights, by virtue of his obligation, vested in tle com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

plainant and the moneys in question when received became in equity its property and were subject to its disposition. As to both, Father Wirth stood in the position
of a trustee.
The further objection that the claim is barred by the
statute of limitations was held by the Circuit Court to
be untenable and we agree with that view. The applicable limitation is six years (Revised Laws, Minnesota
(1905), ยง 4076,) and the bill was filed within six years
after Father Wirth's death. There is no such clear evidence of repudiation of the trust as would warrant the
conclusion that the statute began to run at an earlier date.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

SELIG v. HAMILTON, RECEIVER OF EVANS,
JOHNSON, SLOANE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 361.

Argued May 6, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

The legislation of Minnesota with respect to the liability of stockholders, as construed by the courts of that State, has heretofore
been reviewed and its constitutional validity upheld by this court
in Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, and Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243.
A stockholder cannot, under the statutes of Minnesota, even by a
bona fide transfer of his stock, escape liability for debts of the corporation theretofore incurred.
Bankruptcy proceedings against a Minnesota corporation do not stand
in the way of a resort to the statutory method of enforcing the
liability of a stockholder which is not a corporate asset.
Congress has not yet undertaken to provide that a discharge in bankruptcy of a corporation shall release the stockholders from liability.

