OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

plainant and the moneys in question when received became in equity its property and were subject to its disposition. As to both, Father Wirth stood in the position
of a trustee.
The further objection that the claim is barred by the
statute of limitations was held by the Circuit Court to
be untenable and we agree with that view. The applicable limitation is six years (Revised Laws, Minnesota
(1905), § 4076,) and the bill was filed within six years
after Father Wirth's death. There is no such clear evidence of repudiation of the trust as would warrant the
conclusion that the statute began to run at an earlier date.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

SELIG v. HAMILTON, RECEIVER OF EVANS,
JOHNSON, SLOANE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 361.

Argued May 6, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

The legislation of Minnesota with respect to the liability of stockholders, as construed by the courts of that State, has heretofore
been reviewed and its constitutional validity upheld by this court
in Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, and Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243.
A stockholder cannot, under the statutes of Minnesota, even by a
bona fide transfer of his stock, escape liability for debts of the corporation theretofore incurred.
Bankruptcy proceedings against a Minnesota corporation do not stand
in the way of a resort to the statutory method of enforcing the
liability of a stockholder which is not a corporate asset.
Congress has not yet undertaken to provide that a discharge in bankruptcy of a corporation shall release the stockholders from liability.

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

A foreign stockholder of a Minnesota corporation is not concluded by
an order of the state court in sequestration proceedings under the
statute, and in which he was served only by publication without
the State, as to any matter relating to his being a stockholder or
as to other personal defense.
When his ownership of the stock ceases, a stockholder in a Minnesota corporation ceases to be liable for debts of the corporation thereafter incurred, although liable for debts previously
incurred.
Under the state statute, the Minnesota court, in a proceeding to assess
stockholders for liability, may assess persons who previously were
stockholders for liability for debts incurred during the period they
owned the stock.
While a stockholder not personally served may urge his personal de
fenses in a suit to recover the assessment made in sequestration proceedings of an insolvent Minnesota corporation, he may not reopen
the amount of the assessment or the question of the necessity
therefor.
What the Minnesota court determines as to the nature of the assessment and its application to present and former stockholders
must be ascertained from the order itself.
Whether a former stockholder is ratably or otherwise liable with
present stockholders is not a question which goes to the jurisdiction
of the Minnesota court making the order, but a question to be submitted for correction, if any, to the court making the order and
not to another court in a collateral attack.
In a proper judicial proceeding to determine the amount of indebtedness of an insolvent corporation and the dates of origin of such
indebtedness, the individual stockholders are sufficiently represented
by the presence of the corporation itself; and the decree establishing
such indebtedness is admissible as evidence thereof in a suit against
a stockholder.
Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, followed to the effect that
§ 394, New York Code of Civil Procedure, does not apply where
the corporation is not a moneyed one or a banking association and
that the six year period does apply under § 382 to the claim of a
receiver of a foreign business corporation for personal liability of a
stockholder assessed under the state statute.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York enforcing the liability of a stock-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S,

holder of an insolvent Minnesota corporation, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Abram I. Elkus, with whom Mr. Wesley S. Sawyer

was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The order of assessment does not purport to decide defendant's liability, but only the amount of probable debts
and assets and the extent to which it was necessary on
the basis of all debts to resort to the liability of stockholders.
The decree allowing the claims filed did not adjudge
when they accrued. Stockholders are not bound by this
decree.
The sole determination is that an assessment on a basis
of all debts of such a percentage on the capital stock will
not more than pay the corporate debts. No other question was considered by the court in making the order of
assessment.
Defendant is liable only ratably on an assessment based
on debts which existed on September 5, 1904, and are
unrenewed, and based on all stockholders liable to contribute toward such debts. No such assessment has been
made.
The Minnesota court did not have jurisdiction to render
a decree with the effect, as construed by the trial court, of
adjudging the liability of defendant.
The order of assessment cannot be conclusive upon
points other than those properly before the court and
necessarily decided.
The action is barred by the statute of limitations contained in § 394 of the New York Code.
In support of these contentions, see Alsop v. Conway,
188 Fed. Rep. 568; Balkam v. Woodstock Co., 154 U. S.
177; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 514; Bauserman v.
Blunt, 147 U. S. 647; Clark v. Wells, 203 U. S. 163; Commercial Bank v. Azotine Mfg. Co., 66 Minnesota, 413;

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Commonwealth Ins. Co. v. Hayden, 60 Nebraska, 636;
Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 242; Covell v. Fowler, 144
Fed. Rep. 535; Fairfieldv. Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47; French
v. Busch, 189 Fed. Rep. 480; Gt. West. Tel. Co. v. Purdy,
162 U. S. 329; Green v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291; Hamilton v.
Loeb, 186 Fed. Rep..7; Harper v. Carroll, 66 Minnesota,
486; Harpold v. Stobart, 46 Oh. St. 397; Howarth v. Lombard, 175 Massachusetts,, 570; Manhattan Ins. Co. v.
Albro, 127 Fed. Rep. 281; McDonald v. Dewey, 202 U. S.
510; Moores v. Nat. Bank, 104 U. S. 625; Morgan v. Hedstrom, 164 N. Y. 224; Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. Phcnix Co.,
108 Michigan, 170; Old Wayne Life Assn. v. McDonough,
204 U. S. 7; San Diego Co. v. Souther, 90 Fed. Rep. 164;
Schrader v. Mfr's Nat. Bank, 133 U. S. 67; Shepard v.
Fulton, 171 N. Y. 184; Staten Island Co. v. Hinchcliffe,
170 N. Y. 473; Stokes v. Foote, 172 N. Y. 327; Straw Mfg.
Co. v. Kilbourne, 80 Minnesota, 125; Swing v. Humbird,
94 Minnesota, 1; Tiffany v. Giesen, 96 Minnesota, 488;
Ward v. Joslin, 186 U. S. 140; Willius v. Mann, 91 Minnesota, 494; Constitution of Minn., Art. 10, § 3; act of
June 30, 1876, c. 176, § 1, as amended in 1892 and 1897;
Rev. Stat., §§ 5151, 5152, 5234; Laws of Minn., 1894, c. 76;
Laws of Minn., 1899, c. 272; Laws of Minn., 1899, c. 34,
§ 2599; Laws of Minn., 1905, c. 58; N. Y. Code Civ.
Pro., § 394.
Mr. James E. Trask, with whom Mr. E. H. Morphy
and Mr. John J. Clark, were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the District Court of the
United States, for the Southern District of New York,
to enforce the liability of a stockholder of an insolvent
Minnesota corporation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U: S.

In 1902, the Evans, Munzer, Pickering Company, was
incorporated under the laws of Minnesota for the purpose
of transacting a mercantile business. In 1904, its name
was changed to the Evans, Johnson, Sloane Company.
Its capital stock consisted of 1,500 shares of common and
1,000 shares of preferred stock of the par value of $100
each. The plaintiff in error, Arthur L. Selig, became the
owner of 50 shares of preferred stock in 1902 and held the
same until September 5, 1904, when they were transferred
on the books of the-Company to Max Mayer. On September 25, 1905, a petition in bankruptcy was filed against
the Company in the United States District. Court for the
District of Minnesota; adjudication followed on October 13, 1905, and trustees in bankruptcy were appointed.
On May 28, 1906, a creditor of the Company, on behalf
of itself and all other creditors, brought a sequestration
suit in the District Court of Ramsey County, Minnesota,
for the purpose of enforcing the liability of the stockholders
of the Company. In that suit, on June 25, 1906, Charles
E. Hamilton (the defendant in error here) was appointed
receiver. Further order was made on June 28, 1906,
requiring creditors to exhibit their claims, and become
parties to the suit, within six months from the date of
.the first publication of the order. On July 6, 1906, in
the same suit, the receiver filed a petition for an assessment upon the stockholders. The court set a date for
hearing and directed notice to be given by publication and
mailing. Thereupon, on September 4, 1906, the court
entered its order assessing the sum of $100 against each
share of the capital stock and against those liable as stockholders on account of such shares; the latter were directed
to pay to the receiver the amount of the assessment within
thirty days, and the receiver was authorized in default
of payment to institute an action against any one liable
as a stockholder, in any court having jurisdiction, whether
in the State of Minnesota or elsewhere. On April 23, 1907,

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the court entered a decree-in the sequestration suitallowing the claims against the Company as set forth
in an annexed schedule, which showed the nature of each
claim, its amount and when it arose. A further decree
allowing an additional claim was entered on February 13,
1908. It appeared from these decrees, and the schedules
to which they referred, that of the claims thus allowed,
upwards of $11,000 wholly arose prior to September, 1904,
and in addition over $20,000 in part arose prior to that date.
Pursuant to the order of September 4, 1906, the present
action was brought in December, 1909, to recover from
Selig the amount assessed on 50 shares. The complaint
set forth the proceedings in the sequestration suit, the
statutes under which they were instituted and the order
of assessment. It was also alleged that Selig, on or about
September 5, 1904, had transferred his stock, when the
Company was in an unsound financial condition, for the
purpose of concealing his ownership, but that he remained
the owner of the entire beneficial interest in the shares
in question and that the transfer was fraudulent as against
the creditors; and also that, under the law of Minnesota,
a stockholder in a corporation could not avoid his liability for prior debts by a bona fide sale of his shares to a
solvent person and a recorded transfer. In his answer,
Selig admitted the transfer of the shares at the time mentioned, alleged that it was duly made and entered on the
corporate books, and denied the other allegations pertinent
to his liability.
Upon the trial the record of the proceedings in the sequestration suit, including the order of assessment and
the decrees allowing the claims of creditors, were received
in evidence. The entry in the stock-book showing the
record of the issuance of 50 shares to Selig and its transfer,
together with the original certificate as canceled, was
introduced. Aside from what was contended to be the
effect of the proceedings in the sequestration suit, there
VOL. ccxxxiv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

was no evidence impeaching the transfer. This being the
state of the proof, the plaintiff rested and the defendant
moved to dismiss the complaint upon the grounds, that
the plaintiff had failed to prove facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, that the suit should have been
brougnt in equity and not at law, and that the cause of
action had accrued more than three ypars prior to the
commencement of the action and hence was barred by
the statute of limitations of the State of New York. Each
party also moved for a direction of a verdict. The District Judge directed a verdict in favor of the receiver for
the sum of $5,000 with interest, and in the view that, in
sustaining and enforcing the order of assessment, a question arose involving the application of the Federal Constitution, this writ of error has been sued out.
The legislation of Minnesota with respect to the liability
of stockholders, as construed by the state court, was reviewed and its constitutional validity was upheld in Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516. The conclusions there
reached were reaffirmed in Converse v. Hamilton, 224
U. S. 243. Briefly 're-stating them, it may be said: The
constitution of Minnesota (Art. 10, § 3) provides: "Each
stockholder in any corporation, excepting those organized
for the purpose of carrying on any kind of manufacturing.
or mechanical business, shall be liable to the amount of
stock held or owned by, him." The provision is selfexecuting. The liability of the stockholder, measured by
the par value of his stock, 'is not to the corporation but
to the creditors collectively, is not penal but contractual,
is not joint but several, and the mode and means of its
enforcement are subject to legislative regulation.' (See
Willis v. Mabon, 48 Minnesota, 140; McKusick v. Seymoiur, 48 Minnesota; 158; Minneapolis Baseball Co. v. City
Bank, 66 Minnesota, 441; Hanson v. Davison, 73 Minnesota, 454; Straw & Ellsworth Co. v. Kilbourne Co., 80
Minnesota, 125; London & Northwest Co. v. St. Paul Co.,

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

84 Minnesota, 144; Way v. Barney, 116 Minnesota, 285.)
Under the statute of 1894 (chapter 76), this liability was
enforceable exclusively by means of a single suit in equity,
in a court of the State, which was brought for the benefit
of all the creditors against all the stockholders or as many
as could be served vith process within the State. Hale v.
Allinson, 188 U. S. 56; Finney v. Guy, 189 U. S. 335. To
make the remedy more Effective, the act of 1899 (chapter 272) was passed, and under the provisions of this statute as continued in substance (Way v. Barney, supra,
p. 294) in the Revised Laws of 1905, §§ 3184-3190, the
proceedings here in question were had. Provision was
made-upon hearing at the time appointed and after notice by publication or otherwise as directed by the courtfor receiving evidence as to the probable indebtedness of
the corporation, the expenses of the receivership, the
amount of available assets, the parties liable as stockholders and the nature and extent of such liability; and,
thereupon, the court was authorized to levy a ratable assessment "upon all parties liable'as stockholders, or upon
or on account of any stock or shares of said corporation, for
such amount, proportion or percentage of the liability"
as the court in its discretion might "deem proper (taking
into account the probable solvency or insolvency of
stockholders and the probable expenses of collecting the
assessment)."-The order and the assessment thereby
levied, was made "conclusive upon and against all parties
liable upon or on account of any stock or shares of said
corporation, whether appearing or represented at said
hearing or having notice thereof or not, as to all matters
relating to the amount of and the propriety of and necessity for the said assessment." After the expiration of the
time fixed for payment of the amount assessed, the receiver was authorized to bring actions against every person failing to pay wherever he might be found, whether in
Minnesota or elsewhere. (See chapter 272, Laws of 1899,

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1913;
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

§§ 3-6; Revised Laws, 1905, §§ 3184-3187.) The constitutional validity of these provisions was sustained upon
the ground that the statute is a reasonable regulation for
enforcing the liability assumed by those who become
stockholders in corporations organized under the laws
of Minnesota; that while the order levying the assessment
is made conclusive as to all matters relating to the amount
and propriety thereof, and the necessity therefor, one
against whom it is sought to be enforced is not precluded
from showing that he is not a stockholder, or is not the
holder of as many shares as is alleged, or has a claim
against the corporation which in law or in equity he is
entitled to set off against the assessment, or has any
other defense personal to himself; and that while the
order is conclusive against the stockholder as to the matters stated, although he may not have been a party to
the suit in which it was made or notified that an assessment was contemplated, this is not a tenable objection
as the order is not in the nature of a personal judgment
against him and he must be deemed, by virtue of his relation to the corporation and the obligation assumed with
respect to its debts, to be represented by it in the proceeding. Straw, & Ellsworth Co. v. Kilbourne Co., supra, pp.
133, 136; Bernheimer v. Converse, supra, pp. 528, 532;
Converse v. Hamilton, supra, p. 256.
Further, it must be assumed that a stockholder cannot, even by a bona fide transfer of his stock, escape liability for the debts of the corporation theretofore incurred. The Minnesota statute provides that a transfer
of shares "shall not in any way exempt the person making
such transfer from any liabilities of said corporation which'
were created prior to such transfer." Gen. Stat., 1894,
§ 2599; Rev. Laws, 1905, § 2864. And in Cunnison v.
U. S. Investment Company, 70 Minnesota, 292, 295, the
.court said that "by virtue of the statute a stockholder
cannot relieve himself from the liability for the prior

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the,Court.

debts of the corporation by a bona fide sale and transfer
of his stock on the books of the corporation, whatever
the rule may be in the absence of the statute."
In the light of the principles established by these decisions, it must be concluded:
(1) The bankruptcy proceedings against the corporation did not stand in the way of a resort to the statutory
method of enforcing the stockholder's liability. It was
not corporate assets (Minneapolis Baseball Co. v. City
Bank, supra, p. 446; Way v. Barney, supra); and Congess had not undertaken to provide that the discharge
in bankruptcy of a corporation should release the stockholders. No question as to this is raised by the plaintiff
in error.
(2) The defendant Selig, in this action brought by the
receiver against him in the District Court in New York
to recover the amount assessed, was not concluded with
-respect to his personal liability. He was free to deny
that he was, or had been, a stockholder in the Company;
to dispute the allegation as to the length, of time that he
remained a stockholder; in short, to litigate any matter
which bore upon the extent or duration of his stockholding or any other personal defense. Straw & Ellsworth
Co. v. Kilbourne, supra. The order of the Minnesota
court in the proceedings for the purpose of the assessment, in which he was represented by the corporation
and of which he was notified only by publication and
mailing of notice, did not conclude him with respect to
the issue so far as it concerned the transfer of his stock or
the good faith with which the transfer was made. Inasmuch as the transfer was proved to have been made in
September, 1904, and no evidence was introduced to discredit the transaction, it must be assumed, for the present
purpose, that the defendant's stock ownership then ceased
and that he was not liable for the payment of debts subsequently contracted by the corporation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

(3) But despite the transfer, Selig remained liable for
the corporate debts previously incurred. Moreover, it
cannot be doubted that the authority of the Minnesota
court under the statute was not confined to proceedings to
assess existing stockholders. The act of 1899, by its express terms, applied in cases of liability arising upon
shares "at any time held or owned by such stockholders"
and provided for the making of an assessment against "all
parties liable as stockholders." Laws, 1899, chapter 272,
§§ 1, 3; Rev. Laws, 1905, § 3185. This obviously included
former stockholders in relation to debts antedating their
transfers; and the constitutional validity of the act in this
aspect is as clear as is its validity with respect to the authorization of an assessment against existing stockholders.
So far as the jurisdiction of the court to levy the assessment is concerned, no distinction can be maintained. The
basis of jurisdiction is the same in each case; it is found in
the contractual obligation assumed in becoming a member
of a Minnesota corporation, and in the consequent submission to the reasonable regulations of the State for the
purpose of making the liability effectual. Bernheimer v.
Converse, supra.
It follows that if the court, thus having jurisdiction
and acting -upon the evidence before it in the statutory
proceeding, assessed former stockholders for the purpose
of providing for debts incurred while they held their
stock, its determination with respect to the amount of the
assessment and the necessity therefor must be deemed
conclusive. These questions cannot be reopened in another court when the receiver sues to collect the amount of
the assessment. The stockholder in such a suit is free
to urge his personal defenses but this does not mean that
he may resist the receiver's demand upon the ground that
the assessment was not needed. The marshalling of the
amounts recovered from stockholders is also the appropriate subject for the consideration of the court which

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the statute collects and distributes the fund. It
is quite obvious that another court, in an action by the
receiver against the stockholder, could not undertake to
fix the amount required to pay the debts for which the
stockholder is liable unless it virtually assumed the duty
imposed by the statute of determining what a ratable assessment should be and thus denied due credit to the determination already made in a court of competent jurisdiction.
It is insisted, however, that no assessment was made
against the defendant as a past stockholder; that the order
of assessment as made by the Minnesota court was applicable to present stockholders only. It is true that in
the receiver's petition for the levy of an assessment, the
persons alleged to be liable were set forth as existing
stockholders. Of these, it was averred that some (including the plaintiff in error) had transferred their stock for
the purpose of avoiding liability and that others had
placed their shares in the names of agents; but as to all,
it was asserted that they were, and continued to be, the
owners of the entire beneficial interest. But the petition
prayed that the probable amount of the indebtedness and
of the costs and expenses of the proceedings, and the
probable amount which could be collected "from said
stockholders, and all penons or parties liable, as such, on
said stock," should be ascertained, and that the court
should levy a ratable assessment upon each share and
against each of the stockholders "liable on said stock."
Taking the petition, in the light of the statute, we think
that, despite the allegations with respect to the fraudulent
character of the transfers mentioned and the continued
ownership by the transferors of the shares described, the
exercise of the jurisdiction of the court was invoked for
the making of such an assessment as the court in its discretion might consider necessary in order to enforce the
stockholders' liability, as it actually existed, with respect
to the corporate debts remaining unpaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

What the court did determine must be ascertained
from the order of assessment. This order, after reciting that the matter came on to be heard at the time appointed pursuant to the petition, and that the court had
"received and duly considered all the evidence presented," provided for an assessment of an amount equal
to the par value "on each and every share of the capital
stock" and "against the persons or parties liable as stockholders . . . for, upon, or on account of such shares
of stock." It further provided that "each and every person or party liable as such stockholder" should pay to
the receiver the amount assessed, and the receiver was
authorized to collect "the several amounts due from the
several persons or parties liable as stockholders," and to
bring suit in case of the failure of "any person
liable as a stockholder" to pay as required. These provisions are certainly broad enough to include all stockholders, who. were actually liable, and we should not be
justified in treating the order as expressing less than its
terms stated.
In Tiffany v. Gieaen, 96 Minnesota, 488, the plaintiff,
as receiver, by virtue of an order of assessment under the
statute sought to recover against a stockholder in an insolvent corporation who had transferred his shares. It
appearing that the defendant was the owner of the stock
during the existence of the indebtedness of the company,
it was held that the plaintiff had made out a cause of action. The objection that, as the transferee was the person
primarily liable the action could not be maintained against
the transferor, was overruled.
It is urged that the plaintiff in error was bound to contribute only ratably with all other stockholders who were
liable with respect to the debts which arose prior to September 5, 1904, the date of the transfer, and that no assessment had been made based upon those debts. But
this objection, as we view it, does not go to the existence

SELIG v. HAMILTON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the jurisdiction *tomake the order of assessment, or to
the scope of the order as it was actually made, but rather
to the question whether the court committed error in the
exercise of the authority which it unquestionably possessed. If it did, the remedy lay in an application to the
Minnesota court for the correction deemed to be necessary and not in a collateral attack. The order in question does not provide for the distribution of the amount
to be paid by the plaintiff in error, but that all moneys
collected from the stockholders by the receiver should be
held until the further order of the court. It is not to be
assumed that these moneys will be applied to any indebtedness as to which the stockholders contributing
respectively are not liable. We cannot doubt that the.
plaintiff in error, if he so desires, will have suitable opportunity to be heard as to the application of the amount
which he may pay to, the receiver, that it will be used only
in the discharge of his obligation, and that any surplus
to which he may be entitled will be duly returned. Laws,
1899, chapter 272, § 11. See Rev. Laws, 1905, § 3190.
The statute further provides that any stockholder who has
paid his assessment shall be entitled to force contribution
from any stockholder who has not paid, and for that
purpose shall be subrogated to the rights of the creditors
or the receiver of the corporation against every such delinquent stockholder in such manner and to such extent
as may be just and equitable. Id.
We cannot regard it as essential to the exercise of the
jurisdiction of the Minnesota court that it should be required, in order not to forego recovery from stockholders
who had transferred their stock, to make a separate and
distinct assessment against all the then stockholders at the
date of every transfer appearing upon the books. The
plan of the statute was intended to afford a practicable
remedy, and the order to be made thereunder was in the
nature of things a provisional one representing the best

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

judgment of the court upon the evidence before it as to
the amount of the assessment required. That assessment
was leviable upon every share and against all persons
liable as stockholders. If the plaintiff in error was
among this number, he was not entitled to resist the recovery by reason of the nature or amount of the assessment, which was levied in conformity with the statute, but he was properly remitted to the Minnesota
court for the adjustment of such equities as he might
have.
It is said, however, that on the trial of the present action, there was no evidence that there were debts remaining unpaid, which antedated his transfer of stock. But
*the decrees, entered in the parent suit in Minnesota,
which determined the amount of the outstanding claims
and when they arose, were introduced in evidence. These
decrees showed that there were debts, in excess of the
amount demanded of the plaintiff in error, which arose
before his shares were transferred. In the proceedings
appropriate to the liquidation, which related to the allowance of these claims, the plaintiff in error by virtue of
his connection with the corporation and the obligation he
had assumed was sufficiently represented by the presence
of the corporation itself (Bernheimer v. Converse, supra,
p. 532); and we see no reason to question the admissibility of the evidence. There was no attempt to controvert it.
The remaining question relates to the statute of limitations. It is contended that the action is barred by §394
of the New York Code of Civil Procedure. In Bernheimer
v. Converse, supra (p. 535),'the court expressed the opinion
that this section did not apply where the corporation was
not a "moneyed corporation or banking association"
and that the period of limitation under the New York
Code was six years (§ 382). (See Platt v. Wilmot, 193
U. S. 602, where, in the opinion of the court delivered by

CHAPMAN &c. v. ST. FRANCIS LEVEE DIST. 667
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Peckham, the history of § 394 is reviewed.)
We adhere to this view and the action must be regarded
as brought in time.
The judgment is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

CHAPMAN & DEWEY LUMBER CO. v. ST. FRANCIS
LEVEE DISTRICT.
PETITION FOR REHEARING.
No. 82. Petition for rehearing by defendant in error received and distributed to the Justices on March 6, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.
In presenting petitions for rehearing a duty rests upon counsel to deal
with the case as it is disclosed by the record.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel Adams, Mr. H. F. Roleson, Mr. .. C. Hawthorne and Mr. N. F. Lamb for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
Leave to file a petition for rehearing is sought in this
case. The petition has been examined, and we find it so
wanting in merit that leave to file it must be denied.
Doubtless, a formal denial would suffice, but we prefer
to notice two statements in the petition.
As our opinion (232 U. S. 186) shows, the controlling
question was, whether a patent issued to the State of
Arkansas in 1858 under the Swamp-land Act embraced
all the lands within the exterior boundaries of a designated

