OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

court of the State reviewable by this court not as judgments of territorial courts, but on te contrary as judgments of state courts; in other words, making it plain
that it was not contemplated that after a case had been
transferred to and decided by a state court it would be
subject to a review in this court, simply because it was
pending in the territorial court at the time of the Enabling Act, as if it were a judgment of a territorial court.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

MULLEN v. SIMMONS, SHERIFF OF JOHNSTON
COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.,
No. 263.

Submitted May 11, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The policy of Congress in regard to restrictions upon alienation of allotments has been to protect Indians against.their own improvidence,
whether shown by acts of commission or omission, contract0 or torts..
The prohibition, contained in § 15 of the act of 'July 1, 1902, as to
affecting or encumbering allotments made under the act by deeds,
debts or obligations contracted prior to the termination of period of
restriction on alienation, applies to a judgment entered against an
allottee, whether based on a tort or on a contract.
A tort may be a breach of a mere legal duty or a consequence of negligent conduct, and a confessed judgment based on a prearranged tort
might become an easy means of circumventing the policy of the
statutes restricting alienation of Indian allotments if alienation could
be effected by levy and sale under such a judgment.
33 Oklahoma, 184, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constructibn of the .piovisions of the act of July 1, 1902, affecting alienation of

MULLEN v. SIMMONS.
234 U. S.

193

Argument for Defendants in Error.

allottee lands, and the effect of judgments against the
allottee, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe and Mr. J. R. Cottingham for plaintiff
inerror:
The lands involved were not subject to seizure and sale
on execution. Hamilton v. Brown, 31 Oklahoma, 213;
S. C., 120 Pac. Rep. 950; Holden v. Garrett,23 Kansas, 98;
Koheler v. Ball, 2 Kansas:, 160; Mullen v. United States,
224 U. S. 448.
It was not the purpose of Congress to permit a lien to
attach to lands as to which alienation is prohibited, to become effective when the lands are alienable and operate
to deprive the allottee of any of the benefit of receiving
the lands in allotment. Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665;
Goat v. United States, 224 U. S. 458; Keel v. Ingersoll, 27
Oklahoma, 117; S. C., 11I Paq. Rep. 214; Krause v. Means,
12 Kansas, 335; Maynes v. Veale, 20 Kansas, 374; Farrington v. Wilson, 29 Wisconsin, 383; Landrum v. Graham, 22
Oklahoma, 458; S. C., 98 Pac. Rep. 432.
Nor was it the purpose in the extension of the Oklahoma
statutes over that part of Oklahoma which formerly constituted the Indian Territory to reinstate dormant judgment liens. Chapter 199, 35 Stat. 312; Bledsoe's Indian
Land Laws, c. 53.
The effect of a statute purporting to fix a lien upon lands
held subject to restrictions on alienation under the laws of
the United States undoubtedly presents a Federal question.
If a lien existed by virtue of a judgment, but subject to
existing restrictions upon alienation, Congress clearly had
authority to extend or enlarge such restrictions as against
such character of lien. Tiger v. Western Investment Co.,
221 U. S. 286.
Mr. John E. Dolman and Mr. L. S. Dolman for defendants in error:
VOL. ccxxxiv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

234 U. S.

The Oklahoma courts gave full effect to the words in
§ 15 of the act of 1902 providing that the lands should not
be sold except as therein provided. That entire section
refers exclusively to voluntary deeds, debts and contractual obligations, and has no reference whatever to a
judgment for damages for a tort. Brun v. Mann, 151 Fed.
Rep. 145.
It is the intention expressed in the statute and that alone
to which the courts may lawfully give effect; the act must
be held to mean what it clearly expresses. Wabash v.
United States, 178 Fed. Rep. 5, 12; United States v. NinetyNine Diamonds, 139 Fed. Rep. 961; United States v.
Alamogordo Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 700, 706. Mullen v. United
States, 224 U. S. 448, does not apply.
Under § 15 of the act of 1902, and under the laws of
Oklahoma as construed by the highest court of that State
in its decision in this case, the judgment of the interpleader
became a lien on the allotment when the allottee acquired
the same, and this court is bound by the decision of the
state court as to the validity and construction of its lien
statute under the pleadings in this case. United States v.
Morrison, 4 Pet. 124; Massingill v.. Downs, 7 How. 760;
Taylor v. Thomson, 5 Pet. 358; Bank v. Longworth, Fed.
Cas. No. 923; United States v. Eisenbeis, 88 Fed. Rep. 4;
Fidelity Ins. Co, v. Shenandoah Iron Co., 42 Fed. Rep.
372; ReGrissler, 136 Fed. Rep. 754; The Winnebago, 141
'Fed. Rep. 945; S. C., 200 U. S. 616; Morgan v. First National Bank, 145 Fed. Rep. 466; Geo. A. Shaw & Co. v.
Cleveland Ry. Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 746; Livingston v. Moore,
7 Pet. 469; Galpin v. Page, 18 Wall. 350.
The lien of the interpleader's judgment having legally
attached to the allotment, it became a vested right of property of which the interpleader could not be deprived by
any subsequent act of Congress, without violating the
Fifth Amendment. Mullen v. United States, 224 U. S.
448, 457.

MULLEN v. SIMMONS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE McKENN.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error brought suit in the District Court in
and for the Seventh Judicial District, Johnston County,
State of Oklahoma, to reStrain defendant' in error, who
was defendant in-the trial court, from selling under execution issued upon a judgment obtained against one F. A.
Bonner certain lands, which are described, belonging to
plaintiff in error. He was plaintiff in the action, and we
will so refer to him. Plaintiff, it is alleged, derived his title
from F. A. Bonner by warranty deed dated October 17,
1908, Bonner then having unrestricted right to sell.. Bonner is a member and citizen of the Choctaw Tribe of Indians, of one-sixteenth degree of Indian blood, and that
the lands described constitute his allotment as a member
and citizen of such tribe; that the judgment upon which
the execution was issued was rendered and the debt evidenced by it contracted more than five years prior to the
issuance of the execution and at a time when the lands
were inalienable, and that under the laws of the United
States and the treaties between the Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations and the United States the lands were exempt
from the operation of the judgment. That defendant
threatens to sell the lands and that a sale thereof and the
deed which may be executed will cast a cloud upon plaintiff's title. A restraining order was issued. Defendant
in his answer alleged that when the restraining order was
served upon him he was in possession of the lands under
the execution which he set up as a defense. He admitted
the other allegations of the plaintiff and alleged that
E. F. Ham et al., plaintiffs in the judgment, were necessary
parties. He prayed a dissolution of the restraining order
and that the suit be dismissed.
Subsequently Millord F. Ham and others filed "their
interplea in said cause" and asked to be made defendants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

For answer to plaintiff's petition they alleged the following:
They recovered the judgment in controversy against
Frank Bonner for the sum of $2,966.662/3 on January 31,
1901, as damages for the killing of the husband of one of
the interpleaders and the father of the others, upon which
executions were issued but all returned unsatisfied, and
finally on September 29, 1908, the interpleaders caused the
execution in controversy to be issued and levied upon the
lands described in plaintiff's petition. On February 23,
1906, Bonner became the owner of the lands by allotment
of the same as an Indian and the judgment thereupon
became a lien upon the lands. Subsequently that part of
the. Indian Territory and the Southern District where the
lands are located became a part of what is now Johnston
County, and the judgment is still a lien upon the lands
and was a lien at the time of the purchase by Mullen who,
at the time of the alleged conveyance to him, had full
knowledge and notice of the judgment and knew that an
execution had been issued and levied upon the lands and
that, therefore, he is not an innocent purchaser of them
but took them subject to the judgment.
Mullen demurred to the answer of Simmons and to that
of the interpleaders upon the grounds (1). that they did
not constitute a defense. (2) They failed to show that the
execution was a lien upon the lands, failed to show that
the lands were seized by the sheriff prior to the deed to
plaintiff, and failed to show that a lien attached by virtue
of the execution. (3) The lands, having been taken in
allotment by Bonner, were not subject under the law to
any debt, deed, contract or obligation of any character
made prior to the time at which the lands could be alienated by the allottee; that the judgment was recovered
against him more than five years before the lands were
alienable and that the lands were not subject to it or to
the execution issued upon it.
The judgment of the court was that it "doth overrule

MULLEN v. SIMMONS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's general demurrer and his first special demurrer . . . and do-h sustain plaintiff's second special demurrer
.
. and the interpleaders and the defendants elect to stand upon their answer and interplea
herein,' refuse to plead further and the court finds for the
plaintiff and that he is entitled to the relief prayed for in
his petition.
"
And it was adjudged that the
defendant Simmons, as sheriff of Johnston County, and
his deputies, and the interpleaders be enjoined and restrained forever from issuing or causing to be issued any
execution or other process upon the judgment rendered
against Frank Bonner in favor of the interpleaders, and
from levying the same upon the lands described.
The Supreme Court of the State reversed the judgment,
deciding "that the lien of interpleader's judgment attached to the allotment as soon as it came into being; that
plaintiff took the land subject thereto, and that the same
should be enforced and 'said land sold to satisfy the same,
and that, too, notwithstanding the provisions of the 15th
section of the act of July 1,1902, which has no material
bearing on the question." 33 Oklahoma, 184, 188.
The section referred to is as follows: "Lands allotted to
members and freedmen shall not be affected or encumbered by any deed, debt or obligation of any character
contracted prior to the time at which said land may be
alienated under this Act, nor shall said lands be sold except
as herein provided." c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641, 642.
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma in deciding that this
provision did not apply distinguished between the obligations resulting from an Indian's wrongful conduct and the
obligations resulting from his contracts, saying, p. 187,
"A judgment in damages for tort is not a .'debt contracted"' within the contemplation of § 15. In other
words, the court was of the view that the tort retained its
identity, though merged in the judgment. However, we
need not enter into the controversy of the cases and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

booics as to whether a judgment is a contract. Passing
such considerations, and regarding the policy of § 15 and
its language, we are unable to concur with the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma.
This court said, in Starrv. Long Jim, 227 U. S. 613, 625,
that the title to lands allotted to Indians was "retained
by the United States for reasons of public policy, and in
order to protect the Indians against their own improvidence." It was held, applying the principle, that a warranty deed made by Long Jim at a time when he did not
have the power of alienation "was in the very teeth of the
policy of the law, and could not operate as a conveyance,
either by its primary force or by way of estoppel" after
he had received a patent for the land.
The principle was applied again in Franklin v. Lynch,
233 U. S. 269, and its strict character enforced against
the deed of a white woman who acquired title in an Indian
right. It is true, in these cases the act of the Indian was
voluntary or contractual, and, it is contended, a different
effect can be ascribed to the wrongs done by an Indian
and that in reparation or retribution of them the state
law may subject his inalienable lands-inalienable by the
National law-to alienation. The consequence of the
contention repels its acceptance. Torts are of variable
degree. In the present case that counted on reached, perhaps, the degree of a crime, but a tort may be a breach
of a mere legal duty, a consequence of negligent conduct.
The policy of the law is, as we have said, to protect the
Indians against their improvidence, and improvidence
may affect all of their acts, those of commission and omission, contracts ahd torts. And we think § 15 of the act of
July 1, 1902, was purposely made broadly protective,
broadly preclusive of alienation by any conduct of the
Indian, and not only its policy but its language distinguishes it from the statute passed on in Brun v. Mann, 151
Fed. Rep. 145. Its language is that "lands allotted . . .

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI. 199
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

shall not be affected or encumbered by any deed, debt or
obligation of any character contracted prior to the time at
which" the lands may be alienated, "nor shall said lands
be sold except" as in the act provided. The prohibition
then is that the lands shall. not be "affected . . . by
any obligation of any character," and, as we have seen,
an obligation may arise from a tort as well as from a contract, from a breach of duty or the violation of a right.
Exchange Bank v. Ford, 7 Colorado, 314, 316. If this were
not so, a prearranged tort and a judgment confessed would
become an easy means of circumventing the policy of the
law.
Judgment reversed and.case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DAY dissents.

INTERNATIONAL

HARVESTER

COMPANY

OF

AMERICA v. STATE OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 166. Argued April 29, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Although the state appellate court may not have referred to the constitutional questions in its opinion, this court cannot regard such
silence as a condemnation of the time at, -or manner in which, those
questions were raised; and, if the record shows that they were raised
in that court, this court has jurisdi -tion.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not preclude the State from adopting
a policy against all combinations of competing corporations and
enforcing it even against combinations which have been induced by
good intentions and from which benefit and not injury may have
resulted.
The power of classificaion which may be exerted in the legislation of

