OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

second amended answer' that the requirement made at
Henderson might be made at other points in the State
and would result in an unnecessary and unreasonable
burden upon interstate commerce, only avers an indirect
effect upon such commerce of the exercise of a right clearly
within the authority'of the State; and being only of that
indirect and consequential character it does not deprive
the Railroad Company of rights secured by the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
We" conclude that the rulings made'in the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky concerning the first and second
amended answers which were not permitted to be filed in
the court of original jurisdiction did not deprive the Railroad Company of rights secured by the Federal Constitution.
Affirmed.

EASTERN STATES RETAIL LUMBER DEALERS'
ASSOCIATION v. UNITED STATES.
McBRIDE, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS PRESIDENT
OF THE RETAIL LUMBERMEN'S ASSOCIATION
OF PHILADELPHIA, v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 511, 550.

Argued October 24, 27, 1913.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Conspiracies are seldom capable of proof by direct testimony afid a
conspiracy to accomplish that which is their natural consequence
may be inferred from the things actually done.
The Sherman Law, as construed by this court in the Standard Oil Case,
while not reaching normal and usual contracts incident to lawful purposes and in furtherance of legitimate trade, does broadly condemn
all combinations and conspiracies which restrain the free and natural
flow of trade in the channels of interstate commerce.
Held in t~iiA case that the circulation of a so-called official report among
members of an association of retail dealers calling attention to actions

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

601

Argument for Appellants.

of listed wholesale dealers in selling direct to consumers, tended to
prevent members of the association fiom dealing with the listed
dealers referred to in the report, and to directly and unreasonably
restrain trade by preventing it with such listed dealers, and was
within the prohibitions of the Sherman Law.
While a retail dealer may unquestionably stop dealing with a wholesaler
for any reason sufficient to himself, he and other dealers may not
combine and agree that none of them will deal with such wholesaler
without, in case interstate commerce is involved, violating the
Sherman Law.
An act, harmless when done by one person, may become a pdiblic wrong
when done by many acting in concert in pursuance of a conspiracy.
GrenadaLumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433.
201 Fed. Rep. 581, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the determination of whether
an arrangement between certain retail lumbermen's associations in regard to their relations with wholesale dealers
amounted to a combination and conspiracy in restraint
of trade within the prohibitions of the Sherman Act, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alfred B. Cruikshank for appellants in No. 511, and
Mr. Howard Taylor, with whom Mr. Charles E. Morgan,
Mr. C. E. Morgan, 3d, and Mr. Charles B. Brophy were
on the brief, for appellants in No. 550:
The Sherman Act prohibits undue limitations on competitive conditions.
The combination, or concerted action, of these defendants in distributing circulars stating the true position of
lumbermen in the trade, was not a combination which
unduly restrained competition.
The true question under the English and American authorities is whether the circulation of the "Official Lists"
is a reasonable defensive measure or is an unreasonable,
offensive and malicious means to eliminate competition.
There was no combination or concert of action among
defendants to boycott those whose names appeared on the
"Official Reports."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913
Argument for Appellants.

234 U. S.

The evidence concerning past occurrences, if relevant
at all, tends to establish that the defendants' present intent is right and law abiding.
These present appellants are not responsible for the
actions of individuals in other local associations.
There was no confederation among the various local
associations, except with respect to the circulation of the
"Official Reports."
No absurdities were contemplated by the Sherman Act.
In support of these contentions, see Aikens v. Wisconsin,
195 U. S. 194; Allan v. Flood, App. Cas. 1898, 1; Bohn
Mfg. Co. v. Hollis, 54 Minnesota, 223; Carew v. Rutherford, 106 Massachusetts, 1, 14; Central Lumber Co. v.
South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157; Collins v. American News
Co., 34 Misc. 260; S. C., aff'd, 68 App. Div. 639; Continental Ins. Co. v. Underwriters, 67 Fed. Rep. 310, 320;
Cooke on Combinations (2d ed.), c.V; Cooley on Torts
(2d ed.), 328; Dueber Watch Co. v. Howard, 55 Fed. Rep.
851, 854; S.C., 66 Fed. Rep. 637, 645; Ertz v. ProduceExchange, 79 Minnesota, 140, 144; Gompers v. Bucks Stove Co.,
221 U. S. 418, 436; GrenadaLumber Co. v. Mississippi,217
U. S. 433, 441; Lawlor v. Loewe, 187 Fed. Rep. 522, 526;
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 291; Macauley Bros. v.
Tierney, 19 R. I. 255, 259; Mills v. United States Printing
Co., 99 App. Div. (N. Y.) 605; Mogul Steamship Co., App.
Cas. 1892, 25; S. C., L. R. 23, Q. B. 598, 614; Montgomery
Ward Co. v. South Dakota Retail Ass'n, 150 Fed. Rep. 413;
Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373; National Protective
Ass'n v. Cuming, 170 N. Y. 315; Quinn v. Lathem, App.
Cas. 1901, 495, 512; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221
U. S.1, 58; State v. Adams Lumber Co., 81 Nebraska, 392,
412; Toledo &c. Ry., Co. v. Pennsylvania Co., 54 Fed.
Rep. 730, 738; United States v. Trans-Missouri Association, 166 U. S.290, 337; United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S.
601; United States v. Amer. Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106,
177; United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383;

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

603

Argument for the United States.

394; .United States v. Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; United
States v. Un. Pac. R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61, 84; Wabash
R. R. Co. v. Hannahan, 121 Fed. Rep. 563, 569; Walker
v. Cronin, 107 Massachusetts, 555, 564.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd for the United
States:
The evidence establishes an agreement or combination
between the defendant retailers to prevent wholesalers
from selling directly to consumers by refusing to buy
from (boycotting) them if they do. This is shown by the
declared purpose of the defendant associations as disclosed
by their constitutions and by-laws; the compilation and
circulation of the so-called "official reports" or blacklists; the actual course of conduct of defendants in concertedly withdrawing their patronage from listed wholesalers; admissions of merabers of defendant associations,
and other testimony showing general recognition of and
obedience to a tacit or moral obligation upon members so
to withdraw their patronage. The inference of an agreement to boycott is confixmed by the decisions of other
courts in conspiracy cases. Commonwealth v. McLean, 2
Pars. (Pa.) 367; 3 Greenleaf on Ev., ยง 93; Patnode v. Westenhaver, 114 Wisconsin, 460; Regina v. Murphy, 8 C. & P.
397; Reilley v. United States, 106 Fed. Rep. 896; State v.
Adams Lumber Co., 81 Nebraska, 392; United States v.
Sacia, 2 Fed. Rep. 754; Webb v. Drake, 26 So. Rep. (La.)
791; 2 Wharton, Criminal Law, ยง 1398.
An agreement or combination by retailers to refuse to
buy from (boycott) wholesalers who sell directly to consumers interferes with the free and normal flow of trade
and therefore violates the Anti-trust Act. Bailey v. Master
Plumbers' Ass'n, 103 Tennessee, 99; Beck y. Railway
Teamsters' Union, 42 L. R. A. 407; Bohn Mfg. Co. v. Hollis,
54 Minnesota, 223; Boutwell v. Marr, 71 Vermont, 1;
Brown v. Jacobs Phar. Co., 115 Georgia, 429; Casey v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Cincinnati Typographical Union, 45 Fed. Rep. 135;
Doremus v. Hennesy, 176 Illinois, 608; Ellis v. Inman, 131
Fed. Rep. 183; Gompers v. Bucks Stove Co., 221 U. S. 418;
Same v. Same, 33 App. D. C. 83; Grenada Lumber Co. v.
Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433; Hawarden v. Youghiogheny
Coal Co., 111 Wisconsin, 545; Hopkins v. Oxley Stave Co.,
83 Fed. Rep. 912; Jackson v. Stanfield, 137 Indiana, 592;
Klingel's Pharmacy 1. Sharp, 104 Maryland, 218; Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Lucke v. Clothing Cutters 4ss'n,
77 Maryland, 396; Macauley Bros. v. Tierney, 19 R. I.
255; Montgomery Ward &. Co. v. So. Dak. Merchants'
Ass'n, 150 Fed. Rep. 413; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S.
38; Olive v. Van Patten, 7 Tex. Civ. App. 630; Puringtonv.
Hinchliff, 219 Illinois, 159; Retail Dealers' Ass'n v. State,
48 So. Rep. (Miss.) 1021; State v. Adams Lumber Co., 81
Nebraska, 393; Steers v. United States, 192 Fed. Rep. 1;
Thomas v. C., N. 0. & T. P. R. Co., 62 Fed. Rep. 803;
Webb v. Drake, 26 So. Rep. (La.) 791.
Viewing the agreement or combination between the
defendants merely as one to circulate amongst themselves
lists of wholesalers who sell directly to consumers, it unreasonably restricts competition between wholesalers and
retailers in selling to consumers and therefore violates the
Anti-trust Act. Am. Tobacco Co. v. United States, 221 U. S.
106; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S.373; Quinn v. Leatham
(1901), A. C. 495; Standard Oil Co. Case, 221 U. S.1.
The plea that this combination was a reasonable and
necessary measure to defend the position of retailers in
the trade is irrelevant in law and unfounded-in fact. Ches.
& Ohio Fuel Co. v. United States, 115 Fed., Rep. 610;
Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S.433; Loewe
v. Lawlor, 187 Fed. Rep. 522.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals from a decree of the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

605

Opinion of the Court.

in an action brought by the. United States 'under the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act (July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat.
209), having for its object an injunction against certain
alleged combinations of re ail lumber dealers, which, it
was averred, had entered into a conspiracy to preveat
wholesale dealers from selling directly to consumers of
lumber. Tle defendants are various lumber associations
composed largely of retail lumber dealers in New York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, Maryland and the District of Columbia,
and the officers and directors of the associations. The
record is very voliminous, but the facts essential to a
consideration of the decree of the District Court are in
comparatively narrow compass. While the record also
concerns practices which are said to have been abandoned,
the decree entered, declaring the defendants named to
be in a combination or conspiracy to restrict and restrain
competition, depends solely upon the method adopted
and being used by the defendants in the distribution of
the information contained in a certain document known
as the "Official Report," the form of which, set forth in
the decree, is as follows:
"OFFICIAL REPORT.

"(Name of the Particular Association Circulating it.)
"STATEMENT

TO

MEMBERS

(WITH THE

DATE).

"You are reminded that it is because you are members
of our Association and have an interest in common with
your fellow members in the information contained in this
statement; that they communicate it to you; and that
they communicate it to you in strictest confidence and
with the understanding that you are to receive it and
treat it in the same way.
"The following are reported as having solicited, quoted
or as having sold direct to the consumers:
"(Here follows a list of the names and addresses of
various wholesale dealers.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

"Members upon learning of any instance of persons
soliciting, quoting, or selling direct to consumers, should
at once report same, and in so doing should, if possible,
supply the following information:
"The number and initials of car.
"The name of consumer to whom the car is consigned.
"The initials or name of shipper.
"The date of arrival of car.
"The place of delivery.
"The point of origin";
and the defendants were enjoined from combining, conspiring or agreeing together to distribute and from distributing to members of the associations named or any
other person or persons any information showing soliciting,
quotations, or sales and shipments of lumber and lumber
products from manufacturers and wholesalers to consumers of or dealers in lumber, and from the preparation
and distribution of the lists above described as the "Official Report" or the use of a similar device.
The record discloses that the defendant associations
are constituted largely of retail lumber dealers, each of
whom has the natural desire to control his local trade,
which the retailers contend has been unduly interfered
with by the wholesalers in selling to consumers within
the local territory in such wise as to conflict with what they
regard as a strictly local trade, and it appears that the
defendant associations have for their object, among other
things, the adoption of ways and means to protect such
trade and to prevent the wholesale dealers from intruding
therein. The particular thing which this case concerns
in the retailers' efforts to promote the end in view is the
attempt in the manner shown, by the circulation of the
reports in question, to keep the wholesalers from selling
directly to the local trade. The trade of the wholesalers
involved covers a number of states, and there is no question but that the supplying of lumber to the large num-

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

607

Opinion of the Court.

bers of retailers in these associations in different States is
interstate trade and that if the practices are illegal within
the Sherman Act they may be reached by this proceeding.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Loewe v.
Lawlor, 208 U. -S.
274, 300.
The record discloses a systematic circulation among the
members of the defendant associations of the official report above quoted. The method of operation as stated by
the learned counsel for the appellants is thus summarized
in his brief:
"The names on this list are obtained and placed thereon
as the result of complaints made by individual retailers.
When an individual member of a retail association learns
of a sale by a wholesaler to one of the customers of the
retailer he may complain in writing to the secretary of his
association, whose duty it is thereupon to ascertain the
facts by correspondence with the wholesaler in question
and such other means as may seem proper. Should the
report or complaint be without proper foundation or
should the secretary become satisfied that the matter is a
trifling one or the result of inadvertence, the incident
usually terminates at this point; but should the complaint
appear to be serious and well founded the case is submitted
to the board of directors of the retail association at its
next meeting and should the board be satisfied that the
wholesaler is generally making a practice of selling to consumers or customers of the retail trade, the secretary is
directed to report the name of such wholesaler for the
official list. Thereupon the secretary sends the name to
Mr. Crary of New York who adds it upon the next report
to the names of those already thereupon. Each report
contains the names of all wholesalers who have been reported from the very beginning as selling to consumers
and whose names have not been removed for cause. The
reports or lists after being printed in New York are distributed amongst the secretaries of the defendant associa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tions; those for each association being marked with its
name and in that way only being distinguishel from those
sent to the other associations. The secretary of each association then distributes the lists to his members. Should
any wholesaler desire to have his name removed from the
list he can have it 'done upon satisfactory assurance to
the local secretary that he is no longer selling in competition with the retailers. In practice the greatest care is
taken to make the list accurate, and as a matter of fact,
it only contains the names of such wholesalers as are
absolutely committed to the practice of competing with
retailers for the custom of builders and contractors."
The reading of the official report shows that it is intended to give confidential information to the members of
the associations of the names of wholesalers reported as
soliciting or selling directly to consumers, members upon
learning of any such instances being called upon to
promptly report the same, supplying detailed information
as to the particulars of the transaction. When viewed in
the light of the history of these associations and the conflict in which they were engaged to keep the retail trade
to themselves and to prevent wholesalers from interfering
with what they regarded as their rights in such trade
there can be but one purpose in giving the information in
this form to the members of the retail associations of
the names of all wholesalers who by their attempt to invade the exclusive territory of the retailers, as they regard
it, have been guilty of unfair competitive trade. These
lists were quite commonly spoken of as blacklists, and
when the attention of a retailer was brought to the name
of a wholesaler who had acted in this wise it was with the
evident purpose that he should know of such conduct
and act accordingly. True it is that there is no agreement
among the retailers to refrain from dealing with. listed
wholesalers, nor is there any penalty annexed for the failure so to do, but he is blind indeed who does not see the

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

609

Opinion of the Court.

purpose in the predetermined and periodical circulation
of this report to put the ban upon wholesale dealers whose
names appear in the list of unfair dealers trying by methods
obnoxious to the retail dealers to supply the trade which
they regard as their own. Indeed this purpose is practically conceded in the brief of the learned counsel for
the appellants:
. "It was and is conceded by defendants and the Court
below found that the circulation of this information would
have a natural tendency to cause retailers receiving these
reports to withhold patronage from listed concerns. That
was of course the very object of the defendants in circulating them."
In other words, the circulation of such information
among the hundreds of retailers as to the alleged delinquency of a wholesaler with one of their number had and
was intended to have the natural effect of causing such
retailers to withhold their patronage from the concern
listed.
The Sherman Act has been so frequently and recently
before this court as to require no extended discussion now.
Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106; United
States v. St. Louis Terminal, 224 U. S. 383; StandardSanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; United States
v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61; United State. v.
Reading Co., 226 U. S. 324; United States v. Patten, 226
U. S. 525; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373; Straus v.
American Publishers' Ass'n, 231 U. S. 22. It broadly
condemns all combinations and conspiracies which restrain the free and natural flow of trade in the channels
of interstate commerce. It is true that this court held in
the Standard Oil and Tobacco Cases, supra, and in the subsequent cases following them, that in its proper construction the act was not intended to reach normal and usual
contracts incident: to lawful purposes and intended to
VOL. ccxXXIv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

further legitimate trade, and summarizing the meaning
of the act in the Tobacco Case, this court said (221 U. S.
179):
"Applying the rule of reason to the construction of the
statute, it was held in the Standard Oil Case that as the
words 'restraint of trade' at common law and in the law
of this country at the time of the adoption of the Antitrust Act only embraced acts or contracts or agreements
or combinations which operated to the prejudice of the
public interests by unduly restricting competition or unduly obstructing the due 'course of trade or which, either
because of their inherent nature or effect or because of
the evident purpose of the acts, etc., injuriously restrained
trade, that the words as used in the statute were designed
to have and did have but a like significance."
The same principle was affirmed in Nash v. United
States, supra. The court in the St andard Oil Case construed the act as intended to reach only combinations
unduly restrictive of the flow. of commerce or unduly restrictive of competition, and, illustrating what were such
undue or unreasonable combinations, it classed as illegal
(p. 58) "all contracts or acts which were unreasonably
restrictive of competitive conditions, either from the
nature or character of the contract or act or where the
surrounding circumstances were such as to justify the
conclusion that they had not been entered into or performed with the legitimate purpose of reasonably forwarding personal interest and developing trade, but onthe contrary were of such a character as to give rise to
the inference or presumption that they had been entered
into or done with the intent to do wrong to the general
public and to limit the right of individuals, thus restraining the free flow of commerce and tending to bring about
the evils, such as enhancement of prices, which were considered to be against public policy." And in Loewe v.
Lawlor, supra, this court held that a combination to boy-

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

611

Opinion of the Court.

cott the hats of a manufacturer and deter dealers from
buying them in order to coerce the manufacturer to a
particular course of action with reference to labor organizations, the effect of the combination being to compel third parties and strangers not to engage in a course
of trade except upon conditions which the combination
imposed, was within the Sherman Act. In Gompers v.
Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418, after citing Loewe
v. Lawlor, supra, this court said (p. 438):.
"But the principle announced by the court was general. It [the Sherman Act] covered any illegal means by
which interstate commerce is restrained, whether by unlawful combinations of capital, or unlawful combinations
of labor; and we think also whether the restraint be occasioned by unlawful contracts, trusts, pooling arrangements, blacklists, boycotts, coercion, threats, intimidation,
and whether these be made effective, in whole or in part,
by acts, words or printed matter."
And see Montague & Co. v. Lowry, 193 U. S.38.
These principles are applicable to this situation. Here
are wholesale dealers in. large number engaged in interstate trade upon whom it is proposed to impose as a condition of carrying on that trade that they shall not sell in
such manner that a local retail dealer may regard such
sale as an infringement of his exclusive right to trade,
upon pain of being reported as an unfair dealer to a large
number of other retail dealers associated with the offended
dealer, the purpose being to keep the wholesaler from
dealing not only with the particular dealer who reports
him but with all others of the class who may be informed
of his delinquency. "Section 1 of the act, . ' . is
not confined to voluntary restraints, as where persons
engaged in interstate trade or commerce agree to suppress
competition among themselves, but includes as Well involuntary restraints, as where persons not so engaged conspire to compel action by others, or to create artificial

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

conditions, which necessarily impede or burden the due
course of such trade or commerce or restrict the common
liberty to engage therein." United States v. Patten, supra,
p. 541. This record abounds in instances where the offending dealer was thus reported, the hoped for effect,
unless he discontinued the offending practice, realized,
and his trade directly and appreciably impaired.
But it is said that in order to show a combination or
conspiracy within the Sherman Act some agreement must
be shown under which the concerted action is taken. It
is elementary; however, that conspiracies are seldom capable of proof by direct testimony and may be inferred
from the things actually done, and when in this case by
concerted action the names of wholesa4ers who were reported as having made sales to consumers were periodically
reported to the other members of the associations, the
conspiracy to accomplish that which was the natural consequence of such action may be readily inferred
The circulation of these reports not only tends to directly restrain the freedom of commerce by preventing
the listed dealers from entering into competition with .retailers, as was held by the District Court, but it directly
tends to prevent other retailers who have no personal
grievance against him and with whom he might trade
from so doing, they being deterred solely because of the
influence of the report circulated among the members of
the associations. In other words, the trade of the wholesaler with strangers was directly affected, not because of
any supposed wrong which he had done to them, but because of the grievance of a member of one of the asociations, who had reported a wrong to himself, which grievance when brought to the attention of others it was hoped
would deter them from dealing with the offending party.
This practice takes the case out of those normal and usual
agreements in aid of trade and commerce which may be
found not to be within the act and puts it within the pro-

EASTERN STATES LUMBER ASS'N v. U. S.
234 U. S.

613

Opinion of the Court.

hibited class of undue and unreasonable restraints, such
as was the particular subject of condemnation in Loewe v.
Lawlor, supra.
The argument that the course pursued is necessary to
the protection of the retail trade and promotive of the
public welfare in providing retail facilities is answered by
the fact that Congress, with the right to control the field
of interstate commerce, has so legislated as to prevent
resort to practices which unduly restrain competition or
unduly obstruct the free flow of such commerce, and
private choice of means must yield to the national authority thus exerted. Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211, 241, 242..
Anderson v. United States, 171 U. S. 604, is cited and
relied upon by the appellants. In that case this court
sustained, as against an attack under the Sherman Law,
the legality of an association called the Traders' Live
Stock Exchange in Kansas City. 'An agreement among
purchasers of cattle for the purpose of regulating and controlling the local business among themselves had been
entered into, and one of the rules provided that the members of the exchange should not deal with any other yard
trader unless he was a member of such exchange. It was
said (p. 613):
"There is no evidence that these defendants have in
any manner other than by the rules above mentioned
hindered or impeded others in shipping, trading or selling
their stock, or that they have in any way interfered with
the freedom of, access to the stock yards of any and all
other traders and purchasers, or hindered their obtaining
the same facilities which were therein afforded by the
stock yards company to the defendants as members of
the exchange, and we think the evidence does not tend
to show that the above results have flowed from the
adoption and enforcement of the rules and regulations
referred to."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

As distinguished from this situation the present case
shows that the trade of the listed wholesalers is hindered
or impeded; that competition is suppressed and the natural flow of commerce interfered with as the direct result of the circulation of the official reports in the manner
stated. The case is quite different from the Anderson Case.
And see Montague & Co. v. Lowry, supra, p. 48.
A retail dealer has the unquestioned right to stop dealing with a wholesaler for reasons sufficient to himself,
and may do so because he thinks such dealer is acting
unfairly in trying to undermine his trade. "But," as was
said by Mr. Justice Lurton, speaking for the court in
Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. 'S. 433, 440,
"when the plaintiffs in error combine and agree that no
one of them will trade with any producer or wholesaler
who shall sell to a consumer within the trade range of
any of them, quite another case is presented. An act
harmless when done by one may become a public wrong
when done by many acting in concert, for it then takes on
the form of a conspiracy, and may be prohibited or punished, if the result be hurtful to the public or to the individual against whom the concerted action is directed."
When the retailer goes beyond his personal right, and,
conspiring and combining with others of like purpose,
seeks to obstruct the free course of interstate trade and
commerce and to unduly suppress competition by placing
obnoxious wholesale dealers under the coercive influence
of a condemnatory report circulated among others, actual
or possible customers of the offenders, he exceeds his
lawful rights, and such action brings him and those acting
with him within the condemnation of the act of Congress,
and the District Court was right in so holding. It follows
that its decree must be
Affirmed.

