OCTOBER. TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

it is thought the defendant may interpose. Tennessee v.
Union and Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454, 460, 464; Third
Street Railway Co. v. Lewis, 173 U. S. 457, 460; Florida
Central Railroad Co. v. Bell, 176 U. S. 321, 329; Boston
&c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., supra;Joy v. St. Louis,
supra;Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U. S. 313, 333; Louisville
& Nashville RailroadCo. V. Mottley, 211 U. S. 149; Shulthis
v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561, 569; Denver v. New York
Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123, 133-135. Tested by this standard, as it must be, the case disclosed by the petition was
not one arising under a law of the United States.
Whether or not in other respects the plaintiffs overlooked an authorized mode of securing relief to which they
may be entitled need not now be considered. See 35 Stat.
312, 314, c. 199, ยง 6; Bowling v. United States, 233 U. S.
528, and cases cited.

Judgment affirmed.

WASHINGTON SECURITIES CO. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FQR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 367.

Argued May 7, 8, 1914.-Decided May'25, 1914.

Findings of fact concurred in by two lower Federal courts will not be
disturbed by this court unless shown to be clearly erroneous.
A purchaser fron a patentee is bound to take notice that the land was
acquired under the homestead law when that appears in the patent,
and if the other circumstances show that the purchase was made
with knowledge that the land was known to be coal land when it
was entered by the patentee, the purchaser must be deemed to have

WASHINGTON SEC. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

77

Opinion of the Court.

taken with notice of the fraudulent obtaining of coal lands under
the homestead law.
Where the application and proof of an entryman is strictly ex parte, the
proceedings are not adversary, and while the findings of the land
officer may not be open to collateral attack, they are not conclusiye,
but only presumptively right, against the Government in a suit to
cancel the patent on the ground that it was obtained by fraud.
194 Fed. Rep. 59.

THE facts, which involve the validity of. patents for
lands issued under the.homestead law and claimed by the
Government to have been fraudulently obtained because
the lands were known to be valuable for coal at the time,
are stated in the opinion.
. Mr. H. R. Clise, with whom Mr. Charles Kennedy
Poe
and Mr. Charles Poe were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion

of the court.
This was a suit to cancel four patents issued under the
commutation provision of the homestead law and embracing a full section of land in King County, Washington.
The bill charged that the patents were fraudulently procured by falsely representing to the land officers that the
lands were agricultural in character, and therefore subject
to homestead entry, when in truth they were at the time
known to be valuable coal lands and therefore excepted
from the operation of the homestead law. After the
patents were issued the lands were conveyed to the appellant, and there was a further charge that it took the title
with notice and knowledge of the fraud. The Circuit
Court found that these charges were true and entered

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

a decree for the Government; and the Circuit Court of
Appeals, taking a like view of the evidence, affirmed the
decree. 194 Fed. Rep. 59.
'The rule is well settled that findings of fact concurred
in by two lower courts will not be disturbed by this court
unless shown to be clearly erroneous. Stuart v. Hayden,
169 U. S. 1, 14; Towson v. Moore, 173 U. S. 17, 24; Dun v.
Lumbermen's Credit Association, 209 U. S. 20, 23; Texas
& Pacific Railway Co. v. Railroad Commission of Louisiana, 232 U. S. 338. Applying the rule to the evidence
in this case, we think the findings below should not be
disturbed.
Only two of appellant's contentions merit special notice.
Without any uncertainty the evidence demonstrated
that the lands were known to be valuable coal lands when
the homestead entries were made and commuted, and that
the affidavits and proofs to the contrary, upon which the
patents 'were procured, were false. Not only were the
lands in a well known coal region and generally reputed to
be coal lands, but a tunnel, slope and other openings upon
them, costing about $8,000, had disclosed that they contained coal of such quality and quantity as to render them
valuable for coal mining. The entrymen so understood,
and resorted to severe measures to keep coal prospectors
off the lands.
The appellant's chief contention is, that there was no
evidence, or at least no substantial evidence, that it took
the title with notice or knowledge of the fraud perpetrated
by the entrymen. But the record shows otherwise. The
appellant's vice-president, who represented it in the negotiations, had theretofore, as agent of another company,
learned that the latter was interested in the coal development work before mentioned and was, with others, bearing
the expense of that work with a view to acquiring the
lands as coal lands. This was recalled to his mind at the
time of the negotiations. He caused the section to be

WASHINGTON SEC. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

79

Opinion of the Court.

examined by an engineer, who found and reported the
tunnel and other openings disclosing the coal, and, following that report, the transaction was consummated on the
theory that the lands were valuable for their coal contents.
There was no claim that there was any development work
or coal discovery after the entries were made, and it is
quite apparent from what was said of the engineer's
report that the tunnel and openings gave visible evidence
that they were not recently made. Of course, the appellant was bound to take notice that the patentees with
whom it was dealing had obtained the lands under the
homestead law, for it was so recited in the patents. Simmons Creek Coal Co. v. Doran, 142 U. S. 417, 437. In these
facts there was, as we think, persuasive evidence that the
appellatit took the title with notice or knowledge of the
fraud.
It is contended also that the proceedings resulting in the
patents were not ex parte but adversary; that the land
officers found the lands to be agricultural in character,
and that this finding was conclusive upon the Government.
No doubt those officeis found from the proofs submitted
to them that the lands were agricultural and not coal
lands, for that was a prerequisite to issuing the patents,
but the proceedings were not adversary in any true sense
of the term. The applications and proofs of the entrymen
were strictly ex parte. The Government was not called
upon to make any adverse showing, no issue was framed,
no hearing was had, and no one represented the Government save in the sense that the land officers did so. As
this court has often held, the findings of the land officers
in such a proceeding, although not open to collateral
attack, are not conclusive against the Government when it
sues to cancel the resulting patent upon the ground that
it was obtained by means of false and fraudulent proofs.
United States v. Minor, 114 U. S. 233; McCaskill Co. v.
United States, 216 U. S. 504, 509, and cases cited. In such

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

a suit the action of the land officers is given appropriate
effect by treating it as presumptively right and as requiring the Government to carry the burden of proving
the fraud by that class of evidence which commands
respect and that amount of it which produces conviction.
Diamond Coal & Coke Co. v. United States, 233 U. S. 236,
239.
Decree affirmed.
NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD
CO. v. NATIONAL RICE MILLING CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 615.

Argued February 27, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Where the judgment of a state court rests upon an independent ground
not only adequate to sustain it but in entire harmony with an asserted
Federal right, there is no denial of that right in the sense contemplated by ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, and the writ of error will be
dismissed.
Where the initial carrier sets up the Carmack Amendment and also
denies negligence, but the state court finds from conflicting evidence
that the loss was occasioned by the negligence of the connecting carrier, the judgment rests on that finding as an independent ground,
and this court has not jurisdiction.
.A party is entitled to the benefit of all the testimony in the case from,
whatever source it comes; and, although having the burden of proof,
need not prove any fact otherwise established.*
Writ of error to review 132 Louisiana, 615, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review the judgment of a state court within ยง237,
Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. John K. Graves
and Mr. Monte M. Lemann were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:

