OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

-

234 U. S.

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.'

APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.

Nos. 136, 162.

Argued October 18, 21, 22, 1912.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Prior to the amendment of June 18, 1910, § 4 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce lodged in the carrier the right to exercise a primary judgment, subject to administrative control and ultimate judicial review, concerning the necessity and propriety of making a lower rate
for the longer than the shorter haul, thus giving the carrier power to
exert its judgment as to things of a public nature; but the amendment
withdrew that right of primary judgment and lodged it in the Interstate Commerce Commission to be exercised on request and after
due investigation and consideration of the public interests concerned
and in view of the preference and discrimination clauses of §§ 2 and 3
of the act.
The long and short-haul provisions of § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended by the act of June 18, 1910, are not repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States as a delegation of power to
the Interstate Commerce Commission beyond the competency of
Congress.
If a statute is constitutional, this court must be governed by it and
its plain meaning; with the wisdom of Congress in adopting the
statute this court has nothing to do.
In Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503, this court decided that a general enforcement of the long and short-haul clause of
the Act to.Regulate Commerce would not be repugnant to the Constitution, and will not now reconsider and overrule that decision.
The Commerce Court had jurisdiction of a suit to enjoin the enforcement of the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission involved
in these cases and which refused the request of carriers to put in force
rates requested by them.
Under § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended by the act of
June 18, 1910, the Interstate Commerce Commission has power.to
make an order, such as that involved in these cases, permitting a
IDocket
title of these cases: No. 136, United States of America,
Interstate Commerce Commission et al., v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Railway Company et al. No. 162, United States of America,
Interstate Commerce Commission et al., v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Railway Company et al.

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

lower rate for the longer haul but only on terms stated in the order,
establishing zones for the intermediate points and relative percentages upon which proportionate rates should be based.
191 Fed. Rep. 856, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
long and short-haul provisions of the Act to Regulate Com*merce as. amended by the act of June 18, !910, and the
validity of an order made in pursuance thereof by the Interstate Commerce Commission, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Attorney General Wickersham and Mr. Assistant to
the Attorney General Fowler, with whom Mr. Blackburn
Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Charles Donnelly, Mr. F. W. M. Cutcheon and Mr.
F. C. Dillardfor appellees.
Mr. Rush C. Butler, Mr. William E. Lamb, Mr. Stephen
A. Foster and Mr. Cornelius Lynde filed a reply brief on
behalf of the Chicago Association of Commerce.
Mr. Joseph N. Teal.for Portland Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. J. B. Campbell fo:r the City of Spokane.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., for Giroux Consolidated
Mines Co.
By leave of court, Mr. Alfred P. Thom filed a brief in
behalf of certain interested parties.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We shall seek to confine our statement to matters which
are ssential to the decision of the case. The provisions
of § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce dealing with what
is known as the long and short-haul clause, the power of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

carriers because of dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions to deviate from the exactions of such clause and the
authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission in
relation to such subjects were materially amended by the
act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547. Following the form prescribed by the Commission after the
amen ment in question, the seventeen carriers who are
appellees on this record made to the Interstate Commerce
Commission their "application for relief from provisions'
of fourth section of Amended Commerce Aet in conhection
with the following tariffs." The tariffs annexed to the applications covered the whole territory from the Atlantic
seaboard to the Pacific coast and the Gulf of Mexico, including all interior points and embracing practically the
entire country, and the petition asked the Interstate Com-.
merce Commission for authority to continue all rates
shown on the tariffs from the Atlantic seaboard to the
Pacific coast and from the Pacific coast to the Atlantic seaboard and to and from interior points lower than rates
concurrently in effect from and to intermediate points.- It
was stated in the petition: "This application is based upon
the desire of the interested carriers to continue the present
method of making rates lower at the more distant points
than at the intermediate points; such lower rates being
necessary by reason of competition of various water carriers and .of carriers partly by water and partly by rail
operating from Pacific coast ports to Atlantic seaboard
ports; competition of various water carriers operating to
foreign countries from Pacific coast ports and competition
of the products of foreign countries with the products of
the Pacific coast; competition of the products of Pacific
coast territory with the products of other sectionis of the
country; competition of Canadian rail carriers not subject
to the Interstate Commerce Act; competition of the
products of Canada moving by Canadian carriers with
the products of the United States; rates established via

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the.Court.

the shorter or more direct routes, but applied also via the
longer or more circuitous routes." After full hearing the
Commission refused to grant unqualifiedly the prayer of
the petition but entered an order permitting in some respects a charge of a lower rate for the longer haul to the
Pacific coast than was asked for intermediate points provided a proportionate relation was maintained between
the lower r~te for the longer haul to the Pacific coast and
the higher rate to the intermediate points the proportion
to be upon the basis of percentages which were fixed, For
the purposes of the order in question the Commission in
substance adopted a division of the entire territory into
separate zones which division had been resorted to by the
carriers for the purposes of the establishment of the rates
in relation to which the petition was filed. Refusing to
comply with this order the carriers commenced proceedings in the Commerce Court praying a decree enjoining
the enforcement of the fourth section as amended on the
ground of its repugnancy to the Constitution of the
United States and of the order as being in any erent
violative of the amended section as properly construed.
An interlocutory injunction was ordered. The defendants
moved to dismiss and on the overruling of the motions appealed from the interlocutory order, the case being No. 136.
Subsequently upon the election of the defendants to plead
no further a final decree was entered and appealed from,
that appeal being No. 162.
It suffices at this moment to say that all the contentions
which the assignments of error involve and every argument advanced to refute such contentions, including every
argument urged to uphold on the one hand or to overthrow on the other the action of the Commission, as well
as every reason relied upon to challenge the action of the
court or to sustain its judgment, are all reducible to the
following propositions:
(a) The absolute want of power of the court below to

OCTOBER TERM,- 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

deal with the subject involved in the complaint because
controversies concerning the fourth section of the Act to
Regulate Commerce of the nature here presented were
by an express statutory provision excluded from the cognizance of the court below. (b) That even if this be not
the case the action of the Commission which was complained of was purely negative and therefore not within
the cognizance of the court because not inherently justiciable. (c) That correctly interpreting the fourth section the order made by the Commission was absolutely
void because wholly beyond the scope of any power conferred by the fourth section as amended. (d) That even
if in some respects the order of the Commission was within
the reach of its statutory power there was intermingled
in the order such an exertion of authority not delegated
as to cause the whole order to be void. (e) That the order
of the Commission was void even if the fourth section be
interpreted as conferring the authority which the Commission exerted, since under that assumption the fourth
section as amended was repugnant to the Constitution.
All the propositions, even including the jurisdictional
ones, are concerned with and depend upon the construction of the fourth section as amended, and we proceed to
consider and pass upon that subject and every other question in the case under four separate headings: 1, The meaning of the statute; 2, Its constitutionality; 3, The jurisdiction of the court; 4, The validity of the order in the light
of the statute as interpreted.
1. The meaning of the statute.

We reproduce the section as originally adopted and as
amended, passing a line through the words omitted by the
amendment and printing ini italics those which were added
by the amendment, thus at a glance enabling the section,
to be read as it was before and as it now stands after
amendment.
"SEc. 4. That it shall be unlawful for any common car-

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rier subject to the provisions of this Act to.charge or receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for the
transportation of passengers, or of like kind of property,

uid:
iatall

sipn-,.

6-4."'rtaaees &ndeondiio

for a shorter than for a longer distance over the same line
or route in the same direction, the shorter being included
within the longer distance, or to charge any greater compen-,
sation as a through route than the aggregateof the intermediate
rates subject to the provisions of this Act; but this shall not
be construed as authorizing any common carrier within
the terms of this Act to charge 4Rd or receive as great
compensation for a shorter as,for a longer distance: Provided, however, That upon application to the Interstate
Commerce Commission:j
under
"i-tedth pr.i.iato of
4-ti-Aet, such common carrier may in special cases, after
investigation ba,
be authorized by the
Commission to charge less for longer than for shorter distances for the transportation of passengers or property;
and the Commission may from time to time prescribe the
extent to which such designated common carrier may be
relieved from the operation of this section of tehis Aet.
Provided,further, That no rates or charges lawfully existing
at the time of the passage of this amendatory Act shall be
required to be changed by reason of the provisions of, this
section prior to the expiration of six months after the passage
of this Act, nor in any case where application shall have been
filed before the Commission, in accordancewith the provisions
of this section, until a determination of such application by
the Commission.
"Whenever a carrierby railroadshall in competition with
a water route or routes reduce the rates on. the carriage of any
species of freight to or from competitive points, it shall not
be permitted to increase such rates unless after hearing by
the Interstate Commerce Commission it shall be found that
such proposed increase rests upon changed conditions other
than the elimination of water competition."
voL. ccxxxiv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Before considering the amended text we state briefly
some of the more important requirements of the section
before amendment and the underlying conceptions of
private right, of public duty and policy which it embodied,
because to do so will go a long way to remove any doubt
as to the amended text and will moreover serve to demonstrate the intent of the legislative mind in enacting the
amendment.
Almost immediately after the adoption of the Act to
Regulate Commerce in 1887 (February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24
Stat. 379), the Interstate Commerce Commission in considering the meaning of the law and the scope of the duties
imposed on the Commission in enforcing it, reached the
conclusion that the words "under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions" of the fourth section
dominated the long and short-haul clause and Iempowered
carriers to primarily determine the existence of the required dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions and
consequently to exact in. the event of such difference a
lesser charge for the longer than was exacted for the shorter
haul and that competition which materially affected the
rate of carriage to a particular point was a dissimilar circumstance and condition within the meaning of, the act.
We say primarily because of course it was further recognized that the authQrity existing in carriers to the end just
stated was subject to the supervision and control of ther
Interstate Commerce Commission in the exertion of 'the
powers conferred upon it by the statute and especially in
view of the authority stated in the fourth section. In
considering the act comprehensively it was pointed out
that the generic provisions against preference and discrimination expressed in the second and third sections of
the act were all-embracing and were therefore operative
upon the fourth section as well as upon all other provisions
of the act. But it was pointed out that where within the
purview of the fourth section it had lawfully resulted that

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the lesser rate was charged for a longer than was exacted
for a shorter haul such exaction being authorized could
not be a preference or discrimination and therefore illegal.
In re Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 1 I. C. C. 31.
These comprehensive views announced at the inception
as a matter of administrative construction were subsequently sustained by many decisions of this court, and to
the leading of such cases we refer in the margin. 1 We observe, moreover, that in addition it came to be settled
that where competitive conditions authorized carriers to
lower their rates to a particular place the right to meet
the competition by lowering rates to such place was not
confined to shipments made from the point of origin of
the competition, but empowered all carriers in the interest
of freedom of commerce and to afford enlarged opportunity to shippers to accept, if they chose to do so, shipments
to such competitive points at lower rates than their general tariff rates: a right which came aptly to be described
as 'imarket competition" because the practice served to
enlarge markets and develop the freedom of traffic. and
intercourse. It is to be observed, however, that the right
thus conceded was not absolute because its exercise was
only permitted provided the rates were not so lowered as
to be non-remunerative and thereby cast an unnecessary
burden upon other shippers. East Tenn. &c..R. Co. v.
Interstate Com. Comm., 18]. U. S. 1. As the statute as thus
construed imposed no obligation to carry to the competitive point at a rate which was less than a reasonable one,
it is obvious that the statute regarded the rights of private
ownership and sought to impose no duty conflicting therewith. It is also equally clear that in permitting the carrier
1Int. Com. Comm. v. Balt. & Ohio Railroad,. 145 U. S. 263; Cinn.,

N. 0. & Tex. Pac. Ry. v. Int. Comn. Comm., 162 U. S. 184; Texas & Pac.
Railway v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197; Louisville & N. R. Co. v.
Behlmer, 175 U. S.648; East Tesn. &c. R.Co. v. Jnt. Com. Comm., 181

U.S. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

to judge primarily of the competitive conditions and to
meet them at election the statute lodged in the carrier
the right to exercise a primary judgment concerning a
matter of public concern broader than the mere question
of the duty of a carrier to carry for a reasonable rate on the
one hand and of the right of the shipper on the other to
compel carriage at such rate, since the power of primary
judgment which the statute conferred concerned in a broad
sense the general public interest with reference to both
persons and places, considerations all of which therefore
in their ultimate aspects came within the competency of
legislative regulation. It was apparent that the power
thus conferred was primary, not absolute, since its exertion by the carrier was made by the statute the subject
both of administrative control and ultimate judicial review. And the establishment of such control in and of
itself serves to make manifest the public nature of the
attributes.conferred upon the carrier by the original fourth
section: Indeed that in so far as the statute empowered
the carrier to judge as to the dissimilarity of circumstances
and conditions for the purpose of relief from the long and
short-haul clause it but gave the carrier the power to exert
a judgment as to things public was long since pointed out
by this court. Texas & Pac. Railway v. Interstate Com.
Comm., 162 U. S. 197, 218.
With the light afforded by the statements just made we
come to consider the amendment. It-is certain thht the
fundamental change which it makes is the omission of the
substantially similar circumstances and conditions clause,
thereby leaving the long and short-haul clause in a sense
unqualified except in so far as the section gives the right
to the carrier to apply to the Commission for authority
"to charge less for longer than for shorter distances for
the transportation of persons or property" and gives the
Commission authority from time to time "to prescribe
the extent to which such designated common carrier may

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be relieved from the operation of this section." From the
failure to insert any word in the amendment tending to
exclude the operation of competition as adequate under
proper circumstances to justify the awarding of relief from
the long and short-haul clause and there being nothing
which minimizes or changes the application of the preference and discrimination clauses of the second and third
sections, it follows that in substance the amendment
intrinsically states no new rule or principle but simply
shifts the powers conferred. by the section as it originally
stood; that is, it takes from the carriers the deposit of
public power previously lodged in them and vests it in the
Commission as a primary instead of a reviewing Junction.
In other -words,the elements of judgment or so to speak the
system of law by which judgment is to be controlled remains unchanged but a different tribunal is created for the
enforcement of the existing law. This being true, as we
think it plainly is, the situation under the amendment is
this: Power in the carrier primarily to meet competitive
conditions in any point of view by charging a lesser rate
for a longer than for a shorter haul has ceased to 'exist
because to do so, in the absence of some authority, would
not only be inimical to the provision of the fourth section
but would be in conflict with the preference and discrimination clauses of the second and third sections. But
while the public power, so to speak, previously lodged in
the carrier is thus withdrawn and reposed in the Commission the right of carriers to seek and obtain under authorized circumstances the sanction of the Commission
to charge a lower rate for a longer than for a shorter haul
because of competition or for other adequate reasons is
expressly preserved and if not is in any event by necessary
implication granted. And as a correlative the authority
of the Commission to grant on request the right sought is
made by the statute to depend upon the facts established
and the judgment of that body in, the exercise of a sound

OCTOBER TERM. 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

legal discretion as to whether the request should be granted
compatibly with a due consideration of the private and
public interests concerned and in view of the preference
and discrimination clauses of the second and third sections.
2. The alleged repugnancy of the section as amended to
the Constitution.
But if the amendment has this meaning it is insisted
that it is repugnant to the Constitution for various reasons
which superficially considered seem to be distinct but
which really are all so interwoven that we consider and
dispose of them as one. The argument is that the statute
as correctly construed is but a delegation to the Commission of legislative power which Congress was incompetent
to make. But the contention is without merit. Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S.
470; Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364;
UnitedStates v. Heinszen, 206 U. S. 370; St. Louis, I. M. &
S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; MonongahelaBridge Co.
v. United States, 216 U. S. 177. We do not stop to review
these cases because the mere statement of the contention
in the light of its environment suffices to destroy it. How
can it otherwise be since the argument as applied to the
case before us is this: that the authority in question was
validly delegated so long as it was lodged in carriers but
ceased to be susceptible of delegation the instant it was
taken from the carriers for the purpose of being lodged
in a public administrative body? Indeed, when it is considered that in last analysis the argument is advanced to
sustain the right of carriers to exert the public power which
it is insisted is not susceptible of delegation, it is apparent
that the contention is self-contradictory since it reduces
itself to an effort to sustain the right to delegate a power
by contending that the power is not capable of being
delegated. In addition, however, before passing from the
proposition we observe that when rightly appreciated the
contention but challenges every decided case since the

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

passage of the Act to Regulate Conmerce in 1887 involving the rightfulness of the exertion by a carrier of the
power to meet competition as a means of being relieved
from the long and short-haul clause of the fourth sectiohi
before its amendment. While what we have already said
answers it, because of its importance we notice another
contention. As the power of carriers to meet competition
and the relation of that right to non-competitive places
may concern the fortunes of numberless individuals and
the progress and development of many communities, it
is said, to permit authority to be-exerted concerning the
subject without definite rules for its exercise will be to
destroy the rights of persons and communities. This
danger, the argument proceeds, is not obviated by declaring that the provisions of the second and third sections
as to undue preference and discrimination apply to the
fourth section since without a definition of what constitutes undue preference and discrimination, no definite rule
of law is established but whim, caprice or favor will in
the nature of things control the power exerted. And it is
argued that this view is not here urged as the mere result
of conjecture, since in the report of the Commission in this
case it was declared in unequivocal terms as the basis of
the order entered that the statute vested in the Commission a wide and undefined discretion by virtue of which it
became its duty to see to it that communities and individuals obtained fair opportunities, that discord was
allayed and -commercial Justice everywhere given full
play. Let it be conceded that the language relied upon
would have the far-reaching significance attributed to it
if separated from its context, we think when it is read in
connection with the report of Which it but forms a part,
and moreover when it is elucidated by the action taken by
the Commission there is no substantial ground for holding
that by the language referred to it was entitled to declare
that the fourth section as aunended conferred the uncon-

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

trolled exuberance of vague and destructive powers which
it is now insisted was intended to be claimed. In any
event, however, we must be governed by the statute and
its plain meaning. After all has been said the provisions
as to undue preference and discrimination, while involving
of course a certain latitude of judgment and discretion
are no more undefined or uncertain in the section as
amended than they have been from the beginning and
therefore the argument comes once more to the complaint
that because public powers have been transferred from
the carriers to the Commission, the wrongs suggested will
arise. Accurately testing this final result of the argument
it is clear that it exclusively rests upon convictions concerning the impolicy of having taken from carriers, intimately and practically acquainted as they are with the
complex factors entering into rate making and moreover
impelled to equality of treatment as they must be by the
law of self interest operating upon them as a necessary
result of the economic forces to which they are subjected,
and having lodged the power in an official administrative
body which in the nature of things must act, however
conscientiously; from conceptions based upon a more
theoretical and less practical point of view. But this does
not involve a grievance based upon the construction or
application of the fourth section as amended but upon the
wisdom of the legislative judgment which was brought
into play in adopting the amendment, a subject with
which we have nothing in the world to do. It is Said in the
argument on behalf of one of the carriers that as in substance and effect the duty is imposed upon the Commission in a proper case to refuse an application, therefore
the law is void because in such a contingency the statute
would amount to an imperative enforcement of the long
and short-haul clause and would be repugnant to the Constitution. It is conceded in the argument that it has been
directly decided by this court that a general enforcement

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

,489

Opinion of the Court.

of the long and short-haul clause would not be repugnant
to the Constitution (Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Kentucky,
183 U. S. 503), but we are asked to reconsider and overrule
the case and thus correct the error which was manifested
in deciding it. But we are not in the remotest degree inclined to enter into this inquiry, not only because of the
reasons which were stated in the case itself but also because of those already expounded in this opinion and for
an additional reason which is that the contention by necessary implication assails the numerous cases which from
the enactment of the Act to Regulate Commerce down to
the present time have involved the adequacy of the conditions advanced by carriers for justifying their departure
from the ,long and short-haul clause. We say this because
the controversies ,which the many cases referred to considered and decided by a necessary postulate involved an
assertion of the validity of the legislative power to apply
and enforce the long and short-haul clause. How can it be
otherwise since if this were not the case all the issues
presented in the numerous cases would have been merely
but moot, affording therefore no basis for judicial action
since they would have had back of them no sanction of
lawful power whatever.
3. The jurisdiction of the court.
The argument on this subject is twofold: (a) that as
by the act creating the Commerce Court (June 18, 1910,
c. 309, .36 Stat. 539) that court was endowed only with
the jurisdiction "now possessed by circuit courts of the
United States and the judges thereof" and provided that
"nothing contained in this act shall be construed as enlarging the jurisdiction now possessed by the circuit courts
of the United States or the 'judges thereof, that is hereby
transferred to and vested in the commerce court" and as
new powers were created by the subsequent amendment
of the fourth section, therefore the Commerce Court had
no jurisdiction. But we pass any extended discussion of

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the proposition because it is completely disposed of by
the construction which we have given to the amended
section since that construction makes it clear that the
effect of the amended fourth section was not to create
new powers theretofore non-existing, but simply to redistribute the powers already existing and which were then
subject to review. The argument affords another manifestation of the tendency to which we have already directed
attention in this case to seek to maintain and aggrandize
a* power by,insisting upon propositions which, if they
were accepted, would raise the gravest -question as to
the constitutional validity of the asserted power, a question which we need not at all consider in view of the want
of foundation for the exercise of the power claimed in
the light of the plain meaning of the act to the contrary
which we have already pointed out.
(b) The second contention as to jurisdiction yet further
affords an illustration of the same mental attitude, since
it rets upon the assumption that the order of the Commission refusing to grant the request of the carrier made
under the fourth section was purely negative and hence
was not subject to judicial inquiry. The contention therefore presupposes that the power which from the beginning has been the subject of judicial review by the mere
fact of its transfer to the Commission was made arbitrary.
Besides, the proposition disregards the fact that the right
to petition the Commission conferred by the statute is
positive and while the refusal to grant it may be in one
sense negative, in another and broader view it is affirmative since it refuses that which the statute in affirmative
terms declares shall be granted if only the conditions
which the statute provides are found to exist. It is of
course trueas pointed out in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Illinois Central Railroad, 215 U. S. 452, 470,
and since repeatedly applied that findings of fact made
by the Commission within the scope of its administrative

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

duties must be accepted in case of judicial review, but
that doctrine, as was also pointed out, does not relieve

the courts in a proper case from determining whether the
Constitution has been violated or whether statutory

powers conferred have been transcended or have been
exercised in such an arbitrary way as tp amount to the
exertion of authority not given, doctrines which but express
the elementary principle that an investiture of a public
body with discretion does. not imply the right to abuse
but on the contrary carries with it as a necessary incident
the command that the limits of a sound discretion be not
transcended which by necessary implication carries with
it the existence of judicial power to correct wrongs done
by such excess. And without pausing to particularly
notice it, we observe in passing that what has just been
said is adequate to meet the contention that as violations
of the fourth section were made criminal no power existed
to enjoin an order of the Commission made under that
section because the consequence would be to enjoin criminal prosecution. The right which as we have seen the

act gives to test the validity of orders rendered under
the fourth section is not to be destroyed by a reference
to a provision of that section.. The two must be harmoniously enforced.
4. The validity of the or&r in the light pf the statute as
interpreted.
The order is in the margin. 1 The main insistence is
'FOURTH SEC'rION ORDER NO. 124.
in the matter of the applications, Nos. 205, 342, 343, 344, 349, 350,
and 352, on behalf of the Transcontinental Freight Bureau, by R. H.
Countiss, agent,-for relief from the provisions of the fourth section of
the act to regulate commerce as amended June 18, 1910, with respect to
rates made from eastern points of shipment which are higher to intermediate points than to Pacific coast terminals.
COMMODITIY

RATES.

These applications, as above numbered, on behalf of the Transcontinental Freight Bureau, ask for authority to continue rates from east-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

that there was no power after recognizing the existence
of competition and the right to charge a lesser rate to the
competitive point than to intermediate points to do more
than fix a reasonable rate to the intermediate points,
that is to say, that under the power transferred to it by
the section as amended the Commission was limited to
ern points of shipment which are higher to intermediate points in
Canada and in the States of Arizona, New Mexico, Idaho, California,
Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, and Washington, and other States
east thereof, than to Pacific coast terminals.
Full investigation of the mnatters and things involved in these petitions, in so far as they concern westbound commodity rates, having
been had,
It is ordered, That for the purposes of the disposition of these applications, the United States shall be divided into five zones, as described
in the following manner:
(The transcontinental groups hereinafter described are as specified
in R. H. Countiss, agent's, transcontinental Tariff I. C. C. No. 929.)
Zone No. 1 comprises all that portion of the United States lying west
of a line called Line No. 1, which extends in a general southerly direction
from a point immediately east of Grand Portage, Minn.; thence southwesterly, along the northwestern shore of Lake Superior, to a point
immediately east of Superior, Wis.; thence southerly, along the eastern
boundary of Transcontinental Group F, to the intersection of the
Arkansas and Oklahoma State line; thence along the west side of the
Kansas City Southern Railway to the Gulf of Mexico.
Zone No. 2 embraces all territory in the United States lying east of
Line. No. 1 and west of a line called Line No. 2, which begins at the
international boundary between the United States and Canada, immediately west of Cockburn Island, in Lake Huron; passes westerly
through the Straits of Mackinaw; southerly, through Lake Michigan
to its southern boundary; follows the west boundary of Transcontinental Group C to Paducah, Ky.; thence follows the east side of the
Illinois Central Railroad to the southern boundary of Transcontinental
Group C; thence follows the east boundary of Group C to the Gulf of
Mexico.
Zone No. 3 embraces all territory in the United States lying est of
Line No. 2 and north of the south boundary of Transcontinental Group
C, and on and west of Line No. 3, which is the Buffalo-Pittsburg line
from Buffalo, N. Y., to Wheeling, W. Va., marking the western bound-

INTERMOUNTAIN RATE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ascertaining the existence of competition and to authorizing the carrier to meet it without any authority
to do more than exercise its general powers concerning
the reasonableness of rates at all points. But this proposition is directly in conflict with the statute as we have
construed it and with the :plain purpose and intent manifested by its enactment. To uphold the proposition it
would be necessary to say that the powers which were
essential to the vivification and beneficial realization of
the authority transferred had evaporated in the process
of transfer and hence that the power perished as the result of the act by which it was conferred. As the prime
ary of Trunk Line Freight Association territory; thence follows the
Ohio River to Huntington, W. Va.
Zone No. 4 embraces all territory in the United States east of Line
No. 3 and north of the south boundary of Transcontinental Group C.
Zone No. 5 embraces all territory south and east of Transcontinental
Group C
It is further ordered, (1) That those portions of the above-numbered
applications that request authority to maintain higher commodity rates
from points in Zone No. 1 to intermediate points than to Pacific coast
terminals be, and the same are hereby, denied, effective November 15,
1911; (2) that petitioners herein be, and they are hereby, authorized
to establish and maintain, effective November 15, 1911, commodity
rates from all points in zones numbered 2, 3, and 4, as above defined, to
points intermediate to Pacific coast terminals that are higher to intermediate points than to Pacific coast terminals; provided, that the rates
to intermediate points from points in zones numbered 2, 3, and 4 shall
not exceed the rates on the same commodities from the same points of
origin to the Pacific coast terminals3 by more than 7 per cent from points
in Zone No. 2, 15 per cent from points in Zone No. 3, and 25 per cent
from points in Zone No. 4.
The commission does not hereby approve any rates that may be established under this authority, all such rates being subject to complaint,
investigation, and correction if they conflict with any other provisions
of the act.
By the commission:
[SEAL]

JUDSON C.

CLEMENTS,

Chairman.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

object of the transfer was to vest the Commission within
the scope of the discretion imposed and subject in the
nature of things to the limitations arising from the character of the duty exacted and flowing from the other provisions of the act with authority to consider competitive
conditions and their relation to persons and. places, necessarily there went with the power the right to do that by
which alone it could be exerted, and therefore a consideration of the one and the other and the establishment of
the basis by percentages was within the power granted.
As will be seen by the order and as we have already said
for the purpose of the percentages established zones of
influence were adopted and the percentages fixed as to
such zones varied or fluctuated upon the basis of the influence of the competition in the designated areas. As
we have pointed out though somewhat modified the zones
as thus selected by the Commission were in substance
the same as those previously fixed by the carriers as the
basis of the rate-making which was included in the tariffs
which. were under investigation and therefore we may
put that subject out of view. Indeed, except as to questions of power there is no contention in the argument
as to the inequality of the zones or percentages or as to
any undue preference or discrimination resulting from the
action taken. But be this as it may, in view of the findings of the Commission as-to the system of rates prevailing
in the tariffs which were before it, of the inequalities
and burdens engendered by such system, of the possible
-aggrandizement unnaturally beyond the, limits produced
by competition in favor of the competitive points and
against other points by .the tariff in question, facts which
we accept and which indeed are unchallenged, we see no
ground for saying that the order was not sustained by
the facts upon which it was based or that it exceeded the
powers which the statute conferred or transcended the
limits of the sound legal discretion which it lodged in

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 495
234 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

the Commission when acting upon the subject before it.
It results that the Commerce Court in enjoining the
order of the Commission was wrong and its decree to that

end must therefore be reversed and the case be remanded
to the proper District Court with directions to dismiss the
bill for want of equity.
Reversed.

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, ET AL., v.
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL., v.
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT,
Nos. 137, 163.

Argued October 13, 21, 22, 1912.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Decided on authority of preceding case.
THE facts axe stated in the opinion.

Mr. Attorney General Wickersham and Mr. Assistant
to the Attorney General Fowler,.with whom Mr. Blackburn

Esterline, Special Assistant, to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Com-

mission.
Mr. Charles Donnelly, Mr. F. W. M. Cutcheon and
Mr. F. C. Dillard for appellees.

