CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

also, Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S. 325, 327; Pico v.'
United States, 228 U. S. 225, 230. In short, the appellate
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
in criminal cases is not confined to mere errors of law, but
extends to a review of the whole case. And such is the
settled practice of that court. United States v. Abijan,
1 Phil. Rep. 83, 85; United States v. Atienza, 1 Phil. Rep.
736, 738.
Judgment affirmed.

CARLSON v. STATE OF WASHINGTON, ON THE
RELATION OF CURTISS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 307.

Submitted March 17, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Although plaintiff in error, after setting up a Federal defense in the
trial court, may not have based. any exceptions upon the failure of
that court to recognize it, if the appellate court did recognize, and by
its decision necessarily overruled, that defense, this court must deal
with the Federal question. North Carolina R. R. v. Zachary, 232
U. S. 248.
While, in ordinary cases, this court is bound by the findings of the state
court of last resort, that court cannot, by omitting to pass upon basic
questions of fact, deprive a litigant of the benefit of a Federal right
properly asserted; and it is the duty of this court, in the absence of
adequate findings, to examine the record in order to determine
whether there is evidence which furnishes a basis for such a Federal
right. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601.
M.fter reviewing the congressional and state legislation in regard to the
construction of the Lake Washington Waterway, held that Congress
has refrained from authorizing any work on behalf of the Federal
Government with reference to lowering the level of Lake Washington, and that all responsibility in that respect was assumed by the
State and county; aid, notwithstanding the contract was made by

OCTOBER 'TERM,

1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

an officer of the United States Army, it was not on behalf of the
United States, but as representing the State of Washington.
Under the acts of Congress relative to the Lake Washington Waterway,
no agency of the Federal Government could have arisen prior to the
action involved in this case with respect to anything done in connection with the construction of the canal.
Orders given by an officer of the United States in connection with work
not authorized by any act of Congress will not justify one violating
the injunction of a state court as doing the act under the direction
of officers of the United States in charge of Government work.
The fact that title to right of way for a canal has vested in the United
States and after completion the Secretary of War is to take charge
of the canal, does not make the United States responsible, prior to
completion, where Congress has expressly declared that the canal
will only be.accepted after completion, and that the local authorities
shall meanwhile assume all responsibility in connection therewith.
66 Washington, 639, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve a review of the legislation,
state and Federal, in regard to the construction of the Lake
Washington Waterway to Puget Sound, and the extent
of the responsibility of the Federal Government therefor,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Corwin S. Shank for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in

error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error was adjudged by the Superior Court of
Thurston County, in the State of Washington, to be in
contempt of that court, in that, with notice of a decree
made by it restraining and enjoining any further excavation of the Lake Washington Canal, or any lowering of
the waters of Lake Washington, he proceeded to blow out
an embankment at the head of the canal, which until that

CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

time held the waters of the lake at their natural level, so
as to permit these waters to flow into the canal and thereby
lower the level of the lake. The Supreme Court of the
State affirmed -the judgment (66 Washington, 639), and
the case comes here under ยง 237, Jud. Code, upon the
ground that the acts done by plaintiff in error, and because of which he was held to be in contempt of court,
were done under, the direction and authorization of
officers of the War Department of the United States,
acting in the performance of their duties in constructing
a public improvement consisting of a ship canal extending
from Lake Washington to Salmon Bay, in pursuance of
statutes of the United States.
Our examination of the Federal question is somewhat
embarrassed because the findings and statements of fact
by the state courts contain. no finding respecting some of
the facts that are alleged as the basis of the present contention of plaintiff in error. The inadequacy is attributable, no doubt, to the mode in which the alleged Federal
right was asserted. Plaintiffin error having been brought
before the trial court upon an order to show cause, based
upon a sworn complaint or information made by the relator setting forth circumstantially the blowing out of the
embankment in question by one Erickson and by plaintiff
in error as his foreman, the latter in his answer denied that
he blew out the embankment upon the orders of Erickson,
and on the contrary averred that he "did so by express
orders of the engineering department of the United States
Government." There was testimony tending to support
this averment, but the trial court, while making no specific
finding upon the subject, in effect held that the work was
done in behalf of the S'tate of Washington, one of the
parties to the cause in which the restraining decree was
made. To its findings numerous exceptions were taken,
but in none of these was any Federal right asserted, nor
was any deficiency in the findings suggested. The Su-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

preme Court, however, instead of disregarding the claim
of Federal right upon the ground that it had been abandoned in the trial court, recognized the contention of
plaintiff in error that the "work was done under the direction of the United States engineers who had charge of the
work for the Government," and by its decision necessarily
overruled it. We must, therefore, deal with the Federal
question. North Carolina R. Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S.
248, 257.
Among the assignments of error is one based upon the
refusal of the Supreme Court to find as a fact that the
acts fpr the performance of which plaintiff in error was
held guilty of contempt were done under the direction
and authorization of officials of the War Department of
the United States, acting in pursuance of and in accordance with the acts of Congress. While, in ordinary cases,
we are bound by the findings of the state court of last
resort respecting matters of fact, it is hardly necessary
to say that that court .cannot, by omitting to pass upon
the basic questions of fact, deprive a litigant of the benefit
of a Federal right, any more than it could do so by making
findings that were wholly without support in the evidence.
And just as this court, where its appellate jurisdiction is
properly invoked and all the evidence is brought before
it, will, if necessary for a decision of a Federal question,
examine the entire record in order to determine whether
there is evidence to support the findings of the state court,
so it is our duty, in the absence of adequate findings, to
examine the evidence in order to determine what facts
might reasonably be found therefrom and which would
furnish a basis for the asserted Federal right. Southern
Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611, and cases cited.
Since the present record appears to contain all the evidence that was submitted to the state courts, we proceed
to supplement the statement made by the Supreme Court
by adding such further facts pertaining to the asserted

CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claim of Federal right as might reasonably have been
found, with the following result:
One Erickson, a general contractor, had entered into a
contract for excavating a part of the Lake Washington
Canal. The contract was in writing, dated August 16,
1910, and was made between "Arthur Williams, Captain
Corps Engineers, United States Army, hereinafter represented as the contracting officer representing the State
of Washington, on the one part, and C. J. Erickson, of
Seattle, in the County of King, State of Washington,
hereinafter designated as the contractor, of the second
part." The work covered by the contract was nearing
completion when, on October 22, 1910, in an action
pending in the Superior Court in and for the County of
Thurston, between William L. Bilger and others, plaintiffs,
and the State of Washington, King County, and Erickson,
defendants, upon the application of the plaintiffs for an
order enjoining defendants from removing the embankment between the excavated portion of the canal and Lake
Washington, the court, being satisfied that such removal
might tend to lower the waters of the lake to the detriment
and damage of the plaintiff;s, announced that a restraining
order would issue. In accordance with this announcement a formal decree was made under date October 28.
Erickson had notice of the announced decree, and plaintiff
in error, who -was acting as his foreman upon the work,
had written notice of it on October 26, after which he proceeded to blow up the embankment, contrary to the prohibition. Under the state practice, the decree bound them
from the time they were informed of it, although it was
not yet formally entered. There was evidence tending to
show that plaintiff in error acted under orders coming not
from Erickson, but from Captain Williams; and his own
testimony was to this effect. Other evidence tended to
show that the canal strip or right of way was in the control
of the War Department, with a watchman actually upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the ground. The contract was not introduced in evidence,
and there was only meagre testimony as to its contents,
which left it doubtful whether the final work of excavating
the opening between the head of the canal and the lake
was within its provisions. Since there is no distinct finding
upon this subject, we will consider the case in both aspects.
The act of Congress especially invoked as authority
for what was done by plaintiff in error under direction of
Captain Williams, is the River and Harbor Act of June 25,
1910 (36 Stat. 630, 666, c. 382), which contains the
following:
"Puget Sound-Lake Washington waterway: Continuing improvement by the construction of a double lock,
with the necessary accessory works, to be located at
'The Narrows,' at the entrance to Salmon Bay, in accordance with the project set forth in House Document Numbered Nine hundred and fifty-three, Sixtieth Congress,
first session, one hundred and fifty thousand dollars; and
the Secretary of War may enter into a contract or contracts for such material and work as may be necessary to
complete said lock and accessory works, to be paid for as
funds may be provided from time to time by law, not to
exceed in the aggregate two million two hundred and
seventy-five thousand dollars, including the amount herein
appropriated: Provided, That before beginning said work,
or making such contract or contracts, the Secretary of
War shall be satisfied that King County, or some other
local agency, will do the excavation in the waterway above
the lock to the dimensions recommended in said project,
and will also secure the United States from liability for
any claims or damages on account of the grant made to
James A. Moore or his assigns by the Act of Congress
approved June eleventh, nineteen hundred and six, or on
account of the lowering of the level of Lake Washington,
raising the level of Salmon Bay, or any other alteration
of the level of any part of said waterway."

CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In order to correctly appreciate the meaning and effect,
of this language, it is necessary to refer to House Document No. 953, 60th Cong., 1st Sess. (Vol. 20), and to certain previous acts of Congress therein mentioned; and
while reviewing these acts we may at the same time consider whether any of them contains any justification of
what was done by plaintiff in error.
By way of preface, it should be stated that the city of
Seattle lies between the tidal waters of Puget Sound and
Lake Washington, the latter being a body of fresh water
two miles or more in width and nineteen miles or more in
length, and having a natural level 30 feet or more above
mean low water in the Sound. Between this lake and the
Sound is Lake Union, a smaller body of fresh water (covering about 1,000 acres), and having a natural level much
lower than that of Lake Washington, yet considerably
above the tide. The lakes had independent natural outlets. Salmon Bay is a small body of water connected
through Shilshole Bay with Puget Sound, and is (or was)
affected by the ebb and flow of the tide. The outlet of
Salmon Bay is known as "The Narrows." Salmon Bay
and Lake Union are wholly within the exterior limits of
Seattle, and the city has also a considerable frontage on
Lake Washington. This lake, as well as the city, lies
within the limits of King County.
As early as the year 1890, September 19, 1890, 26
Stat. 426, 452, c. 907, Congress authorized a survey and
estimate to be made for a ship-canal to connect the waters
of these lakes with Puget Sound. A survey and report
were made accordingly, but nothing resulted until 1894,
August 18, 1894, 28 Stat. 338, 360, c. 299, when Congress
appropriated $25,000 for dredging Salmon Bay, and the
improvement of the waterway connecting its waters with
the lakes, but with a proviso that no part of the money
should be expended upon the improvement of the connecting waterway until the entire right of way and a release

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

from all liability to adjacent property owners had been
secured to the United States free of cost and to the satisfaction of the Secretary of War. By act of March 2, 1895,
28 Stat. 910, 948, c. 189, $5,000 of this amount was authorized to be expended in making a definite survey and
location of the improvement and in preparing a cadastral
map showing each property required to be deeded to the
United States or from which a release was required. The
act of June 3, 1896, 29 Stat. 202, 234, c. 314, appropriated
$150,000, again with the proviso that no part of it should
be expended on the improvement of the waterway connecting the Sound with the lakes until the entire right of
way and a release from all liability to adjacent property
owners had been secured to the United States; and with
the further declaration that the canal might be constructed
either by the Smith's Cove route or by the Shilshole Bay
route, in the discretion of the Secretary of War.
In 1898 a Board of Engineer Officers was appointed to
determine the choice, and recommended the Shilshole
Bay route, with a lock at the Narrows near the foot of
Salmon Bay. This recommendation was approved by the
Secretary of War April 14, 1899, and right of way proceedings were completed and deeds obtained and accepted
by the Secretary of War in 1900.
The legislature of Washington, by act approved February 8, 1901, Sess. Laws, p. 7, granted to the United
States the right to construct and operate the ship canal
upon any lands belonging to and waters of the State in
King County, within limits to be defined by the plans and
specifications for the improvement as approved by the
Secretary of War, with the right to raise the waters of Salmon Bay and to lower the waters of Lake Washington in
the prosecution of the improvement. ,
Congress was still unwilling to sanction any particular
project for the canal, and by act of June 13, 1902, 32 Stat.
331, 347, c. 1079, while an appropriation of $160,000 was

CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made under the usual designation for "Improving waterway connecting Puget Sound with Lakes Union and Washington," it was provided that this sum, together with the
unexpended balance to the credit of the improvement,
should be expended in dredging a low-water channel 10
feet in depth from Shilshole Bay through Salmon Bay to
the wharves at Ballard (at the head of the Bay); with a
further proviso that a board of engineers should be appointed by the Secretary of War to make surveys, examinations, and investigations to determine the feasibility
and advisability of constructing a canal with necessary
locks and dams, connecting Puget Sound with the lakes,
of sufficient width and depth to accommodate the largest
commercial and naval vessels, to examine the route for a
similar canal connecting Elliott Bay with the lakes, and to
report upon the relative advantages of all proposed routes;
and it was declared that "Nothing herein shall be construed as the adoption of any project for the construction
of a waterway connecting Puget Sound with Lakes Union
and Washington." The Board reported, January 6, 1903,
that a canal sufficient to accommodate the largest commercial and naval vessels was feasible, but not advisable,
chiefly because of the great cost, estimated at over

$8,000,000.
The act of March 3, 1905, 33 Stat. 1117, 1144, c. 1482,
made a further appropriation of $125,000, limited to dredging the channel to Ballard.
Meanwhile, it appears, the people of Seattle had become
discouraged about the prospect of obtaining Government
aid, and therefore accepted the proposition of one James
A. Moore to build upon the Government right of way a
canal with a suitable timber lock, if the County of King
would contribute $500,000 toward it; and an act of Congress of June 11, 1906, 34 Stat. 231, c. 3072, was secured,
authorizing him to proceed. with this work, subject to such
conditions and stipulations as should be imposed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War for the protection of navigation and the property and other interests
of the United States, to include provision for the discharge
of waters from Lakes Union and Washington, and afford
adequate protection against claims for damages for changing the level of Lake Washington, and subject to provisos
which required that plans and specifications should be
approved by the Secretary of War, that Moore and his
assigns should be liable for any damage occasioned by the
construction of the lock and canal by overflow, by a lowering of the waters affected, or otherwise, and that the canal
and lock when completed should be turned over to the
United States ready for use and free of all expense.
The Moore plan included a timber lock between the
lakes, and seems to have contemplated another lock to be
constructed by the Government at the mouth of Salmon
Bay. Shortly after the passage of the act just mentioned
King County pledged its credit to the extent of $500,000
in aid of the Moore project. A little later, however, the
local interests inaugurated a movement for the installation of a permanent masonry lock in place of the timber
lock, and legislative authorization was procured (act of
March 18, 1907, Sess. Laws, p. 582), for the establishment
of an assessment district in order to impose upon the shore
lands benefited a part of the cost of the improvement. The
same legislature supplemented the act of 1901 by a specific
grant of a right of way over state lands between the lakes
(act of March 16, 1907, Sess. Laws, p. 498).
About the same time Congress was again appealed to,
and by act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1073, 1108, c. 2509,
the Secretary of War was authorized to "make a survey
and estimate of cost of said waterway or canal with one
lock, with a view to the construction of the same, in conjunction with the county authorities of King County or
other agency, of sufficient size to accommodate the largest
commercial or naval vessels afloat; or, if deemed more

CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

advisable, with a view to the construction of a canal of less
dimensions, and to submit -dimensions and estimate of cost
of same, together with a report upon what portion of said
work will be done or contribution to be made by said
county or other agency." And the provisions of the act of
June 11, 1906, were thereby so modified as to permit Moore
or his assigns to excavate a channel from deep water in
Puget Sound at the mouth of Salmon Bay to deep water
in Lake Washington, in lieu of constructing the canal and
timber lock specified in that act. In June, 1907, Moore
assigned his rights to a corporation created for the purpose
of taking them over and cobperating with the assessment
district in carrying out the work proposed to be done by
local agencies; and it appears that some preliminary work
was done u*pon the ground. By act of Congress of February 6, 1909 (35 Stat. 613, c. 83), the time allowed to
Moore or his assigns for completion of the canal was extended until June 11, 1912.
In view of the history of the matter, the phrase "waterway or canal with one lock" in the act of 1907 evidently
indicated a lock at The Narrows, and a continuous waterway thence to Lake Washington; and so it was construed.
Pursuant to the authorization of Congress, an elaborate
report of a survey and estimate of the cost of the proposed
waterway was made by Major Chittenden, of the Engineer
Corps, under date December 2, 1907, and submitted with
the approval of the Division Engineer to the Chief of Engineers at Washington. It was reviewed by the Board of
Engineers for Rivers and Harbors, and approved by them
under date March 30, 1908, transmitted by the Chief of
Engineers, with his approval, to the Secretary of War, and
by the Acting Secretary transmitted to Congress under
date May 20, 1908. It is this report and the accompanying
documents which constitute House Doc. No. 953, 60th
Congress, 1st Sess., Vol. 20, referred to in the act of
June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 1330, 666, c. 382, above quoted.
VOL. ccxxxiv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

The project as thus submitted contemplated the construction of a double lock, to be located at The Narrows
at the entrance to Salmon Bay, and an unbroken waterway through Salmon Bay and Lakes Union and Washington, the differences in level to be overcome by raising Salmon Bay and lowering Lake Washington approximately
to the level of Lake Union. With reference to that part of
the act of 1907 requiring report to be made as to what portion of the work would be done or contribution made by
King County or other agency, the recommendation was
that in lieu of a cash contribution the local interests should
be asked to do a specific portion of the work. Major
Chittenden proposed that the Government should build
the lock, and that the local agency should excavate the
canal. His recommendation to this effect was concurred
in by the Division Engineer and by the Board of Engineers
for Rivers and Harbors, and the Board further recommended-"That the undertaking of the project by the
United States be made contingent upon the furnishing
to the Secretary of War of satisfactory evidence-First.
That King County 'or other local agency will do the excavation in the waterway above the lock to the dimensions
recommended. Second. That the said King County or
other local agency will hold the United States free from
any claims or damages on account of the grant made to
James A. Moore or his assigns on account of the act of
June 11, 1906. Third. That the said King County or other

local agency will hold the United States free against any
claims or damages on account of lowering the level of
Lake Washington, raising the levei of Salmon Bay, or any
other alteration of the level of any part of said waterway."
As will appear by reference to the act of 1910, these
recommendations were approved and adopted by Congress
as a part of the project, and the appropriation, as well as
the authorization of the contract, was confined to the construction of a double lock at the Narrows. From the fore-

CARLSON v. CURTISS.

234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

going review, it becomes evident that prior to this act all
that was done by authority of Congress on the part of the
Federal Government (aside from surveys and estimates
and the acceptance of a conveyance of lands for the right
of way of the canal), consisted of dredging work in Salmon
Bay; and that the first construction work authorized in
aid of the ship canal proper was that provided by the act
of 1910, and was limited to the construction by the Government of a lock at the Narrows. It is further evident
that at all times, and notably in the act of 1910, Congress
has scrupulously refrained from authorizing anything to
be done on the part of the Federal Government with reference to lowering the level of Lake Washington, raising
the level of Salmon Bay, or otherwise altering the level
of any part of the waterway, and that by the act of 1910 it
was expressly provided that 4all responsibility for this
should be assumed by King County or some other local
agency.
Now, the Bilger suit, as appears by the decree therein already mentioned, was brought by parties who were owners
of shore lands abutting upon Lake Washington, and riparian rights pertaining thereto, and the action was based
upon the injury threatened to their property and rights
by the material lowering of the water of that lake which
was a necessary part of the public improvement. The
defendants were the State, the County, and the contractor,
and the object of the decree forbidding the further excavation of the canal was to prevent the lowering of the
water to the detriment of plaintiff's property rights. There
is nothing to show that the United States had acquired
any rights as against these plaintiffs or other property
owners of the same class, and any assumption by the War
Department of responsibility for interfering with the
natural level of the lake is inconsistent with the whole
course of legislation to which reference has been made,
and especially with theact of 1910. And this renders more

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

clear, what would probably be sufficiently plain from the
language above quoted from the instrument, that the contract of August 16, 1910, between Captain Williams and
Erickson was made not in behalf of the United States, but
in behalf of the State of Washington. An engineer officer
of the United States Army was probably selected to
represent the State as a matter of convenience, in view
of the fact that before acceptance of the finished work by
the Government, the approval of the Secretary of War was
a necessary prerequisite. But this did not in any wise
enlarge the authority of Captain Williams with respect to
the performance of the agreement. The act of Congress
gave him no authority to act in behalf of the Federal
Government with respect to the work of excavating the
canal, or making a connection between it and Lake Washington which would necessarily lower the level of that lake.
Hence it is a matter of no moment, for present purposes,
whether the work for which plaintiff in error was held
guilty of contempt of court, and which he claims was done.
under order of Captain Williams, was within or without
the Erickson contrabt.
We are aware that the Supreme Court of the State of
Washington, upon review of the decree in the Bilger suit,
held that while the actual work of dredging the canal
was done by: the State and the County, it was done on
behalf of the United States. It was for this reason, in
part, that the decree awarding an injunction to restrain
the further excavation of the canal was reversed. Bilger
v. State, 63 Washington, 457, 467. So far as this view may
have influenced the court in declaring the policy of the
State, we have no concern with it. But we deem it clear
that, under the acts of Congress, no agency for the Federal
Government could arise with respect to anything done
in the construction of the canal or the lowering of the
level of Lake Washington. Neither the fact that the title
to the right of way was vested in the United States, nor

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

the presumed purpose that the Secretary of War should
take charge of the work when finished, can override the
evident policy of Congress that the canal should be
accepted only when completed and ready for use, free of
cost to the United States, and that the local interests
should do the work of excavation and assume sole responsibility for lowering the level of the water.
Since we are of the opinion that Captain Williams derived no authority from the acts of Congress, it follows that
the immunity here asserted with respect to acts done under
his command is without legal support. And this renders
it unnecessary to consider whether plaintiff in error, being
subject to the restraint of the decree of the state court in
the Bilger suit as an agent of Erickson, one of the parties
thereto, could, without modification of that decree, have
successfully claimed immunity for a violation of the restraint upon the plea that he acted under the authority
of the Federal Government. Upon this question, therefore, we express no opinion.
Judgment affirmed.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
MOTION OF THE STATE OF 'WEST VIRGINIA FOR LEAVE TO
FILE A SUPPLEMENTAL ANSWER TO THE BILL OF COMPLAINT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.

No. 2, Original.

Argued April 16, 17, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The ordinary rules of legal procedure applicable to cases between individuals cannot be always applied to controversies between States
involving grave questions of law determinable by this court under
the exceptional grant of jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution.

