LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
234 U. S.

369

Syllabus.

ject of the principal suit; and let us suppose that the
debtor defends against the, demand, and that the suit is
pending and undetermined four months after the levy. Of
course, an adjudication in bankruptcy upon a petition
filed thereafter would not disturb the attachment. But
could it be said that the property attached was finally
disposed of at the end of the four months? An affirmative
answer seems quite inadmissible.
W conclude that both of the questions propounded by
the Circuit Court of Appeals should be resolved in the
negative.
As shown by the reported cases, some diversity of opinion has arisen in other Federal courts in disposing of similar questions (In re Rome Planing Mill, 96 Fed. Rep. 812,
815; In re Vastbinder, 126 Fed. Rep. 417, 420; In re Tupper, 163 Fed. Rep. 766, 770; In re Windt, 177 Fed. Rep.
584, 586i In re Crafts-RiordonShoe Co., 185 Fed. Rep. 931,
934; Folger v. Putnam, 1194 Fed. Rep. 793, 797; In re
Truitt, 203 Fed. Rep. 550, 554), and so we deem it well to
observe that the conclusion here s'ted has been reached
only after full consideration of those cases.
Questions answered "No."

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD CO. v.
WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 337.

Argued March 20, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

On a direct appeal under § 238, Judicial Code, from a judgment of the
District Court dismissing thE, bill for want of jurisdiction on the
ground that neither of the parties was a resident of that district and
that the suit was one that could only be brought in a district in which

VOL. CCXxxIv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Parties.

234 U. S.

one of the parties resided, this court is only concerned with ,the jurisdiction of the District Court as a Federal court; whether appellant
is entitled to the relief sought is not a jurisdictional question in the
sense of § 238.
When the matter in controversy is of the requisite value 'and diverse
citizenship exists, the question is simply whether the case is cognizable in the particular District Court in which the case is brought.
Section 57, Judicial Code, makes suits to remove any encumbrance,
lien or cloud upon title to real or personal property cognizable by
the District Court of the district in which the property is situated
regardless of residence of the parties and process for service of the
non-resident defendants by notification outside of the district or by
publication.
The provision in § 57, Judicial Code, respecting suits to remove clouds
from title embraces a suit to remove a cloud cast upon the title by a
deed or instrument which is void upon its face when such suit is
founded upon a remedial statute of the State, as well as when resting
upon established usages and practice of equity.
As construed by the highest court of Mississippi, § 975, Rev. Code of
1871 of that State entitles the rightful owner of real property in that
State to maintain a suit to dispel a cloud cast upon the title thereto
by an invalid deed, even though, under applicable principles of
equity, it be void on its face.
In Mississippi, as declared by its highest court, the judgment of a
special court of eminent domain may be challenged by a bill in equity
upon the ground that the condemnation is not for a public purpose,
and if other elements of Federal jurisdiction are present the case is
one to remove cloud upon title and, under § 57, Judicial Code, the
case is cognizable in the District Court of the district in which the
property is situated although neither of the parties reside therein.
THE

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the District

Courts of the United States under § 57, Judicial Code, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Gregory L. Smith, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone
was on the, brief, for appellant.
Mr. Rush Taggart; with whom Mr. J. B. Harris and
Mr. George H. Fearons were on the brief, for appellee..

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
234 U. S.

371

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion 'of

the court.
By a bill in equity exhibited in the District Court the
appellant seeks the annulment of three judgments of
special courts of eminent domain in Harrison, Jackson and
Hancock Counties, Mississippi, purporting to condemn
portions of its right of way in those counties for the use
of the appellee. According to the allegations of the bill,
when given the effect that must be given to them for
present purposes, the case is this: The appellant has a fee
simple title to the land constituting the right of way and
is in possession, and the appellee is asserting a right to subject portions of the right of way to its use under the three
judgments, recently obtained. The appellant insists, for
various reasons fully set forth, that the judgments were
procured and rendered in such disregard of applicable local
laws as to be clearly invalid, and that they operate to becloud its title. The matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of $3,000, the
right of way is within the district in which the bill was
filed, and the appellant and appellee are, respectively,
Kentucky and New York corporations.- The prayer of the
bill is, that the judgments be held null and void and the
appellee enjoined from exercising or asserting any right
under them. Appearing specially for the purpose, the
appellee objected to the District Court's jurisdiction, upon
the ground that neither of the parties was a resident of
that district and that. the suit was not one that could be
brought in a district other than that of the residence of
one of them without the appellee's consent. The court
sustained the objection, dismissed the bill, and allowed
this direct appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
We are only concerned with the jurisdiction of the
District Court as a Federal court, that is, with its power
to entertain the suit under the laws of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Fore Riye+ Shipbuilding Co. v. Hagg, 219 U. S. 175; United
States v. Congress Construction Co., 222 U. S. 199; Chase v. Wetzlar, 225U. S. 79, 83. Whether upon the showing in
the bill the appellant is entitled to the relief sought is not
a jurisdictional question in the sense of § 238 and is not
before us. Smith v. McKay, 161 U. S. 355; Citizens'
Savings & Trust Co. v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 205
U. S. 46, 58; Darnell x . Illinois Central Railroad Co., 225
U. S. 243.
As the matter in controversy is of the requisite value and
the parties are citizens of different States, the suit manifestly is within the general class over which the District
Courts are given jurisdiction by the Judicial Code, § 24;
cl. 1; so the question for decision is, whether the suit is
cognizable in the particular District Court in which it was
brought.
In distributing the jurisdiction conferred in general
terms upon the District Courts, the code declares, in § 51,
that, "except as provided in the six succeeding sections,
no. civil suit shall be brought in any district court against
any person by any original process or proceeding in any
other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but
where tiAe jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the
action i§ between citizens of different States, suit sh .11be
brough, only in the district of the residence of either the
plaintiff or the defendant." If this section be applicable'
to suits which are local in their nature, as well as to such
as are transitory (as to which see Casey v. Adams, 102
U. S. 66; Greeley v. Lowe, 155 U. S. 58; Ellenwood v.
Marietta Chair Co., 158 U. S. 105; Kentucky Coal Lands
Co. v. Mineral Development Co., 191 Fed. Rep. 899, 915),
it is clear that the District Court in which the suit was
brought cannot entertain it, unless one of the six succeeding sections provides otherwise, or the appellee waives its
personal privilege of being sued only in the district of its
or the appellant's residence. In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490;

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
234 U. S.

373

Opinion of the Court.

Western Loan Co. v. Butte & Boston Mining Co., 210 U. S.
368.
The appellant relies upon § 57, one of the six succeeding
sections, as adequately sustaining the jurisdiction. This
section reads as follows:
"When in any suit commenced in, any district court of
the United States to enfiorce any legal or equitable lien
upon or claim to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien
or cloud upon the title to real or personal property within
the district where such suit is brought, one or more of the
defendants therein shall not be an inhabitant of or found
within the said, district, or shall not voluntarily appear
thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to make an order
directing such absent defendant or defendants to appear,
plead, answer, or demur by a'day certain to be designated,
which order shall be served on such absent defendant or
defendants, if practicable, wherever found, and also upon
the person or persons in possession or charge of said property, if any there be; or where such personal service upon
such absent defendant or, defendants is not practicable,
such order shall be published in such manner as the court
may direct, not less than once a week for six consecutive
weeks. In case such absent defendant shall not appear,
plead, answer, or demur within the time so limited, or
within some further time, to be allowed by the court, in
its discretion, and upon proof of the service or publication
of said order and of the performance of the directions contained in the same, it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the hearing and adjudication of such suit in the same manner as if such absent
defendant had been served with process within the said
district; but said adjudication shall, as regards said absent
defendant or defendants without appearance, affect only
the property which shall have been the subject of the suit
and under the jurisdiction of the court therein, within such
district;- and when a part of the said real or personal prop.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

erty against which such proceedings shall be taken shall be
within another district, but within the same State, such
suit may be brought in either district in said State: Provided, however, That any defendant or defendants not
actually personally notified as above provided may, at
any time within one year after final judgment in any suit
mentioned in this section, enter his appearance in said
suit in said district court, and thereupon the said court
shall make an order setting aside the judgment therein
and permitting said defendant or defendants to plead
therein on payment by him or them of such costs as the
court shall deem just; and thereupon said suit shall be
proceeded with to final judgment according to law."
It will be perceived that this section not only plainly
contemplates that a suit "'to remove any incumbrance,
lien or cloud upon the title to real or personal property"
shall be cognizable in the District Court of the district
wherein the property is located, but expressly provides
for notifying the defendant by personal service outside
the district, and, if that be impracticable, by publication.
The section has been several times considered by this
court, and, unless there be merit in an objection yet to be
noticed, the decisions leave no doubt of its applicability
to the present suit, even though both parties reside outside the district. Greeley v. Lowe, 155 U. S. 58; Dick v.
Foraker, Id. 404; Jellenik v. Huron Copper Co., 177 .U.S.
1; Citizens' Savings & Trust Co. v. Illinois Central Railroad
Co., 205 U. S. 46; Chase v. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 79.
The appellee, after asserting that each of the judgments
is void upon its face if the attack upon it in the bill is well
taken, calls attention to the general rule that a bill in
equity does not lie to cancel, as a cloud upon title, a conveyance or instrument that is void upon its face, and then
insists that § 57 must be regarded as adopted in the light
of that rule and as not intended to displace it or to embrace a suit brought in opposition to it. The difficulty

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO. 375
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with this contention is that it seeks to make the usages of
courts of equity the sole test of what constitutes a cloud
upon title, so as to bring a suit to remove it within the
operation of § 57, and disregards the bearing which the
state law rightly has upon the question. As long ago as
1839 this court had occasion, in Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet.
195, to consider whether a Federal court sitting in the
State of Kentucky could entertain a suit to remove a
cloud from the title to real property in that State where the
right to such relief depended upon a remedial statute of
the State; and in the opinion, which fully sustained the
jurisdiction, the court pointed out that the nature of the
right was such that it could only be enforced in a court of
equity, and then said (p. 203): "Kentucky has the undoubted power to regulate and protect individual rights
to her soil, and to declare what shall form a cloud on titles;
and having so declared, the courts of the United States,
by removing such clouds, are only applying an old practice
to a new equity created by the legislature. . . . The
state legislatures certainly have no authority to prescribe
the forms and modes of procbeding in the courts of the
United States; but having created a right, and at the same
time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the, remedy
prescribed is substantially consistent with the ordinary
*modes of proceeding on the Chancery side of the Federal
courts, no reason exists why it should not be pursued in
the same form as it is in the state courts; on the contrary,
propriety and convenience suggest, that the practice
should not materially differ, where titles to lands are the
subjects of investigation. And such is the constant course
of the Federal courts." The principle of that decision
has been reaffirmed and applied in many cases, one being
Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S. 405. It was a
suit in the Circuit Court for the District of Indiana to remove a cloud from title in virtue of a statute of that State,
and the objection was interposed that the deed sought to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

canceled was void upon its face and therefore afforded no
basis for such a suit in a Federal court. But this court
pronounced the objection untenable, saying (p. 410):
"While, therefore, the courts of equity may have generally
adopted the rule that a deed, void upon its face, does not
cast a cloud upon the title which a court of equity would
undertake to remove, we may yet look to the legislation
of the State in which the court sits to ascertain what constitutes a cloud upon the title, and what the state laws
declare to be such the courts of the United States sitting
in equity have jurisdiction to remove." Citing Clark v.
Smith, supra. See also Cowley v. Northern Pacific Railroad
Co., 159 U. S.569, 582. There are many state statutes of
this type, and our decisions show that their enforcement
in the Federal courts is subject to but three restrictions:
1. The case must be within the general class over which
those courts are given jurisdiction. 2. A suit in equity does
not lie in those courts where there is a plain, adequate and
complete remedy at law. 3. In those courts there can be
no commingling of legal and equitable remedies, or substitution of the latter for the former, whereby the constitutional right of trial by jury in actions at law is defeated.
Judicial Code, §§ 24 (cl. 1) and 267; Whitehead v. Shattuck,
138 U. S.146, 152, 156; Greeley v. Lowe, 155 U. S.58, 75;
Wehrman v. Conklin, Id. 314, 323; Lawson v. United States
Mining Co., 207 U. S.1, 9.
We conclude that the provision in § 57 of the Judicial
Code, respecting suits to remove clouds from title, was
intended to embrace, and does embrace, suits of that
nature when founded upon the remedial statutes of the
several States, as well as when resting upon established
usages and practice in equity.
The State of Mississippi has such a statute. Code of
1906, § 550. Although originally more restricted (Hutchinson's Code, p. 773; Rev. Code 1857, p. 541, art. 8), it
has read as follows since 1871 (Rev. Code 1871, § 975):

LOUIS. & NASH. 1. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO. 377
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"When a person, not the rightful owner of any'real
estate, shall have any conveyance or other evidence of
title thereto, or shall assert any claim, or pretend to have
any right or title thereto, which may cast doubt or suspicion on the title of the real owner, such real owner may
file a bill in the chancery court to have such conveyance
or other evidence or claim of title canceled, and such cloud,
doubt or suspicion removed from said title, whether such
real owner be in possession or not, or be threatened to be
disturbed in his possession or not, and whether the defendant be a resident of this state or not."
While we have not been referred to any decision of the
Supreme Court of the State passing directly upon the
question, whether a conveyance or other evidence of title
void upon its face is within the purview of this statute,, the
decisions of that court brought to our attention show that
it has treated the statute as embracing conveyances described as "void "-whether the invalidity was shown
upon the face of the instrument being left uncertainEzelle v. Parker, 41 Mississippi, 520; Wofford v. Bailey,
57 Mississippi, 239; Drysdale v. Biloxi Canning Co., 67
Mississippi, 534; Preston v. Banks, 71 Mississippi, 601;
Wildberger v. Puckett, 78 Mississippi, 650; and also that it
regards the statute as very comprehensive and materially
enlarging existing equitable remedies. In Huntington V.
Allen, 44 Mississippi, 654, 662, it was said: "The statute
in reference to the removal of clouds from title, enlarges
the principle upon which courts of equity were accustomed
to administer relief. It is very broad, allowing the real
owner in all cases, to apply for the cancellation of a deed
or other evidence of title, which casts a cloud or suspicion
on his title.

.

.

.

The terms used in the statute,

expressive of the scope of the jurisdiction, viz., 'cloud,'
'doubt,' 'suspicion,' quite distinctly imply that the instrument which creates them is apparent rather than 'real;' is
'semblance' rather than substance; obscures rather than

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

destroys or defeats." In Cook v. Friley, 61 Mississippi, 1,
4, it was further said: "The statute
not only
authorizes the real owner to file his bill to cancel a paper
title, but also to remove the cloud, doubt or suspicion
which may spring from the assertion of claim or pretense
of right or title thereto by the defendant, who without any
muniment of title may assert a claim or pretend to have
right or title. The purpose was to give the real owner a
remedy against one who asserts any claim or pretends to
have 'any right or title to. such owner's land, in analogy
to ,,he right of action by the canon law for jactitation of
marriage. The real owner is entitled to protection against
jactitation of title to the disparagement of his real ownership. He may bring into court one who asserts any claim
or pretends to have any right or title to his land, and
require him to vindicate his claim or submit to its extinguishment by decree of the court." And in Peoples
Bank v. West, 67 Mississippi, 729, 740, the court concludeO
its opinionwith the statement: "We know of no line by
which the jurisdiction of the court is limited other than
that ,prescribed by the law which confers it. When the
complainant shovzs a perfect title, legal or equitable, and
the title of the defendant is shown to be invalid, it is, in
the nature of things, a cloud upon the title of complainant,
and should be canceled."
,In view of these decisions, we think the statute must be
regarded as entitling the rightful owner of real property
in the State to maintain a suit to dispel a cloud cast upon
his title by an invalid deed or other instrument, even
though it be one which, when tested by applicable legal
principles, is void upon its face.
The judgments sought to be canceled as clouds upon the
appellant's title were rendered by special courts of eminent
domain, each composed of a justice of the peace and a
jury. According to the statute controlling such proceedings (Miss. Code, 1906, c. 43) the special court is not

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
234 U. S.

379

Opinion of the Court.

permitted to quash or dismiss the proceeding for want
of jurisdiction or for any other reason, or to inquire
whether the applicant has a right to condemn or whether
the contemplated use is public, but "must proceed with
the condemnation" (§§ 1862, 1865, 1866); and, while an
appeal lies to the Circuit Court, a supersedeas is not permitted, and upon the appeal the Circuit Court is restricted,
like the special court, to an ascertainment of the compensation to be paid to the owner (§ 1871). A form of
judgment is prescribed, which contains blanks for a
description of the property and a recital of the compensation awarded, and then declares: "Now, upon payment of
the said award, applicant can enter upon and take possession of the said property and appropriate it to public
use as prayed for in the application" (§ 1867). An
affirmative provision to the same effect also appears
in the statute (§ 1868). Considering these statutory
provisions and § 17 of the state constitution which declares
that the question whether the condemnation is for a
public use shall be a judicial question, the Supreme Court
of the State holds that "the only question which can be
raised in the eminent domain court, and the only jurisdiction confided to it, is the jurisdiction to ascertain the
amount of damage sustained by the party whose lands are
sought to be taken;" that "a new issue, involving a new
question and new pleadings, cannot be raised in the
appellate tribunal, that is to say, in the circuit court;"
that the owner "may litigate the right to take his property
at any time before acceptance of the compensation, or
before the waiver of his right to have the question of the
use judicially determined;" that "neither the constitution
nor the laws of the State provide any particular tribunal
in which this question shall be determined, nor is it a
matter of any particular concern in what court the question shall be settled, provided it be determined in that
forum which is capable of deciding it," and that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

1 380

Syllabus.

234 U. S.

appropriate mode of litigating the question is by a suit in
equity challenging the right of the condemnor to enter
under the judgment of the court of eminent domain.
Vinegar Bend Lumber Co. v. Oak Grove & Georgetown
Railroad Co., 89 Mississippi, 84, 107, 108, 110, 112. Thus
it will be perceived that under the law of the State, as
declared by its court of last resort, the judgment of a
special court of eminent domain may be challenged by a
bill in equity upon the ground that the condemnation is
not for a public purpose. This being so, and the elements
of Federal jurisdiction being present, the litigation may,
of course, be had in a Federal court. One of the grounds
upon which the judgments are challenged in the present
bill is that the condemnation is not for a public purpose.
If this ground be well taken, as to which we intimate no
opinion, the judgments apparently confer upon the appellee a right in the appellant's right of way to which the
appellee is not entitled.
We conclude that the suit is one to remove a cloud from
title within the meaning of § 57 of the Judicial Code, and is
cognizable in the court below, although neither of the
parties resides in that district.
Decree reversed.

GILSON v. UNITED STATES..
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 207.

Submitted May 6, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The settled rule of this court that the concurring findings of two courts
below will not be disturbed, unless shown to be clearly erroneous,
applies where the evidence is taken before an examiner. Texas &
Patfic Railway Co. v. Louisiana RailroadCommission, 232 U. S.338.

