MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO, v. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

459

Statement of the Case.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
LARABEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 135.

Argued December 15, 16, 1913.-Decided June 22, 1914.

A State cannot burden the right of access to this court, nor does the
power of the State extend to regulating proceedings in this court.
A state court has not, nor can a statute of the State give it, the power
to assess as against one party to a suit in this' court a sum for attorneys' fees for services rendered in this court as against another party
to the suit, when such assessment is not authorized by the law of
the United States or by the rules of this court.
A writ of error from this court to review the judgment of a state court
and the supersedeas authorized by the Judiciary Act are Federal
and not state acts.
A state court, when so authorized by the laws of the State, has the
power to award actual damages for business losses which are suffered
by reason of the acts sought t6 be controlled or enjoined in the suit
after the allowance by this court of a writ of error and supersedeas, including reasonable attorneys' fees in the proceedings in the state
court. Quwcre, whether the state court can award punitive damages..
The existence of the right to sue on a supersedeas bond does not imply
an exclusion of the right to sue under an existing general and applicable law for proper and reasonable damages.
A classification which is based on the distinction between that which is
ordinary and that' which is extraordinary is reasonable and not
repugnant to the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth
Amendment which only restrains acts regulating judicial proceaure
so transcending the limits of classification as to cause them to conflict with the fundamental conceptions of just and equal legislation.
A state statute imposing reasonable attorneys' fees in actual mandamus
proceedings against the party refusing to obey a peremptory writ iu
not repugnant to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment either because it does not apply to other proceedings or
because it is not reciprocal. The classification is not unreasonable;
and so held as to the statute to that.effect of Kansas involved in this
case and as herein applied.
85 Kansas, 214, reversed.
A DISPUTE as to a small charge for demurrage having
arisen between the Missouri Pacific Railway Company and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.,

the Larabee Flour Mills Company, the Railway Company
to enforce payment, suspended the rendering of a certain
class of switching service which it had previously regularly
performed for the Mills Company. The latter on September 15, 1906, commenced in the Supreme Court. of Kansas mandamus proceedings to compel the continuance of
the service. After a response to an alternative rule and a
hearing on the eighth of December, 1906, the court granted
a peremptory mandamus. 74 Kansas, 808. At the close
of the opinion there was the following memorandum
(p. 822):
"The court has authority to render judgment in favor
of the plaintiff for any damage it has sustained (Gen.
Stats. 1901, sec. 5193). The plaintiff is given ten days in
which to file a claim for damages, stating separately the
character and amount of each item. The defendant is
given ten days after notice of the filing of the claim in
which to except to any items which it may deem not
recoverable. The court will then pass upon the exceptions, if any be taken, and make orders respecting a hearing."
Some days thereafter a claim of damages was filed
enumerating fifteen items. The first eight concerned various business losses alleged to have been occasioned by
the suspension of the service, such as decrease in the output of the mill, increased cost of hauling, etc., etc.. Four
of the claims on these subjects aggregated $4907.39, and
four stated no amount but reserved the right to make a
future claim for losses in case the litigation should be prolonged and the resumption of the service postponed. The
remaining six items, with one exception, related to small
expenses alleged to have been incurred in the randamus
suit. One of them, however, the fourteenth, made a charge
of $2500 "to cash paid and plaintiff's agreement to pay,
Waters & Waters attorneys' fees in this case." The fifteenth item reserved the right to make a charge for future

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

461

Statement of the Case.

legal services "if this case is taken to the Supreme Court
of the United States, whatever such services may be
worth." A few days after this claim was filed, on December 24, 1906, a writ of error was issued from this court
to'the judgment in mandamus and a bond to operate as
a supersedeas was approved. About two years thereafter, on January 11, 1909, the case was decided in this
court and the judgment below was affirmed. 211 U. S.
612.
After the mandate went down, leave was given to file
an amended claim for damages and on the same day a
Commissioner was appointed to hear the testimony concerning it and report. The amended claim was filed. It
was divided into three general classes, first, damages asserted to have arisen from loss of business, etc.; secon&,
damages claimed as the result of the expenses and outlay
for the suit; third, cost incurred or anticipated, occasibned
by the hearing of the claim. The first, that is, the business
losses, was embraced in separate items substantially following the order of the original claim, that is, it was based
on alleged loss of output, increased cost of operation, etc.,
etc. The amounts of many of these items were larger as
they covered, the time from the discontinuance of the service up to the filing of the amended claim. The aggregate
of the claims was $18,92140 as compared with $4907.39
made at the time of the first claim. The second, the expenses of the suit, was greatly changed. Leaving out two
insignificant items, as amended the claim was in substance
as follows:
The claim for $2500 paid or to be paid to
Waters & Waters for personal services was
changed to read, "For the reasonable value
of the services of Waters & Waters to bring
this action and to attend to the same in the
Supreme Court of the State of Kansas, the
sum. of ................................. $ 2,500.00

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

"Tenth: For the reasonable value of the
services of Waters & Waters in this case in
the Supreme Court of the United States, the
sum of ...... .......................... $40,000.00
"Eleventh: For cash paid out for printed
briefs in the State and United States Supreme
Court, the sum 6f...... * ............
93;50
"Twelfth: For the reasonable value of the
professional services of John F. Switzer, attorney at law, employed to assist Waters &
Waters in the Supreme Court of the United
States, the plaintiff in the best judgment of
the partners domposing said firm, deeming it
necessary after considering the momentous
and far-reaching controversy made, urged
and argued in the Supreme Court of the
United States and which controversy it could
not avoid, the sum of ....................
3,000.00
"Thirteenth: For the reasonable value of
the professional services of the firm of Rossington & Smith, attorneys at law, also employed to present the case of the plaintiff in
the Supreme Court of the United States, the
plaintiff in the best judgment of the partners.
composing said firm, deeming it necessary,
after considering the momentous and farreaching controversy made, urged and contended for in the Supreme Court of the
United States, and which controversy it could
not avoid, the sum of .................... 30,000.00
"Fourteenth: For the railroad fare, hotel
bills and reasonable' expenses of W. H.
Rossington and J. G'. Waters in attending
on the United States Supreme Court in April,
1908, the sum of $250 each and making a
total of .................................
500.00

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

463

Statement of the Case.

"Fifteenth" For the railroad fare, hotel
bills and reasonable expenses of Charles
Blood Smith and J. G. Waters in attending
on the Supreme Court in October, 1908, the
sum of .................................
480.60
"Sixteenth: For the costs due the plaintiff
in the Supreme Court of the United States,
the sum of .............................
148.25"
The 17th, 18th, and 19th items embraced small items
of traveling and other expenses of the parties and some
of their attorneys. In the items of court expenses the
difference between the original claim was substantially
this, that the claim had grown from about $2800 for attorneys' fees in the state court when the original claim in
damages was filed to a sum in excess of $75,000.00, all of
which increase resulted from charges made for professional
services rendeied in this court in connection with the trial
of the case. The remaining items of the third class related to expenses incurred under the reference to the Commissioner before whoni the case was pending with a reservation of the right to make future charges for such purpose
when the reference was completed.
The Railway Company objected to the various items
in the amended claim as follows: To those covering the
business losses, decrease of output, increased expenses,
etc., etc., besides denying that the suit was the proximate
cause of the losses represented by the alleged claims and
asserting their speculative nature, it was specially charged
that in so far as they included items arising after the allowance of the writ of error from this court and the giving
of the supersedeas bond they were notwithin the cognizance of the court but were matters alone of Federal
competency within the jurisdiction of this court. So far
as the claims for alleged outlay and expenses including
attorneys' fees in the state court were concerned, it was
alleged that there was no right to recover them because

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

the only authority under which they could be allowed
was a statute of the State of Kansas relating to mandamus
proceedings and that such statute as construed by the
court of last resort of the State was repugnant to the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment because under such construction a right was
given by the statute to a plaintiff in mandamus to recover
attorneys' fees as damages, while no reciprocal right in
case of success was given to a defendant and no such right
was given to litigants generally. Coming to the alleged
right to recover attorneys' fees for services rendered on
the writ of error in this court and the other items, such as
briefs, traveling expenses, hotel bills, etc., etc., it was expressly charged that under the statutes of the United
States the effect of the writ of error from this court'and
the supersedeas was to deprive the state court of all authority over such expenses and that moreover "Under such
statutes and laws of the United States, this Court has no
power, authority or jurisdiction to consider the claim and
demand for damages on account ,of attorneys' fees for
services rendered in suph proceedings in error from the
Supreme Court of the United States to the Supreme Court
of Kansas; and for the further reason that, if the said
plaintiffs were entitled to any damages, their application
therefor should be made to the Supreme Court of the
United States, or in an independent proceeding brought
on the supersedeas bond so approved and allowed as a
supersedeas by the Chief Justice of this state.
and because, further, to allow such claim would be violative of the Constitution of the United States, and especially
the Fourteenth Amendment thereof, which prohibits any
state from denying to any person, company or corporation
the equal protection of the laws, and prevents any state
from depriving any person, company or corporation of its
property without due process of law; and because of such
Judiciary Act (of the United States)
.,
this court

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

465

Statement of the Case.

is deprived of all jurisdiction to consider or determine any
such question or element of damage in a proceeding of
this kind; and because, further, the Supreme Court of
the United States, in affirming the judgment of this
court . . . allowed to said plaintiffs, on account of
attorneys' fees, the sum of $20.00 and assessed the same
against the said defendant.
After proof and hearing the Commissioner made an
elaborate report stating fully what he conceived to be the
facts and the law of the case. On the subject of the various claims made for the allowance of damages for a
charge of fees for professional services rendered in the
Supreme Court of the United States, the Commissioner
made the following statement:
"I find, that no agreement has ever been had between the
Mill Company and any of the attorneys as to the amount
of their compensation; that neither of the attorneys has
at any time entered on his books a charge against the Mill
Company for services rendered; nor have they informed
the Mill Company of the amount intended to be charged;
nor have they determined in their own minds any definite
amount intended to be charged.
"I find, that the attorneys will claim the full amount,
and will accept whatever amount that shall be determined
by this Court in this proceeding to be a reasonable compensation for their service-, in the case and allowed as part
of the damages.
"I further find, that it is mutually understood between
the Mill Company and the attorneys named that whatever amount is recovered in this proceeding on account of
fees and expenses of counsel will be paid by the Mill Company to and accepted by the attorneys as a full discharge
'
of the liability to them.
The conclusions of the Commissioner as to the amounts
to be allowed as damages under the three classes of claims
-were as follows:
VOL. ccxxxIv-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

As to the first class, he reduced the claim for
business losses, increased expenses, etc., etc.,
from $18,921.90 to ........................ $ 5,658.10
As to the amount claimed as due because of
the professional services of Waters & Waters
in the state court the sum claimed was allowed
2,500.00
in full ................
I
.........
As to the items for professional services rendered in the Supreme Court of the United
States, including hotel bill, etc., the amount
was reduced from about $75,000 to ......... 11,480.00r
Under the third class three small items were
allowed relating to the expenses of the parties
in Kansas and concerning the reference to the
Commissioner ............................
376.00
Total ......
. $20,014.10
Both parties excepted to the report of the Commissioner
on various grounds and after a hearing the Supreme Court
sustained his action, and affirmed his report. 85 Kansas,
214.
Mr. B. P. Waggener for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles Blood Smith and Mr. Joseph G. Waters,
with whom Mr. John C. Waters and Mr. John F. Switzer
were on the bricf, for defendant in error.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, after making

the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
Both before the Commissioner and to the court where
the report of the Commissioner was acted on the popositions under the Constitution and laws of the United States
upon which the railway company relied, were pressed and
overruled and the rightfulness of having so done is the

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v.. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

467

Opinicn of the Court.

question here for decision. But first we notice a motion
to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. It is difficult to grasp
the ground upon which it rests. In one aspect it would
seem to assert that there is no jurisdiction because the
Federal rights which were passed upon below were correctly decided. But this obviously goes to the merits.
In the only other possible aspect it would seem that the
motion proceeds upon the theory that the Federal rights
which were decided below were so obviously rightly decided that the contention of error concerning them is too
frivolous to sustain jurisdiction, a view which is supported
by a statement in the argument for the motion that of
course there would be jurisdiction if it appeared that the
judgment below "under the color and sanctity of the law
inflicted exceptional and unjust exactions." But taking
the most favorable view for the motion and assuming
,hat it proceeds upon the only ground upon which it can
possibly be said to rest, that is, the frivolousness of the
errors relied upon, we pass from its consideration since
upon such hypothesis we think on the face of the record
the contention is so clearly unsound as to require no further notice.
The Federal errors relied upon concern three subjects:
The allowance of business losses, etc.; the award of a sum
for attorneys' fees in the state court up to and including
the writ of error from this court and the supersedeas; and
the grant of an amount for attorneys' fees agreed or supposedly agreed to be paid for professional services rendered in this court on the writ of error and traveling expenses and hotel bills allowed for the same purpose. The
three involve different considerations and hence we consider them separately. We come first to test the question
as to attorneys' fees in this court, as it is the most important and far reaching since it involves considerations of the
gravest importance going to the entire structure of our.
system of government, based as it is upon an absolute

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

denial of any power whatever in the court below to deal
with the subject while the other two contentions at best
challenge power but relatively or partially.
First. The question of the power of the court to make the
allowance for professional services rendered in this court on
the former writ of error.
There can be no doubt that tested by the general principles of law controlling in this court, by the statutes of the
United States relating to the subject or the rules of this
court concerning the same, the award for the attorneys'
fees in question was absolutely unwarranted. We do not
stop to review and expound the settled line of authority
demonstrating this result because it would be wholly
superfluous to do so as the principles have been so long the
settled rule of conduct in this court and are so elementary
as to require not even a reference to the cases. Some of
the cases, nevertheless, we cite: Arcambel v. Wiseman, 3
Dall. 306; Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363, 372; Oelrichs
v. Spain, 15 Wall. 211, 230-231; Tullock v. Mulvane, 184
U. S.497, 511, et seq. Indeed, this view is not disputed in
the argument at bai and was not questioned in the court
below, since the court placed its action in making the
allowances in question, not upon the supposed authority
of any act of Congress nor of any practise of this court or
rule thereof sustaining the same nor upon any principle
of general law, but solely upon the theory that a state
statute gave the power to make the allowances. Nothing
could make this view clearer than does the following
statement taken from the opinion of the court below (Syllabus-5): "The damages'in mandamus proceedings comprehendedby Section 723 of the Code (Gen'l. Stat. 1909,
Sec. 6319) are the injuries sustained as the natural and
probable consequences of the wrongful refusal to comply
and the expense reasonably and necessarily incurred in
compelling compliance with the alternative writ, including
reasonable attorneys' fees in this court and in the Supreme

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
234 U. S:

469

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the United States." And in addition the view
of the court below is aptly illustrated by the following
passage from the report of the Commissioner answering
the claim of the Railway Company as to the effect of the
writ of error from this court and the giving of the supersedeas and the resulting authority of this court over the
cause under the statutes of the United States-a passage
which the court below expressly adopted and made a
part of its opinion (p. 221):
"Upon this objection I conclude:
"1. That the jurisdiction of this court in mandamus is
the creation of the constitution and the statutes of the
State of Kansas.
"2. That this court is the sole judge of what that constitution and those statutes provide.
"3. That the jurisdiction of this court in mandamus
over persons within its jurisdiction cannot be affected by
act of Congress.
"4. That the Judiciary Act does not and was not intended to affect the jurisdiction of this court.
"5. That the jurisdiction of this court in mandamus
attaches upon the issuance of the alternative writ, and the
sub ject-matter of the proceeding beipag the awarding a
peremptory mandamus, that jurisdiction continues unabated, not only until the writ is awarded, but also until
the writ is issued and obedience to it enforced.
"6. That- the alternative writ is a command of the per-,
formance of specified and. prescribed duties; and return
to the writ is a refusal to perform the duties prescribed;
the judgment awarding a peremptory mandamus is a
conclusive adjudication that such refusal was wrongful,
and the act of the court compelling compliance with the
command of the alternative writ.
"7. That the damages comprehended by the Kansas
statute are the injuries sustained as the natural and
probable consequences of the wrongful refusal to comply

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

and the expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in
compelling compliance with the command of the alternative writ.
"8. That the allowance of the writ of error did not
operate to remove the suit from the Supreme Court of
the State into the Supreme Court of the United States; its
only effect was to bring up the record for purposes of review.
"9. The allowance of the writ of error did not operate
as a supersedeas; the taking the. supersedeas bond brought
about the supersedeas. The taking the bond, and the
supersedeas itself, in so far as it can be conceived of as a
substantial act, was the action of the Supreme Court of
Kansas."
We observe in passing, that the views concerning the
Judiciary Act and the effect of the writ of error from this
court and the relevant statutes of the United States which
were expounded in this passage are not required to be
reviewed because they are not necessarily involved in the
decision below since that decision did not rest upon them
but was based upon the operative effect of the state statute, and hence the views expressed as to the United States
statutes in the passage quoted must have been adopted
simply because they were considered to be illustrative of
the principle by which the state statute was made to control. We, therefore, without in the slightest degree admitting their correctness even for argument's sake, pass
the- conclusions as to the statutes of. the United States
expressed in the passages of the report and shall not recur
to them except in so far as under the principle of noscitur"
a sociis we may find it convenient to do so as illustrating
the -fundamental and destructive error embodied in the
conclusion of the court as to the operative power of the
state statute.
The question is then, Was the court below right in
holding that it had the power because the Kansas statute
so authorized to assess as against one party to a suit in the

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

471

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the United States a sum for attorneys'
fees for services rendered in that court as against another
party to the suit although such assessment, as we have
seen, was not authorized by the law of the United States
but was in conflict with the settled rule in the Supreme
Court of the United States? It seems superfluous to put
the question since its very statement conveys of necessity
a negative answer. For how on the face of the question,
consistently with the most elementary principles of our
constitutional system of government can it be possibly
assumed that a state statute could be made operative in
the Supreme Court of the United States to the disregard
of its settled rule of procedure and of the principles which
had guided its conduct from the beginning, directly sustained by express rule adopted under the sanction of
Congress?
We might well go no further, but in view of the importafice of the subject we briefly advert to one or more of
the obvious consequences which would arise from maintaining the principle. It would follow, of course, that
the right to freely seek access to the Supieme Court of
the United States would cease to exist, since it would
be in the power of the States to burden that right to such
a degree as to render its exercise impossible. How better
could this be illustrated than by the case before us, that
is, by -the necessary implication that there would have
been power in the court below if it had deemed it just
to do so, to award the claim Which was made for $75,000
attorneys' fees for services rendered in this court! Indeed,
in the argument atbar it was freely conceded that it may
well have been that the mainspring which caused the
adoption of the statute relied upon was the deterrent
influence which it woultd produce in the prosecution of
writs of error to this court. Thus the argument proceeds:
"The Railway Company refuses to obey; judgment is
had against it; it still refuses, it seeks delay; it initiates

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

a writ of error in this court. By this method it makes
the. suit expensive. . . . It was just this situation
that the legislature of Kansas intended to correct.- . . "
And the far-reaching operation of the principle by
which the state statute could alone have been made to
produce the result attributed to it by the court below is
illustrated by the legal conclusions of the operation and
effect of the statutes of the United States stated in the
report of the Commissioner which was adopted by the
cout as expressed in the passage which we have previously
quoted. This is the case since the views thus sanctioned
are necessarily illustrative of the mental' atmosphere by
which alone it could have been possible to conceive that
the state power extended to regulate the proceedings in
the Supreme Court of the United States to the disregard
of the express provisions of the act of Congress. A view
which is not an over-statement when it is observed that
among. other things the conclusion which was below sustained was that the writ of error from this court and the
supersedeas authorized by the act of Congress were not
Federal but purely state acts. And, moreover, it was
concluded that the exertion by the Supreme Court of
the United States under the Constitution and laws of
the United States of the power to bring up a case from
the state court in order to review it and to grant a supersedeas in order to make that right effective, operated
to leave the state court in possession of the case and only
to move the record, hence creating a residuum of state
power which as to sucl case gave authority to the state
court to regulate, certainly as to attorneys' fees, the
proceedings in the Supreme Court of the United States.
We shall reason no further, ,and shall content ourselves
with pointing out that in substance and effect the absolute
want of foundation for the contention here maade has
been in express terms foreclosed. For instance, at this
term in Harrison v. St.. Louis & San Francisco R. R.,

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
234 U. S.

473

Opinion of the Court.

232 U. S. 318, a statute of the State of Oklahoma which
burdened or impeded the right of free access to the courts
of the United States was held to be repugnant to the
Constitution and the destructive effect of such legislation, upon our institutions was pointed out. And light
on the subject is afforded by a consideration of the ruling
in Tullock v. Mulvane, 184 U. S. 497. See also Insurance
Co. v. Morse, 20 Wall. 445, 453; Clark v. Bever, 139 U. S.
96, 102-103.
Second. The power of the court below to award damages
for the business losses which were suffered after the allowance of the writ of error and the supersedeas.
The contention is that the power did not exist since
the effect of the writ of error and the supersedeas was
to remove the case to this court and therefore deprive
the court below of the right to consider any act causing
damage done after the prosecution of the writ of error and
the supersedeas. But conceding in the fullest degree the
asserted effect of the supersedeas, that effect ceased with
the affirmance of the judgment by this court and therefore
necessarily opened the way for the court below to consider
and determine how far the alleged illegal conduct of the
Railway Company had entailed damages and consequent
responsibility. Conceding further that the bondfor supersedeas embraced such acts and the resulting damages
therefrom and therefore there was a right to sue on the
bond, again the deduction is a non sequitur because the'
right to resort to the bond did not imply an exclusion of
the right to sue under the general law to recover damages
if the election was made to follow that course. Of course,
as there is nothing in this case even suggesting that the
award of damages for acts done pending the writ of error
in this court was so excessive as to justify the extreme
inference that punishment for invoking the right to resort
to this court was inflicted, we need not consider the rule
which would 'be applicable in such a contingency.

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Third. The power of the court below to award damages
for attorneys'feesfor services rendered in the state court.
The attorneys' fees were allowed by the court below
in virtue of a statute which gave such power in case of
mandamus proceedings. The construction of this statute
which was adopted was not original in this case but was
an application of an interpretation of the statute previously affixed to it, and indeed which was made prior
to the commencement of the mandamus proceedings in
question. (Carney v. Neeley, 60 Kansas, 672; McClure v.
Scates, 64 Kansas, 282.) The contention is that as the statute exceptionally allows attortieys' fees in mandamus proceedings against one refusing to obey the peremptory
writ of mandamus and does not allow them in other cases,
it contravenes the equal protection of the laws clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment and is void. But it is not
open to controversy that the Fourteenth Amendment
was not intended to deprive the States of their power
to establish and regulate judicial proceedings and that
its provisions therefore only restrain acts which so transcend the limits of classification as to cause them to conflict
with the fundamental conceptions of just and equal legislation. The proposition here relied upon therefore comes
to this: that there is' not such a distinction between the
extraordinary proceeding by mandamus and the ordinary
judicial proceedings as affords a ground for legislating
differently concerning the two. But whe4 thus reduced
to its ultimate basis, the proposition answers itself, since
it cannot be formulated without demonstrating its own
unsoundness. If more were needed to be said, it would
suffice to direct attention to the distinction which must
obtain between that which, is ordinary and usual and that
which is extraordinary and unusual. Or, to state it otherwise, to call attention to the difference between the duty
to perform a ministerial act concerning which there is
room neither for the exercise of judgment or discretion

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. LARABEE.
'234. U. S.

475

Opinion of the Court.

and the right on the other hand to bring into play, judgment and discretion as prerequisites to the performance
of an act of a different character, and the distinction which
justifies the classification made by the statute also answers
the argument that the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment is violated because the allowance
of attorneys' fees was not reciprocal. Missouri, K. & T.
Ry. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642. The ruling in the case last
cited also serves to demonstrate the want of merit in the
contention that the question here presented is governed
by Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
Again we deem it necessary to observe that the opinion
here expressed is confined to the case before us. We do
not therefore imply that the reasoning here applied would
be controlling in a case where although .the name mandamus was preserved, in substance and effect, the distinction between that writ in an accurate sense and ordinary procedure would have disappeared.
It follows from what we have said that error was committed in the court below in allowing the items of damages
for attorneys' fees, traveling expenses, etc., in the Supreme
Court of the United States, and that from a Federal
point of view there was no error in the judgment below
to the extent that it awarded the damages complained
of and allowed a claim for attorneys' fees for services rendered in the state cOurt. And to give effect t6 these conclusions the judgment must be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

