MOORE-MANSFIELD CO. v. ELECTRICAL CO. 619
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

plaintiff tracing his pedigree through an alien ancestor.
After first deciding that a question of inheritance to land
in New York, was one to be determined by the law of
that State, the court held; first, that an alien had no inheritable blood and could neither take land himself by
descent, nor transmit it to others; second, that under
the law of New York one citizen of the State could not
inherit in the collateral line of another when he must make
his pedigree or title through a deceased alien ancestor.
It is true that the land of the intestate John Jones was
acquired when he was a freedman. Under the law of the
State when he acquired it. he had the right to dispose of
it by deed or will. If he died intestate leaving issue, it
descended to such issue. But if he left no such descendants, it passed, by the express terms of the statute, to his
widow.
We are unable to see in the Tennessee Statute of Descent any such denial of the equal protection of the law as
is prohibited by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The decree is accordingly affirmed.

MOORE-MANSFIELD CONSTRUCTION CO. v.
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 358. Argued May 5, 1914.-Decided Junn 22, 1914.
A case otherwise within the jurisdiction of the District Court of the
United States and reviewable in the Circuit Court of Appeals is not
a case which may come direct to this court under § 238, Judicial
Code, merely because in the course of the case a question has arisen
as to whether a change in decision of the state court as to the effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

and scope of a state statute amounts to an impairment of the obligation of a contract.

Courts of the United States are courts of independent jurisdiction; and
when a question arises in a United States court as to the effect of a
change of decision which detrimentally affects contracts, rights and
obligations entered into before such change, such rights and obligations should be determined by the law as judicially construed at the
time the rights accrued.
Federal courts in such a case, while leaning to the view of the state
court, in regard to the validity or the interpretation of a statute,
should exercise an independent judgment and not necessarily follow
state decisions rendered subsequently to the arising of the contract
rights involved.
Where the District Court errs in following later decisions of the state
court rather than those rendered prior to the making of the contract,
the error may be corrected by the Circuit Court of Appeals or by this
court under writ of certiorari but not by direct appeal to this court.
A change in decision of the state court in reference to the scope of a
state statute held, in this case, not to be a law impairing the obligation of a contract.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court of
direct appeals from the District Court under § 247, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William A. Ketcham and Mr. A. S. Worthington
for appellant.
Mr. C. C. Shirley, with whom Mr. W. H. H. Miller,
Mr. S. D. Miller and Mr. W. H. Thompson were on the
brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The primary question concerns the jurisdiction of this
court to entertain this as a direct appeal from the District
Court.
The decree below was rendered under a general creditors' bill, by which the assets of the Indianapolis, Crawfordsville and Western Traction Company, an insolvent

MOORE-MANSFIELD CO. v. ELECTRICAL CO. 621
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Indiana corporation, had been impounded, its debts ascertained and the order of :payment determined. Among
the creditors proving their debts were some claiming liens.
One was the Marion Trust Company, trustee under a
general mortgage securing an issue of mortgage bonds.
Another creditor was this appellant, the Moore-Mansfield
Construction Company. That company had, under contract with the Traction Company, constructed a part of
its line of railway, and for the balance of its debt claimed a
lien upon its property. The decree from which this appeal
was taken gave priority to the mortgage and denied to
appellant any lien upon the property of the Traction Company and adjudged that its debt as fixed should be paid
ratably out of the funds applicable to the payment of
general debts.
Counsel for appellant thus states the issue upon this
appeal,-"The precise controversy presented by the
record is: (a) Has the Construction Company a valid,
subsisting enforceable mechanic's lien under the laws of
Indiana upon the railway property of the Traction Company? (b) Is such lien senior and paramount to the lien
of the trust-deed or mortgage given to secure the outstanding bonds?"
The defense asserted to the mechanic's lien was that
there was no statute giving to a contractor for railway
construction a lien upon the railway property, and, second, if there existed any such lien, the Construction Company for the purpose of giving security to the holders of
the construction bonds had expressly covenanted and
agreed to waive and forego whatever right or rights it
might have had at the time of the execution of its contract, or which it might thereafter acquire, to claim a lien
against the property of the Railway Company under the
laws of the State of Indiana.
The court filed no opinion, but the decree recites that
"the construction company is not entitled to enforce a

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

mechanic's lien against any of the property of said defendant traction company in the hands of the receiver
of this court or elsewhere, if any; nor against the proceeds
thereof, and that no such lien exists."
Thus it is not clear whether the lien asserted was denied
because of the waiver referred to or because the statute
of Indiana of March 6,1883, being the statute under which
the lien was claimed, did not embrace contractors. Appellant moved the court to amend the decree so as to make
it more specific by stating whether it had no lien, because
under the law of Indiana a contractor could acquire no
such lien, or because it had waived its right to any such
lien as contended by the appellee, This motion was
denied. We shall assume for the purpose of this case
that the lien was denied upon the first ground stated and
upon that basis determine whether the case is one which
can come direct to this court.
That appellant could have carried this case for review
to the Circuit Court of Appeals is plain. The jurisdiction
of the District Court under the original bill was based only
upon diversity of citizenship. Neither did the contention
that in the progress of the case there arose a question
claimed to involve the construction or application of the
Constitution of the United States. deprive the unsuccessful party of the right to go to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where all of the questions would be open to review. But.
the contention is that the appellant had an election to
carry the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals or bring it
direct to this court under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891,
26 Stat. 826, c. 517, now § 238 of the Judicial Code of
1911, as a case "which involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States." Shortly
stated the contention is, first, that under the decisions of
the Indiana Supreme Court prior to the accruing of the
rights of this appellant under its contracts, contractors
were included within those who might by compliance with

MOORE-MANSFIELD CO. v. ELECTRICAL CO.. 623
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the mechanics' lien statute secure liens; and, second, that
the subsequent change of decision by which that court
held that contractors were not included in the mechanic's
lien law constituted a law which impaired the obligation
of its contract within the meaning of the contract clause
of the Constitution of the United States. It therefore
assigns as error the action of the court below in not declaring the rights of appellant to be as they existed under
the line of judicial decisions at the time such rights accrued.
The title of the Indiana act of March 6, 1883 (c. 115),
under which appellant claims to have acquired a lien,
was "an act concerning liens of mechanics, laborers and
materialmen." A provision of the constitution of Indiana, § 19, art. 4, provides that, "every act shall embrace
but one subject and matters properly connected therewith; 'which subject shall be expressed in the title." The
contention is that for many years contractors had been
regarded as'entitled to a lien under this act and prior acts
having a similar title, though it is conceded that the
sufficiency of the title had never been expressly decided.
On February 18, 1909, the Indiana Supreme Court in the
case of IndianapolisNorthern Traction Company v. Brennan, 174 Indiana, 1, held that the act of 1883 did not

include contractors or sub-contractors. The act was not
held to have been unconstitutionally enacted, Wilkes
County v. Coler, 180 U. S. 506, nor that contractors and
sub-contractors might not have been included among

those to whom the privilege of a lien was extended. The
decree was confined to the single point that the title did

not include contractors. It was therefore a mere construction of the act as not including obligations to contractors as distinguished from obligations to mechanics,
laborers and materialmen. This is claimed to have been
such a change of decision as to impair the obligation of
the contract under which the appellant had constructed

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the railway of the Traction Company. Curiously enough,
the Supreme Court of Indiana has, pending this appeal,
retracted the construction it placed upon the act of 1883
and has held that contractors are within the intent and
meaning of the act. Moore-Mansfield Construction Company v. Indianapolis&c. Railway, 179 Indiana, 536. But
a change in the opinion of a court as to the proper construction or scope of statute law of a State is not within
Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution of the United States, which
provides that "no State . .
shall pass any bill of
attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts." That provision is a restraint upon the
legislative power of the. State, and, as was said by this
court, "it concerns the making of laws, not their construction by the courts. It has been so regarded from the
beginning." Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 161. There
had been no subsequent legislation which in any wise
affected liens of contractors.
It has been many times decided that a writ of error
will not lie from this court to a state court under § 709,
Revised Statutes, on the ground that the obligation of a
contract has been impaired by a change in the decision of
the court in respect to the meaning and scope of a statute,
the validity of which has not been denied. "In order to
come within the provision of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts, not only must
the obligation of a contract have been impaired, but it
must have been impaired by some act of the legislative
power of the State and not by a decision of its judicial
department only. The appellate jurisdiction of this
court, upon writ of error to a state court, on the ground
that the obligation of a contract has been impaired, can
be invoked only when an act of the legislature alleged to
be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
has been decided by a state court to be valid, and not

MOORE-MANSFIELD CO. v.ELECTRICAL CO. 625
234 U. S.

Opinioi of the Court.

when an act admitted to be valid has been miscvnstrued
by the court." Central Land Company v. Laidley, 159
U. S. 103, 109; see also Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 220;
Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472, 493; National
Mutual &c. As8n. v. Bralian, 193 U. S. 635. If, therefore, a mere change of decision by a state court inrespect
of the meaning and scope of a state statute, not claimed
to be invalid or repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, ftoes not constitute an impairment of a
contract within the meaning of the contract clause of the
Constitution, it must follow that a case otherwise within
the jurisdiction of a District Court of the United States
and reviewable in the Circuit Court of Appeals, is not a
case which may come direct to this court merely because
in the course of the case a question arises touching the
effect of such a change of decision upon the rights of the
parties.
Courts of the United States are courts of independent
jurisdiction, and when a question arises in a United States
court as to the effect of a change in decision which detrimentally affects contract rights and obligations entered
into before such change, such rights and obligations
should be determined by the law as judicially determined
at the time the rights accrued. In every such case the
Federal courts, while leaning to the view of the state court
as to the validity or interpretation of a law of the State,
will exercise an independent judgment and will not necessarily follow state judicial decisions rendered subsequently.
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33; Loeb v. Columbia
Township, supra.
Under the settled rule it was the duty of the court below
when confronted with the question whether appellant
had acquired a lien under the act of 1883 to determine for
itself the meaning and scope of that act and to declare
the rights of that company under the law as it had been
judicially determined. The decisions to this 'effect are
VOL. CCXXXIV-43

OCTOBER .TERM, 1913.
Opinion f the Court.

234 U. S.

numerous. Some of them are: Folsom v. Ninety-six, 159
U. S. 611, 624; Loeb v. Columbia Township, supra; Jones
v. Great Southern Hotel Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 370, affirmed by
'this court, 193 U. S. 532. If the District Court erred in
following the later decision of the Indiana court the error
could have been corrected by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and the judgment of the latter court might be reviewed
by this court under a writ of certiorari. The cases of
Folsom v. Ninety-six, and Jones v. Great Southern Hotel
.Company, supra, reached this court through the Circuit
Court of Appeals, one by a certified request for an instruction, and the other by certiorari.
The right to bring the case to this court from the District Court by a direct appeal depended upon the question
whether the decree denying to appellant the lien it claimed
under the law of Indiana, "necessarily and directly involved the construction or application of the Constitution
of the .United States." Empire &c. Mining Co. v. Hanley, 205 U. S. 225, 232. The change of decision in respect
of the scope of the Indiana statutes was not a law of the
State impairing the obligation of the contract which is the
only basis for the claim that the case is one which involved
the construction or application of the Constitution of the
United States. We are, therefore, precluded from an
examination of the merits of the case, Cosmopolitan Mining Co . v. Walsh, 193 U. S. 460; Knop v. Monongahela &c.
Co., 211 U. S. 485, and the appeal
must be dismissed.

