DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

DALE v. PATTISON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXjH CIRCUIT.
No. 330. Argued April 23, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
The legal effect of a transaction involving pledge or hypothecation depends upon the local law; and if the state law permits the pledged
property to remain under certain conditions in the possession of the
pledgor and those conditions exist, the trustee in bankruptcy of the
pledgor takes subject to the rights of the pledgee. Taney v. Penn
Bank, 232 U. S. 174.
There is a well-recognized distinction between a chattel mortgage and
a pledge; and a state statute requiring the delivery of the chattel or
recording of the instrument does not necessarily apply to a pledge of
personal property so situated that it is not within the power of the
owner to deliver it to the pledgee.
Where property is from its character or situation not capable of actual
delivery, the delivery of a warehouse receipt or other evidence of
title is sufficient to transfer the property and right of possession.
Gibson v. Stevens, 8 How. 384.
Notwithstanding §§ 8560 and 8619, General Code of Ohio, the law of
that State recognizes the force of long continued commercial usage
and the effectiveness of a symbolical delivery of personal property
by the transfer of warehouse receipts representing the same.
Where neither statutes nor decisions of the courts are directly to the
contrary, the courts may refer to established trade customs as evidence of what has been long vnderstood to be the law. Gibson v.
Stevens, 8 How. 384.
The law of Ohio not being dissimilar from that of Pennsylvania in
recognizing the validity of tranEfers by delivering warehouse receipts
representing property under conditions similar to those involved
herein, this case is controlled by Taney v. Penn Bank, 232 U. S. 174.
196 Fed. Rep. 5, affirmed.
DAVID ROHRER, for many years prior to November 5,
1909, owned and operated a distillery in Montgomery
County, Ohio. On that day he was adjudicated a bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

rupt, and the appellants were appointed his trustees. In
the following month they filed an application in the bankruptcy proceedings setting forth that in the distillery warehouses of the bankrupt there were stored about 9,800
barrels of Bourbon and rye whiskies, to which there were
many conflicting claims; among the claimants being certain named persons to whom it was alleged the bankrupt
had pledged or hypothecated certain barrels of the
whiskies. One of the parties so named was the respondent, Edward M. Pattison. The application prayed that
all of the claimants be notified of the proceedings, be
made parties thereto, and be required to set up their
respective claims. Pattison filed an answer and intervening petition, claiming that 210 barrels of whiskey
(specifying them by numbers), were a part of a lot of 800
barrels that had been pledged or hypothecated to him by
Rohrer as 'ecurity for certain loans; the remainder of the
800 barrels having been sold by Rohrer without the knowledge of Pattison. It was denied that the whiskies were or
ever had been in Rohrer's possession, it being alleged that
all of them, as soon as manufactured, were placed in the
storage warehouse in the possession and control of the
Government of the United States, and that certain moneys
were loaned by Pattison to Rohrer, to secure payment of
which the latter assigned and transferred in writing to the
former his entire interest in certain designated barrels of
whiskey then on storage in said warehouse, the agreement
and transfer being evidenced by documents in the form
of warehouse receipts, of which the following is a sample:
"No. 750.
"Stored in Warehouse.
"56 bbls. in No. 2.
"94 bbls. in No. 1.
"The David Rohrer Distillery, Montgomery County.
"Fire Copper Bourbon and Pure Rye.
"Brand and Distillery Established in 1847.

DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"GE
wToWN, 0., Feb. 23, 1906.
"Received in my Distillery Bonded Warehouse No. 11,
First District of Ohio, for account and subject to the order
of E. M. Pattison, 'deliverable only on the return of this
warehouse receipt and the written order of the holder
thereof, and on payment of the United States Government
tax and all other taxes and storage at the rate of five cents
per barrel per month from storage free,
"One hundred and fifty barrels D. Rohrer pure Bourbon
whiskey, entered into bond as follows: 56 bbls. Rye; 94
bbls. Bourbon.
Special
number.
107853
108002

Net wine
gallons. Proof..

7,600.49

102

Proof
gallons.

When
made.

7,405.70

Feb. 10, 12, 13.
14, & 15/06

Warehouse
stamp.
Y
44953
45102

"56 Rye.
"94 Bourbon.
"Gauged by F.P. Thompson, U. S. Gauger.
"Loss or damage by fire, the elements, riots, accidents,
evaporation and shrinkage at owner's risk. It is hereby
guaranteed that the loss by natural evaporation and on
account of defective cooperage on each and every barrel
of this whiskey shall not be more than one gallon in excess
of the Government allowance during the first seven years
of the bonded period.
"It is expressly provided that in the payment of excess
under this guarantee the basis of settlement shall be the
cost price of said whiskey in bond at the date of tax payment figured upon the original contract price therefor,
and the carrying charges thereon added thereto, together
with the Internal Revenue tax thereon at the rate of tax
imposed by the Internal Revenue law upon distilled
spirits at the date of the withdrawal.
VOL. ccxxxiv-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

"The owner of the whiskey under this receipt in accepting it agrees to furnish the money to pay all taxes when the
same become due.
"This warehouse receipt is given in conformity with the
warehouse laws of the State of Ohio and the laws of the
United States in force at this date.
"DAVID ROHRER, Proprietor."

By an amendment to his intervening petition, Pattison
set forth:
"That for more than forty years last past and ever since
the enactment by the Congress of the United States of the
laws relating to the storing by distillers of whiskey in
distillery bonded warehouses, it has been and still continues to be the usual and customary course of doing business by distillers of whiskey to sell, pledge and transfer
whiskey deposited by them in their distillery bonded warehouses by the making, issuing and delivering by them of
their warehouse receipts to the vendee or pledgee of the
barrels of whiskey sold or pledged (describing and identifying in said warehouse receipts the barrels of whiskey
sold or pledged, by their serial numbers, the date of their
manufacture, the warehouse stamps thereon And the
number of the bonded warehouse in which situated) and
agreeing in said warehouse receipts to hold said barrels
of whiskey sold or pledged for the account and subject to
the order of the vendee or pledgee thereof, and in and by
the sale and pledge as aforesaid of barrels of whiskey in
their distillery bonded warehouses to obtain money and advances of money to enable-them to carry on business as
distillers, and during all of said time it has been and continues to be among distillers and bankers, brokers, dealers
in whiskey and all persons having transactions with distillers an established custom and a commercial usage generally known and acted upon to regard and consider said
warehouse receipts as giving constructive possession of the
barrels of Whiskey mentioned therein and as conveying

DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

either an absolute title or a special interest, according to
the nature of the transaction, and as partaking in many
respects of the character of commercial paper, transferable
by indorsement either absolutely or as collateral security,
and as investing the holder of the warehouse receipts with
the title, property in or possession of the barrels of whiskey
mentioned in said warehouse receipts according to the
rights of the original parties to the transaction and as constituting the owner of the distillery bonded 'warehouse
issuing and delivering such warehouse receipts, as the
bailee for the vendee or pledgee of the barrels of whiskey
in said warehouse receipts mentioned; and this practice
and method of doing business has obtained for more than
forty years, and become an important part of the commercial system of the country, so that it is well understood
and according to the usual course of business that the
use and purpose of a warehouse receipt is to enable the
owner of said distillery bonded warehouse to sell, pledge
and transfer the title or the possession of the barrels of
whiskey in his bonded warehouse for the purpose of raising
money or securing advances thereon either by sale or
pledge."
The trustees filed a general demurrer, which was sustained by the referee, and the order sustaining it was
affirmed by the District Court (186 Fed. Rep. 997). The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court, and
remanded the case for further proceedings (196 Fed. Rep.
5). Thereupon the District Court, in obedience to the
mandate, overruled the demurrer and rendered final judgment in favor of Pattison, which was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals; and an appeal to this court was then allowed.
Mr. Lee Warrn James for appellants.
Mr. W. H.. Mackoy, With whom Mr. M. L. Buchwalter
was on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY,

The transactions in question, as between Rohrer, the
bankrupt, and Pattison, the appellee, are not distinguishable from those that were under consideration in Taney v.
Penn Bank, 232 U. S. 174. In that case the Distilling
Company deposited as security for the loan made by the
Bank certain gauger's certificates, in addition to warehouse receipts issued by itself. But the sole significance of
the gauger's certificates was that they constituted evidence
that the whiskies had been deposited in the storehouse in
barrels marked and numbered as required by the act of
Congress. Since it is admitted in the present case that the
whiskies in question were in fact on storage, as mentioned
in the warehouse receipts delivered by Rohrer to Pattison,
and that the barrels were stamped, marked, and numbered
as therein stated, the fact that no gauger's certificate was
delivered to Pattison is of no present consequence.
The legal effect of such a transaction depends upon the
local law. In Taneqt v. Penn Bank, upon finding that, by
the law of Pennsylvania, the ordinary rule-as to the effect
of the retention of physical possession by the vendor of
personal property, which he is capable of delivering to the
vendee, is not applied by the courts of that State to cases
where the inherent nature of the transaction and the attendant circumstances are such as to preclude the possibility of a delivery by the vendor that would be consistent
with the avowed and fair purpose of the. sale, or where the
absence of a physical delivery is excused by the usages of
the trade or business in which the sale is made, we held
that, considering the situation of the property and the
usages of the business, the transaction between the distiller
and the bank was valid, and gave to the latter a lien upon
the whiskey superior to that of the trustee in bankruptcy.
The question here presented is whether the local law of

DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Ohio so far differs from that of Pennsylvania that a different result should be reached. In behalf of appellants it
is insisted that there is in Ohio a settled legislative policy
with reference to the change of possession necessary for
the creation of liens on personal property. Section 8560
of the, General Code is cited (formerly § 4150, Rev. Stat.).
It reads as follows:
"SEc. 8560. A mortgage, or conveyance intended .to
operate as a mortgage, of goods and chattels, which is not
accompanied by an immediate delivery, and followed by
an actual and continued change of possession of the things
mortgaged, shall be absolutely void as against the creditors
of the mortgagor, subsequent purchasers, and mortgagees
in good faith, unless the mortgage, or a true copy thereof,
be forthwith deposited as directed in the next succeeding
section."
It is insisted that this clearly and unmistakably establishes the doctrin6 that any transaction designed to give
a security in personal property, if not accompanied by an
actual change of possession, must be placed in the form of
a chattel mortgage and filed for record, in order to be good
as against creditors. It seems to us, however, that we
should not fail to consider the well-recognized distinction
between a chattel mortgage and a pledge. A mortgage of
chattels imports a present conveyance of the legal title,
subject to defeasance upon performance of an -express
condition subsequent, contained either in the same or in a
separate instrument. It may or may not be accompanied
by a delivery of possession. On the other hand, where
title to the property is not presently transferred, but possession only is given, with power to sell upon default in the
performance of a condition, the transaction is a pledge,
and not a mortgage.
There is no question that in Ohio, as elsewhere, a chattel
mortgage, as well as a pledge, is valid between the parties,,
although not recorded. And, without the statute, it would

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

be good as against creditors, purchasers and mortgagees
in good faith. The primary purpose of the act is to protect persons of these classes, who might otherwise sustain
losses"by relying upon the possession and apparent ownership of the chattels by the mortgagor. In the case of an
ordinary pledge, there is no need of recording, since the
pledgor at once parts with possession.
But what shall be said, when the transaction relates to
personal property which is so situated that it is not within
the power of the owner to deliver it to mortgagee or
pledgee, and of which he has no such visible possession and
apparent ownership as would probably be relied upon by
creditors, purchasers, and mortgagees? Does § 8560,
G. C., which declares that mortgages in such case shall be
invalid against the designated third parties unless recorded, necessarily apply to transactions in the nature of
a pledge, which are not mentioned in terms? The effect
would be to greatly hamper, sometimes 'to prevent, transactions in the nature of a pledge, where only constructive
possession of the property could be transferred. We cannot give to the section cited so extensive a meaning, in the
absence of a decision by the state court adopting that construction. None such is referred to.
It is contended that a different rule exists in Ohio as to
the delivery of possession in the case of pledges from that
which obtains in the case of sales. Section 8619, G. C.
(Rev. Stat., § 4197) is cited:
"SEc. 8619. When goods and chattels remain for five
years in the possession of a person, or those claiming under
him, 'to whom a pretended loan thereof has been made,
they shall be the property of such person, unless a reservation of a right to them is made to the lender in writing,
and the instrument recorded within six months after the
loan is made, in the recorder's office of the county where
one or both of the parties reside, or unless such instrument
is filed as provided by. law with respect to chattel'mort-

DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gages. But if a loan of goods and chattels is mAde to an
art museum association within this St4te, such reservation
of a right to them may be so made and recorded at any
time within five years from the date of the loan."
But in the Code, this section is made a part of Chapter 4,
entitled "Statute of Frauds and Perjuries." It partakes
also of the nature of a statute of limitations. We are unable to see anything in it to establish the asserted distinction bets.en sales and pledges, and we are unable to find
that any such force has been given to it by the courts of
Ohio.
The cases to which particular reference is made are
Gibson v. ChillicotheBank, 11 Oh. St. 311; Thorne v. Bank,
37 Oh. St. 254; and Hunt v. Bode, Assignee, 66 Oh. St.
255. All are decisions by the Supreme Court of the State.
In the Gibson Case, in an action of trespass for levyng
upon and detaining certain property by virtue of an execution against their bailees, plaintiffs, in order to prove
their property and right of possession, gave in evidence
certain warehouse receipts, reading in substance as follows:
"Received, Chillicothe, November 13, 1852, of Messrs:
Gibson, Stockwell & Co., and for their account, the following property, in good order, which we agree to hold irrevocably subject to their order, they having a lien thereon
for the full cost of the same." (p. 312.) It was held that
the legal effect of such a receipt was to pass the general
property and right of possession to the holder, and that
this effect was not impaired by the recital that the holder
had a lien upon the property. The court, in its opinion,
recognized that receipts of this kind, from long and general
use in commerce and trade, had come to have a wellunderstood import among business men, which (as the
court said) ought not to be confounded or perhaps even
qualified by a strict construction of the literal and grammatical meaning of the words employed. And the court
proceeded to say, (p. 317): "The receipts in this case are in

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

some particulars variant from each other; and yet we have
no doubt they would all be recognized by commercial men,
as of like import and equal validity as warehouse receipts.
And if so, they as absolutely transfer the general property
of the goods and chattels therein expressed, as would a bill
of sale. They are a kind of instrument extensively used
by commercial men, as the most convenient mode of transfer and constructive delivery of property, and facilitating
the ready realization of the price of products by the producer remote from market. Public policy, as well as respect to good faith, requires that those like other instruments of commerce, should be so regarded in courts, as
not to unjustly impair confidence in them elsewhere. And
this view of the legal effect of such instruments, we think
fully sustained by the authorities cited by counsel; and
especially by the case of Gibson v. Stevens, 8 How. Rep.
384." It was therefore held that in spite of the recital that
Gibson, Stockwell & Company had a "lien thereon for the
full cost of the same," the -warehouse receipts tended to
prove that the plaintiffs had a general ownership in the
property, and that the trial court erred in ruling otherwise.
The citation of Gibson v. Stevens is significant, because in
that case this court, in an opinion by Mr. Chief Justice
Taney, recognized that where personal property is from its
character or situation not capable of actial delivery, the
delivery of a warehouse receipt or other evidence of title
is sufficient to transfer the property and'right of pbssession
co another; and also because this decision Was based in
large part upon the usages of trade and.commerce.
In Thorne v. Bank, ubi supra, it was held that an inStrument in the form of a warehouse receipt, executed by
a debtor to his creditor, upon property owned by the
debtor, who was not a warehouseman, and made for the
sole. purpose of securing the creditor, was void as against
other creditbrs where the property remained in the possession of the debtor. The court cited and relied upon Rev.

DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

• 409

Opinion of the Court.

Stat., § 4150, above quoted, and in effect held that the
attempt by the warehouse receipts to establish a lien upon
the personal property was in conflict with the policy of
that section, and therefore invalid as to a creditor. Gibson
v. Chillicothe Bank was distinguished upon the ground that
in .that case the warehouse receipts were offered to show
ownership, and not a mere agreement for securing an indebtedness. It will, however, be observed that in the
Thorne Case the property in question was in the possession of the borrowers, and there was nothing in its character or situation to prevent an actual delivery of it to the
lender.
In Hunt v. Bode, Assignee, ubi supra, which is the most
recent case upon the subject to which our attention has
been called, one Stothfang had delivered to a bank certain
warehouse receipts for whiskey as collateral for a loan of
money made to him by the bank, and thereafter undertook
to make a second transfer or pledge to another party,
subject to the claim of the Bank. A copy of this instrument was served upon the :Bank, and it was notified to retain possession of the warehouse receipts pledged with it
as collateral security for its claim against the pledgor, and
after it was duly paid, the balance of the receipts were to
be turned over to the second pledgee. The transaction
was sustained, the court remarking, (p. 268): "Delivery of
the property pledged is generally essential to a valid
pledge, and it is equally true that to make a valid sale or
transfer of any species or article of personal property, a
delivery of the property sold or transferred is necessary. . . . But it does not follow that actual or physical delivery should always accompany the sale or transfer, and this is also true as to the pledging of choses in
action or other kinds of personal property. The delivery
in some cases may be symbolical, such as the handing over
the writing which constitutes the title to the property, just
as was done in this case, to secure the Atlas National Bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

for the money it had loaned to Stothfang. He delivered
to the bank, not the one hundred and sixty-five barrels
of whiskey, but the warehouse receipts for the same,
which were its muniment of title and control of the property they represented. And when the pledgor desired to
secure the payment of the note held against him by Dieckmann, he executed and delivered to him the transfer of all
interest in the receipts which would remain, after the
bank's claim- should be satisfied. This transfer was not
strictly a pledge, but an assignment and transfer of the
stated interest in the warehouse receipts; but if it is desired that we call it a pledge, as has been done by counsel,
we still observe, that constructive possession in the w-eond
pledgee would be sufficient, if the intent to deliver such
possession is clearly apparent. It is the application of the
familiar rule, that the transfer is complete and delivery
made, when the owner has done all that he can do in the
premises, and has given such possession to the pledgee
or transferree as the nature of the property and its situation will permit.. In,this case Stothfang owned a valuable
equity in the warehouse receipts held by the bank, as
their sale afterwards made manifest, and it was such interest in them that could be made the subject of sale and
transfer, and even pledge, and certainly Stothfang gave
to Dieckmann possession of all interest in and title to the
receipts which would remain after the debt due the bank
was satisfied. This was all the delivery that could then
be made' and it was at least a constructive delivery, and
this we think meets the demands of the law."
We are unable to find in these decisions a recognition of
the distinctions insisted upon by counsel for appellants.
On the contrary, the Supreme Court of Ohio clearly
recognizes the effectiveness of a symbolical delivery.
It is evident, also, that that. court recognizes the force
of a long continued commercial usage. And this lends
peculiar significance to the conceded existence for more

DALE v. PATTISON.
234 U. S.

6"

Opinion of the Court.

than forty years of the custom and commercial usage set
up by appellee in the amendment to his intervening petition, quoted in the prefatory statement. It is no answer
to say that a trade custom or usage should not prevail
against clear and unequivocal rules of law. This is a
petitio principii. The question under consideration is
whether certain portions of the written law are to be
given by construction an effect different from that expressed in their language, on the ground that by authoritative decisions of the Supreme Court of the State the
asserted policy has been found to be implied in them.
Since it seems to us that neither the statutes nor the decisions go to the extent that is claimed for them by appellants, we may refer to the established custom as evidence
of what has long been understood as the law; for, as this
court held in Gibson v. Stevens, and as the Supreme Court
of Ohio held in Gibson v. Chillicothe Bank, such usages
are to be judicially recognized as a part of the law.
It results that by the local law the transactions in question, as between Rohrer and Pattison, had the effect of
transferring to the latter the legal title and right to possession for the purposes of the agreement between them;
and we think it is a matter of indifference whether the
transaction be called a pledge, or an equitable pledge, or
an equitable lien. The substance of the matter is for
present purposes the same.
This being so, the superiority of Pattison's right over
that of the trustee in bankruptcy is established by the
decision of this court in Taney v. Pevn Bank, 232 U. S.
174.
Decree affirmed.

