OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

InternationalText Book Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, 109; Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 260; Buck
Stove Co. v. Vickers, 226 U. S. 205, 215; Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
400; Adams Express Co. v. New York, 232 U. S. 14, 31, 32.
Assuming that, by reason of the local considerations
pertinent to the operation of ferries, there exists in the
absence of Federal action a local protective power to prevent extortion in the rates charged for ferriage from the
shore of the State, and to prescribe reasonable regulations
necessary to secure good order and convenience, we think
that the action of the city in the present case in requiring
the appellee to take out a license, and to pay a license fee,
for the privilege of transacting the business conducted
at its wharf, was beyond the power which the State could
exercise either directly or by delegation. In this view, it
is unnecessary to consider the question raised with respect
to the treaty with Great Britain.
The decree restraining the enforcement of the ordinance
in question as against the appellee is affirmed.
Affirmed.

HOUSTON, EAST AND WEST TEXAS RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
TEXAS AND -PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COMMERCE COURT.

Nos. 567, 568. Argued October 28, 29, 1913.-Decided June 8, 1914.
The object of the commerce clause was to prevent interstate trade from
being destroyed or impeded by the rivalries of local governments;
and it is the essence of the complete and paramount power confided

.HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

343

Syllabus.

to Congress to regulate interstate commerce that wherever it exists
it dominates.
Wherever the interstate and intrastate transactions of carriers are so
related that the government of the one involves the control of the
other, it is Congress, and not the State, that is entitled to prescribe
the final and dominant rule; otherwise the Nation would not be supreme within the' National field.
While Congress does, not possess authority to regulate the internal
commerce of a State, as such, it does possess power to foster and protect interstate commerce, although in taking necessary measures so
to do it may be necessary to control intrastate transactions4f interstate carriers.
The use by the State of an instrument of interstate commerce in a discriminatory manner so as to inflict injury on any part of that commerce is a ground for Federal intervention; nor can a State authorize
a carrier to do that which Congress may forbid and has forbidden.
In removing injurious discriminations against interstate traffic arising
from the relation of intrastate to interstate rates Congress is not
bound to reduce the latter to the level of the former.
Congress having the power to control intrastate charges ofan interstate
carrier to the extent necessary to prevent injurious discrimination
against interstate commerce may provide for its execution through
the aid of a subordinate body.
By ยง 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, 24 Stat. 379, 380 Congress
has delegated to the Interstate Commerce Conrmission power to
prevent all discriminations against interstate commerce by interstate
carriers, subject to the Act, which it is within the power of Congress
to condemn.
Where the Interstate Commerce Commission has found after due investigation that unjust discrimination against localities exists under
substantially similar conditions of transportation the Commission
has power to correct it; and this notwithstanding the limitations
contained in the proviso to ยง 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
The earlier action of the Interstate Commerce Commission was not of
such controlling character as to preclude the Commission from giving
effect to the Act to Regulate Commerce, and in this case having,
after examination of the question of its authority, decided to make
a remedial order to prevent unljust discrimination and the Commerce
Court having sustained that authority of the Commission, this court
should not reverse unless, as is not the case, the law has been misapplied.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Parties.

.

234 U. S.

No local rule can nullify the lawful exercise of Federal authority; and
after the Interstate Commerce Commission has made an order within
its jurisdiction there is no compulsion on the carrier to comply with
any inconsistent local requirement.
Although there is gravity in any question presented when state and
Federal views conflict, it has been recognized from the beginning that
this Nation could not prosper if interstate and foreign trade were
governed by many masters; and where the freedom of such commerce
is involved the judgment of Congress and the agencies it lawfully
establishes must eQntrol.
An order made by the Interstate Commerce Commission that in order
to correct discrimination found to exist against specified localities
interstate cariers should desist from charging higher rates for transportation between certain specified interstate points than between
certain specified intrastate points, held to be within the power delegated by Congress to the Commission; also held, that so far as the
carriers' interstate rates conformed to what was found to be reasonable by the Commission, they were entitled to maintain them,. and
that they were free to comply with the order by so adjusting their
intrastate rates, to which the order related, as to remove the forbidden discrimination.
205 Fed. Rep. 380, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission relating to rates between Shreveport, Louisiana, and points within the State
of Texas, and the effect of orders of the Railroad Commission of.the State of Texas in regard to rates wholly within
that State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hiram M. Garwood, with whom Mr. Maxwell
Evarts, Mr. James G. Wilson, Mr. George Thompson, Mr.
W. L. Hall and Mr. Thomas J. Freeman were on the brief,
for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralDenison, with whom Mr.

Thurlow M. Gordon, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission.

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES. 345
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ruffin G. Pleasant,Attorney General of the State of
Louisiana, and Mr. Luther M. Walter, with whom Mr.
W. M. Barrow, Mr. M. W. Borders and Mr. John S.
Burchmore were on the brief, for the Railroad Commission
of Louisiana, Intervenor.,
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

These suits -were brought in the Commerce Court by
the Houston, East & West Texas Railway Company, and
the Houston & Shreveport Railroad Company, and by the
Texas & Pacific Railway Company, respectively, to set
aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
dated March 11, 1912, upon the ground that it exceeded
the Commissi6n's authority. Other railroad companies I
intervened in support of the petitions, and the Interstate
Commerce Commission and the Railroad Commission of
Louisiana intervened in opposition. The petitions were
dismissed. 205 Fed. Rep. 380.
The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission was
made in a proceeding initiated in March, 1911, by the Railroad Commission of Louisiana. The complaint was that
the appellants, and other interstate carriers, maintained
unreasonable rates from Shreveport, Louisiana, to various
points in Texas, and, ,further, that these carriers in the
adjustment of rates over their respective lines unjustly
discriminated in favor of traffic within the State of Texas
and against similar traffic between Louisiana and Texas.
The carriers filed answers; numerous pleas of intervention
by shippers and commercial bodies were allowed; testimony was taken and arguments were heard. .
The gravamen of the complaint, said the Interstate
The Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company of Texas, the St.
Louis Southwestern Railway Company, and the St. Louis Southwestern
Railway Company of Texas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Commerce Commission, was that the carriers made rates
out Qf Dallas and other Texas points into eastern Texas
which were much lower than those which they extended
into Texas from Shreveport. The situation may be briefly
described: Shreveport, Louisiana, is about 40 miles from
the Texas state line, and 231 miles from Houston, Texas,
on the fine of the Houston, East & West Texas and Houston & Shreveport Companies (which are affiliated in interest); it is 189 miles from Dallas, Texas, on the line of
the Texas & Pacific. Shreveport competes with both cities
for the trade of the intervening territory. The rates on
these lines from Dallas and Houston, respectively, eastward to.intermediate points in Texas were much less, according to distance, than from Shreveport westward to the
same points. It is undisputed that the difference was substantial and injuriously affected the commerce of Shreveport. It appeared, for example, that a rate of 60 cents
carried first class traffic a distance of 160 miles to the eastward from Dallas, while the same rate would carry the
same class of traffic only 55 miles into Texas from Shreveport. The first class rate from Houston to Lufkin, Texas,
118.2 -miles, was 50 cents per 100 pounds, while the rate
from Shreveport to the same point, 112.5 miles, was 69
cents. The rate on wagons from Dallas to Marshall,
Texas, 1-47.7 miles was 36.8 cents, and from Shreveport
to Marshall, 42 miles, 56 cents. The rate on furniture from
Dallas to Longview, Texas, 124 miles, was 24.8 cents, and
that from Shreveport to Longview, 65.7 miles, was 35
cents. These instances of differences in rates are merely
illustrative; they serve to indicate the character of the
rate adjustment.
The Interstate Commerce Commission found
that the
interstate class rates out of Shreveport to named Texas
points were unreasonable, and it established maximum
class rates for this traffic. These rates, we understand,
were substantially the same as the class rates fixed by the

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

347

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Commission of Texas, and charged by the
carriers, for transportation for similar distances in that
State. The Interstate Commerce Commission also found
that the carriers maintained "'higher rates from Shreveport
to points in Texas" than were in force "from cities in
Texas to such points under substantially similar conditions and circumstances," and that thereby "an unlawful and undue preference and advantage" was given to.
the Texas cities and a "discrimination" that was "undue
and unlawful" was effected against Shreveport. In order
to correct this discrimination, the carriers were directed
to desist from charging higher rates for the transportation
of any commodity from Shreveport to Dallas and Houston,
respectively, and intermediate points, than were contemporaneously charged for the carriage of such commodity
from Dallas and Houston toward Shreveport for equal
distances, as the Commission found that relation of rates
to be reasonable. 23 I. C. C. 31, 46-48.
The order in question is set forth in the margin.' The
"This case being at issue upon complaint and answers on file, and
having been duly heard and submitted by the parties, and full investi-.
gation of the matters and things invol, ed having been had, and the
Commission having, on the date hereof, made and filed a report containing its findings of fact and conclusions thereon, which said report is
hereby referred to and made a part hereof:
"It is ordered, That defendants The Texas & Pacific Railway Company, The Houston, East & West Texas Railway Company, and Houston & Shreveport Railroad Company be, and they are hereby, notified
and required to cease and desist, on or before the 1st day of May, 1912,
and for a period of not less than two years thereafter abstain, from
exacting their present class rates for the transportation of traffic from
Shreveport, La., to the points in Texas hereinafter mentioned on their
respective lines, as the Commission in said report finds such rates to be
unjust and unreasonable.
"It is further ordered, That defendant The Texas & Pacific Railway
Company be, and it is hereby: notified and required to establish and
put in force, on or before the 1st day of May, 1912, and maintain in
Sorce thereafter during a period of not less than two years, and apply to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 113.

report states that under this order it will be the duty of the
companies "to duly and justly equalize the terms and
conditions" upon which they will extend "transportation
to traffic of a similar character moving into Texas from
the transportation of traffic from Shreveport, La., to the below-named
points in Texas, class rates which shall not exceed the following, in cents
per 100 pounds, which rates are found by the Commission in its report
to be reasonable, to wit: (rates inserted).
"It is further ordered, That defendants The Houston, East & West
Texas Railway Company and Houston & Shreveport Railroad Company be, and they are hereby, notified and required to establish and put
in force, on or before the 1st day of May, 1912, and maintain in force
thereafter during a period of not less than two years, and apply to the
transpbrtation of traffic from Shreveport, La., to the below-named
points in Texas, class rates which shall not exceed the following, in cents
per 100 pounds, which rates are fouhd by the Commission in its report
to be reasonable, to wit: (rates inserted).
"It is further ordered, That defendant The Texas & Pacific Railway
Company be, and it is hereby, notified and required to cease and desist,
on or before the 1st day of May, 1912, and for a period of not less ti.-m
two years thereafter abstain, from exacting any higher rates for the
transportation of any article from Shreveport, La., to Dallas, Tex., and
points on its line intermediate thereto, than are contemporaneously
exacted for the transportation of such article from Dallas, Tex., toward
said Shreveport for an equal distance, as said relation of rates has been
found by the Commission in said report to be reasonable.
"It is further ordered, That defendants The Houston, East & West
Texas Railway Company and Houston & Shreveport Railroad Company be, and they are hereby, notified and required to cease and desist,
on or before the 1st day of May, 1912, and for a period of not less than
two years thereafter abstain, from exacting any higher rates for the
transportation of any article from Shreveport, La., to Houston, Tex.,
and points on its line intermediate thereto, than are contemporaneously
exacted for the transportation of such article from Houston, Tex., toward said Shreveport for an equal distance, as said relation of rates has
been found by the Commission in said report to be reasonable.
"And it is further ordered, That said defendants be, and they are
hereby, notified and required to establish and put in force, on or before
the 1st day of May, 1912, and maintain in force thereafter during-a
period of not less than two years, substantially similar practices respecting the concentration of interstate cotton at Shreveport, La., to

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES.
.234 U. S.

349

Opinion of the Court.

Shreveport with that moving wholly within Texas,"
but that, in effecting such equalization, the class scale
rates as prescribed shall not be exceeded,
In their petition in the Commerce Court, the appellants
assailed the order in its entirety, but subsequently they
withdrew their opposition to the fixing of maximum class
rates and these rates were put in force by the carriers in
May, 1912.
The attack was continued upon that portion of the order which prohibited the charge of higher rates for carrying articles from Shreveport into Texas than those charged
for eastward traffic from Dallas and Houston, respectively, for equal distances. There are, it appears, commodity rates fixed by the Railroad Commission of Texas
for intrastate hauls, which are substantially less than
the class, or standard, rates prescribed by that Commission; and thus the commodity rates charged by the
carriers from Dallas and Houston eastward to Texas points
are less than the rates which they demand for the transportation of the same articles for like distances from
Shreveport into Texas. The present controversy relates
to these commodity rates.
The point of the objection to the order is that, as the
discrimination found by the Commission to be unjust
arises out of the relation of intrastate rates, maintained
under state authority, to interstate rates that have been
upheld as reasonable, its. correction was beyond the
Commission's power. Manifestly the order might be
complied with, and the discrimination avoided, either by
reducing the interstate rates from Shreveport to the level
of the competing intrastatE rates, or by raising these inthose which are contemporaneously observed by said defendants respecting the concentration of cotton within the state of Texas, provided
the practices adopted shall be justifiable under the act to regulate com-

merce and applicable fairly under like conditions elsewhere on the lines
of such defendants."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

trastate rates to the level of the interstate rates, or by such
reduction in the one case and increase in the other as
would result in equality. But it is urged that, so far as the
interstate rates were sustained by the Commission as
reasonable, the Commission was without authority to
compel their reduction in order to equalize them with the
lower intrastate rates. The holding of the Commerce
Court was that the order relieved the appellants from
further obligation to observe the intrastate rates and
that they Were at liberty to comply with the Commission's
requirements by increasing these rates sufficiently to
remove the forbidden discrimination. The invalidity of
the order in this aspect is challenged upon two grounds:
(1) That Congress is impotent to control the intrastate
charges of an interstate carrier even to the extent necessary to prevent injurious discrimination against interstate traffic; and
(2) That, if it be assumed that Congress has this power,
still it has not been exercised, and hence the action of the
Commission exceeded the limits of the authority which
has been conferred upon it.
First. It is unnecessary to repeat what has frequently
been said by this court with respect to the complete and
paramount character of the power confided to Congress to
regulate commerce among the several States. It is of the
essence of this power that, where it exists, it dominates.
Interstate trade was not left to be destroyed or impeded
by the rivalries of local governments. The purpose was to
make impossible the recurrence of the evils which had
overwhelmed the Confederation and to provide the necessary basis of national unity by insuring 'uniformity of
regulation against conflicting and discriminating state
legislation.' By virtue of the comprehensive terms of the
grant, the authority of Congress is at all times adequate
to meet the varying exigencies that arise and to protect
the national interest by securing the freedom of interstate

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

351

Opinion of the Court.

comnmercial intercourse from local control. Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196, 224; Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419, 446; County cf Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S.
691, 696, 697; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 45, 473;
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47, 53, 54;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398, 399.
Congress is empowered t.o regulate,-that is, to provide
the law for the government of interstate commerce; to
enact 'all appropriate legislation' for its 'protection and
advancement' (The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 564); to
adopt measures 'to promote its growth and insure its
safety' (County of Mobile v. Kimball, supra); 'to foster,
protect, control and restrain' (Second Employers' Liability'
Cases, supra). Its authority, extendi'g to these interstate
carriers as instruments of interstate commerce, necessarily
embraces the right to control their operations in all matters
having such a close and substantial relation to interstate
traffic that the control is essential or appropriate to the
security of that traffic, to the efficiency of the interstate
service, and to the maintenance of conditions under which
interstate commerce may be conducted upon fair terms
and without molestation or hindrance. As it is competent for Congress to legislate to these ends, unquestionably it may seek their attainment by requiring that the
agencies of interstate commerce shall not be used in such
manner as to cripple, retard or destroy it. The fact that
carriers are instruments of intrastate commerce, as well
as of interstate commerce, does not derogate from the
complete and paramount authority of Congress over the
latter or preclude the Federal power from being exerted
to prevent the intrastate operations of such carriers from
being made a means of injury to that which has been confided to Federal care. Wherever the interstate and intrastate transactions of carriers are so related that the
government of the one involves the control of the other,
it is Congress, and not the State, that is entitled to pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of. the Court.

234 U. S.

scribe the final and dominant rule, for otherwise Congress
would be denied the exercise of its constitutional authority
and the State, and not the Nation, would be supreme
within the national field. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 221 U. S. 612, 618;
Southern Railway Co. V. United States, 222 U. S.20, 26, 27;
Second Employers' Liability Cqes, supra,pp. 48, 51; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224
U. S. 194, 205, 213; Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, p. 431;
Illinois Central Railroad Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S.473.
In Baltimore & Ohio RailroadCo. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, supra, the argument against the validity of

the Hours of Service'Act (March 4, 1907, c. 2939, 34
Stat. 1415) involved the consideration that the interstate
and intrastate transactions of the carriers were so interwoven that it was utterly impracticable for them to divide
their employ6s so that those who were engaged in interstate commerce should be confined to that commerce
exclusively. Employ6s dealing with the movement of
trains were employed in both sorts of commerce; but the
court held that this fact did not preclude the exercise of
Federal power. As Congress could limit the hours of labor
of those engaged in interstate transportation, it necessarily
followed that its will could not be'frustrated by prolonging
the period of service through other requirements of the
carriers or by the commingling of duties relating to interstate and intrastate operations. Again, in SoSuthern Railway Co. v. United States, supra, the question was presented
whether the amendment to the Safety Appliance Act
(March 2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943) was within the power
of Congress in view of the fact that the statute was not
confined to vehicles that were used in interstate traffic
but also embraced those used in intrastate traffic. The
court answered affirmatively, because there was such a
close relation between the two classes of traffic moving
over the same railroad as to make it certain that the safety

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES. 353
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the interstate traffic, and of those employed in its movement, would be promoted. in a real and substantial sense by
applying the requirements of the act to both classes of
vehicles. So, in the Second Employers' Liability Cases,
supra, it was insisted that while Congress had the authority to regulate the liability of a carrier for injuries sustained by one employ6 through the negligence of another,
where all were engaged in interstate commerce, that power
did not embrace instances where the negligent empldy6
was engaged in intrastate commerce. The court said that
this was a mistaken theory, as the causal negligence when
operating injuriously upon an employ6 engaged in interstate commerce had the same effect with respect to that
commerce as if the negligent employ6 were also engaged
therein. The decision in Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S.463, is not opposed, for the statute there in question
(June 11, 1906, c. 3073, 34 Stat. 232) sought to regulate
the liability of interstate carriers for injuries to any employ6 even though his employment had no connection
whatever with interstate commerce. (See Illinois Central
R. R. Co. v. Behrens, supra.)
While these decisions sustaining the Federal power relate to measures adopted in the interest of the safety of
persons and property, they illustrate the principle that
Congress in the exercise of its paramount power may
prevent the common instrumentalities of interstate and
intrastate commercial intercourse from being used in their
intrastate operations to the injury of interstate commerce.
This is not to say that Congress possesses the authority
to regulate the internal commerce of a State, as such, but
that it does possess the power to foster and protect interstate commerce, and to take all measures necessary or
appropriate to that end, although intrastate transactions
of interstate carriers may thereby be controlled.
This principle is applicable here. We find no reason to
doubt that Congress is entitled to keep the highways of
voL. ccxxxiv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

interstate communication open to interstate traffic upon
fair and equal terms. That an unjust discrimination in the
rates of a common carrier, by which one person or locality is
unduly favored as against another under substantially similar conditions of traffic, constitutes an evil is undeniable;
and where this evil consists in the action of an interstate
carrier in unreasonably discriminating against interstate
traffic over its line, the authority of Congress to prevent
it is equally clear. It is immaterial, so far as the protecting
power of Congress is concerned, that the discrimination
arises from intrastate rates as compared with interstate
rates. The use of the instrumernt of interstate commerce
in a discriminatory manner so as to inflict injury upon that
commerce, or some part thereof, furnishes abundant
ground for Federal intervention. Nor can the attempted
exercise of state authority alter the matter, where Congress has acted, for a State may not authorize the carrier
to do that which Congress is entitled to forbid and has
forbidden.
It is also to be noted-as the Govermnent has well said
in its argument in support of the Commission's order-that
the power to deal with the relation between the two kinds
of rates, as a relation, lies exclusively with Congress. It
is manifest that the State cannot fix the relation of the
carrier's interstate and intrastate charges without directly
interfering with the former, unless it simply follows the
standard set by Federal authority. This question was
presented with respect to the long and short haul provision
of the Kentucky constitution, adopted n 1891, which the
court had before it in Louisville &'Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Eubank, 184 U. S. 27. The state court had construed this
provisfon as embracing a long haul, from a place outside
to one within the State, and a shorter haul on the same
line and in the same direction between points within the
State. This court held that, so construed, the provision
was invalid as being a regulation of interstate commerce

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES. 355
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

because 'it linked the interstate rate to the rate for the
shorter haul and thus the interstate charge was directly
controlled by the state law.'

See 230 U. S. pp. 428, 429.

It is for Congress t6 supply the needed correction where
the relation between intrastate and interstate rates presents the evil to be corrected, and this it may do completely
by reason of its control over the interstate carrier in all
matters having such a close and substantial relation to
interstate commerce that it is necessary or appropriate
to exercise the control for the effective government of
that commerce.
It is also clear that, in removing the injurious discriminations against interstate traffic arising from the relation of
intrastate to interstate rates, Congress is not bound to
reduce the latter below what it may deem t6 be a proper
standard fair to the carrier and to the public. Otherwise,
it could prevent the injury to interstate commerce only
by the sacrifice of its judgment as to interstate rates. Congress is entitled to maintain its own standard as tb these
rates and to forbid any discriminatory action by interstate
,carriers which will obstruct the freedom of movement of interstate traffic over their lines in accordance with the terms
it establishes.
Having this power, Congress could provide for its execution through the aid of a subordinate body; and we
conclude that the order of the Commission now in question
cannot be held invalid upon the ground that it exceeded
the authority which Congress could lawfully confer.
Second. The remaining question, is with regard to the
scope of the power which Congress has granted to the
Commission.
Section three of the Act to Regulate Commerce provides
(February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 380):
"SEC. 3. That it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of this act to make or give
any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or
locality, or any particular description of traffic, in any
respect whatsoever, or to subject any particular person,
company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular
description of traffic, to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
This language is certainly sweeping enough to embrace
all the discriminations of the sort described which it was
within the power of Congress to condemn. There is no
exception or qualification with respect to an unreasonable
discrimination against interstate traffic produced by the
relation of intrastate to interstate rates as 'maintained by
the carrier. It is apparent from the legislative history
of the act that the evil of discrimination was the principal
thing aimed at, and there is no basis for the contention
that Congress intended to exempt any discriminatory
action. or practice of interstate carriers affecting interstate commerce which it had authority to reach. The
purpose of the measure was thus emphatically stated in
the elaborate report of the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce which accompanied it: "The provisions
of the bill are based upon the theory that the paramount
evil chargeable against the operation of the transportation
system of the United States as now conducted is unjust
discrimination between persons, places, commodities, or
particular descriptions of traffic. The underlying purpose
and aim of the measure is the prevention of these discriminations..
.
"
(Senate Report No. 46, 49th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 215).
The opposing argument rests upon the proviso in the
first section of the act which in its original form was as
follows: "Provided, however, that the provisions of this act
shall not apply to the transportation of passengers or
property, or to the receiving, delivering, storage, or handling of property, wholly within one State, and not shipped
to or from a foreign country from or to any State or Ter-

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

357

Opinion of the .Court.

ritory as aforesaid." When the act was amended so as to
confer upon the Commission the authority to prescribe
maximum interstate rates, this proviso was reenacted; and
when the act was extended to include telegraph, telephone
and cable companies engaged in interstate business, an
additional clause was inserted so as to exclude intrastate
messages. See acts of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584;
June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 545.
Congress thus defined the scope of its regulation and
provided that it was not to extend to purely intrastate
traffic. It did not undertake to authorize the Commission
to prescribe intrastate rates and thus to establish a unified
control by the exercise of the rate-making power over both
descriptions of traffic. Undoubtedly-in the absence of
a finding by the Commission of unjust discriminationintrastate rates were left to be fixed by the carrier and subject to the authority of the States or of the agencies created
by the States. This was the question recently decided by
this court in the Minnesota Rate Cases, supra. There, the
State of Minnesota had established reasonable rates for
intrastate transportation throughout the State and it was
contended that, by reason. of the passage of the Act to
Regulate Commerce, the State could no longer exercise the
state-wide authority for this purpose which it had formerly
enjoyed; and the court was asked to hold that an entire
scheme of intrastate rates, otherwise validly established,
was null and void because of its effect upon interstate rates.
There, had been no finding by the Interstate Commerce
Commission of any unjust discrimination. The present
question, however, was reserved, the court saying (230
U. S. p. 419): "Jt is urged, however, that the words of the
proviso" (referring to the proviso above-mentioned) "are
susceptible of a construction which would permit the provisions of section three of the act, prohibiting carriers from
giving an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage
to any locality, to.apply to unreasonable discriminations

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S,

between localities in different States, as well when arising
from an intrastate rate as compared with an interstate
rate as when due to interstate rates exclusively. If it be
assumed that the statute should be so construed, and it is
not necessary now to decide the point, it would inevitably
follow that the controlling principle governing the enforcement of the act should be applied to such cases as
might thereby be brought within its purview; and the
question whether the carrier, in such a case, was giving
an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to one
locality as against another, or subjecting any locality to
an undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage,
would be primarily for the investigation and determination
of the Interstate Commerce Commission and not for the
courts."
Here, the Commission expressly found that unjust discrimination existed under substantially similar conditions
of transportation and the inquiry is whether the Commission had power to correct it. We are of the opinion that
the limitation of the proviso in section one does not apply
to a case of this sort. The Commission was dealing with
the relation of rates injuriously affecting, through an unreasonable discrimination, traffic that was interstate. The
question was thus not simply one of transportation that
was 'wholly within one State.' These words of the proviso
have appropriate reference to exclusively intrastate traffic,
separately considered; to the regulation of domestic commerce, as such. The powers conferred by the act are not
thereby limited where interstate commerce itself is involved. This is plainly the case when the Commission
finds that unjust discrimination against interstate trade
arises from the relation of intrastate to interstate rates as
maintained by a carrier subject to the act. Such a matter
is one with which Congress alone is competent to deal,
and, in view of the aim of the act and the comprehensive
terms of the provisions against unjust discrimination,

HOUSTON & TEXAS RY. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

359

Opinion of the Court.

there is no ground for holding that the authority of Congress was unexercised and that the subject was thus left
without governmental regulation. It is urged that the
practical construction of the statute has been the other
way. But, in assailing the order, the appellants ask us
to override the construction which has been given to the
statute by the authority charged with its execution, and
it cannot be said that the earlier action of the Commission
was of such a controlling character as to preclude it from
giving effect to the law. The Commission, having before
it a plain case of unreasonable discrimination on the part
of interstate carriers against interstate trade, carefully
examined the question .of its authority and decided that
it had the power to make this remedial order. The Commerce Court sustained the authority of the Commission
and it is clear that we should not ireverse the decree unless
the law has been misapplied. This we cannot say; on the
contrary, we are convinced that the authority of the Commission was adequate.
The further objection is made that the prohibition of
section three is directed against unjust discrimination or
undue preference only when it arises from the voluntary
act of the carrier and does not relate to acts which are the
result of conditions wholly beyond its control. East Tennessee &c. Rwy. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
181 U. S. 1, 18. The reference is not to any inherent lack
of control arising out.of traffic conditions, but to the requirements of the, local authorities which are assumed to
be binding upon the carriers. The contention is thus
merely a repetition in another form of the argument that
the Commission exceeded its power; for it would not be
contended that local rules could nullify the lawful exercise
of Federal authority. In the view that the Commission
was entitled, to make the order, there is no longer compulsion upon the carriers by virtue of any inconsistent local
requirement. We are not unmindful of the gravity of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

question that is presented when state and Federal views
conflict. But it was recognized at the beginning that the
Nation could not prosper if interstate and foreign trade
were governed by many masters, and, where the interests
of the freedom of interstate commerce are involved, the
judgment of Congress and of the agencies it lawfully
establishes must control.
In conclusion: Reading the order in the light of the report of the Commission, it does not appear that the Commission attempted to require the carriers to reduce their
interstate rates out of Shreveport below what was found
to be a reasonable charge for that service. So 'far as these
interstate rates conformed to what was found to be reasonable by the Commission, the carriers are entitled to maintain them, and they are free to comply with the order by
so adjusting the other rates, to which the order relates, as
to remove the forbidden discrimination. But this result
they are required to accomplish.
The decree of the Commerce Court is affirmed in each
case..
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissent.

CITIZENS BANKING COMPANY v. RAVENNA
NATIONAL BANK.
CERTIFICATE FFIOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 288.

Argued March 16, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The failure by an insolvent judgment debtor and for a period of one
day less than four months after the levy of an execution upon his
real estate, to vacate or discharge such a levy, is not a final disposition of the property affected by the levy under the provisions of
ยง 3a (3) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898.

