OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WOODFORD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 531.

Motion to dismiss submitted March 23, 1914:-Decided May 25,
1914.

In order that the denial of a Federal right may be the basis of reviewing
the judgment of the state court, the claim of Federal right must be
made in the state court in the manner required by the state practice;
and unless there is an unwarranted resort to rules of practice by the
state court to evade decision of the Federal question, this court will
not review the judgment.
Raising the Federal claim of right on motion for new trial is not sufficient unless the court actually passes upon and denies the claim;
and a decision by the appellate court that the Federal claim was not
properly raised is not a denial of the Federal right but merely an enforcement of a rule of state practice.
Writ of error to review 152 Kentucky, 398, dismissed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under ยง 237, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. 'RobertB. Franklinand Mr. Robert C. Talbott, for defendants in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. Charles H. Moorman, Mr. Benjamin D. Warfield,

Mr. Henry L. Stone and Mr. Robert A. Thornton, for plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion:
By operation of law, the Carmack Amendment was
written into the live-stock contract under which the ship-

ment in this case was made, and that amendment repealed
ยง 196, Ky. Const., as to such shipment. Adams Exp. Co.

v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Adams Exp. Co. v. Walker,

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. WOODFORD.
234 U. S.

47

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

119 Kentucky, 121; C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. Miller, 226 U. S.
513; C., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133; C., N.
0. & T. P. Ry. Co. v. Dodd, 153 Kentucky, 845; Same v.
Goode, 153 Kentucky, 247; S. C., 155 Kentucky, 153; Same
v. Rankin, 153 Kentucky, 730; C., St. P. &c. Ry. Co. v.
Latta, 226 U. S. 519; K. C. Sou. Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S.
639; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657;
Penna. R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Southern Ex.
Co. v. Fox, 131 Kentucky, 257.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky erred in holding that
the live-stock contract was not pleaded; in refusing to
apply the Carmack Amendment; and in holding that the
Kentucky law applied in the absence of express reliance
upon the Federal law in plaintiff in error's pleadings.
Adams Exp. Co. v. Croninger,226 U. S. 491; M. C. R. Co.
v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Wulf,
226 U. S. 570; St. L. & 8. F. Ry. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S.
156; Wells, Fargo Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S.
469.
This case does not fall under the third clause, but under
the second clause, of ยง 709, Rev. Stat. Chapman v. Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540, 548; Columbia Water Co. v. C. E. St.
Ry. Co., 172 U. S. 475, 488; Erie R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S.
153; French v. Hopkins, '124 U. S. 524; Morrison v. Watson, 154 U. S. 111; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316;
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 53, 54;
Y. & M. V. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 1.
There was no intentional relinquishiment by plaintiff
in error of a known right; therefore, there was no 'waiver
amounting to an estoppel. .29 Am. & Eng. Encyc. Law
(2d ed.), 1091, 1095; Cabie v. U. S. Life Ins. Co., 111 Fed.
Rep. 19, 31; Christianson v. Carleton, 69 Vermont, 91;
First Nat. Bank v. Hartford Ins. Co., 45 Connecticut, 25,
44; Rice v. Fid. & Dep: Co., 103 Fed. Rep. 427, 435; Stackhouse v. Barnston, 10 Vesey, Jr. 466; Wells, Fargo Co. v.
Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

234 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

Catesby Woodford and John T. Ireland, defendants in
error, plaintiffs below, brought suit in the Fayette Circuit
Court, of Kentucky, against The Louisville and Nashville
Railroad Company, plaintiff in error, defendant below, to
recover damages for the loss of a number of race horses
and injury to others shipped by them on November 17,
1910, over the lines of the defendant from Lexington,
Kentucky, to Juarez, Mexico. There was a verdict for the
plaintiffs in the trial court, judgment upon which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals 'of Kentucky (152
Kentucky, 398), and the case is here upon writ of
error.
The amended petition contained an allegation that the
defendant agreed by contract entered into in Fayette
County, Kentucky, to transport the horses from Lexington
to Juarez, and set forth the cause and extent of the loss
to plaintiffs. The defendant answered, traversing the
allegations of the petition and pleading contributory negligence, and the plaintiffs filed their reply. The defendant
by motion sought to have the contract sued upon, which
it alleged was in writing, filed as an exhibit to the petition,
and subsequently the plaintiffs filed the contract of ship.ment
and the same was noted of record. It provided,
among other things, that, in consideration of the reduced
rate, the extent of the damages for which the defendant
would be liable should not exceed $150 for a stallion or
jack, and $100 for a horse or mule, the agreed value of the
animals, and across the face of the contract were stamped
the following words: "The attention of shippers has been
called to the terms, conditions, value, etc., herein named."
It also appears that the contract of shipment was produced and filed in evidence by the plaintiffs.
One of the instructions requested by the defendant was
to the effect that if the jury found for the plaintiffs they

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. WOODFORD.
234 U. S.

49

Opinion of the Court.

should fix the damages at the fair market value of the
horses killed and the difference in value before and after
the injury of the other horses. After verdict and judgment
for plaintiffS, the defendant filed. its motion and grounds,
and additional grounds, for a new trial, none of which,
however, were based upon the provisions of the contract
of shipment or any act of Congress. The court in overruling the motion said, however, that it had also heard
counsel "upon the Federal question raised by the defendant as to whether the contract in question for the transportation of said colts and fillies mentioned in the petition
from Lexington, Kentucky, to Juarez, in the Republic of
Mexico, was in violation of the provisions, or of any of
them, of an act of Congress of the United States entitled
an act to regulate commerce, approved February 4,1887,"
as amended, "and having considered the said motion and
grounds for a new trial of this cause, and having also considered the said Federal question and being of the opinion
that said contract did not and does not violate any of the
provisions of said act of Congress, the motion is hereby
overruled and a new trial is, refused."
The case was taken by appeal to the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky. After submission of the case to that court,
the defendant filed a supplemental brief, urging the application of the law of the case of Adams Express Co. v.
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, and further insisted upon such
application in its brief in reply to the plaintiffs' reply brief.
The Court of Appeals noticed that the claim that the law
of the Croninger Case controlled was first suggested by defendant in its supplemental brief, after submission of the
case to that court, and that the case had been tried under
the rule of law in Kentucky that a contract relieving a carrier from its common-law liability and limiting recovery to
less than the value of the property carried is in violation of
the Kentucky constitution, and held that it was elementary that questions not raised in the trial court in an apVOL. ccxxxiv--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

propriate way, which by the Code of Practice of Kentucky
is in writing, would not be considered on appeal, and, after
detailing the proceedings in the trial court, concluded that
no Federal question had thus been made. The defendant
by petition for rehearing again insisted that the Federal
question had been properly presented, 'but the Court of
Appeals, admitting that state courts must take judicial
notice of acts of Congress and that it was not. essential
that the Federal question should have been raised in any
special form in the trial court, held that the facts on which
such question rested must be presented in the record; that
the provisions of the written contract, upon which the defendant then relied, not having been pleaded, no Federal
question was presented, and moreover, that the defendant
had asked for an instruction inconsistent with the view
then presented, and conducted its case throughout the
trial on that basis (153 Kentucky, 185).
That the defendant was entitled to make a defense under
the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended (June 29,
1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584) is evidently an afterthought.
The case was tried upon the theory that the Kentucky
constitution and statutes were controlling, and it was not
until after the decision of Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,
supra, that an attempt was made to claim the benefit
of the bill of lading based upon schedules filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission. It is true that a
written bill of lading showing a limitation of $100 in value
for each horse was filed in the case by the plaintiff below
after the motion of the defendant had been filed, as the
amended record discloses, but in order to assert this defense it was necessary not only to have the contract filed
but that the defendant below should set up the facts
showing that such defense was available to it. No pleading
was filed by the defendant alleging compliance with the
Act to Regulate Commerce by the filing of schedules
containing the limitation as to the liability upon which

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. v. WOODFORD.
234 U. S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

reliance is now placed. As we have already said, the
record discloses that at the- trial the defendant instead
of relying upon the limited liability now claimed, entirely
ignoring such limitation, itself -asked and obtained an
instruction that if the jury should find for the plaintiff it
should fix the damages in such sum as would represent
the loss suffered. Of course, the request to give this
instruction was entirely inconsistent with the claim of
limited liability under the Federal statute.
If a Federal question can be said to be involved at all,
it was introduced into the record upon the argument of
the motion for a new trial, Disposing of that question
'the Court of Appeals of Kentucky set forth that the question was not raised by the pleadings or requested instructions, or by motion for a new trial or written motion of
any kind, and concluded that it must have been raised
orally. It pointed out that under the Kentucky Code of
Practice such contentions were required to be in writing,
and that if the defendant desired to take advantage of its
limited liability it must under the code of the State
specifically rely upon that defense in its answer. In
making this holding,, the Kentucky court but enforced
a rule of practice of that State. The decisions of this
court not only have repeatedly held that a Federal right
in order to be reviewable here must be set up and denied
in the state court, but have often held that such claim of
denial is not properly brought to the'attention of this
court where it appears that the state court declined to
pass upon the question because it was 'not raised in the
trial court as required by the state practice. Schuyler
Nat'l Bank v. Bollong, 151) U. S. 85; Erie R. R. Co. v.
Purdy, 185 U. S. 148; Layton v. Missouri, 187 U. S. 356.
In this case there is no reason to believe that there was an
attempt on the part of the state court to evade the decision of Federal questions, duly set up, by unwarranted
resort to alleged rules under local practice, and upon this

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

point this case comes within former rulings of this court,
as we have seen.
As to the contention that the case really raised a Federal
question because it involved the constitutional validity
of a state statute when opposed to the exclusive rights
secured under a Federal law,-an examination of the
record shows that no such question was made in the state
court, nor was it necessarily involved in the decision made
in such sense as to make the case reviewable here on that
ground.
It follows that the case must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

ATLANTIC TRANSPORT COMPANY OF WEST
VIRGINIA v. IMBROVEK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 215.

Argued January 29, 30, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

As a general principle, the test of admiralty jurisdiction in tort in this
country is locality.
Admiralty has jurisdiction of a suit in personam by an employ6 of a
stevedore against the employer to recover for injuries sustained
through the negligence of the latter while engaged in loading a vessel
lying at the dock in navigable waters.
The precise scope of admiralty jurisdiction is not a matter of obvious
principle or of very accurate history, The Blackheath, 195 U. S. 361,
and qtwre whether the admiralty jurisdiction extends to a case where
the tort is not of a maritime nature although committed on navigable waters.
A tort committed on a vessel in connection with a service thereto may
be maritime even if there is no fault on the part of, or injury to, the
.ship itself.

