GRANN[S v. ORDEAN.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

GRANNIS v. ORDEAN.
GRANNIS v. WHITESIDE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

Nos. 325, 326. Argued April 27, 28, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Where the trial court did not infringe any Federal right of plaintiff in
error, but the decision of the appellate court ran counter to the alleged
Federal right which wAs raised on petition for reargument and specifically passed on and overruled in refusing the reargument, this court
has jurisdiction under § 237, Judicial Code, to review the judgment.
In determining what is due process of law within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment, there is a distinction between actions in
personarn and actions in rein; in the former judgments without personal service within the State are devoid of 'validity either within or
without the State but in the latter the judgment although based on
service by publication may be valid so far as it affects property within
the State. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.714.
Where a State has jurisdiction over the res the judgment of the court to
which that jurisdiction is confided, in order to be binding with respect
to the interest of a non-resident not served with process within the
State, must be based upon constructive service by mailing, publication or otherwise in accordance with the law of the State.
This court must exercise an independent judgment as to whether the
process sanctioned by the court of last resort of the State constituted
due process of law; it is not bound by, nor can it merely accept, the
decision of the state court on that question.
While the fundamental requisite of due process of law is the opportunity
to be heard, that does not impose an unattainable standard of accuracy; and a defendant served with process either personally, or by
publication and mailing, in which his name is misspelled cannot safely
ignore it on account of tile misnomer.
The general rule in cases of constructive service of process by publication tends to strictness, but even in names due process of law does not
require ideal accuracy.
In constructive service of process by publication and mailing where

VOL. ccxxxi--25

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

there has been a misnomer, neither the test of idem sonans nor that
of substantial similarity in appearance in print is the true one; but
whether the summons as published and mailed complies with the law
of the State so as to give sufficient constructive notice to the party
mis-named.
In this case, held, that a summons in an action of foreclosure served by
publication and mailing and otherwise in strict compliance with the
state statute, did not deprive a defendant of his property without due
process of law because his name was misspelled Albert Guilfuss assignee in the various papers instead of correctly, Albert B. Geilfuss
assignee.
118 Minnesota, 117, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity under the due
process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of a judgment based on service by publication in which the name
of the defendant was misspelled, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry J. Grannis and Mr. Frederic D. McKenney
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alfred Jaques, with whom Mr. Theodore T. Hudson
and Mr. John G. Williams were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
These two cases were heard as one, upon the record in
No. 325; it being stipulated that since the cases are identical in their facts, and in the questions raised, except that
they pertain to different portions of the land respecting
which the controversy arises, the decision in No. 326
shall abide the result in No.. 325. We shall, therefore,
discuss the record in the latter case, without further
mention of No. 326.
On the eighth day of November, 1895, and for some
time prior thereto, one John McKinley was the owner
of an undivided.fifth part of certain lands in the County
of St. Louis,. in the State of Minnesota. Prior to that

GRANNIS v. ORDEAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion 6f the Court.

time one Albert B. Geilfuss, Assignee, recovered a judgment for the sum of $2,854.02 against McKinley in the
District Court of that County, which was duly entered
in the judgment book and appeared in-the judgment roll
in the name of Albert '.Geilfuss, Assignee, and on the
fifth day of January, 1894, was docketed by the clerk of
the court as in favor of Albert Geilfuss, Assignee, as
judgment creditor and against John McKinley as judgment debtor, and being so docketed became a lien upon
McKinley's interest in said lands, and on November 8,
1895, was a lien thereon. Under a sale afterwards made
upon an -execution issued on this judgment, plaintiff in
error claims title to the undivided one-fifth of said lands
formerly owned by McKinley, by virtue of certain proceedings and conveyances hereafter mentioned. Albert B.
Geilfuss, Assignee, recovered another judgment against
McKinley for the sum of $2,125.60, which was duly entered and docketed on January 10, 1894, and became a
lien upon the interest of McKinley in the same lands, but
plaintiff in error claims no rights thereunder.
On November 8, 1895, one George A. Elder, the owner
of an undivided fifth interest in said lands, commenced a
partition suit in the District Court of St. Louis County
against Mesaba Land Company, John McKinley, and the
other owners of the fee, and also against certain other
parties having judgment or other liens: The suit was
brought under the provisions of Chapter 74, Gen. Stat.
Minnesota, and its sole purpose was to partition the lands,
or, in case a partition could not be had, then to have them
sold and the proceeds of the sale distributed among the
parties entitled.
At the time of the partition action, Albert B. Geilfuss,
Assignee, resided at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. His correct
name, "Albert B. Geilfuss, Assignee," or" Albert Geilfuss,
Assignee," did not appear among the names of the defendants in the action, or inthe summons or other files

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

or records therein. "Albert Guilfuss, Assignee" was
named as a defendant, and it was alleged in the complaint, and found and determined in the findings and judgment, that he was the owner of the judgment for $2,854.02
against McKinley. "Albert B. Guilfuss" was also named
as a defendant, and it was alleged in the complaint and
found and determined in the findings and judgment that
he was the owner of the judgment for $2,125.60 against
McKinley. 'There was no personal service of the summons
in the partition action upon Geilfuss, however named,
either as individual or as assignee, and no appearance in
his behalf. There was a return by the sheriff of St. Louis
County upon the summons to the effect that the defendants "Albert Guilfuss, Assignee," and "Albert B. Guilfuss" could not be found in the county, and an affidavit
of one of the attorneys of plaintiff was filed, stating that
he believed that the defendants "Albert Guilfuss, Assignee," and "Albert B. Guilfuss" were not residents of
the State of Minnesota, and could not be found therein,
and that after the commencement of the action affiant
had deposited copies of the summons' in the post-office
with postage prepaid, ,directed to each of these defendants
at their respective places of residence, to wit, one to
Albert Guilfuss, Assignee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and one
to Albert B. Guilfuss, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and stating
that the subject of said partition action was certain real
property situated in the County of St. Louis and State
of Minnesota, and that each of said defendants had and
claimed a lien and interest in said real estate, and that the
relief demanded in said action consisted in excluding the
defendants and each of them from any interest or lien
therein. There was also service of the summons by publication upon the defendants named therein as "Albert
Guilfuss, Assignee," and "Albert B. Guilfuss," the summons being published in a legal newspaper in Duluth,
which is in St. Louis County, Minnesota. It is admitted

GRANNIS v. ORDEAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that (saving the effect of the misnomer), the statutory
provisions respecting the service of summons upon nonresidents by mailing and publication were complied
with. These are contained in Minnesota Statutes,1894,
§§ 5204 and 5205 (respecting civil actions), and in §§ 5771
and 5773 (respecting actions for partition of real property).'
'CHAPTER 66.
CIVIL ACTIONS.

Section 5204. Service by publication, when allowed.
When the defendant cannot be found within the State, of which the
Ireturn
of the sheriff of the county in which the action is
brought, that
the defendant cannot be found. in the county, is prima facie evidence,
and upon the filing of an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,

with the clerk of the court, stating that he believes that the defendant
is not a resident of the State, or cannot be found therein, and that he
has deposited a copy of the summons in the postoffice, directed to the
defendant at his place of residence, unless it is stated in the affidavit
that such residence is not known to the affiant, and stating the existence
of one of the cases hereinafter specified, the service may be made by
publitation of the summons by the plaintiff or his attorney in either of
the following cases:

Fifth. When the subject of the action is real or personal property
in this state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or
contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly
in excluding the defendant from any interest or lien therein.
Section 5205. Publication, how made.
The publication shall be made in a newspaper printed and published
in the county where the action is brought, (and if there is no such newspaper in the county, then in a newspaper printed and published in an
adjoining county, and if there is. no such newspaper in an adjoining
county, then in a newspaper printed and published at the capital of
the state,) once in each week for six consecutive weeks; and the service
of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time
prescribed for publication as aforesaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

All of the defendants in the action were properly served
with summons, except as mentioned, and in due course a
judgment was entered on May 5, 1899, adjudging and
decreeing the ownership of the lands, and that they could
not be divided and partitioned, and ordering that they
be sold by a referee to the highest bidder and the proceeds
distributed among the defendants according to their
respective rights under the law. The sale was made accordingly and confirmed by the court, and thereafter the
present defendants in error, by mesne conveyances, acquired such interest in the lands as had been acquired
by the purchaser under the referee's sale.
Subsequently the Geilfuss judgment against McKinley,
docketed January 5, 1894, for the sum of $2,854.02, was
assigned to one Timlin and by him to one Buell, and whatever interest in the land, if any, remained in McKinley
after the partition sale was sold under execution and purchased by Buell, and subsequently acquired through
mesne conveyances by the present plaintiff in error.
This action (No. 325) was brought by defendants in
error to determine the adverse claims in the lands. The
trialresulted in a judgment to the effect that the plaintiffs
CHAPTER 74.
ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

Section 5771. Summons, to whom addressed.
The summons shall be addressed by name to all the owners and lienholders who are known, and generally to all persons unknown, having
or claiming an interest in the property.
Section 5773. Rules as to civil actions applicable.
Such action-shall be governed by the rules and provisions applicable
to civil actions, including the right of appeal, except that, when service
of the summons is made by publication, it shall be accompanied by a
brief description of the property sought to be divided, and except as
herein otherwise expressly provided.

GRANNIS v. 0RDEAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were the owners of an undivided four-fifths interest, and
that the present plaintiff in error was the owner of the
undivided fifth interest which had been the property of
McKinley. Upon appeal, the Supreme Court reversed
the judgment so far as it adjudged plaintiff in error to be
the owner of McKinley's interest. 118 Minnesota, 117.
By the present writ of error we are called upon to determine whether the Supreme Court of Minnesota, by its
judgment giving effect to the decree in the partition suit
notwithstanding the misnomer of Albert B. Geilfuss,
Assignee, in the proceedings and summons, has deprived
plaintiff in error of his property without due process of
law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
The trial court held that no jurisdiction was acquired
in the partition suit over the judgment lien of Albert B.
Geilfuss, Assignee, and the Supreme Court declared that
if this were correct the lien of his judgment upon the McKinley interest was not affected by the decree in that
action, and that the subsequent sale of that interest under
execution on the judgment gave a good title to the purchaser, under whom defendant (now plaintiff in error)
claims; while on the other hand, if the court acquired
jurisdiction over that judgment lien, the McKinley interest in the lands passed to the purchaser at the partition.
sale, and afterwards became the property of plaintiffs
(now defendants in error). This was upon the assumption
that the court had jurisdiction to decree a sale in the
partition action, a question of state law arising out of
facts not here pertinent, and to which an affirmative answer was given in the same opinion.
The precise question now presented, therefore, is
whether, under the circumstances, a service by the publication and mailing of a summons in the partition suit,
naming as party and addressee "Albert Guilfuss, Assignee," and "Albert B. Guilfuss," constituted due process
of law conferring jurisdiction to render a judgment binding

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

upon Albert B. Geilfuss, Assignee, with respect to his lien
upon or interest in the land, he not having appeared.
There is a motion to dismiss, upon the ground that the
Federal question was not properly raised in the state
court. This 'motion must be denied. It is true that
until the decision of the Supreme Court of the State,
the Federal right was not clearly asserted. But it was
not infringed in the trial court, which held in favor of
the contention of defendant (now plaintiff in error) that
the decree in the partition suit was not 'valid because of
the insufficiency of the notice to Geilfuss. It was the
decision of the Supreme Court upholding the notice that
first ran counter to the alleged Federal right. In a petition for reargument, filed by the now plaintiff in error, it
was suggested that the necessary effect of the decision was
to deprive him of his property without due process of
law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. The Su-.
preme Court entertained the petition, considered and
overruled the contention that petitioner's rights under
the Amendment were infringed, declared that its decision was to be interpreted as holding against the contention, and therefore refused a reargument. This is sufficient to confer jurisdiction upon this court. Mallett v.
North Carolina, i81 U. S. 589, 592; Leigh v. Green, 193
U. S. 79, 85; McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 45.8, 463; Sullivan v. Texas, 207 U. S. 416, 422; Kentucky Union Co. v.
Commonwealth of Kentucky, 219 U. S. 140, 158.
We therefore proceed to the merits.
In determining what is due process of law within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, a distinction
is to be observed between actions in personam and actions
in rem, or quasi in rem. In Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. 5. 714,
733, it was held that by force of the Amendment a judgment rendered by a state court in an action in personam
against a non-resident served by publication of summons,
but iipon whom no personal service of. process within the

GRANNIS v. ORDEAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State was made, and who did not appear to the action,
was devoid of any validity either within or without the
territory of the State in which the judgment was rendered; it being, however, conceded that a different rule
obtains where, in connection with initial process against
a person, property in the State is brought under the control of the court and subjected to its disposition, or where
the judgment is sought as a means to reach such property
or affect some interest in it; in other words, where the
action is in the nature of a proceding in rem. As was
said by the court (speaking by Mr. Justice Field, p. 734):
"It is true that, in a strict sense, a proceeding in rem is one
taken directly against property, and has for its object the
disposition of the property, without reference to the title
of individual claimants; but, in a larger and. more general
sense, the terms are applied to actions between parties,
where the direct object is to reach and dispose of property
owned by them, or of some interest therein. Such are
cases commenced by attachment against the property
of debtors, or instituted to partition real' estate, foreclose
a mortgage, or enforce a lien. So far as they affect property in the State, they arel substantially proceedings in
rem in the broader sense which we have mentioned."
But it is also settled that where a State has jurisdiction
over a res-as of course it has over the partition of lands
lying within its borders-the judgment of the court to
which that jurisdiction is confided, in order to be binding with respect to the interest of a non-resident who is
not served with process within the State, must be based
upon constructive notice given by publication, mailing, or
otherwise, substantially in the manner prescribed by the
law of the State. Cheely v. Clayton, 110 U.-S. 701, 705;
Guaranty Trust Co. v. Green Cove Railroad, 139*U. S.137,
148; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 283; Hassall v.
Wilcox, 130 U. S.493, 504; Thompson v. Thompson, 226
U. S.551, 562.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the. Court.

234 U. S.

In the case before us, there is no disputed question as to
what steps were taken in order to give notice to Geilfuss
of the partition suit. The Supreme Court of the State,
in accepting what was done as being a sufficient compliance with the provisions of the statute, in effect construed
the statute as permitting such notice to be given as was
in fact given.
But, the question whether the process thus sanctioned
by the court of last resort of the State constitutes due
process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment being properly presented to this court for
decision, we must exercise an independent judgment
upon it. Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, 45; Ballard v.
Hunter, 204 U. S. 241, 260; Jacob v. Roberts, 223 U. S. 261.
The fundamental requisite of due process of law is the
opportunity to be heard. Louisville & Nashville R. R.
Co. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230, 236.; Simon v. Craft, 182
U. S. 427, 436. And it is to this end, of course, that summons or equivalent notice is employed. But the inherent
authority of the States over the titles to lands within
their respective borders carries with it, of necessity, the
jurisdiction to determine rights and interests claimed
therein by persons resident beyond the territorial limits
of the State, and upon whom the ordinary judicial process
cannot be served. The logical result is that a State,
through its courts, may proceed to judgment respecting
the ownership of lands within its limits, upon constructive
notice to the parties concerned who reside beyond the
reach of process. That this constitutes "due process"
within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment was
recognized in Pennoyer v. Neff, supra, and is no longer
open to question. fluling v. Kaw Valley Railway, 130
U. S. 559, 563; Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, 320 et seq.;
Lynch v. Murphy, 161 U. S. 247, 251; Roller v. Holly, 176
U. S. 398, 403. It is not disputed that the statutory
scheme of publication and mailing, as established in

GRANNIS v. ORDEAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Minnesota, for giving notice to non-resident defendants
in actions quasi in rem, is in its general application sufficient to comply with the Fourteenth Amendment. But
the statute provides that" the summons shall be addressed
by name to all the owners and lien holders who are
known"; and the contention is that the mistake of name
in the present instance was fatal.
The "dub process of law" clause, however, does not
impose an unattainable standard of accuracy. If a defendant within the jurisdiction is served personally with
process in which his name is misspelled, he cannot safely
ignore it on account of the misnomer. The rule, established by an abundant weight of authority, is, that if a
person is sued by a wrong name, and he fails to appear
and plead the misnomer in abatement, the judgment binds
him. Lafayette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404, 409;
Crawford v. Satchwell, 2 Strange, 1218; Oakley v. Giles,
3 East, 167; Smith v. Patten, 6 Taunt. 115; S. C., 1 Marsh.
474; Smith v. Bowker, 1 Massachusetts, 76, 79; Root v.
Fellowes, 6 Cush. 29; FirstNat'l Bank v. Jaggers, 31 Maryland, 38, 47; S. C., 100 Am. Dec. 53, 54; McGaughey v.
Woods, 106 Indiana, 380; Vogel v. Brown Township, 112
Indiana, 299; S. C., 2 Am. St. Rep. 187; Lindsey v. Delano,
78 Iowa, 350, 354;' Hoffield v. Board of Education, 33
Kansas, 644, 648.
Of course, in a published notice or summons, intended
to reach absent or non-resident defendants, where the
name is a principal means of identifying the person concerned, somewhat different considerations obtain. The
general rule, in cases of constructive service of process by
publication, tends to strictness. Galpin V. Page, 18 Wall.
350, 369, 373; Priest v. Las Vegas, 2 2 U. S. 604. But,
even in names, "due process of law" does not require ideal
accuracy. In the spelling and pronunciation of proper
names there are no generally accepted standards; and the
well-established doctrine of idem sonans-generally ap-

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

plied, as it is, to constructive notice of suits-is a recognition of this.
The trial court was of the opinion that the question
'turned upon whether "Guilfuss" and "Geilfuss" were
idem sonans, and held that since "Geilfuss" is evidently a
German name the first syllable must be pronounced with
the long sound of "i," while the first syllable of "Guilfuss"
would necessarily be pronounced with the short sound of
"i." The court therefore concluded that the names were
not idem sonans, and that the difference was fatal. The
Supreme Court agreed that "Geilfuss" and "Guilfuss"
were not idem sonans, but held that this was not the proper
test; that where a summons is served by publication, the
true test is not whether the names sound the same to the
ear when pronounced, but whether they look substantially
the same in print (following Lane v. Innes, 43 Minnesota,
137, 143; D'Autremont v. Anderson Iron Co., 104 Minnesota, 165); and assuming that the name of the judgment
creditor of McKinley was Albert B. Geilfuss, Assignee, the
court said.: "The question then is, placing the names
'Albert Guilfuss, Assignee,' and 'Albert B. Geilfqss, Assignee,' in juxtaposition, was there so material a change as
to be misleading?" This was answered in the negative.
Were we to theorize, we might say that while each of
these tests is helpful, neither is altogether acceptable if
perfect accuracy were the aim; not the test of idem sonans,
because it does not appear that all persons would necessarily pronounce Geilfuss with the long "i,, or Guilfuss
with the short "i"; and not the test of the appearance
of the names as printed and placed in juxtaposition, because in fact, as the name appeared in the summons
published and mailed, it was "Guilfuss" alone, without
any name in juxtaposition to serve as a standard for comparison. And we think both tests are inadequate if applied
without regard to what was contained in the summons besides the mere name and addition-" Albert Guilfuss, As-

GRANNIS v. ORDEAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

signee." The record, as it happens, contains no copy of
the summons; but from findings and admissions that are
in the record, we know that, it was in due form, and therefore that it contained such notice of the commencement
of the action and of its purpose, and such warning to appear and answer, as would constitute due process of law if
served upon a defendant within the jurisdiction (Minnesota Stats., 1894, §§ 5194, 5195); and that it contained,
inter alia, a brief description of the property sought to be
divided (Minnesota Stats., 1894, § 5773, marginal note,
supra). The underlying question is a practical onewhether, notwithstanding the misnomer, the summons as
published and mailed, being otherwise unexceptionable,
constitutes a substantial compliance with the Minnesota
statute and sufficient constructive notice to the party concerned. In determining this, we need not confine ourselves to the test of idem sonans, nor to the appearance of
the name in print, but may employ both of these, with
such additional tests as may be available in view of what
is disclosed by the record. One such additional test, we
think, is whether, when two letters reached the postoffice
at Milwaukee, one addressed. "Albert Guilfuss, Assignee,"
the other addressed "Albert B. Guilfuss," they or either of
them would, in reasonable probability, be delivered to
Albert B. Geilfuss, then a resident of that city. Another
is, whether, assuming that the summons as so mailed, or
as published in Duluth, and containing the misspelled
names or either of them, had come to the eye of the veritable Albert B. Geilfuss, or of any person knowing him
by that name and sufficiently interested in him to acquaint him with its contents if apprised that it was intended for him, the summons, as a whole, would probably
have conveyed notice that Albert B. Geilfuss was the
person intended to be summoned. Both of these questions
are, we think, to be answered in the affirmative. In view
of the well-known skill of postal officials and employ~s

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

in making proper delivery of letters defectively addressed,
we think the presumption is clear and strong that the letters would reach-indeed, that they did reach-the true
Albert B. Geilfuss in Milwaukee. And it seems to us that
any person knowing him, and knowing the correct spelling
of his name, and having reason to acquaint him with the
contents of a notice of this character if supposed to be intended for him, would probably realize for whom such notice was intended, notwithstanding the name was spelled
"Guilfuss." The general resemblance between the names
is striking, however they are to be pronounced. And the
designation, "Assignee," was an additional means of
identification. That Geilfuss himself, upon receiving the
notice, would be sufficiently warned that it affected his
interest in the Minnesota lands under his judgments
against McKinley, is free from doubt. He would of course
observe the misnomer; but, having received the notice
which it was the purpose of the law to convey to him, he
could not safely, ignore it on the ground of the mistake
in the name, any more than, if personally served with summons within the State of Minnesota, he could have ignored
it on account of a similar misnomer.
We conclude that there was due process of law in the
partition suit, and that therefore the present judgment
should be affirmed.
Judgments in Nos. 325 and 326 affirmed.

