LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

LANE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v. WATTS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 889. Argued April 14, ]5, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.
A title which has passed by location of a grant and its approval by
proper officers of the Land Department cannot be subsequently divested by the then officers of the department. Ballinger v. Frost, 216
U. S. 240.
The action of the Commissioner in approving the location of a nonmineral ,float cannot be revoked by his successor in office, and an
attempt so to do can be enjoined. Noble v. Union River Logging
Co., 147 U. S. 165.
A suit to restrain the Secretary of the Interior and the Land Commissioner from doing under color of their office, an illegal act which will
caft a cloud upon the title of complainant is not one against the
United States; nor in this case is it one for recovery of land merely
or an attempted appeal from the decision of the Interior Depart-

ment or a trial of title to land not within the jurisdiction of the
court and wherein the United States is not present or suable.
A survey is necessary to segregate from the public domain lands attempted to be located by a float grant. Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158
U. S. 240. In this case, held, that a survey was made and approved.
In this case, held, that the report of the Surveyor General and the subsequent proceedings and survey by the Surveyor General of Arizona
amounted to a survey and finding that the lands were non-mineral
and that title thereto vested in.the holder of the float grant selecting
the lands and passed out of the United States.
Where, as in this case, in -orderto accommodate conflicting claims and,
at the instance of the Government, claimants have given up rights
to a definite tract and accepted float grants for an equal amount of
land, it will be presumed that the Government would make provision
for the location of the substituted land as expeditiously as possible
and without expense to the holders of the float.
41 App. D. C. 139, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the title to lands assigned on
one 9f the Baca Float Grants issued in substitution of the

Las Vegas Grant, are stated in the opinion.
See 235 U. S. 17, for further opinion in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 191-3.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General West and Mr. C. Edward
Wright for appellants.

Mr. Herbert Noble, Mr. G.H. Brevillier and Mr. Joseph
W. Bailey, with whom Mr. James W. Vroom was on the
brief, for appellees.
By leave of court Mr. William C. Prentiss filed a brief
as amicus cuiitv.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeal from the decree of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia affirming a decree of the Supreme
Court of the District enjoining, the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office
from proceeding in the matter of certain attempted entries under the public land laws of the United States upon
lands which the decree finds were selected and located by
the heirs of Luis Maria Cabeza de Baca on June 17, 1863,
and known as Baca Float No. 3, the title to 'which, the
decree further finds, passed out of the United States and
vested in said heirs on April 9, 1864. The decree further
directs the filing of the field notes and plats of survey of
the Float for the purpose of defining the out-boundaries
thereof and segregating the same from the public lands of
the United States.
The origin and history of the Baca grant are set out
in Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S.312, Maese v. Herman, 183
U. S. 572, and Priest v. Las Vegas, 232 U. S.604.
It appears that there was a conflict between this grant
and the grant to the town of Las Vegas, which was settled
by an act passed on June 21, 1860 (12 Stat. 71, 72,'c. 167),
which enabled the heirs of Baca to select "an equal quantity of vacant land, not mineral, in the Territory of New

Mexico, to be located by them in square bodies, not ex-

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceeding five in number."

It was made the duty of the

Surveyor General of New Mexico "to make survey and
location of the lands so selected by said heirs of Baca when
thereunto required by them: Provided, however, that
the right hereby granted to said heirs of Baca shall continue in force during three years from the passage of the
!act, and no longer."
The Las Vegas grant was ascertained to contain nearly
500,000 acres (496,446 96-100). The Baca heirs were,
therefore, entitled to locate that many acres "in square
bodies, not exceeding five in number." This controversy
concerns the third of the bodies selected. The selection
of each tract was to be determined by the same considerations,. and those considerations are declared in Shaw v.
Kellogg, supra. Each location, it is there said, would
necessarily be of considerable size; in fact, each one was
nearly 100,000 acres; and each as a whole was to be nonmineral. "No provision was made for indemnity lands
in case mineral should be found in any section or quarter
section. So that when the location was perfected the title
passed to all the lands or to none." (170 U. S., p. 332.)
The limits of location, it was said, was the Territory of
New Mexico, limits not so broad as those of the territory
ceded by Mexico; within the limits there were large areas
of arid lands; "its surface was broken by a few mountain
chains, and crossed by a few streams." Lands, it was
declared, could not be selected already occupied by others.
The lands must be vacant. Nor could lands be selected
"which were then known to contain mineral." "Congress
did not intend to grant any mines or mineral lands, but
with these exceptions their right of selection was coextensive with the limits of New Mexico. We say 'lands then
known to contain mineral,' for it cannot be that Congress
intended that the grant should be rendered nugatory by
any future discoveries of mineral. The selection was to be
made within three years. The title was then to pass, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

it would be an insult to the good faith of Congress to
suppose that it did not intend that the title when it passed
should pass absolutely, and not contingently upon subsequent discoveries." And it was declared that the surveyor general of New Mexico was to determine the character of the lands; he was to make survey and location of
the lands selected; upon him "was cast the specific duty
of seeing that the lands selected were such as the Baca
heirs were entitled to select." This is emphasized by
saying that "he was the officer who, by virtue of his
duties, was most competent to examine and pass upon the
question of the character of the lands selected" (p. 333).
In the survey and location it was recognized that he was
subject to the "control and direction of the Land Department," and, while he was not to act in defiance and independently of the Land Department, "it was for him to
say, in the first instance at least, whether the lands so
selected and by him surveyed and located, were lands
vacant and non-mineral" (p. 334).
These are the elements of the decision. How do they
apply to the case at bar?
First, as to the allegations of the bill. There are detailed
allegations of the origin of the grant to Baca, its presentation to the surveyor general of New Mexico under the
then existing law and regulations and his recommendation
of its confirmation, also of the confirmation of the grant
to the town of Las Vegas, "leaving," as he said, "the
respective claimants the right to adjust their conflicting
claims in courts." The other facts which the bill alleges
we set out in narrative form as follows:
Both grants were confirmed and the right given to the
heirs of Baca, as we have seen, to select other lands equal
in quantity to the lands claimed by Las Vegas.
On July 26, 1860, about a month after the act was
passed, the Commissioner of the General Land Office informed the surveyor general of New Mexico that it was

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the latter's duty to separate from the public lands the
pueblos or individual confirmed claims, and in that connection drew his special attention to the act of June 21,
1860, which referred to the "claim of the Heirs of Luis
Maria Baca," and in order to give the act timely effect
the surveyor general was directed to give the claim priority
in surveying private land claims. That officer was directed to have the exterior lines of Las Vegas run off, and,
this being done, the right would accrue to the Baca claimants to select a quantity equal to the area elsewhere in
New Mexico of vacant lands, not mineral, in square
bodies, not exceeding five in number. The instructions
then proceed as follows:
"You will furnish them with a certificate transmitting
at the same time a duplicate to this office, of their right
and the area they are to select in five square parcels.
Should they select in square bodies according to the existing line of the surveys, the matter may be properly disposed of by their application duly endorsed and signed
with your certificate designating the parts selected by
legal divisions or subdivisions, and so selected as to form
five separate bodies in square form. Then the certificate
thus endorsed is to be noted on the records of the Register
and Receiver of Santa Fe and sent on here by those officers
for approval. Should the Baca claimants select outside of
the existing surveys, they must give such distinct descriptions and connection with natural objects in their applications to be filed in your office, as will enable the Deputy
Surveyor when he may reach the vicinity of such selections in the regular progress of the surveys, to have the
selections adjusted as near as may be to the lines of the
public surveys, which may hereafter be established in
the region of those selections. In either case the final
conditions of the certificate to this office must be accompanied by a statement from yourself and register and.
receiver that the land is vacant and not mineral."
VOL. ccxxxv--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

The grant to the town of Las Vegas was surveyed and
the fact communicated by the surveyor general to the
representative of the heirs of Baca and they were informed
that they were entitled to select an equal quantity of land,
that he was authorized to survey and locate the same and
that his office was ready to cobperate with their legal representative "and receive his application for the location of
the lands granted by the Government."
Thereupon, on or about June 17, 1863, in pursuance of
the notice from the surveyor general and the act of Congress, the following was addressed to the surveyor general:
"I, John S. Watts, the attorney of the heirs of Don Luis
Maria Cabeza de Baca, have this day selected as one of
the five locations confirmed to said heirs under the 6th
section of the act of Congress approved June 21st, 1860,
the following tract, to-wit.-Commencing at a point one
mile and a half from the base of the Solero Mountain in
a direction north forty-five degrees east of the highest point
of said mountain, running thence from said beginning
point west twelve fniles thirty-six chains and forty-four
links, thence south twelve miles thirty-six 'chains and
forty-four links, thence east twelve miles thirty-six chains
and forty-four links, thence north twelve miles thirty-six
chains and forty-four links, to the-place of beginning, the
same being situate in that portion of New Mexico now
included by act of Congress approved February 24, 1863,
in the Territory of Arizona,-said tract of land is entirely
vacant, unclaimed by anyone, and is not mineral to my
knowledge.
"JOHN S. WArrs,

"Attorney for the Heirs of Luis Maria Cabeza de Baca."
On the same day the surveyor general certified to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office the fact of the
application, repeating it, and concluding as follows:

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"And I further certify that the said tract of land being
the one-fifth part of the private claim confirmed to the
said heirs, contains ninety-hine thousand two hiindred
and eighty-nine acres ,and thirty-nine hundredths of an
acre, and that this location is the third of the series (application to locate the same, filed in this office October 31,
1862-dated October 30, 1862-having been withdrawnSee Letter of Commissioner of the General Land Office
dated February 5, 1863) and, with the three locations,
numbered one, two and four heretofore made, included
four-fifths of the said private claim confirmed to the heirs
of Luis Maria Cabeza de 'Baca, by the act of Congress approved June 21, 1860.-Said location is hereby approved.
"In witness whereof I have hereto set my hand this
17th day of June, 1863.
"JOHN A. CLARK,
"Surveyor General."
The communication was mailed the following day, with
a letter to the Commissioner as follows:
"SURVEYOR

GENERAL'S OFFICE,

"Santa Fe, New Mexico, June 18, 1863.
"Honl. J. M.

EDMUNDS,

Comm'r of General Land Office,

Washingfon City, D. C.
I
"Sir: I enclose herewith copy of the application and certificate of location No. 3 of the private claim confirmed to
the heirs of Luis Maria Cabeza de Baca.
"As this location is far beyond any of the public surveys, I have not deemed itnecessary to procure any certificate from the Register and Receiver of the. Land Office,
as from the nature of the case, they cannot officially know
anything concerning it.
"I am respectfully your
"Obt. servt.
"JOHN A. CLARK,

"Surveyor General."

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

On July 18 the Commissioner acknowledged the receipt of the communication, stating: "Your approval of
the location under consideration is found to have ignored
the imperative condition that the lands selected at the
base of Solero Mountain now included by act of Congress
approved February 24, 1863, in the Territory of Arizona,
is vacant land and not mineral. Before the application
of Location No. 3 of the heirs aforesaid can be approved,
by this office, it is necessary that our instructions of the
26th of July 1860, should be complied with by furnishing
a statement from yourself and Register and Receiver that
the land thus selected and embracing one-fifth of the claim
or 99,289 39-100 acres is vacant and not mineral.
"I am very 'respectfully,
"Your obt. sevt.
J. M. EDMUNDS, Commissioner."
In a, letter dated April 2, 1864, the surveyor general,
in reply to that of the Commissioner stated, "that there
is no evidence in the office of the surveyor general of New
Mexico" that the tract selected "contains any mineral
or that it is occupied. There have been no public surveys
made in the neighborhood of said tract, and there is no
record of, or concerning, the. land in question in the surveyor general's office, nor-as I believe-in the office of
the Register or Receiver of the Land Office of New Mexico.
As I am personally unacquainted with that region of
country, I cannot certify that the land in questior is
'vacant and not mineral' or otherwise. Those facts
can only be determined by actual examination and survey."
On March 25, 1864, the Receiver of the Land Office in
New Mexico made a certificate stating that the lands applied for "are vacant and not mineral so far as the records
of this office show (not having been surveyed)." The
Register in his certificate of the same date stated that

-

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the lands "are not surveyed, and, from all information in
this office, are vacant and not mineral."
On about April 9, 1864, having been required by the
Baca heirs to survey the tract located by them, the Commissioner of the General Land Office issued instructions
.to the surveyor general of Arizona which recited that the
location by the Baca heirs had been approved by the surveyor general of New Mexico in whose jurisdiction, it
was said, the application properly came at the date of
the approval. The instructions referred to the act of
Congress of 1860 and the rights it conferred and stated
that the act of June 2, 1862, required all grants to be surveyed at the expense of the claimants and that whenever
the Baca claimants should pay or secure to be paid a
sum sufficient to liquidate all the expenses a survey was
to be directed of the application and transcripts of the
field notes and plats to be transmitted to the General Land
Office to constitute "the muniments of title, the law not
requiring the issue of patents of these claims." Directions
as to the manner of marking lands were given. Accompanying the instructions was a copy of the certificate of
the surveyor general of New Mexico dated June 17, 1863,
and following that the following order:
"GENERAL

"LEvi BASHFORD,

LAND OFFICE,

"April 9, 1864.
ESQ., Surveyor-General, Tucson, Ari-

zona.
"Sir: The foregoing statement and the certificate of
Surveyor General Clark having been submitted to this
Department and having undergone a careful examination,
the location being approved by him to perfect title under
the authority of the act approved June 21, 1860, application for survey having been made. Instructions (copy
herewith attached) have been given to Surveyor General
Levi Bashford of Arizona in which Territory the lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion- of the Court.

234 U. S.

located now are, to run the lines indicated and forward
complete survey and plat to be placed on file for future
reference as required by law.
I "J. M. EDMUNDS, Commr."
In pursuance of this order a survey was undertaken,
but the surveyors, while engaged in the work of the survey, were killed by hostile Indians, and no survey was
ever returned (alleged on information and belief). Notwithstanding the repeated requests of the heirs of Baca,
the Commissioner of the General Land Office failed and
refused to continue or have made the survey ordered as
above stated and persisted in such refusal until on or
about June 17, 1905, on which date the Commissioner,
by an official order, authorized and directed the surveyor
general of Arizona to cause a survey to be made, and in
pursuance of and under contract No. 136 dated June 17,
1905, one Philip Contzen was authorized and required
to run the lines indicated on the application of the Baca
heirs (Float No. 3) so as to adjust the lines, as near as
might be, to the linbs of the public surveys.
The survey was made and duly certified by the surveyor
general of Arizona as strictly conformable to the field
notes which had been examined, approved and filed in his
office, and that the plat and survey had been examined
and found correct by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office.
On or about January 12, 1905, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, disregarding. the decision and order
of the then Commissioner of the Land Office of April 9,
1864, gave such instructions to the surveyor general of
Arizona regarding his duties as to the character of the
lands that that officer in December, 1906, forwarded the
plat and survey hereinbefore mentioned to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with a report accompanied by the alleged information which he had gathered

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the recommendation that the location of Baca Float
No. 3, made as hereinbefore stated June 17, 1863, be entirely rejected.

On or about May 13, 1907, contrary to law and without
jurisdiction so to do, and disregarding the order of his
predecessor, the Commissioner rendered a decision ordering a hearing before the surveyor general of Arizona to
determine whether said lands were, at the time of said
location, vacant and non-mineral. On or about June 2,
1908, the First Assistant Secretary of the Interior, in a
decision upon an appeal from said decision of the Commissioner, contrary to law and without jurisdiction, affirmed
the decision of the Commissioner in so far as it remanded
the case for a hearing before the surveyor general of Arizona.
A motion to review was subsequently made and denied.
By. the acts done in the selection and location of the
lands, including the order of Commissioner Edmunds of
April 9, 1864, requiring a survey thereof, the title to the
lands vested in fee in the heirs of Baca, and it was not
within the power of the Land Department- to revoke or
annul the prior rulings or to evade the rights of such heirs
or their successors in title and that (this on information
and belief) the Land Department has always treated the
lands selected as segregated from the public domain and
they have for many years been so marked upon the maps
issued by the Department, as more specially appears from
the map of the Territory of Arizona of 1903.
It is alleged that one Henry Ohm and one Lyman W.
Wakefield have filed homestead applications upon land
lying within the lands located by the Baca heirs and instructions have been-issued from the officers of the Land
Department permitting proofs to be made thereof. It is
alleged that there are many other entries upon the lands
and that they and Ohm's and Wakefield's applications
will cast clouds upon the title of the Baca location.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

The value of the lands located is alleged to be over
$100,000 and that plaintiffs have no adequate remedy at

law.
An injunction was prayed restraining defendants from
further proceeding in the homestead applications, that
they be required to place on file for future reference, as
required by law, the Contzen survey andplat dated
June 17, 1905; that anything shown thereby or connected
therewith, other than that included in the order of the
Commissioner of April 9, 1864, and other than the exterior boundaries, accessory lines, crosses and distances,
monuments and measurements showing the tract located
by the Baca heirs known as Location No. 3, together with
any topographical features and the references to the lines
of the public surveys, be canceled and expunged from the
said plat of said survey, and particularly the lines, crosses
and distances, monuments and measurements purporting
to show the segregation from said land of the alleged
mineral portion, the Tubac Township, and the conflicting
portions of the San Jose, Sonoita, Tumacacori and Calabasas claims.
A demurrer was filed to the bill which set out as grounds;
(1) The real purpose of the suit is to recover certain real
estate situated in the Territory of Arizona by trial of the
legal title thereto and that the relief, if any, plaintiffs are
entitled to is at law. (2) If the legal title to the property
passed to plaintiffs, as alleged, on April 9, 1864, "naught
else remains for the defendants to do other than to perform
the ministerial duty of receiving and recording the plat
of survey and field notes thereof," and the remedy is by
mandamus. (3) If the legal title to the land has not
passed to plaintiffs as alleged, it is still in the United
States, which it is not shown has consented to this suit;
and the court in such event is without jurisdiction. (4)
On the face of the bill it is impossible to grant the prayers
of plaintiffs without deciding whether the title is still in

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion. of the Court.

the United States. The determination of the suit therefore affects the United States and they are real and indispensable parties in interest and have not consented to be
sued. (5) The acts sought to be enjoined, are exclusively
within the jurisdiction of the Interior Department and
are not subject to judicial control. (6) The parties who
have initiated claims are materially interested in the suit
and are necessary parties to it. (7) The court is without
jurisdiction to expunge the: matters and things prayed to
be expunged from the plat of the survey of the San Jose
de Sonoita claim for the reason that the claimants are not
parties to the suit and their claim has been confirmed by
the Supreme Court of the United States (Ely's Administrator v. United States, 171 1J. S.220). (8) The citizens of
Tubac Township are necessary parties. (9) There never
has been an adjudication by the Secretary of the Interior
and the Commissioner of the, General Land Office, or
either of them, that the lands involved were on June 17,
1863, non-mineral and vacant or unoccupied lands such
as the heirs of Baca were authorized to select under the
terms of the sixth section of the act of June 21, 1860 (12
Stat. 71, c. 167). (10) The plaintiffs are not entitled to
the relief prayed for, or to any relief. (11) The bill is in
other respects uncertain, informal and insufficient to entitle plaintiffs to any relief.
The demurrer was overriled, Mr. Justice Barnard of
the Supreme Court saying that the main question to be
decided on the demurrer was as to the effect of the act
of Congress, and, considering the act and the proceedings
taken under it recited in the bill, he said he was of opinion
that the title to the "tract vested in the heirs of said Baca
when the location was approved, and the survey ordered"
and that, therefore, plaintiffs might maintain their bill
for some portion, at least of the substantial relief for
which they prayed, and that the demurrer, being to the
whole bill, must be overruled. And he said: "This con-

538"

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

clusion as to title, if correct, will enable the suit to be maintained, notwithstanding the objection made *as to want
of other parties defendant. Title being out of the United
States, it has no interest and is not a necessary party; and
the Land Department cannot rightfully treat the tract
as open to public entry, and the officers may therefore be
enjoined."
The defendants (appellants) then answered.
The answer admitted what must be regarded as the
fundamental elements of the bill. So far as its denials of
any of the averments of the bill or its allegations of fact
are material we shall refer to them hereafter. The proofs
taken under the bill and answer were not regarded by the
Supreme Couirt as determining a different decision from
that expressed on the demurrer to the bill, that i§, the
court repeated its view that the title passed on April 9,
1864, to the heirs of Baca and that the court had authority to enjoin defendants from treating the land as
being public land. The injunction prayed for was granted
except that the "Contzen" survey and plat were ordered
to be filed unchanged. A decree was entered accordingly.
It was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, as we have said.
The crux of the case in the views of the courts below is
the question whether title to the lands passed out of the
United States in April, 1864, and the careful and elaborate
consideration of it makes the discussion of it mere repetition.
The contentions of the parties are very accurately opposed. Appellants contend that "under a proper construction of the act of June 21, 1860, title to the 'float'
cannot pass until there has been an official survey and a
final determination by the proper officers that the land
selected in 1863 was of the character which the statute
permitted the heirs to take-a matter still sub judice in
the Department" except as to certain conflicting grants.
The appellees insist, and the courts below, as we have

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

seen, decided, that the location of the grant and the approval of it by the. surveyor general of New Mexico and'
subsequently in April, 1864, by Commissioner Edmunds
of the. Land Office transferred the title to the heirs of
Baca.
There is some controversy upon the fact as to whether
the Commissioner had before him the proof he had demanded of the non-mineral character of the land. We
think the lower courts rightly deduced from the evidence
"that the Commissioner," to quote from the opinion of
the Court of Appeals, "having carefully considered all
the facts in the case, concluded to adopt the approval of
the surveyor general of New Mexico of this location to
perfect title under the authority of said act [act of 1860],
and, in order completely to segregate this land from the
public domain, ordered the survey" (41 App. D. C.
p. 153). And that this action was within the authority
of those officers we may refer to Shaw v. Kellogg, supra.
In that case, we have seen, the surveyor general of New
Mexico was the officer selected and who was most competent to examine and pass upon the question of the
character of the lands, and to pass upon them at the time
of location-not upon evidence collected many years
after the location, directed' to what might have been
known many years before. The selection and location
was to be made within three years of the passage of the
act in a comparative wilderness and the "title was then
to pass," and "pass absolutely, and not contingently
upon subsequent discoveries."
We recognized in Shaw v. Kellogg that the action of the
surveyor general was subject to the supervision of the
Land Department and that condition is satisfied in the
case at bar. The Commissioner was put in. possession of
all of the facts as to the lands, and, exercising his judgment
upon them, approved the location.
The facts in Shaw v. Kellogg give pertinence to its prin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

ciples, notwithstanding some differences between its facts
and those in the case at bar. In that case there was a
positive declaration by the surveyor general of the nonmineral char'acter. of the lands; in the case at bar it is an
inference deduced from the circumstances, it being the
"duty.of the officers to decide the question "-a duty
which they "could not avoid or evade." In that case the
Land Office undertook to reserve from the grant, lands
which might be subsequently discovered to be mineral.
In this case it directed an inquiry of their character long
after the location of the grant and seeks to determine the
legality of the location by the information said to be obtained.
The title having passed by the location of the grant and
the approval of it, the title could not be subsequently divested by the officers of the Land Department. Ballinger
v. United States ex rel. Frost, 216 U. S. 240. In other
words, and specifically, the action of the Commissioner in
approving the location of the grant cannot be revoked
by his successor in office, and an attempt to do so can be
enjoined. Noble v. Union River Logging R. Co., 147 U. S.
165; Philadelphia Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605.
The suit is one to restrain the appellants from an illegal
act under color of their office which will cast a cloud upon
the title of appellees.
This disposes of the contentions of appellants that this
is a suit against the United States, or one for recovery of
land merely, or that there is a defect of parties, or that
the suit is an attempted direct appeal from the decision
of the Interior Department or a trial of a title to land not
situated within the jurisdiction of the court "wherein
an essential party is not present in the forum and is not
even suable-the United States."
We agree with the courts below that a survey was necessary to segregate the lands from the public domain. Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240. This was done by the

LANE v. WATTS.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Contzen survey, which we have seen was directed to befiled by the lower courts without alteration, a decision
which we approve.
There are other conterLtions of appellants which call
for no extended comment, as we concur with the courts
below in regard to them. For instance, it is contended
that the surveyor general of New Mexico had lost authority to approve the location and that duty had devolved
upon the surveyor general of Arizona. To the contention
it may be replied, as the Court of Appeals in effect replied, that the act of 1860 devolved the duty on the surveyor general of New Mexico and the Land Office, upon
whom devolved the ultimate responsibility, and who approved the location.
A point is made upon attempts to change the location,
of which it is enough to say that they were not accepted
by the Land Department and the claimants were remitted
to the location under consideration.
Another contention is made on the conflict of the grant
as located with other grants, to which the Court of Appeals replied that it was not now concerned with such
question and that if, as suggested, a controversy should
arise it "will properly be adjudicated in the courts where
the lands are located." In this we concur.
Whose duty it was to pay the expense of the survey is
also in controversy. The appellants assert it to have been
the duty of the claimants under the act of June 2, 1862
(12 Stat. 410, c. 90), and that was the view, we have seen,
of the Land Department. The appellees contend that the
obligation was upon the Government under the granting
act. That act provides, as we have seen, that "it shall be
the duty of the surveyor general of New Mexico to make
survey and location of the lands so selected by said heirs
of Baca when thereunto required by them.

.

.

The obligation is explicit, and there was reason for it. To
accommodate conflicting claims and at the instance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

the Government the Baca claimants gave up their rights
to a definite tract of land, and, as appellees say, expressing
the equities of the claimants, whatever its character or
condition, and the Government therefore would naturally
make provision for the location of the substituted land
as expeditiously as possible and without expense to the
Baca heirs. We therefore think the act of 1860, not that
of 1862, applied.
The contention that appellees have not shown sufficient
title is untenable.
Decree affirmed.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
No. 355.

Argued May 5, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

A recovery in one jurisdiction for a tort committed in another must be
based on the ground of an obligation incurred at the place of the tort
which is not only the ground, but the measure, of the maximum
recovery.
A State cannot legislate so as to affect conduct outside of its jurisdiction and within territory over which the United States has exclusive
jurisdiction.
A State may not determine the conduct required of a telegraph company in transmitting interstate messages by determining the consequences of not pursuing such conduct in another State.
The statute of South Carolina making mental anguish caused by the
negligent non-delivery of a telegram a cause of action is, as applied
to telegrams the negligent non-delivery of which occurred in the
District of Columbia, an unconstitutional attempt to regulate conduct within territory wholly under the jurisdiction of the United

