ROCKEFELLER v. WELLS.
Per Curiam.

ROCKEFELLER, GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK,
ET AL. V. WELLS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 691.

Decided December 18, 1967.

273 F. Supp. 984, affirmed.

Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General of New York,
Samuel A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney General,
and George D. Zuckerman, Assistant Attorney General,
for appellants.
Isidore Levine for appellees.
PER CURIAM.

The motion to affirm is granted and the judgment is
affirmed.
dissenting.
This action was brought by appellees under the Civil
Rights Act, 42 U. S. C. §§ 1983, 1988, for declaratory and
other relief. Their complaint alleged that New York's
congressional districting statute does not conform to the
requirements of Art. I, § 2, of the United States Constitution, as those requirements are defined in Wesberry v.
Sanders, 376 U. S. 1. A three-judge court was convened.
The court found, on the basis of 1960 census statistics,
that the population of one of New York's 41 congressional
districts varied from the average population of the districts by 15.1%, and that 12 other districts varied from
the population average by as much as 10%. It concluded that such a variation from average, without a
suitable explanation, "violates constitutional requirements." 273 F. Supp. 984, at 989. The court noted
that there have been "substantial" population changes
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

389 U. S.

in these districts since 1960, and that complete accuracy
in redistricting must await the results of the 1970 census,
but reasoned that a suitable compromise would be to
require redistricting immediately, premised on the best
population figures now available. Revisions could then
be made when the 1970 census statistics were released.
This Court simply affirms, without elaboration or opinion.
There are, in my opinion, two principal issues here
worthy of plenary consideration. First, the District
Court thought it "too clear for debate" that this districting statute "violates constitutional requirements as enunciated by the Supreme Court." 273 F. Supp., at 989.
There are few issues in reapportionment cases that are
clear beyond debate, and, with respect, the invalidity of
this statute is certainly not among them. It is true that
variations of as much as 18.28% were disapproved in
Swann v. Adams, 385 U. S. 440, but the Court there also
re-emphasized that the approval or disapproval of the
variations in one State "has little bearing on the validity
of a similar variation in another State." Id., at 445.
And see Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533, 578. The impossibility of calculating the proper result in these cases
from numerical variations is illustrated by Toombs v.
Fortson, 241 F. Supp. 65. The District Court there said
specifically that "we will base any test as to the reasonableness of variances on the departure figure of 15 percent." Id., at 70. This Court simply affirmed without
opinion. 384 U. S. 210. See also Moore v. Moore, 246
F. Supp. 578, 582. Yet in this case, in which variations
no greater than 15.1% are in issue, the Court again
summarily affirms.
Presumably the size of the numerical variation is not
alone decisive,1 but if the "particular circumstances of
I note, however, that the District Court in Preisler v. Secretary
of State of Missouri, 257 F. Supp. 953, said specifically that "population and population alone is the sole standard for congressional

ROCKEFELLER v. WELLS.
421

HAMAN,

423

J., dissenting.

the case," Reynolds v. Sims, supra, at 578, Swann v.
Adams, supra, at 445, may be crucial to the validity of
districting statutes, then surely the Court should endeavor to define what such circumstances are, and to indicate how they are relevant. Instead, the Court more
and more often disposes of reapportionment cases summarily, see, e. g., Toombs v. Fortson,supra; Duddleston
v. Grills, 385 U. S. 455; Kirkpatrick v. Preisler,385 U. S.
450; Lucas v. Rhodes, ante, p. 212; and when the Court
does issue an opinion, it is content simply to recite that
such circumstances may be relevant, without undertaking
any elucidation. See, e. g., Swann v. Adams, supra. All
this has the effect of leaving the state legislatures,2 the
lower courts, and even Congress I without meaningful
guidance.
representation." Id., at 973. This Court affirmed without opinion.
385 U. S. 450. See also Bush v. Martin, 224 F. Supp. 499, 511,
aff'd, 376 U. S. 222.
2 The New York Legislature, for example, made careful efforts to
comply with the constitutional requirements, as they had been
enunciated by this Court. The Joint Legislative Committee on
Reapportionment thus expressly recognized "the absence of Federal
and State constitutional and statutory standards," but concluded
that "the most important standard is substantial equality of population." Interim Report of the Joint Legislative Committee on
Reapportionment, 1961 N. Y. Leg. Doc. No. 45, p. 4. It added
that "[w]hile exact equality of population is the ideal, it is an ideal
that, for practical reasons, can never be attained. Some variation
from it will always be necessary. The question arises as to what
is a permissible fair variation." Ibid.
3 The House Committee on the Judiciary, for example, reported
favorably in 1965 on a bill which was intended to implement the
requirements of Wesberry v. Sanders, supra, by creating a series of
standards for the apportionment of congressional districts. The
Committee noted that "[tihe courts . . . have been reluctant to
prescribe standards . . . ." H. R. Rep. No. 140, 89th Cong., 1st
Sess., 2. One standard included in the bill was a maximum permissible variation of 15% above or below the average population
of the congressional districts within a State. Id., at 2-3. Given the

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

389 U. S.

Second, the confusion created by the Court's reticence
is compounded, in cases in which it is held that a districting statute does not satisfy constitutional requirements, by uncertainty as to the appropriate next step.
See, e. g., Lucas v. Rhodes, supra. The District Court
here noted that the Court's cases provided "[l]ittle
guidance or help," but concluded, nonetheless, that immediate redistricting should be ordered, based on the best
available population figures. It thought that this expedient was in the pattern set by Swann v. Adams, 383
U. S. 210. Swann, however, was merely a brief per
curiam opinion, which did not purport to establish any
general rule on appropriate remedies. As the elections
of 1968 approach, it seems to me that the time has come
for this Court to provide clearer guidance to the lower
courts on the proper remedy in reapportionment cases.
More particularly, some indication should be given as
to what part, if any, 1960 census figures are to play,
alone or in combination with later, albeit incomplete or
unverified, population figures. See Lucas v. Rhodes,
supra.
I would note probable jurisdiction, and set the case for
argument.

present state of the law in this area, it is difficult to imagine how
a legislator could sensibly decide whether such a maximum variation satisfied applicable constitutional requirements. Indeed, Representative Kastemneier dissented from the Committee's report, noting
that "there is serious doubt whether H. R. 5505 can, in light of the
Wesberry case, withstand constitutional attack." Id., at 5.

