OCTOBER. TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. BURR.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIACUIT.
No. 1021.

Submitted May 20, 1895. - Decided June 3, IS95.

Goods arriving at the port of New York August 7,1894, entered at the custom house and duties paid August 8, 1894, and the entry liquidated as
entered at the custom house August 28, 1894, on which day the tariff act
of August, 1894, became a law without the signature of the President,
were subject to. duty under the act of October 1, 1890, and not to duty
under the act of August 28, 1894.
The provision in ยง 1 of the tariff act of 1894, which took effect August 28
of that year, that from and after the first day of August, 1894, there shall
be levied, collected, and paid upon articles imported from foreign countries the rates of duty prescribed by that act, does not apply to transactions completed when the act became a law.
The third question from the Circuit Court of appeals is too general and need
not bb answered.

and Hardwick, importers, made an importation of
cotton laces, per the, La Navarre, from Havre. The vessel
arrived on August 7,1894, and the goods were entered by
them for consumption at the port of New York on August 8,
1894. Duty thereon was levied and assessed by the collector
of customs at sixty per cent ad valorem under the provisions
of Schedule J, paragraph 373, of the tariff act of October 1,
1890, which was then in force. The duty was paid by the
importers on Augus't 8, and the goods were delivered to them
on August 11, 1894. On August 28, 1894, tie entry of the
merchandise was liquidated at the custom house as entered,
that is to say, without any change of the duties from those
assessed at the time of entry.
On that day the tariff act of that year became a law, and on
September 7, 1894, the importers filed their protest, claiming
that said cotton laces were dutiable at fifty per cent ad valorem
under paragraph 276 of Schedule J of the act of August, 1894,
and were not dutiable under the act of October 1, 1890.
The board of general appraisers affirmed the decision of the
collector, General Appraiser Somerville delivering the opinion.
BURR

UNITED STATES v. BURR.
Statement of the Case.

The importers. appealed to the Circuit Court, and the return
of the board was therein duly filed with the record and evidence taken by them, together with a certified statement of
the facts involved in the case and their decision thereon. Evidence was taken in the Circuit Court before one of the general appraisers as an officer of the court, as to the. legislative
history of the act of August 28, 1894, from which it appeared:
"(a) That the bill was introduced in the House of Representatives on December 19, 1893, House bill, H. R., 4864.
"(b) That it passed the House of Representatives on February 1, 1894.
โข" (c) Tlhaf as it then passed the House of Representatives
the date in sections 1 and 2 was as follows: I On and after the
first day of June, 1894, unless otherwise specially provided for
in this act,' etc.
"(Id) That the bill was laid before the Senate Febriary 2,
1894, and referred to the Finance Committee.
" (e) That the bill was reported by the Finance Committee
on March 20, 1894.
"(f) That sections 1 and 2 of said bill, when so reported,
contained the date of the 30th day of June, 1894, instead of
the 1st day of June, 1894.
"(g) That said bill as amended by the Senate passed the
Senate on July 3, 1894.
"(A) That when it passed the Senate the date contained in
the first and second sections thereof was August 1, 1894,
instead of the 30th day of June, 1894.
"(i) That the bill as amended in the Senate finally passed
the House on August 13, 1894, without change, after a long
discussion and deliberation by the committees of conference.
"(j) That on August 15, 1894, having received the signatures of the presiding officers of both Houses, the bill was sent
to the President of the United States.
"(k) That on August 28, 1894, the bill was sent by the
President to the Secretary of State, and the following endorsement was made thereon:
"' Note by the Department of State. - The foregoing act
having been presented to the President of the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

for his approval, and not having been returned by him to
the House of Congress in which it originated within the
time prescribed by the Constitution of the United States,
has become a law without his approval.
"'H. R. No. 4864. - An act to reduce taxation, to provide
revenue for the government, and for other purposes.
"' August 28, 1894.'"
It was stipulated in the Circuit Court that the persons
composing the firm of Burr & Hardwick, the importers, were
James M. Burr and Charles C. Hardwick; that the merchandise in controversy consisted of "cotton laces;" that
the merchandise, if dutiable under the act of October 1,
1890, was dutiable at sixty per cent ad valorem under the
provision for cotton laces contained in paragraph 373 of
Schedule J of that act; and that if the merchandise was
dutiable under the act of August 28, 1894, it was dutiable
at fifty per cent ad valorem under the provision for cotton
laces in paragraph 276 of Schedule J of the latter act. The
cause thereafter came on to be tried in the Circuit Court,
and the judge holding that court, after hearing the argument,
gave an opinion January 15, 1895, 66 Fed. Rep. 742, reversing
the decision of the board of general appraisers, and entered
judgment January 16, 1895, holding that there was error
in the decision of the board of general appraisers, and that
the merchandise was properly dutiable as cotton laces at
fifty per cent ad valorem. under paragraph 276 of Schedule
J of the act of August 28, 1894, and that the entry be reliquidated accordingly. From this judgment or decree an
appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, and thereupon that court, desiring the instruction of this court, made its certificate, embodying the
foregoing facts, and submitting the following questions:
"(1) Should the assessment for duty of the merchandise described in the foregoing statement of facts, under 'paragraph
373 of the act of October 1, 1890, be sustained, notwithstanding the provisions of the tariff act of August 28, 1894?
"(2) Should the said merchandise described in the foregoing statement of facts be assessed for duty under para-

UNITED STATES v. BURR.
Opinion of the Court.

graph 276, Schedule J, of the tariff act of August 28,
1894 ?
"(3) Should the rates of duty prescribed by the first section of the tariff act of August, 1894, (unless otherwise
specially provided for in said act,) be levied, collected, and
paid upon all articles imported from foreign countries or
withdrawn for consumption on and after August 1, 1894,
and prior to August 28, 1894?"
Mr. Wallace MacFarlanefor appellants.
Mr. Charles Curie, Yr. David Ives Mackie and Mr.W.
Wickham Smith for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
The act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat, 567, was in force
until August 28, 1894, when it was repealed by section 72 of
the latter act, 28 Stat. 509, c. 349, which reads as follows:
"All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed, but the repeal of existing
laws or modifications thereof embraced in this act shall
not affect any act done, or any right accruing or accrued,
or any suit or proceeding had or commenced in any civil
cause before the said repeal or modifications; but all rights
and liabilities under said law shall continue and may be
enforced in the same manner as if said repeal or modifications had not been made. Any offences committed and all
penalties or forfeitures or liabilities incurred prior to the.
passage of this act under any statute embraced in or changed,
modified, or repealed by this act may be prosecuted or punished in the same manner and with the same effect as if this
act had not been passed. All acts of limitation, whether
applicable to civil causes and proceedings or to the prosecution of offences or for the recovery of penalties or forfeitures embraced in or modified, changed, or repealed by
this act shall not be affected thereby; and all suits, proceedings, or prosecutions, whether civil or criminal, for causes
arising or acts done or committed prior to the passage of
VOL. CLIX-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

this act, may be commenced and .prosecuted within the same
time and with the same effect as if this act had not been
passed: And provided further, That nothing in this act shall
be construed to repeal the provisions of section three thousand and fifty-eight of the Revised Statutes as amended by
the act approved February twenty-third, eighteen hundred
and eighty-seven, in respect to the abandonment of merchandise to underwriters or the salvors of property, and the
ascertainment of duties thereon."
By section 54 of the act of October 1, 1890, it was provided:
"That any merchandise deposited in bond in ahy public or
private bonded warehouse may be withdrawn for consumption
within three years from the date of the original importation,
on payment of the duties and charges to which it may be
subject by law at the time of such withdrawal."
This merchandise was entered for consumption, and delivered
.after August 1 and before August 28, 1894, when the act in
question became a law. It was subject then to the rates of
duty imposed by the law in force at that time, namely, the
act of October 1, 1890, and the duties were properly assessed
by the collector under that law, unless some provision to the
contrary is to be found in the act of August 28, 1894.
The first section of the act of 1894 reads: "That on and after
the first day of August, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, unless otherwise specially provided for in this act, there shall be
levied, collected, and paid upon articles imported from foreign
countries or withdrawn for consumption, and mentioned in the
schedules herein contained, the ratos of duty which are, by the
schedules and paragraphs, respectively prescribed, namely:"
The contention is that the language of that section being
free from all obscurity and ambiguity, there is no room for
construction, and that the court is imperatively required to
conclude that it was the intention of Congress that the act
should have a retrospective operation as of August 1, 1894,
although it did not become a law until after that date. It is
conceded that the general rule is, as stated in United States
v. Ileth, 3 Cranch, .398, 413, that "wordsin a statute ought
got to-have a retrospective application unless they are so clear,

UNITED STATES v. BURR.
Opinion of the Court.

strong, and imperative, that no other meaning can be annexed
to them, or unless the intention of the legislature cannot be
otherwise satisfied; " and that the usual course in tariff legislation has been, inasmuch as some time is necessary to enable
importers and business men to act understandingly, to fix a
future date at which the statutes are to become operative.
The question is not one of construction but of intention as to
the operative effect of this act because of the existence of the
particular date in section 1.
In view of the general rule and the admitted policy in respect
of such laws, is there anything on the face of the act which
raises such a doubt in the matter as justifies the court in considering whether the language used in that particular section
must be literally applied in the case before it?
And upon the threshold we are met with the fact that the
act of October 1, 1890, was not repealed in terms until August
28, 1894.; and that the repealing section of the latter act kept
in force every right and liability .of the government or of any
person, which had been incurred or accrued prior to the passage thereof, and thereby every such right or liability was
excepted out 6f the effect sought to be given to the first
section.
The right of the government to duties under the tariff law
which existed between August 1 and August 28 was a right
accruing prior to the passage of the act of 1894 (that is, the
date when the bill became a law); and the obligation of the
importers between August 1 and August 28 to pay the duties
on their entries under the existing tariff law was a liability
under that law arising prior to the passage of the act of 1894;
and if Congress intended that section 1 should relate back to
August 1, still the intention is quite as apparent that the act
of October, 1890, should remain in full force and effect until
the passage of the new act on August 28, and that all acts
done, rights accrued, and liaoilities incurred under the earlier
act, prior to the repeal, should be saved from the effect thereof,
as to all parties interested, the United States included.
The duties under consideration were paid August 8, and the
merchandise delivered on August 11, but it was not until

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

August 28 that the fact was stamped on the entry that the
goods were liquidated as entered. There was no change in
the classification, and no additional duty was demanded or
collected, and the payment made at the time of entering the
merchandise for consumption was the payment of duties.
Ba :ney v. Rickard, 157 U. S. 352. The original assessment
of duty was right, and the final liquidation was the same, and
there was no specific provision in the act of 1894 requiring a
liquidation at the rates under that act. How then can it be
held that the act of October 1, 1890, was intended to be
repealed by retroaction?
Moreover, in arriving at the true intention of Congress, we
cannot treat section 1 as if it constituted the entire act, but
must deduce the intention from a view of the whole statute
and from the material parts of it.
By section 2 it was provided that certain enumerated
articles should be exempt from duty "on and after the first
day of August, eighteen hundred and ninety-four, unless
otherwise provided for in this act," and as to those which
were dutiable under the act of October 1, 1890, the question
arises whether Congress intended such duties should be collected, and refunded after the act of August 28, 1894, went
into effect?
By section 23 a license was provided for, and that "from
and after the first day of August, eighteen hundred and ninetyfour, no person shall transact business as a custom-house broker
without a license granted in accorlance with this provision."
Since there was no law prior to this, which authorized the
collector to require a license from a custom-house broker, it
was manifestly anticipoted, in using the words, the first day of
August, that the bill would become a law before that day.
By section 38, it was provided that on and after the first day
of August, 1894, there "shall be levied, collected, and paid by
adhesive stamps, a tax of two cents for and upon every pack
of playing cards;" and sections 43 and 45 impose a penalty
of fifty dollars for every violation of the law incurred by making or selling such cards without affixing the stamps prescribed.
Every dealer, if the act were treated as operating retrospec-

UNITED STATES v. BURR.
Opinion of the Court.

tively, would not only be liable for a tax of two cents a pack
on every pack of playing cards manufactured or sold or removed from the place of manufacture, and upon every pack
of playing cards in stock"on and after August 1, but to an ex
post facto penalty of fifty dollars for every pack of playing
cards that he had sold or removed between August 1 and
August 28. Of course these sections cannot be given a retroactive effect according to the terms employed. Again, a
higher rate of duty was imposed on many articles by the act
of 1894 than under the prior act, and a lower rate of duty on
others, while some that were free were made dutiable, as, for
instance, the article of sugar. Must duties paid between
August 1 and August 28 be refunded where the rate was lowered, and assessed where the rate was raised, or a duty imposed
where nne existed ? Clearly not.
These considerations lead to the conclusion that
the act
retrospectively
conto
be
construed
to
operate
ought not
trary to the general rule, and so as to turn what was intended
to secure a period of time to enable business men to act understandingly under the new law into a source of confusion and
mischief to the contrary.
In these circumstances we are entitled to avail ourselves of
such light as the history of the steps taken in the enactment
of the law, as disclosed by the legislative records, may afford.
By section 895 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that "extracts from the Journals of the Senate, or of the House of
Representatives, and of the Executive Journal of the Senate
when the injunction of secrecy is removed, certified by the
Secretary of the Senate or by the Clerk of the House of Representatives, shall be admitted as evidence in the courts of the
United States, and shall have the same force and effect as the
originals would have if produced and authenticated in court."
The certificate shows that the bill passed the House of Representatives February 1, 1894, and that its first section provided that the rates of duty prescribed should be levied "on
and after the first day of June," while the second section
provided that on and after that day certain articles named,
when imported, should be exempt from duty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1.894.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill was reported to the Senate by the finance committee, (to which it had been ,referred,) on March 20, 1894, and
"the thirtieth day of June" was substituted in sections one
and two for the first day of June. The bill, as amended in
the Senate, passed that body July 3, 1894, and sections one
and two were amended by substituting the first day of August
for the thirtieth day of June. The conference committee of
the House agreed to the bill as passed by, the Senate without
any further amendment, on August 13, and it was sent to the
President on August 15. It thus appears that at every stage
of its progress the intention of Congress was that the tariff
provisions of the bill should operate prospectively, and that as
by the concurrence of the House in the Senate amendments the
bill did not go back to the Senate, the first day of August
remained in the bill as originally fixed in the Senate, July 3,
1894.
Both houses intended that the duties imposed by section one,
and the additions made to the free list in section two, should
not take effect except at a point of time after the passage of
the act. And the Senate endeavored to effectuate that intention by its action on the third of July, but, because of the
differences between the two bodies, the passage of the act was
delayed, which delay was terminated by the House finally
accepting the changes made by the Senate, so that no new
date in the future was specifically assigned for section one to
go into effect, although the intention that the act should not
operate retrospectively was palpable throughout.
And as the act of October 1, 1890 was not repealed by the
act of August, 1894 until the latter act became a law, when
inconsistent laws were declared thereby repealed, we think it
cannot be doubted that Congress intended the rates of duty
prescribed by the act of 1894 to be levied on the first day of
August, if the bill should then be a law, and if not, then as
soon after that date as it should become a law. On the first
day of August the duties -prescribed by the first section of the
act of 1894 could not be lawfully levied, and so far as the
importations in this case are concerned and others similarly
situated, the law required the exaction of the duties prescribed

GRAND RAPIDS & INDIANA

I)

CO. v. BUTLER.

87

Syllabus

by the act of 1890. As to such importations the first section
of the act of 1894 could not be literally carried out, unless by
holding it to operate as a retroactive repeal, notwithstanding
the saving clause, and this we consider altogether inadmissible.
The language of section one was that on and after the first of
August there shall be levied, and of the second section, that
on and after the first day of August certain enumerated
articles when imported shall be exempt from duty. In our
judgment, the word "shall' spoke for the future and was
not intended to apply to transactions completed when the act
became a law.
We regard the third question as too general and unnecessary
to be answered, but
Answer the first question in the affirmative, and the second
in the negative, and it will be so certifd.

GRAND RAPIDS AND INDIANA RAILROAD COMPANY v. BUTLER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 198. Argued and submitted January 29, 1895. - Decided June 8, 1895.

The decision by a state court that the pleadings were sufficient to permit
the examination and determination of the case presents no Federal
question.
While the rule is that this court, upon a writ of error to the highest court
of a State, in an action at law, cannot review its judgment upon a question of fact, it is unnecessary to consider the extent of the power of the
court in that particular in chancery cases, as this court concurs with the
result reached by the state court that when the survey was made of
the land in controversy, there was no reservation made of the island, and
no act on the part of the government showing any intention to reserve it.
In Michigan a grant of land bounded by a stream, whether navigable in fact
or not, carries with it the bed of the stream to the centre of the thread
thereof.
The court has no doubt, upon the evidence, that the circumstances were
such at the time of the survey as naturally induced the surveyor to decline to survey the tract in controversy as an island ; that there is notb-

