OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

for the mouth of the river in the field-notes, show that the
survey made in 1821 recognized the entrance of the river into
the lake through the sand bar in an almost direct line easterly,
disregarding the channel west of the sand bar, where the
river most usually flowed before the piers were erected. It is
immaterial where the most usual mouth of the river was in
1821; nor whether this northern mouth was occasional, or the
flow of the water only temporary at particular times, and this
flow produced to some extent by artificial means, by a cut
through the bar, leaving tile water to wash out an enlarged
channel in seasons of freshets. The public had the option to
declare the true mouth of the river, for the purposes of a survey and sale of the public land."
So, in the case before us, obviously the surveyors surveyed
only to this bayou, and called that the river. The plaintiff
has no right to challenge the correctness of their action, or
claim that the bayou was not Indian River or a proper water
line upon which to bound the lots.
We are of the opinion, therefore, that no substantial error
was committed by the Circuit Court, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

WISCONSIN CENTRAL RAILROAD
FORSYTHE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

COMPANY

STATES

FOR

v.

THE

WESTERNC DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 288. Argued March 28, 29, 1895. - Decided June 3,1895.

The land in controversy in this case is within the place limits of the road
of the plaintiff in error, and was subject to the full control of Congress
at the time of the grant made by ยง 3 of the act of May 5, 1854, c. 80, 13

Stat. 66, And it passed by operation of that grant, notwithstanding the
fact that it was withdrawn by the Land Department in 1856 and 1859,

in order to satisfy the grant made by the act of June 3, 1856, c. 43, 11
Stat. 20.
Every, act of Congress making a grant of public land is to be treated both

WISCONSIN CENTRAL

I'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

47

Statement of the Case.
as a law and a grant, and the intent of Congress, when ascertained, io
to control in the interpretation of the law.
When Congress makes a grant of a specific number of sections of public
land in aid of any work of internal improvement, it must be assumed
that it intends the beneficiary to receive such amount of land; and
when it prescribes that those iands shall be alternate sections along the
line of the improvement, it is equally'clear that the intent is thati if
possible, the beneficiary shall-receive those particular sections.
The courts are not concluded by a decision of the Land Department on a
question of law.
The facts set up by lbe defendant as an estoppel suggest the rule "de
minimis non curat lex."

THis was an action of ejectment, commenced on April 5,
1890, by the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company against
William 0. Forsythe in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Wisconsin, to recover
possession of the southwest quarter of section 11, township
47 north, of range'4 west, in the county of Ashland, Wisconsin.
At the trial, on April 16, 1891, the court instructed, the jury
to render a verdict for the defendant. Judgment having
been entered on such verdict, the railroad company brought
the case here on this writ of error,
The title of the plaintiff rested on these facts: By the act
of June 3, 1856, c. 43, 11 Stat. 20, the United States made a
grant of land to the State of Wisconsin. The first and fourth
sections of the act making the grant were as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That

there be, and is hereby, granted to the State of Wisconsin for
the purpose of aiding in the construction of a railroad from
Madison, or Columbus, by the way of Portage City to the
St. Croix River or Lake between townships twenty-five and
thirty-one, and from thence to the west end of Lake Superior;
and to Bayfield; and also from Fond du Lac on Lake Winnebago, northerly to the state line, every alternate section of
land designated by odd numbers for six sections in width on
each side of said roads respectively. But in case it shall
appear that the United States have, when the lines or routes
of said roads are definitely fixed, sold any sections or parts
thereof granted as aforesaid, or that the right of preemption

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the. Case.

has attached to the same, then it shall be lawful for any
agent or agents, to be appointed by the Governor of said State,
to select, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, from the lands of the United States nearest to the
tier of sections above specified, so much land in alternate
sections, or parts of sections, as shall be equal to such lands as
the United States have sold or otherwise appropriated, or to
which the right of preemption has attached, as aforesaid,
which lands (thus selected in lieu of those sold and to which
preemption has attached as aforesaid, together with the sections and parts of sections designated by odd numbers as
aforesaid, and appropriated as aforesaid) shall be held by the
State of Wisconsin for the use and purpose aforesaid:. Provided, That the lands to be so located shall in no case be
further than fifteen miles from the line of the roads in each
case, and selected for and on account of said roads: Provided
further, That the lands hereby granted shall be exclusively
applied in the construction of. that road for which it was
granted and selected, and shall be disposed of only as the
work progresses, and the same shall. be applied to no other
purpose whatsoever: And providedfurther, That any and all
lands reserved to the United States by any act of Congress
for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or in any manner for any purpose whatsoever, be, and
the same are hereby, reserved to the United States from the
operation of this act, except so far as it may be found necessary
to locate the route of said railroads through such reserved
lands, in which case the right of way only shall be granted,
subject to the approval of the President of the United States."
" Sc. 4. And be it further enacted, That the lands hereby
granted to said State shall be disposed of by said State only
in manner following, that is to say: That a quantity of land
not exceeding. one hundred and twenty sections, and included
within a continuous length of twenty miles of roads, respectively, .may be sold; and when the Governor of said State
shall certify to the Secetary of the Interior that any twenty
continuous miles of either of said roads are completed, then
another like quantity of land hereby granted may be sold;

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

49

Statement of the Case.

and so from time to time until said roads are completed; and
if said roads are not completed within ten years, no further
sales shall be made, and the land unsold shall revert to the
United States."
We are concerned in this case with only the first of the
two lines of road named and shall therefore treat the act as
referring to it alone. On June 12, 1856, a withdrawal of the
lands deemed necessary for the satisfaction of this grant was
made by the land department. The grant was accepted by
the State of Wisconsin on October 8, 1856, Laws of Wisconsin,
1856, c. 118, p. 137, and on October 11, 1856; the State conferred the benefit of it upon the La Cross, and Milwaukee
Railroad Company, Laws of Wisconsin, 1856, c. 122, p. 217.
Under authority of an act, of date March 5, 1857, Laws of
Wisconsin, 1857, c. 230, p. 530, the La Crosse and Milwaukee
Railroad Company conveyed to the St. Croix and Lake
Superior Railroad Company so much of the grant as was
north of the St. Croix River or Lake, and was to aid in constructing the road from that point to the west end of Lake
Superior and to Bayfield. On March 2, 1858, the St. Croix
and Lake Superior Railroad Company filed in the Land
Department at Washington its map of definite location of
the road from the St. Croix River or Lake to the west end of
Lake Superior, and on July 17, 1858, a like map of definite
location of the branch to Bayfield. On March 1, 1859, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office forwarded to the
local land officers a plat showing these locations, together
with the six and fifteen-mile limits thereof, and directed them
to continue to reserve all vacant tracts outside of the six and
within the fifteen-mile limits from sale or location for any
purpose whatever. In the letter conveying this direction it
was stated that the agent of the State had selected all the
vacant lands between the six and fifteen-mile limits in lieu of
the lands within the six-mile limits already sold and preempted.
Nothing was done towards the construction of the road and
branch from the St. Croix River or Lake northward until after
the passage by Congress of the act of May 5, 1864, c. S0, 13
vob. cLx--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Stat. 66. The first, third, fifth, and sixth sections of this act
are as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and Rouse of Revresentatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
there be, and is hereby, granted to the State of Wisconsin, for
the purpose of aiding in the. construction of a railroad from
a point on the St. Croix River or Lake, between townships
twenty-five and thirty-one, to the west end of Lake Superior,
and from some point on the line of said railroad, to be selected
by said State, to Bayfield, every alternate section of public
land designated by odd numbers, for ten sections in width on
each side of said road, deducting any and all lands that may
have been granted to the State of Wisconsin for the same purpose, by the act of Congress of June three, eighteen hundred
and fifty-six, upon the same terms and conditions as are contained in the act granting lands to the State of Wisconsin, to
aid in the construction of railroads in said State, approved
June three, eighteen hundred and fifty-six. But in case it
shall appear that the United States have, when the line of
route of said road is definitely fixed, sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of, any sections or parts thereof, granted as
aforesaid, or that the right of preemption or homestead has
attached to the same, then it shall be lawful for any agent or
agents, to be appointed by said company, to select, subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from the public
lands of the United States nearest to the tier of sections above
specified, as much land in alternate sections or parts of see.
tions, as shall be equal to-such lands as the United States have
sold or otherwise appropriated, or to which the right of preemption or homestead has attached as aforesaid, which lands
(thus selected in lieu of those sold, and to which, preiemption
or t.omestead right has attached as aforesaid, together with
sections and parts of sections designated by odd numbers as
aforesaid, and appropriated as aforesaid) shall be held by said
State for the use and purpose aforesaid: Provided, That the
lands to be so located shall in no case be further than twenty
miles from the line of the said roads, nor shall such selection
or location be made in lieu of lands received under the said

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

51

Statement of the Case.

grant of June 3, 1856, but such selection and location may be
made for the benefit of said State, and for the purpose afore-.
said, to supply any deficiency under the said grant of June
third, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, should any such deficiency exist."
"SEc. 3. And be it further enacted, That there be, and is
hereby, granted to the State of Wisconsin, for the purpose of
aiding in the construction of a railroad from Portage City,
Berlin, Doty's Island; or Fond du Lac, as said State may determine, in a northwestern direction, to Bayfield, and thence
to Superior on Lake Superior, every alternate section of public
land, designated by odd numbers, for ten sections in width on
each side of said road, upon the same terms and conditions as
are contained in the act granting lands t0lsaid State to aid in
the construction of railroads in said State, approved June three,
eighteen hundred and fifty-six. But in case it shall appear
that the United States have, when the line or route of said
road is definitely fixed, sold, reserved or otherwise disposed
of any sections or parts thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that
the right of preemption or homestead has attached to the
same, that it shall be lawful for any agent or agents of said
State, appointed by the governor thereof, to select, subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,, from the lands
of the United States nearest to the tier of sections above
specified, as much public land in alternate sections or parts of
sections as shall be equal to such lands as the United States
have sold or otherwise appropriated, or to which the right of
preemption or homestead has attached as aforesaid, which
lands (thus selected in lieu of those sold and to which the
right of preemption or homestead has attached as aforesaid,
together with sections and parts of sections designated by odd
numbers as aforesaid, and appropriated as aforesaid) shall be
held by said State, or by the company to which she may transfer the same, for the use and purpose aforesaid: Provided,
That the lands to be so located shall in no case be further than
twenty miles from the line of said road."
" SEc. 5. And be it further enacted, That the time fixed and
Jimited for the completion of said roads in the act aforesaid of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

June three, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, be, and the same
is hereby, extended to a period of five years from and after
the passage of this act.
"SEc. 6. And be it further enacted, That any and all lands
reserved to the United States by any act of Congress for the
purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or in
any manner for any purpose whatsoever, and all mineral lands
be, and the same are hereby, reserved and excluded from the
operation of this act, except so far as it may be found necessary to locate the route of such railroads through such reserved
lands, in which case the right of way only shall be granted,
subject to the approval of the President of the United States."
On March 20, 1865, Wisconsin conferred upon the St. Croix
and Lake Superior Railroad Company the full benefit of the
grant made by the first section of this act. Laws of Wisconsin,
1865, c. 175, p. 154. On April 22, 1865, the St. Croix and
Lake Superior Railroad Company accepted this grant, and at
the same time adopted the definite location theretofore made as
shown by the maps on file in the Land Office at Washington.
In 1869 the legislature of Wisconsin passed an act, Laws 1869,
c. 90, p. 85, repealing said chapter 175 of the laws of 1865, and
in 1874, Laws of 1874, c. 126, p. 186, conferred the benefit of
the grant on the North Wisconsin Railroad Company, which
company afterwards by consolidation became merged in the
Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railroad Company
(hereafter called the Omaha company). This company constructed, and now owns and operates, the road from St. Croix
River or Lake to Superior, on Lake Superior, and also the
branch to Bayfield.
The grant made by section three of the act of Congress of
1864, was transferred by the State to the Portage, Winnebago
and Lake Superior Railroad Company, whose name was afterwards changed to that of the Wisconsin Central Railroad Company, the plaintiff herein. Laws of Wisconsin, 1866, p. 720, c.
314; c. 362, p. 8 6 9 ; 1869, c. 257, p. 578; 1871, c. 2 7 ,p. 4 2 . The
map of definite location of the road thus aided was filed on November 10, 1869. Prior to December 31, 1876, the plaintiff had
constructed, and now owns and operates, the road as far north

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

53

Counsel for Parties.

as Ashland, on Lake Superior. The Bayfield branch of the
Omaha road also touches Ashland, and the land in controversy
is within ten miles of the plaintiff's road and between ten and
fifteen miles of the Omaha road.
On February 12, 1884, the Omaha company and the plaintiff,
in consequence of the overlapping of their grants at and near
the city of Ashland, entered into an agreement, which provided, among other things: "The Omaha company consents
that the Central company [plaintiff] shall take patents for all
lands in the overlap lying 'east of the easterly ten-mile limit
of the Bayfield branch of the Omaha company, and north and
east of the westerly ten-mile limit of the Central company, and
agrees to assist the Central company to get such patents from
the State of Wisconsin."
On February 25, 1884, the State of Wisconsin issued to the
plaintiff a patent for a large quantity of land, including therein
the tract in controversy, and on February 19, 1887, the Omaha
company executed a further instrument of release to the plaintiff, by which it surrendered and waived all right of whatsoever nature to any lands east of a line therein described, which
was so drawn as to include the lands in dispute. On July 2,
1887, the plaintiff filed in the Land Office at Washington lists
of land, including the land in dispute, claiming them as part
of its grant. The Commissioner of the General Land Office
rejected these lists, holding that the plaintiff had no title to
the lands, and, on appeal, the Secretary of the Interior, on
January 24, 1890, affirmed this decision. After this the defendant took proceedings to enter the land under the laws of
the United States, went into possession, built a residence, and
made certain improvements, at an expense of more than $200.
Mr. Louis D. Brandeis for plaintiff in error. Xr. Edwin
I. Abbot, Mr. Howard .Morris,and -Mr. William 11. Dunbar
were on his brief.
-Mr. William F. Vilas, by leave of court, for plaintiff in
error.
-Mr.George G: Greene and Mr. A. B. Browne for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
Mu. JUSTICE BrREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The land in controversy is within the place limits of the
plaintiff's road. Confessedly, therefore, the title passed to the
plaintiff, provided the land was subject to the operation of
the grant made by the third section of the act of 1864. The
contention is that it was not subject thereto by reason of the
fact that it was withdrawn by the land department in 1856
and 1859 in order to satisfy the grant made by the act of 1856.
It was within the indemnity and not within the place limits of
the grant in aid of the Bayfield road.
It is curious to note that in the communication made in 1859
by the land department to the local land officers it is stated
that all the unsold lands within the indemnity limits along the
line of that road had been selected by the agent of the State
in lieu of the lands sold and preempted within the place limits.
If this selection was in fact made and was needed to satisfy
the deficiency in the amount of lands within the place limits,
and was approved by the land department, it would avoid the
necessity for further inquiry; for whatever of right there was
in the St. Croix and Lake Superior Railroad Company passed
to the Omaha Company, and was by it, under the agreements
of February 12, 1884, and February 19, 1887, transferred to
the plaintiff, and this was long anterior to any claim on the
part of the defendant.
But assuming, in the absehce of any direct evidence thereof,
that no-such selection was made, we pass to an inquiry as to
the respective rights of the parties. The title of the plaintiff,
as we have seen, can only be defeated by reason of the land
not being within the scope of the grant made by the third section of the act of 1864, and it is only excluded therefrom by
the grant of 1856 and the reservation made in pursuance
thereof. The reliance of defendant is on the long-established
rule, often affirmed by this court and recognized in section six
of the act of 1864, to the effect that a grant by Congress does
not operate upon lands theretofore reserved for any purpose
whatsoever. There can be no doubt as to this rule, or as to

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

55

Opinion of the Court.

the fact that lands 'withdrawn from sale by the land department are considered as reserved within its terms.
But it is a rule of equal if not higher significance 'that every
act of Congress making a grant is to be treated both as a law
and a grant, and the intent of Congress, when ascertained, is
to control in the interpretation of the law.
"The solution of these questions depends, of course, upon
the construction given to the acts making the grants; and they
are to receive such a construction as will carry out the intent
of Congress, however difficult it might be to give full effect to
the language used if the grants were by instruments of private
conveyance. To ascertain that intent we must look to the
condition of the country when the acts were passed, as well as
to the purpose declared on their face, and read all parts of
them together." Winona & St. Peter Railroad v. Barney,
113 U. S. 618, 625. See also Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway v. Kansas Pacific Railway, 97 U. S. 491, 497; United
States v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 146 U. S. 570, 597;
United States v. Denver & Rio Grande Railway, 150 U. S. 1.
In order to, determine the intent of Congress we must look
at the situation at the time the act of 1864 was passed. The
alterhate sections within the six and fifteen-mile limits of the
Bayfield road were not granted by the act of 1856. They
were simply withdrawn from predmption and sale by the
action of the land department in order that the beneficiary of
the grant might, in case the full amount of lands granted was
not found within the place limits, select therefrom enough to supply the deficiency. We do not mean that they were not reserved
lands; on the contrary, as stated above, they were. Such is
the uniform ruling of this court in interpreting like action on
the part of the land department. Nevertheless, not being
granted lands, they were still within the disposing power of
Congress.

There would be no question of the title of one to

whom Congress had in terms granted them. "Until selection
was made the title remained in the government, subject to its
disposal at its pleasure." Kansas Pacific Railroadv. Atchivn &c. Railroad, 112 U. S. 414, 421; St. Paul & Sioux City
Y-ailroad v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad, 112 U. S. 720,

OCTOBER TERAM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

732; United States v. XocLauglin, 127 U. S. 428, 450, 455;
Wisconsin Central Railroad v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496,
511; United States v. ikLissouri, K'ansas & Texas Railway,
141 U. S. 358, 374.
The land was, therefore, subject to the full control of Congress at the time of the passage of the act of 1864. What did
Congress intend by that act? It had in 1856 granted to the
State of Wisconsin six sections per mile to aid it in the construction of a road from Madison or Columbus, by way of
Portage City, to the St. Croix River or Lake, and thence to
the west end of Lake Superior, and to Bayfield, with a proviso
that if the road was not completed within ten years the unsold
lands should revert to the United States. Wisconsin had
accepted this grant, and thus impliedly undertaken to construct
the road. It made the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad
Company the beneficiary of this grant. Subsequently, with
the assent of the State, that company had transferred to the
St. Croix and Lake Superior Railroad Company so much of
the grant as was designed to aid in the construction of that
part of the road from the St. Croix River or Lake northward
to Lake Superior, with the branch to Bayfield. Eight years
had passed, and only two years more remained until the expiration of the time fixed for the completion of the road. Only
a short distance had in fact been built, to wit, 61 miles from
Portage to Tomah, and that by the St. Croix and Milwaukee
company in the spring of 1858. It was evident that the
inducement of six sections per mile had not been sufficient to
secuire the construction of the road in the comparatively unin.
habited portions in the northwestern part of the State, and so
Cohgress determined to enlarge its grant in order to secure the
accomplishment of the desired end. At the same time it perceived that the public interests required an additional road
running through the central portion of the State northward to
the two termini on Lake Superior, named for the road from
St. Croix Lake or River.
And so it passed the act of 1864. This made a grant to
the same grantee, to wit, the State of Wisconsin, but expressed the terms and purposes in three separate sections.

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

57

Opinion of the Court.

Congress evidently knew that at the time two companies
had been named by the State of Wisconsin as the parties
to construct the road provided for by the act of 1856. So,
in the first section, it made a grant of ten sections per mile
to aid in the construction of a road from St. Croix River or
Lake to the west end of Lake Superior, with a branch to
Bayfield; in the second, a grant in substantially like terms
for a road from Tomah to the St. Croix River or Lake;
and in the third, a grant also of ten sections per mile to
aid in the construction of a road from Portage City, Berlin,
Doty's Island, or Fond du Lac, as the State should determine, in a northwesterly direction to Bayfield, and then to
Superior, on Lake Superior. In each of these three sections
it named the State of Wisconsin as the grantee. Although
it knew that the State had made two separate companies
the beneficiaries of the act of 1856, it made no grant to
those companies.
It dealt in all three sections with the
State, relying upon the State as the party to see that the
roads were completed, and to use its own judgment as to
the manner of securing such construction. The act of 1864
was, therefore, a mere enlargement of the act of 1856, was
made to the same grantee, was in pari materia, and is to be
construed accordingly.
It is not to be treated as an independent grant to a different party, and, therefore, liable to
come in conflict with the rights of the first grantbe.
For whose benefit was the withdrawal of the lands within
the indemnity limits of the Bayfield road made? Obviously,
as often declared, for the benefit of the grantee. It is as
though the United States had said to the grantee: we do
not know whether, along the line of road, when you finally
locate it, there will be six alternate sections free from any
preemption or other claim, and, therefore, so situated that
you may take title thereto, and so we will hold from sale
or disposal to any one else an additional territory of nine
miles on either side that withiin those nine miles you may
select whatever lands may be necessary to make the full
quota of six sections per mile. When Congress, by a subsequent act, makes a new and absolute grant to the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

grantee of lands thus held by the government for the benefit
of such grantee, upon what reasoning can it be said that
such grant does not operate upon those lands.?
Kansas City &e. Railroad v. Attorney General,.118 U. S.
682, is in point. On July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 289, Congress
passed an act granting to the State of Kansas five alternate
sections per mile to aid the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
Southern Branch, in constructing a railroad from Fort Riley,
upon the valley of the Neosho River, to the southern line of
the State of Kansas. This corporation (its name having been
changed to that of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad
Company) constructed the road, and received patents for the
land.. The object of that suit was to vacate and declare void
these patents, and the principal ground relied on for maintaining it was that, by an act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 772,
and a supplemental act of July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 339, the lands
had been appropriated to aid another company in building a
road along the same line. The act of 1866 had the ordinary
reservation clause, similar to that found in section six of the
act of 1864 before us, and the contention was that the effect
of this reserving clause was to except all the lands covered by
the grants of 1863 and 1864 from the operation of the grant
of 1866. It was conceded that if the intent of Congress was
to aid in the construction of two separate lines of road the
contention would have to be sustained, the court saying: "As
the lands granted by the prior acts of 1863 and 1864 had, by
the act of the legislature of Kansas, been granted to the
Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company, a then
existing corporation of that State, for the purpose of building
a road, with the same general description as to its course down
the valley of the Neosho River, which might have run through
these same lands if it had been built by the latter company, it
is argued with great earnestness that these lands were necessarily reserved, under this clause of the act of 1866, from the
grant, as being reserved by the authority of Congress for the
purpose of aiding in that object of internal improvement. If
the A,, T. & S. F. R. R. Co. had built a line of road along the
same general course and through the same lands, twenty miles

WISCONSIN CENTRAL RI) (. vr.FORSYTHE.

59

Opinion of the Court.

in width, that the M., K. & T. R. R. Co. has occupied with its
road, and asserted a claim to these lands, or to any of them,
the argument would be almost irresistible." But it was held,
in view of certain arrangements made between the two companies, (not then ratified by the State of Kansas, but expected
to be, and, in fact, subsequently so ratified,) that it was the
intent of Congress simply to aid in the construction of one road,
and that the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railroad Company
was entitled to the full benefit of the three acts. The court
thus looked beyond the letter of the statutes to the intent of
Congress, and upon that intent denied what would otherwise
be a technical ground for relief.
But we need not go outside of this act of 1864 ,for a clear
disclosure of a like intent on the part of Congress. The act
of 1856 granted six sections per mile to aid in the construction
of a road from St. Croix River or Lake to Bayfield. The lands
between the six and fifteen-mile limits of the line of that road
as located were withdrawn by the action of the land department. They were thus reserved lands. Now the first section
of the .act of 1864 granted ten alternate sections to aid in the
construction of a road along the same line. Can there be any
doubt that this grant of four additional sections operated upon
the land thus reserved between the six and fifteen-mile limits?
Yet if the act of 1864 is to be taken as making a grant entirely
independent from that of 1856, it could not be enforced as to
lands between the six and fifteen-mile limits reserved under
that prior grant. It will be.noticed that the act of 1864 makes
no grant directly to the St. Croix and Lake Superior Railroad
Company, but only to the Statb of Wisconsin, and the latter
could, if it had seen fit, have made some other company the
beneficiary; and yet can there be any doubt that Congress
intended by this first section of the act of 1864 merely an
,nlargement of the grant made by the act of 1856 from six to
ten sections, and also intended that as to the four extra sections
the grant should operate upon lands reserved between the six
and fifteen-mile limits? If this be true as to one part of the
grant of 1864, why is it not equally true as to another portion
of the grant, all of it being to the same grantee?

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

When Congress makes a grant of a specific number of sections in aid of any work of internal improvement, it must be
assumed that it intends the beneficiary to receive such amount
of land, and when it prescribes that those lands shall be alternate sections along the line of the improvement, it is equally
clear that the intent is that if possible the beneficiary shall
receive those particular sections. So far as railroads are concerned, it is the thought not merely that the general welfare
will be subserved by the construction of the road along the
lines. indicated, but further, that such grant shall not be attended with any pecuniary loss to the United States; for the
universal rule is to double the price of even sections within
the granted limits. The expectation is that the company
receiving the odd sections will take pains to dispose of them
to settlers, and thus by their settlement and improvement in.
crease the value of the even sections adjoining and so justify
the added price. To fully realize this expected benefit it is
essential that the lands taken by the'company shall be as near
to the line of the road as possible; and so, while selection of
remote lands is permitted, it is. only when and because there
is a necessity of such selection to make good the amount of
the grant. Obviously, therefore, an act must be construed to
realize, so far as is possible, this intent and to accomplish the
desired result.
Still, again, it must be noticed that the State of Wisconsin,
the grantee named in both the acts of 1856 and 1864, the
plaintiff within whose place limits the land in controversy is
situated, and the Omaha company, within whose indemnity
limits it is, all. three long since agreed that the land passed
by this grant, and dealt with it as belonging to the plaintiff.
Both roads have been constructed, and, undoubtedly largely
through the instrumentality of their, construction, population
has poured into that part of the State, and the value of all
real estate so increased that this particular tract is found by
the jury to be worth $8000. After years have passed, and
all the parties interested in the matter, other than the United
States, have treated it as the property of the plaintiff, the, defendant, relying upon a technical construction of the statutes,

WISCONSIN CENTRAL R'D CO. v. FORSYTHE.

61

Opinion of the Court.

seeks to enter the tract, and thus, for no more than the paltry
sum 6f $400, two dollars and a half per acre being the double
minimum price of land within the limits of railroad grants,
to obtain title to property worth, as we have seen, at least
$8000. The railroad company, under this construction, loses
the land it supposed it was entitled to, which it has treated
as its own, and has helped to make valuable; the government
does not receive the $8000, nor indeed anything if the land
be entered under the homestead laws, but a stranger comes
in, who has done nothing to create that value, and appropriates it to his own benefit. The iniquity of such a result is at
least suggestive.
But further, it is urged that this question of title has been
determined in the land department adversely to the claim of
the plaintiff. This is doubtless true, but it was so determined,
not upon any question of fact, but upon a construction of the
law; and such matter, as we have repeatedly held, is not concluded by the decision of the land department. Johnson v.
Towsley, 13 Wall. 72; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Quinby
v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420;. Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618, 624;
Lake Superior Skip Canal &c. Co. v. Cunningham, 155 U. S.
354.
Defendant also claims an estoppel by reason of these facts
set up as a third defence in his answer, the truth of which was
on the trial admitted by the plaintiff. The final decision of
the Secretary adversely to the claim of the plaintiff was on or
about the 10th day of January, 1890. (The testimony in this
case shows that it was made on January, 24, 1890.) Subsequent to that decision the defehdant entered upon the premises, built a residence, and made other improvements, at a cost
of more than $200. The plaintiff knew of his possession and
of the making of such improvements, but took no action until
the commencement of this suit, on April 9, 1890. It seems to
us that the claim of an estoppel can hardly be seriously made.
The plaintiff had been contesting for these lands in the land
department for a series of years. Some time after the final
decision therein the defendant enters upon the land and commences making improvements, and in making such improve-

OCTOBER TER.M, 1894.
Counsel for Parties.

ments expends the paltry sum of $200, and the plaintiff fails
to file a complaint in ejectment for two months and a half
after the decision of the land department, and perhaps, nearly
that time after the defendant had entered into possession.
Surely the defendant had no reason to believe that the plaintiff had abandoned its claim to the land. Both the time of
plaintiff's delay and the amount of his expenditures suggest
the rule de minimis non ourat lex. The title of $8800 worth
of land is not lost in such a way.
For these reasons we are of the opinion that the Circuit
Court erred in its decision, and its judgment is, therefore,
Reversed, and a new trial ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration and
decision of this case.

SPENCER v. McDOUGAL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 245. Argued April 3, 1895. -Decided

June 3, 1895.

By the order of the Commissioner of the General Land Office of June 12,
1856, he land in controversy in this case was withdrawn from' pre mption or sale; and the validity of that order was not affected by the fact

that the order covered more land than was included in the grant by
Congress which caused its issue.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis D. Brandeis for plaintiff in error. Mr. Edwin
JI. Abbot, Mr. Howard Morris, and Jr. William Hf Dunbar
were on his brief.
Mr. George G. Greene and Mr. A. B. Browne for defendant
in error,

