CASES ADJUDGED
IN. THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
ORIGINAL.
No. 2. Original.

Submitted October 15, 1895. -

Decided October 21, 1895.

The court appoints commissioners to run the disputed boundary line
in accordance with its decision, announced May 19, 1890, 1S6 U. S.
479.

AT

October Term, 1889, this court decided a case of

disputed boundary between the State of Indiana and the
State of Kentucky. 136 U. S. 479. At the present term the
parties presented the following petition:
"To the Honorable the Chief Justice and Associate Justices
qf the Swpreme Court of the United States:
"The plaintiff, The State of Indiana, and the defendant,
The State of Kentucky, show to your honors that they
have agreed upon and submit herewith the accompanying
4raft of an order in conformity to the opinion and order of
275

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

the Court herein and move for an order in accordance therewith.
"THE

"WASHINGTON,
"IN

STATE OF INDIANA,

By William A. Ketcham,
its Attorney General.
"THE STATE OF KENTUCKY,
By Richard H Cunningham,
its Solicitor.
D. C., October 15, 1895.

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, OCTOBER
TERM, 1895.

"THE

STATE OF INDIANA

vs.

Original, No. 2.

THE STATE OF KEITUCKY.

"On this 15th day of October, 1895, comes The State of
indiana, by its attorney general, and also comes The State
of Kentucky, by its solicitor, Richard H. Cunningham, and
said parties advise and inform the Court that in accordance
with the opinion and order hereinbefore entered in that behalf they have agreed upon the following-named gentlemen
to be suggested to this Court as commissioners, as stated and
set forth in said opinion and order, viz.: Gustave V. Menzies,
of Mount Vernon, Ind.; Gaston M. Alves, of Henderson,
Ky., and Col. Amos Stickney, of .the Engineer Corps of the
United States Army' and the Court, being fully advised in
the premises, does now order and decree that the abovenamed Gustave V. Menzies, Gaston M. Alves, and Amos
Stickney be, and they are hereby, appointed commissioners
to ascertain and run the boundary line between the said
States of Indiana and Kentucky as. designated in the said
opinion of this Court heretofore entered herein, and to report to this Court with all reasonable dispatch their doings
in that behalf. It is further ordered by the Court that duly
certified copies of this order shall be forthwith issued by the
clerk of this Court, under his, hand and seal, to each of
the above-named commissioners, and before entering upon
the discharge of their duties as such commissioners, they and

INDIANA v. KENTUCKY.
Order of the Court.

each of them shall be and appear before either the clerk of
this Court or the clerk of the United States Circuit Court
within and for either the district of Indiana, Kentucky, or
Ohio and take an oath faithfully to discharge the duties
required of them as such commissioners, which oaths shall
be transmitted to and filed with the clerk of this court and
in this cause."
-Mr. William A. Ketcham, Attorney General of the State
of Indiana, for plaintiff.
-Mr. Riohard H. Cunningham for defendant.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE.

This cause coming on on the application of the State of
Indiana, by its attorney general, and of the State of Kentucky,
by its solicitor, Richard H. Cunningham, for the appointment
of commissioners herein, in accordance with the opinion, judgment, and decree hereinbefore filed and entered, and the court
being advised and informed by said parties that they have
agreed upon the following-named gentlemen to be suggested
to this court for such appointment, viz.: Gustave V. Menzies,
of Mount Vernon, Indiana; Gaston, M. Alves, of Henderson,
Kentucky; and Col. Amos Stickney, of the Engineer Corps
of the United States Army; and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, does now order and decree that the
above named Gustave V. Menzies, Gaston M. Alves, and
Amos Stickney be, and they are hereby, appointed commissioners to ascertain and run the boundary line between
the said States of Indiana and ,Kentucky as designated in
the said opinion of this court heretofore filed, and judgment
and decree heretofore entered herein, and to report to this
court with all reasonable dispatch their doings in that behalf.
It is further ordered by the court that duly certified copies
of this order shall be forthwith issued by the clerk of this
court, under his hand and the seal of the court, to each of
the above-named commissioners, and before entering upon
the discharge of their duties as such commissioners they, and

OCTr)I Ewl

TERM, 1895.

Statement of the Case.

each of them, shall be and appear before either the clerk of
this court or the clerk of the United States Circuit Court
within and for either the District of Indiana, Kentucky, or
Ohio and take an oath faithfully to. discharge the duties
required of them as such commissioners, which oaths shall
be forthwith transmitted to and filed with the clerk of this
court and in this cause.

SIMMONS v. BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND
NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
BURLINGTON, CEDAR RAPIDS AND NORTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. SIMMONS.
Nos. 11 and 12.

Argued November 1, 1894. -

Decided October 21. 1895

When a junior mortgagee is a party defendant to a foreclosure bill in which
there is a prayer that he be decreed to redeem, and when the priority of
the plaintiff's mortgage is found or conceded, and a sale is ordered in
default of payment, declaring the right of the debtor to redeem to be
forever barred, a similar order as to right of redemption by the junior
mortgagee is not substantially, or even formally, necessary.
In such case a junior mortgagee, who stands by while the sale is made and
confirmed, must be deemed, in equity, to have waived his right to redeem.
A decree in such a suit that the sale is to be made subject to the rights of
the junior mortgagee and of intervening creditors, and reserving to the
court the right to make further orders and directions, and providing
that no sale shall be binding until reported to the court for its approval,
and a subsequent order that the property shall be sold subject to the
future adjudication as to such rights, and the property conveyed subject
thereto, while it warrants a contention that the court intended to make a
future disposition of the claims of such parties, does not authorize the
junior mortgagee to wait for a period of seven years before attempting
to enforce his alleged rights; and such delay deprives him of the right to
ask the aid of a court of equity in enforcing them.

THE. Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Minnesota Railway
Company was a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Iowa, and, in pursuance of its granted powers,
had, prior to the litigation which brought the case here, con-

