RICHMOND NERVINE (OMPANY v. RICHMOND.

293

Statement of the Case.

RICHMOND NERVINE COMPANY v. RICHMOND.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

STATES FOR

No. 59. Argued April 80, May 1, 1895. -Decided October 21, 1895.
The fact that a trade-mark bears the name and portrait of the person in
whose name it is registered does not render it unassignable to another.
On the facts this court reverses the decree of the court below.

THIS was a bill in equity filed by the Dr. S. A. Richmond
Nervine Company, a Missouri corporation, against Samuel A.
Richmond, the founder of the corporation, and a citizen of
Illinois, to enjoin the use of a certain trade-mark, and to
recover damages and profits for the unlawful use of the same.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows: The
defendant Richmond, prior to-December, 1877, being engaged
at St. Joseph, Missouri, in the business of making and selling
a preparation known as "Samaritan Nervine," a medicine for
the relief of epileptic fits and similar diseases, adopted as a
trade-mark the figure of a man in an epileptic fit falling
backwards, with his arms extended, and his cane and hat
dropping to the ground, with the word "trade" printed in
small capitals on the right side of the figure, and the word
"mark" printed in small capitals on the left side. This trademark was duly registered in the Patent Office, March 26, 1878,
and was imprinted upon the wrappers which enclosed the bottles in which the medicine was sold, and was used from the day
of its adoption in 18-73 or 1874 continuously until a change'in
the size and charaeter of the bottle and trade-mark was made
in the spring of 1884. Dr. Richmond met with considerable
success in the sale of his medicine, and was reasonably prosperous until just prior to 1882, when he became embarrassed
and unable to pay his debts, the result of engaging in a hotel
venture in St. Joseph, which proved disastrous.
In May, 1882, there was organized by Richmond and two of

OCTOBEIt TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

his clerks, under the laws of Missouri, a corporation under the
name of the "Dr. S. A. Richmond Medical Company," hereinafter called the "Medical Company," for the purpose of manufacturing and selling the Samaritan Nervine and Nervine
Pills. The capital stock of the corporation was fixed at five
thousand dollars, divided into 50 shares, of which James H.
Richmond, a brother of the defendant, was named as the
owner of 48, and John Albus and Michael Draut, the other
two incorporators, of one share each. The property of Dr.
Richmond, viz., the receipt for making the nervine and pills,
the right to manufactuie them, the trade-mark of the man
falling in a fit, the outfit or plant for manufacturing the medicine, with the good will of the business, were assigned by
Dr. Richmond to the Medical Company in consideration of
five thousand dollars, the amount of the capital stock.
Long prior to this, however, and in December, 1871, defendant Richmond was married to Eva E. Shannon, who appears
to have received from her father some money, together with
the proceeds of some real estate, which she loaned to her husband to aid him in the prosecution of his business. To secure
her for the money thus contributed, James A. Richmond,. the
Doctor's brother, on May 5, 1882, assigned to her 47 shares
of the stock he held in the Medical Company. These shares
she held until the company made an assignment for the benefit of its creditors and ceased to do business, as hereinafter
stated.
Dr. Richmond became the general manager of the company,
had charge of its business, superintended the preparation
and putting up of the medicine, purchased bottles, wrappers, etc., attended to the advertising and sales, and was paid
by the company for his services a salary of $200 per month,
and in addition was allowed free of cost sich medicines made
by the company as were needed to supply the patients he
was personally treating. He subsequently became president,
and also acted as treasurer of the company, which advertised
the Samaritan Nervine very extensively, using the trade-mark,
bottles, and wrappers assigned to it by Dr. Richmond. The
company continued prosperous from its organization in May,

RICtIMONI) NDRII NE COMPANY r. 'RICHMOND.

295

Statement of the Case.

1882, until May 13, 1884, when it made an assignment for
the benefit of its creditors under the laws of the State of
Missouri.
Before this, however, and in November or December, 1883,
Dr. Richmond, who was then president and manager of the
company, recommended a change in the size of the bottles,
and the adoption of a new trade-mark, to wit, an eight-ounce
bottle with his own portrait blown in the side, with the words
"Samaritan Nervine" and "New Style," and that the new
trade-mark consist of a portrait of himself surrounded by four
globes or hemispheres stamped or engraved on the outside
wrapper of the bottle. This new style, as it was called, was
adopted by the company, Dr. Richmond gave orders to the
Kellogg Engraving Company of Chicago for engraving the
new trade-mark, and early in 1884 ordered a large quantity
of eight-ounce bottles from a firm in Pittsburg to be made
in accordance with the new style adopted by the company,
together with cartoons with the trade-mark printed thereon.
Upon the adoption of this new style of bottle and trade-mark,
a circular was prepared by him notifying customers of the
company and the trade generally of the change made by the
company in the size of the bottles, the wrapper, and the trademark. This circular described the new bottle and the trademark, announced that they would go into use on the first day
of May, 1884, and that medicines put up in any other style
would not be genuine. They were sent to the trade generally in the United States and Canada. The old style of bottle
and the old trade-mark of a man falling in a fit were discarded; except as to stock on; the market, which had been
prepared prior to the change.
On May 13, 1884, a meeting of the directors was held, at
which Dr. Richmond announced that, owing to certain claims
being pressed, which the company could not pay, it was insolvent, and upon his recommendation a resolution was Adopted
directing him to execute an assignment of the property,
effects, assets, and business of the company for the benefit
,. its creditors. An assignment was executed to one John
F. Tyler the same day, including all the property of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

company, advertising materials , printed matter, circulars, elec
trotypes, medicine bottles, and materials on hand for the
manufacture of medicine, and all and every article of property or right belonging to the company.
The assignment appeared to have been entirely unnecessary, and was probably a scheme of defendant's to get possession and control of the company's assets, but it seemed to
have been regularly made, and the assets appraised upon an
estimate placed upon them by defendant at the sum of $998.
Immediately thereafter to wit, May 16, 1884, the property
and assets of the company were sold to one C. W. Wolverton, of Tuscola, Illinois, who was the attorney of James A.
Richmond, for the sum of $1000, two dollars more than
the appraised value. Wolverton promptly assigned whatever
interest he took by the purchase to one Powell, to whom the
assignee refused to deliver the assets, having discovered the
fraud, and Powell sued out a writ of replevin and thereby got
possession of such corporeal property as the officer holding
the writ could take and deliver.
It appeared that Dr. Richmond went to Chicago in July,
1884, and began there to manufacture the Samaritan Nevine,
to use the bottles and trade-marks that had been adopted and
procured by the Medical Company before the assignment,
including both the old and new trade-mark, and also to use
the good will of the company. He carried on this business
under the name of the "World's Medical Association" for
about three months, under a pretended lease from Powell, the
second vendee from the assignee of the Medical Company.
As soon as the sale of. the property and effects of the
company for $1000 became known to the creditors, they filed
a petition in the Circuit Court of Buchanan County, Missouri,
to set aside the sale to Wolverton upon the ground that
it was fraudulent and void as against creditors; and the
court, on hearing the evidence, on June 23, 1884, decided that
the sale was fraudulent and void, and ordered that the property be resold for the benefit of creditors, which was done,
and on August 28, 1884, James A. Richmond purchased it for
$25,000, which sale was subsequently, confirmed by the court.

RICH1'4.ND NERVINE COMPANY v. RICHMOND.

297

Statement of the Case.

Richmond paid $2500 on the purchase, and gave security for
the balance, $22,500, which, however, was never paid by him.,
On December 11, 1884, the "Dr. S. A. Richmond Nervine
Company," plaintiff, hereinafter called the Nervine Company,
was organized under the laws of the State of Missouri by
James A. Richmond, Michael Draut, and John Christ, Richmond being elected president. A resolution was then adopted
electing Dr. S. A. Richmond treasurer and general manager
of the company, at a salary of $200 per month, with power,
together with the president of the company, to execute all
contracts for carrying 'on its business.
James A. Richmond transferred to the company his interest
in the receipt for the manufacture of the medicine, the trademark, and all his personal property, and an assignment was
.also obtained from Powell of any right he claimed to have
acquired by reason of the original sale by the assignee to
Wolverton. The Nervine Company then became the sole and
exclusive owners of all the property and effects of the original
company, which had been assigned to Tyler for the benefit, of
its creditors, together with the right to manufacture and sell
the medicines and to use the trade-marks, bottles, wrapper's,
etc.
In January, 1886, after the company had been doing
business about two years, Dr. Richmond having' become
involved in certain legal proceedings, ceased his connection
with the c6mpany, and was subsequently sent to an asylum,
where he remained until November, 1887. During this time
his wife, who received seventeen shares in the Nervine Company, took charge of the business and successfully conducted
it until it was enjoined by the court below in this suit. After
he left the asylum "Dr.Richmond did not return to his family,
but went to Tuscola, Illinois, began the manufacture of the
nervine, as he had done in Chicago, using the trade-marks,
bottles, wrappers, and good will of the company without its
knowledge or consent, claiming that everything was his own
in equity at least. He subsequently had the trade-mark,
consisting of his portrait, surrounded by four globes or hemispheres, registered as his own.

OCTOBER TERN, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon the doctor was-notified by the company to cease
manufacturing the medicine and using the trade-mark, and
upon his refusal this bill was filed against him, praying for
an injunction and an accounting.
To this bill Dr. Richmond filed an answer and a cross-bill,
denying that the plaintiff company owned or had ever owned
the trade-mark in question, or any of the interests claimed by
it, or had ever used or had a right to use the eight-ounce bottles, or any trade-marks in connection therewith, except by
his permission aid subject to his right to terminate such use.
He averred that the trade-marks and good will of the business were his own; that he only leased them to the plaintiff
company; denied that his wife ever had any interest in the
stock of the old or new company, and averred that whatever
stock she held was his, and held only by her as trustee for him.
Upon a hearing upon pleadings and proofs a decree was
entered dismissing the. original bill, and decreeing upon the
cross-bill that the Nervine Company be enjoined from mak-.
ing or selling the medicines or using the bottles, wrappers, or
:trade-mark of the portrait of Dr. Richmond surrounded by
the four globes, known as the new trade-mark. From the
decree plaintiff appealed to this court.
Mr. Benjamin Butterworth, (with whom was Mr. Julian
C. Dowell on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. William Henry Browne for appellee.
M . JUSTioc BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The record in this case presents only questions of fact, in
which are involved the ownership of a trade-mark devised by
Dr. Richmond in December, 1883, consisting of a portrait of
himself, surrounded by four globes. Plaintiff's theory in this
connection is that the trade-mark in question was designed
by Dr. Richmond while acting as president and manager of
the Medical Company; was adopted and, if not used, was
advertised as about to be used, by that company prior to its

RICHMOND NERVINE COMPANY v. RICHMOND.

299

Opinion of the Court.

assignment on May 13, 1884; that it passed toTyler, the assignee of such company, by virtue of the general assignment
made upon that day, for the benefit of its creditors; that by
him it was sold to James A. Richmond, with the other assets
of the Medical Company, August 28, 1884, Richmond in turn
assigning and transferring it to the Nervine. Company, the
plaintiff in this suit.
The theory of the defendant is, as stated in his testimony,
that the Medical Company never acquired any property or
assets; that he, the-defendant, had arranged with his brother,
with the two bther stockholders of the company, and his wife
Eva, before the company was organized ; that the transfer of
the property was for his own benefit, and the stock all issued
in trust for him; that the sale to the Medical Company of the
property mentioned was a mere form; that he decided in
the fall of 1884 to change the trade-mark and wrapper from
the old style to the new style; that he spoke to his brother
about it, and stated to the company that he would lease his
trade-mark, viz., the portrait of himself, surrounded by the
four globes, to the company, provided they compromised with
one Hubbard of New Haven, to whom the company had become indebted in the sum of $33,000 for advertising; that he
had engravings made in Chicago on his own account, for his
own benefit, and paid for them himself;,that he subsequently
went to Philadelphia, after the engraving was done, and ordered boxes, cartoons, caddies, etc., for himself, on his own
account, and paid for them himself, though he may have used
the company's money and signed the company's check for the
amount; that the money was in fact his; that the company
made an assignment, but failed to lease his trade-marks owing
to the claim of Hubbard not being settled or arranged. If,
as he swears, the Medical Company was but another name
for himself and belonged to him, it is difficult to see why he
should have ordered the engravings, bottles, and cartoons on
his own account and paid for them with his own money as
distinguished from the money of the company, or why he
should have talked as he did about separating from the company and entering into business on his own account.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

He further states that he did lease the trade-mark in question to the Nervine Company about December 11, 1884,
when he became the general manager of the company, and
had charge and control of its business up to January, 1886,
soon after which he became incapacitated and insane; that
in the latter part of 1887 he notified the Nervine Company to
cease using his trade-marks, and finally, in 1889, brought suit
to compel them to do so.
There is a-large amount of testimony in the case which is
manifestly irrelevant to the question in issue. While it is
entirely possible that the Medical Company may have been
organized for the purpose of enabling Dr. Richmond to avoid
individual liability, and the stock which properly bel6nged to
him put in the name of the nominal stockholders in pursuance
of a scheme to defraud his creditors, the existence of this corporation cannot be ignored in this proceeding. Were the
proof never so satisfactory that the 47 shares of stock of the
Medical Company transferred by defendant's brother to his
wife Eva were in fact intended to be held in trust for him, we
could not assume that she was not the bona fide owner of the
stock standing in her name, as the object of this suit is not to
impeach such ownership; nor could it be done in any suit
to which she was not a party.
The real question is whether on May 13, 1884, the date of
the general assignment to the Medical Company, it was then
the owner of the trade-mark in question, since if it were, it
passed to the assignee of the corporation as a part of its
assets. Upon this point there is considerable conflict of testimony. Prior to 1884 the only trade-mark in use by the Medical Company was that of a man falling in a fit, and this it is
admitted passed to the assignee, and ,is now the property of
the plaintiff. There is no doubt that Dr. Richmond, in November or December, 1883, while acting as president and manager of the company, devised the trade-mark in question, and
made all the necessary arrangements for the intended change
in the size of the bottle and in the trade-mark; that advertisements were put into circulars notifying the trade that the
change would take place on the first of May, 1884: that the

RICHMOND NER VINE COMPANY v. RICHMOND. 1 301
Opinion of the Court.

bills for engraving this trade-mark were all paid for by
the company and charged, not to Dr. Richmond personally,
but to the expense account of the company; that the circulars announcing the proposed change were printed and circulated in January and February of that year, under the
supervision of Dr. Richmond; that these circulars contained
a fac-simile of the cartoon or caddy as it would appear, together with a notice warning the public that none would be
genuine unless thus encased, and bearing the following inscription: "Have Dr. Richmond's picture blown in the bottle,
his picture to be printed m two sides of the caddy or cartoon,
and the bottle enlarged;" that orders were placed for the
new style of bottle with a Pittsburg firm, and were paid for
by the company on delivery. Some of these bottles were
received about the first of May, while Dr. Richmond continued to be superintendent of the company, and a memorandum
of their payment appears upon the cash book of the company.
There was also an order placed for cartoons to be used after
May 1 for wrapping or encasing the nervine preparation,
which were also paid for by the company. These cartoons
contained the words: "Put up or prepared by the Dr. S. A.
Richmond Medical Company." After Dr. Richmond left St.
Joseph and went to Chicago, the words "Prepared by the
Dr. S. A. Richmond Nervine Company" were changed to
"Prepared by the World's Medical Association," the name
under which defendant did business in Chicago. While
it is doubtful whether the Medical Company actually sold
any medicines put up in the new bottles, and encased in the
new wrappers and bearing the new trade-mark, before its
assignment, there is no doubt that a large quantity of these
bottles, cartoons, and wrappers were on hand at the time of
such assignment, which bad been paid for and belonged to the
company. Nor is there any doubt that after the organization of the Nervine Company, these bottles, wrappers, and
trade-marks were made use of by such company, the plaintiff
in this case, so long as Dr. Richmond continued to be its
general manager. Defendant claims that this was done under
a lease from himself, which was in writing, but this lease is

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the, Court.

neither produced nor accounted for, and in his cross-bill only
an oral license is claimed. The business done by Dr. Richmond in Chicago from July to October, 1884, under the name
of the World's Medical Association, appears to have been
a mere episode, as lie resumed business in St. Joseph upon
the organization of the plaintiff company in December, 1884,
and continued With them until January, 1886.
The testimony of Dr. Richmond, who was the main Witness
in his own behalf, is materially impaired, not only by his own
confession-that the organization of the Medical Company -was
procured by himself for the purpose of defrauding his creditors, and that the first appraisement and sale of its assets
were also'a fraud concocted by him for the same purpose, but
by the further fact that, in a suit brought at Columbus, Ohio,
against him for advertising, he swore that he owned none of
the stock of the Medical Company, and that he had no interest in such stock. A witness, who at different times gives
different versions of the same transaction, and blows hot or
cold as his interest in the particular litigation may require,
can scarcely complain if the court fail to give his testimony
the weight to which it would otherwise be entitled.
In fine, we are of the opinion that the Nervine Company is
justly entitled to the use of the trade-mark in question.
The fact -that such trade-mark bears Dr. Richmond's own
name and portrait does not render it unassignable to another.
Kidd v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 617, 620; Brown Chemical Co. v.
Meyer, 139 U. S. 540; J1oxie v. Chaney, 143 Mass. 592, 595;
Fish Bros. Wagon Co. v. La Belle Wagon Works, 8.2 Wisconsin, 546.
The decree of the court below must be
Reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

