OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 36. Argued October 16, 1895. -- Decided November 11, 1895.

The plaintiffs in error imported into the port of New York in November, 1888,
a quantity of wool which had been scoured; which was then put upon a
comb from which it came in long lengths known as slivers or slubbing;
which was then put through a process called gilling, which formd. the
slivers into P.less number of slivers of greater tlickness; and which was
then taken into the drawing room and finished, from whence it came oat
in the form of round balls called tops. The collector first classed the
goods as waste, and fixed the duty at ten cents a pound under the act of
March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat. 4-8, which duty was paid; but subsequently
the collector imposed on the whole importation, under the same act, a duty
of ten cents a pound as wool of the first class, costing under thirty cents
per pound in the unwashed condition; then trebled that duty, because
imported scoured; and then doubled the result upon the ground that the
tops had been changed in their character or condition for the purpose of
evading the duty. The importer declined to pay the excess of duty so
imposed, and the United States commenced this action to recover it.
Held, That the duty of sixty cents a pound was properly imposed, and
that there was no error in the rulings of the trial court which are set
forth In the opinion of this court.

THIS was an action by the United States in the District Court
against the importing firm of George W. Patton & Co. to
recover certain duties claimed to be due on thirty-three bales
of merchandise entered by the importers as " wool waste,"
and claimed by them to be dutiable at ten cents per pound
under the following clause of schedule K of the tariff act of
1883: "Woollen rags, shoddy, mungo, waste, and flocks, ten
cents per pound." At the time of the importation (November,
1888) the duties were accordingly assessed and paid at this
rate.
The appraiser subsequently returned the goods as "scoured
wool, broken tops, class 1, costing under thirty cents per
pound in the unwashed condition, sixty cents per pound."

The collector accordingly fixed the duty at sixty cents per

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

pound, under the following paragraphs of the act of March 3,
1883 , c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 508.
"All wools

.

.

.

shall be divided, for the purpose of

fixing the duties to be charged thereon, into .the three following classes:
"Class one, clothing wools - that is to say, merino
wools," etc.
"The duty on wools of the first class which shall be imported
washed shall be twice the amount of the duty to which they
would be subjected if imported unwashed; and the duty on
wools of all classes which shall be imported scoured shall be
three timcs the duty to which they would be subjected if
imported unwashed."
"The duty upon wool
.
.
which shall be imported in
any other than ordinary condition, as now and heretoforc
practised, or which shall be changed in its character or condition for the purpose of ovading the duty . . . shall be
twice the duty to which it would be otherwise subject."
The collector first imposed a duty of ten cents a pound upon
this as wool of the first class, costing under thirty cents per
pound in the unwashed condition, then trebled this duty,
because they were imported scoured, and again doubled the
result upon the ground that they had been changed in their
character or condition for the purpose of evading the duty.
This made the aggregate duty sixty cents per pound, which
appears to have been greater than the whole value of the goods.
To recover the difference paid upon the entry and the duty
imposed by the collector, the United States brought this suit.
Upon trial before a jury, the court charged that the impor'
tation in question could not be considered as wool waste, as it
did not consist of refuse or broken particles thrown off in the
process of manufacture, and was made intentionally by tearing
up what are called "wool tops," which consist of wool which
has been subjected to several processes, and prepared for spinning; and that it could not be considered as a manufacture of
wool; and hence the court left it to the jury to say whether
the wool was imported scoured, and in a condition other than
that in which such wool was customarily imported in March,

OCTOBER TERAM, 1895.
Opdiin of the Court.

1883, and previously. The court expressed the opinion that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover the amount of the duties
assessed, but submitted the case to the jury upon the evidence.
The jury found a general verdict for the plaintiff in the sum
of $10,887.26, and further found, in answer to a special question submitted to them by agreement, "that the tops which
were broken into fragments constituting this importation were
so broken for the purpose of changing the condition of the
wool from tops into the fragments resembling waste, for the
purpose of evading the duty to which the wool in the form of
tops would be subjected on importation into this country, or
evading duty to which the importers believed the tops would
be liable."
Judgment having been entered upon this verdict, defendant
sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United
States, which affirmed the judgment of the court below.
Defendants thereupon sued out a writ of error from this
court.
_Hr. Frank P. Prichard,(with whom was .r. John G.
Johnson on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
Mr.Assistant Attoirney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTIcE

BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. The first assignment of error is that which is taken to
the instruction to the jury that the importation in question,
though called wool waste, seems to be so called only because
of its resemblance to what was formerly known by this designation; that it does not consist of refuse or broken particles
thrown off in the process of manufacture, but is made intentionally, by tearing up what are called " wool tops," which
consist of wool which has been put through several processes
and prepared for spinning, and that the term "waste " did not
embrace this commodity.
The correctness of this instruction turns upon the meaning

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
opinion of the Court.

of the words "woollen waste," as used in the act of 1883. As
bearing upon this, we are at liberty to consider its ordinary
definition, which will be controlling, except so far as it may be
varied by a commercial designation obtaining at that time.
Saltonstall v. Wiebusch, 156 IT.S. 601. Waste is defined by
Webster as "that which is of no value; worthless remnants;
refuse. Specifically: remnants of cops, or other refuse resulting from the working of cotton, wool, hemp, and the like, used
for wiping machinery ; absorbing oil in the axle boxes of railroad cars, etc." In this connection, and in the same clause of
the statute, other words are included, undoubtedly referring to
articles of the same or of a similar nature. These are "rags;
s.4oddy," defined as "a fibrous material, obtained by devilling '
or tearing into fibres, refuse woollei goods, old stockings, rags,
druggets, etc.;" "mungo," which properly signifies the disintegrated rags of woollen cloth, as distinguished from those of
worsted, 'hich form shoddy ; and "flocks," defined as "woollen
or cotton refuse, old rags, etc., reduced to a degree of fineness
by machinery, and used for stuffing upholstered furniture ;"
and also as "very fine sifted woollen refuse, especially that
from shearing the nap of cloths, used as a coating for wall
paper to give it a velvety or cloth-like appearance." The
prominent characteristic running through all these definitions
is that of refuse, or material that is not susceptible of being
used for the ordinary purposes of manufacture. It does not
presuppose that the article is absolutely worthless, but that
it is unmerchantable and used for purposes for which merchantable material of the same class is unsuitable.
The importation in question consisted of wool which had
been scoured, then carded and prepared ; then put upon a
comb, from which it comes in long lengths, known as slivers or
slubbing. It is then put through a process called gilling,
which forms the slivers into a less number of slivers of
greater thickness. These slivers are then taken into the draw
ing room and finished, from whence they come out in the
form of round balls, called "tops."
These tops become new
articles of merchandise, which are sold to the spinners, who
spin them into worsted yarn.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the.Court.

In the process of making the tops, short ends of wool are
produced, which are called, and sold in the trade as "Botany
laps" or ' Botany waste," the two terms being synonymous
in the English market. After the top is produced, it sometimes happens that it is shorter in staple than wa- anticipated,
or not of the proper color, or that it has to be recarded to
get out the burrs, or for some other reason it becomes
In such cases, it has always been the
unmerchantable.
practice in England to break up the tops as unfit for ordinary
use, and in that condition they are sold for the same purpose as wool waste, and are known and sold commercially
as Botany laps or Botany waste. It was not claimed, however,
that they formed a recognized article of commerce in this
country, or to any great extent in England. At and prior
to 1883, there was no quotable market price for waste, for
the reason that the manufacture was not large, though it was
bought and sold to a certain extent on its merits upon the
market.
In 1887 or 1888, owing to the depression of the wool trade
in England, and the demand for waste in this country, the
price of tops became so low and the price of waste so high,
that the deliberate breaking up of tops began'for the purpose
of exporting them to America as waste, though there is no
evidence of any importation of this character prior to 1887.
The discovery that the tops thus broken up might be entered
at the American custom-houses as " waste" produced such
a sudden demand for exportation that, while the amount
declared at the American consulate at Bradford, the centre
of this trade, for the last two months of 1887, and the first
two months of 1888, was only 190,088 pounds, for the corresponding months of 1888 and 1889 it rose to 1,803,558
pounds.
It appeared from the evidence that the waste, whether
intentionally or unintentionally produced, was an article
having different qualities from the merchantable wool, and
was used as an adulterant. It is, however, used like other
scoured wool, being mixed with it in the carding machine,
and is worth only ten or fifteen cents less per pound than

PATTON v. UNITEI) STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

scoured wool of the same character; and hence, in view of
the difference in tariff rates, is an article of much more value
than scoured wool for the purposes of importation. While
these broken tops became a large import under the designation of waste, they never seem to have been prepared in this
country for the purposes of sale, the tops being much more
valuable in their unbroken condition; while in England, in
1888, the broken tops were more valuable than the unbroken
ones. The testimony upon both sides indicates that this
artificial kind of waste is, for obvious reasons, more uniform
and clean, and, therefore, more valuable than genuine waste.
It was not disputed that the importations in question consisted of tops deliberately broken up for the purposes of sale.
The main question is whether the action of the collector
was correct in refusing to allow them to be entered under the
denomination of "1waste."
If the ordinary definition of "waste," as refuse matter
thrown off in the process of manufacture, is to control, it is
quite clear that the importations in question are not susceptible of this meaning. The common definition or " waste"
lends no support to the theory of the defendants.
With regard to its commercial designation there was undoubtedly some testimony tending to show that, in England,
merchantable tops broken up for the purpose of exportation had acquired the commercial designation of waste, or
more properly, "broken top waste;" that the importations
in question were ordered by the defendants under the latter
designation, and that such waste was preferred to the ordinary
waste or refuse, because the latter had too much slubbing.
This designation, however, was confined to such waste as had
been purchased since 1887, and threw no light upon the commercial designation of the article in question at or prior to
March, 1883. There is little or nothing to indicate that the
practice of breaking up merchantable tops for export prevailed
in England prior to 1887, when the attention of wool dealers
there seems to have been called to the profits that could be
made by exporting broken tops to America. There were,
however, several witnesses produced by the defence, who were

OCTP()i)IL TE 1 iM, 1,8',J5.
Opinion of thc Court.

residents of the United States, and who swore that the article
in question had been known in this country as top waste since
1866, and that there was no difference in the commercial
designation of the article, whether it was intentionally or
unintentionally produced.
This must, however, be taken in connection with the undisputed testimony that merchantable tops had never been broken
up in England to form waste prior to 1887 or 1888, when the
attention of dealers was first directed to the profits which
could be made by importing them into this country under
that denomination. The witnesses upon cross-examination admitted that they had never known of merchantable tops being
broken up and imported here as waste prior to 1887, and their
testimony, so far as it bears upon preceding years, indicates
that the top waste referred to was that produced by the
breaking up of discolored or otherwise unmerchantable tops,
the product of which was known commercially and properly
as waste or top waste. In short, the testimony upon this subject
falls far short of establishing a commercial designation applicable to these articles with the certainty, uniformity, and
generality required by the decisions of this court. Waddock
v. Magone, 152 U. S. 368, 371 ; Berbecker v. Robetfon, 152
U. S. 373, 377; Sonn v. Alagone, 159 U. S. 417. In default
of such evidence, the term will be presumed to have been
used in the tariff act in its ordinary sense of refuse. Swan v.
Arthur, 103 U. S. 597; Schmlieder v. Barney, 113 U. 8. 645.
Taking the testimony all together, we think there was po such
evidence of a commercial designation of the articles in question as made it incumbent upon the court to submit the question to the jury.
But had the evidence upon this point been much stronger
than it was, it is difficult to see how it could avail the defendant in view of the clause that "the duty upon wool . . .
which shall be imported in any other than ordinary condition,
as now or heretofore practised, or which shall be changed in
its character or condition for the purpose of evading the duty
shall pay twice the duty to which it would otherwise
be subject." Although it was submitted as a separate question

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of tile Court.

to the jury, the testimony was practically undispu.ted, that the
articles in question were merchantable tops broken up for the
purpose of changing their character or condition from that of
tops to that of waste, and that it was done for the purpose of
evading the duty to which the wool in the form of tops would
be subject on importation, or, at least, to which the importer
believed it would be liable. If such change were made, and
made for this purpose, it would make no difference whether
the article thus produced was known commercially as waste
or not. Assuming that the product would be waste, it would
be waste produced by a process which Congress had refused
to recognize, and the fact that the classification of the article
was thereby changed would not relieve it from the double
duty which Congress had imposed upon wool whose character
or condition had been changed.
In this connection, we are referred by counsel for defendants
to two cases which are supposed to justify the inference that
imported merchandise may be treated in such manner as to
change its classification, even though such change were made
for the purpose of securing its importation at a lower rate of
duty. In the first of these cases, Merritt v. Walsh, 104 U. S.
694, certain sugars were given an artificial color in the process
of manufacture. The sole test of their dutiable quality was
their actual color, as graded by the Dutch standard. It had
been decided that this meant the color of the sugar obtained
by the ordinary process. of manufacture, and that any means
used to degrade the color after such process was a fraud upon
the revenue. As no proof was offered to show that they were
artificially colored after the manufacture was completed, the
court instructed the jury to find a verdict for the plaintiffs.
The real question was whether (supposing that sugars were
not artificially colored for the purpose of avoiding duties after
being manufactured) their dutiable quality was to be decided
by their actual color or by their saccharine strength. It was
decided that as the Dutch standard was a color standard only,
even if the sugars had been manufactured in dark colors on purpose to evade our duties, the entry at a reduced value was nevertheless lawful, and that the remedy lay with Congress alone.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In the second case, Seeberger v. F]rwell, 139 U. S.608, 611,
this court held that certain manufactures of wool, into which
a few threads of cotton had been introduced for the purpose of
securing the classification of the goods at a lower rate of duty,
were properly subject to classification at that rate, although
the quantity of cotton was so small as not to materially change
the character of the goods as merchandise, the court observing
that "Cofgress having made special provision for a lower rate
of duty upon goods when composed in part of wool, without
naming how much of other material should enter into their
composition in order to secure such lower rate of duty, the
court was of opinion that manufacturers and importers had a
right to adjust themselves to the foregoing clause of the tariff,
and to manufacture the goods with only a small percentage of
cotton, for the purpose of making them dutiable at the lower
rate." In those cases, however, there was no such provision
applicable to sugars or to woollen cloths as exists in this case,
providing that where wool unmanufactured shall be changed
in its character or condition for the purpose of evading duty a
double duty shall be imposed. The object of this legislation
seems to have been to make that unlawful with respect to
raw wools which had been held to be legitimate with respect
to other articles.
2. We are also of opinion that the importations in question
cannot be considered as manufactures of wool. Assuming
that the tops, before being broken up, represented a stage in
the process of converting the wool into cloth, which would
entitle them to be considered as manufactures; if the tops be
reconverted into wool, so that the process has to be gone
through with again, the wool loses its character as a manufacture and resumes its character as wool, even though it acquires
the new commercial designation of waste. Waste in its ordinary sense being merely refuse thrown off in the process of
converting raw wool into a manufacture of wool, cannot be
considered a manufacture simply because it acquires a new
designation, and if it be artificially produced by'the breaking
up of the tops it is with even less reason entitled to be so considered. Unless natural waste can be treated as a manufacture,
artificial waste should not.

PATTON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The clause in the tariff act covering these manufactures imposed both a specific and an ad valorem duty upon "woollen
cloths, woollen shawls, and all manufactures of wool of every
description.'? Applying the rule nositur a sooiis, it can
hardly be supposed that wool, used for the purpose of waste
and as an adulterant in the manufacture of cloths, was to be
included in the same designation as woollen cloths andd shawls,
which evidently refer to articles made of wool and having a separate designation of their own. But however this may be, the
article in question does not fall within the definition of manufactures as laid down by this court in numerous cases. Thus,
in United States v. Potts, 5 Cranch, 284, round copper bottoms
turned up at the edge, not imported for use in the form
in which they were imported, but designed to be worked
up into vessels, were held not to be manufactured copper
within the intention of the legislature. So, in Iartranft
v. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609, shells cleaned by acid, and then
ground on an emery wheel, and some of them afterwards
etched by acid, and intended to be sold for ornaments, as
shells, were held to be "shells" and not "manufactures of
shell." The question is fully discussed in Lawrence v. Allen,
7 How. 785, in which, however, it was held that india rubber
shoes made in Brazil, by simply allowing the sap of the india
rubber trees to harden'upon a form, were manufactured articles because they were capable of use in that shape as shoes.
Indeed, this was the form in which such shoes were at first
made. Finally, in Seeberger v. Castro, 153 U. S. 32, tobacco
scrap consisting of clippings from the ends of cigars and pieces
broken from tobacco, of which "cigars are made in the process
of such manufacture, not being fit for use in the condition in
which they are imported, were held to be subject to duty as
unmanufactured tobacco. This scrap is in the nature of waste,
and the case is directly in point.
3. The remaining assignment is as to the charge of the court
that, if this wool was imported scoured, and in condition other
than that in which such wool was customarily imported in
March, 1883, and previously, it fell within the provision of
wool imported scoured. There is abundance of testimony to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

the effect that the article imported was not known commercially as "scoured wool ;" but in the view taken by the court
below, which we think was correct, this was immaterial.
The act does not impose a duty upon scoured wool as such by
its commercial designation, but provides that "the duty on
wools . . . which shall be imported washed, shall be twice
the amount of duty to which they would be subject if im-.
p)orted univashed; and the duty on wools of all classes which
shall be imported scoured, shall be three times the duty to
which they would be subjected if imported unwashed." In
short, the act refers not to the commercial designation but
to the fact whether the wool has been actually scoured or
washed, or is imported unwashed. If the wools have in fact
undergone the process of scouring, they are properly classified
:is imported scoured, although they may not be known coinine 'cially as scoured wools.
There was no error in the rulings of the court below, of
which the defendants were entitled to complain, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
.A4firmed.

THIEDE v. UTAH TERRITORY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 633. Submitted October 21, 1895. -

Decided November 11, 1895.

It is not error in Utah to proceed to trial of a person accused of murder
before the filing of the transcript of the preliminary examination had
under the Compiled Laws of Utah, ยง 4883.
The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 1033, that the defendant in a capital case is
entitled to have delivered to him at least two entire days before the
trial a copy of the indictment and a list of the witnesses to be pro(uced on the trial does not control the practice and procedure of the
local courts of Utah.
In Utah a juror in a capital case who states on his voir dire that he had read
an account of the homicide 'in
the newspaper and formed some impression touching it, but that he could lay that aside and try the case fairly
and impartially on the evidence, is not subject to challenge for cause.
A juror is lot subject to cldlnge for cause in a criminal proceedling

