OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

company. The 85,45.7.40 acres of which the lands- in dispute
were part, and which remained with the State after transferring to the company 322,412.81 acres of the 407,870.21 acres
patented to the State for the use of the company, were not,
and could not legally have been, covered by the mortgages.
Upon the grounds stated in this opinion, we adjudge that
the decree below did not prejudice any right of the appellants,
or of either of them, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

THE NORTHERN

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 47. Argued April 16, 17, 1895. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

Congress, in the grant made by the act of May 12, 1864, 13 Stat. 72, had in
view two railroads, one extending from Sioux City to the Minnesota
line, the other from South McGregor by a named route to a point of inter-

section with the Sioux City road; and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Company, as the successor in right of the McGregor Company,
is in no position to question the decree just affirmed in Sioux City &

St. Paul Railroad Company v. United States, establishing the title of the
United States as against the Sioux City Company, and is estopped by the

decree in Sioux City & St. PaulRailroad v. Chicago, 'Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway, 117 U. S. 406, from making any claim whatever to the lands in
controversy in this suit.
Neither of the railroad companies named in said act of May 12, 1864, could
get the benefit of the moiety of lands granted for the building of the

other, in the overlapping limits of the two roads, by reason of the failure
of the other to construct its road.

THlE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. If Norris for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for the United
States.
Mr. William Lawrence for homestead and preemption
claimants,

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. R'Y v. UNITED STATES.

373

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusicR HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
After the Circuit Court had announced its conclusions in
the case of Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company v.
United States, just decided, the Milwaukee company obtained
leave to intervene as a defendant, and by cross-bill assert its
right to the lands in Dickinson and O'Brien Counties, originally patented to the State of Iowa for the use of the Sioux
City and St. Paul Railroad Company, and within the conflicting place limits of the two roads, but which the State held and
never conveyed to that companyj and which the court below
found to be the property of the United States as against the
Sioux City company and the trustees in the mortgages executed
by it.
Such a cross-bill was filed before the entry in the court below
of a final decree on the original bill, and the cause was left
undetermined as to the claims asserted by the Milwaukee company in its cross-bill.
Benjamin Olson, Peter Anderson, and others, parties defendant in the original suit, intervened, with leave of the court,
as defendants, and, by a cross-bill against the Milwaukee
company and the Sioux City company, asserted rights to
portions of the lands in controversy - having settled, they
alleged, on such lands, under the laws of the United States,
between the years 1881 and 1887, and made valuable improvements thereon.
The United States answered the cross-bill of the Milwaukee
company, and also filed an amended bill, in which it prayed
that by final decree its title to the lands awarded to it by the
original decree as against the Sioux City company, be established and quieted as against the Milwaukee company.
The court below rendered a decree in favor of the United
States on this amended bill, and dismissed the cross-bill of the
Milwaukee company.
The cross-bill of Olson and others was dismissed without
prejudice. This was done because the pleadings presented no
issue as between the settlers and the United States; the crossbill of the settlers being against the railroad companies only.

()CTOIR TERM, 189.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the appellant has no reason, in law,
to complain of the decree of the Circuit Court.
Although the act of May 12, 1864, would, if its title alone
were consulted, furnish some slight ground for the contention
that the object of the grant therein was to aid in the construction of "a railroad," its provisions plainly show that Congress
had in view two railroads; one extending from Sioux City to
the Minnesota line; the other from South McGregor, by a
named route, to a point of intersection, in the county of
O'Brien, with the Sioux City road.
The grant was of every alternate section, designated by odd
numbers, for ten sections in width, "on each side of said roads,"
and, therefore, for the benefit of the roads separately. As
decided in the other case, no part of the lands granted in aid
of the construction of one road could be applied in aid of the
other road. The act is to be interpreted as if Congress by one
act made a grant to the State in aid of the construction of the
Sioux City road on the route designated, and, by another and,
separate act, passed at the same time, made a grant to the
State in aid of the construction of the other road from South
McGregor to a point of intersection with the Sioux City road.
It appeared in the original case, and appears in the
present case made by the cross-bill of the Milwaukee road
- and Congress, in requiring an intersection of the two
roads, must have anticipated such a condition of thingsthat because of the conflict between the two grants, it was
impossible to set apart for each road every alternate oddnumbered section for-ten sections in width on each side of
every part of its located line. Consequently, in the suit
brought against the Sioux City compapy by the Milwaukee
company as the last successor to the McGregor Western Railroad Company, by a final decree framed pursuant to the
directions given by this court in Sioux City & St. Paul
Railroad v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 117
If. S. 406, the lands within the conflicting lines were, prior
to the institution of the present suit, partitioned between
the two companies.
The claim of the Milwaukee company now is, that it is

CHICAGO, MILWATKEE &c. R'Y v. UNITED STATES.

375

Opinion of the Court.

entitled, under the act of May 12, 1864, to the lands involved
in the present controversy, although by the decree in Sioux
City & St. Paul Railroad v. Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, and which is conclusive between those companies, they
have been withheld from it upon the specific ground that
they *ere never granted by Congress to aid in the construction of the McGregor or Milwaukee road, but were granted
in aid of the construction of the Sioux City road and for
no other purpose. If, as matter of law and fact, these lands
were never granted for the benefit of the Milwaukee road,
but were granted in aid of the construction of the Sioux City
road, and for no other purpose, they could never -consistently with the act of Congress -have
been used by the
State for the benefit of the Milwaukee'road. Sioux City &
St. 'PaulRailroad v. United States, ante, just decided.
It is, therefore, of no concern to the Milwaukee company,
as the successor in right of the McGregor company, what
was done with them by the State, nor whether the United
States legally reacquired title to them as against the Sioux
City company. It is in no position to question the decree
on the original bill establishing the title of the United States
as against the Sioux City company, and it is estopped by
the decree in the suit which it brought to make any claim
whatever to these lands. If, as has been conclusively adjudged, the Milwaukee company -was without title or claim
as against the Sioux City company, no rights could subsequently accrue to it by reason of the decree declaring that
these lands reverted to the United States by reason of the
failure of the Sioux City company and of the State to construct the road over the entire route from Sioux City to the
Minnesota line. As these lands were set apart exclusively
for the construction of the Sioux City road, no failure to construct that road by the State or by the corporation charged
with the duty of building it, could, in any case, without the
assent of Congress, justify their being applied in aid of the
construction of another and distinct road.
The defendant rests its claim in part upon the act of the
Iowa legislature of February 27, 1878, c. 21. By that act

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the State resumed all lands and rights theretofore granted
to the McGregor and Sioux City Railway Company, the
immediate successor of the McGregor Western Railroad
Company, and conferred upon the Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company (which succeeded, in right, the
McGregor and Sioux City Railway Company) "all lands
and rights of lands, whether in severalty, jointly, or in
c~mmon, and including all lands or rights to lands or any
interest therein or claims thereto, whether certified or not,
embraced within the overlapping or conflicting limits of the
two grants or roads made and described by the act of
Congress hereinafter designated, [the act of May 12, 1864,]
granted to the State of Iowa to aid in the construction of
a railroad" from South McGregor to intersect with the road
from Sioux City to the Minnesota line. It is contended
that when it became certain that the Sioux City company
had, by failure to construct its road within the time specified
by the act of Congress, lost its right to the lands, the State,
to which they had been patented specifically for the use
and benefit of the Sioux City road, could pass to the Chicago,
Milwaukee and St. Paul Company the title to any lands
within the. overlapping limits, that had not been, and could
not, nor would not, be applied to the Sioux City road.
This position cannot be sustained upon any theory that
would be consistent with the act of Congress. As we have already said in Sioux City & St. PaulRailroad v. United States,
the grant of an equal undivided moiety of lands in the overlapping limits of two roads was a grant for the benefit of
each road, of the particular moiety of lands dedicated by the
act of Congress to its construction. Neither road could get
the benefit of the moiety of lands granted for the building of
the other road,, by reason of the failure of the company constructing the latter road to earn its moiety of the lands. This
results from the explicit declaration by Congress of the purposes for which the lands were to be used, and by express
words, excluding all others. The provision that the lands
"hereby granted shall be disposed of by said State for the
purposes aforesaid only," precludes the idea that the State

SIOUX CITY &c. 1RAILROA1)

,. COUNTRYMAN.

377

Syllabus.

could, without a breach of trust, apply lands for the benefit
of one road that had been granted to aid the construction of
another road.
Besides, it is manifest from the face of the act of the Iowa
legislature of 1878 that there was no purpose to give the Milwaukee or McGregor road the benefit of any lands not granted
to aid in its construction. For the language of that act was
that "when said railroad [the McGregor road] shall have been
built and constructed to the point of connection with the Sioux
City and St. Paul Railroad, then and thereupon the governor
of this State shall patent and transfer to said Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company all the remaining
lands belonging to or embraced in said grant appertaining
to their line of railroad,including all or any part or moiety
of the lands in said overlapping limits which, by the terms of
said act of Congress, apertain to their line of road." ยง 3.
It having been finally adjudged as between the Sioux City
company and the Milwaukee company that these lands did
not appertain to the latter road, there is no foundation for a
suit by the Milwaukee company to compel the United States
to surrender any title it may have or claim, however such title
may have been acquired.
.Decreeaffirmed.

SIOUX CITY AND ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY
v. COUNTRYMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 30.

Argued April 16, 17,1895. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

At the time when the United States instituted the suit against the plaintiff
in error which has just been decided, the plaintiff in error had no interest
whatever in the 26,017.33 acres of land certified back to the United States
by the governor of Iowa, pursuant to a statute of that State, and all

such land was then subject to entry under the preemption and homestead
laws.

