COWLEY v. NORLTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAI) C).

569

Syllabus.

As cheaper grades of paper than the writing and drawing
paper enumerated in the paragraph last referred to were elsewhere referred to in the act, it is obvious that the expression
"and all other paper not specifically enumerated or provided
for in this act" meant precisely what was expressed, and embraced paper of any grade, not elsewhere enumerated in the
act. "Other paper, not elsewhere provided for," would embrace "tissue" paper, Lawrence v. Merritt,127 U. S. 113, and
that term would also seem to include the various grades of
brown and other wrapping paper, and the rope manilla paper
out of which the "leather goods" of plaintiffs in error were
produced, even though not of the high grade of paper known
as writing and drawing papers.
It follows from what has been stated that the court rightly
refused the charges requested by plaintiffs in error. It equally
follows that if the word "paper" had a well-known signification in trade and commerce in 1883, which embraced these
products, that meaning would control. Cadwalader v. Zeh,
151 U. S. 171, and cases cited p. 176. This principle clearly
authorized the court to submit to the jury the question : "Was
this article, in the trade and commerce of this country, wheni
Congress legislated in 1883, a variety of paper ?" and to inistruct them, in the event they answered the question in the
affirmative, to find in favor of the collector.
Affirmed.

COWLEY v. NORTHIERIN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 6Li Argued and submitted October 22, 1895.-Decided November 18, 1895.

In a proceeding-conimenced in a court of the State of Washington, under
the statutes of that State, by filing a j etition to set aside a judgment
charged to have been obtained there through fraud and collusion between
the plaintiff's attorney of record and the defendant's attorney of record,

OCTO3ER TERM, 189.
Statement of the Case.
and against the plaintiff's instructions touching a pretended compromise
removed on the defendant's motion to the Circuit Court of the
-and
United States for that Circuit, it is Held, that the cause, although in the
nature of a bill in equity, remained, so far as the rights of the plaintiff
were concerned, a special proceeding under the Territorial statute, and
that the powers of the Federal court, in dealing with it, were gauged
not merely by its general equity jurisdiction, but by the special authority
given the State courts by statute.
Federal courts may enforce on their equity or admiralty side new rights or
privileges conferred by State or Territorial statutes as they may enforce
new rights of action, given by statute, upon their common law side.
The averment in such a petition that the case was a case of fraud within
the provisions of the statute of the State was sufficient to give the Federal court jurisdiction to act under the statute, and such jurisdiction
could not be defeated by proof that no fraud was actually committed;
but the plaintiff would be entitled to recover if he were able to show
that he never assented to the pretended compromise, or that he repudiated it, and revoked the authority of his attorneys.
The case having been removed to the Federal court upon the defendant's
petition, it does not' lie in its mouth to claim that that court had no
jurisdiction of the case, unless the court from which it was removed
had no jurisdiction.

THIS was a proceeding originally instituted in tWe District
Court of' the fourth judicial district, of Washington Territory,
under a territorial statute, to set aside a certain judgment
rendered in a case brought by the Railroad Company against
the appellant, Cowley, in the same court.
The facts of the case were substantially as follows: In 1886,
the Railroad Company began an action against the appellant
to recover possession of 120 acres of land within.the limits of
Spokane Falls. In answei to the complaint in that action,
Cowley set up a contract of purchase of the land between
himself and the Railroad Company, alleging that he had complied or was ready to comply with the terms of his contract,
had gone into possession of the land'pursuant thereto, and had
made valuable improvements thereon to the amount of $1500,
and demanded a specific performance. This answer or counter
claim was denied by the Railroad Company in its reply, and
the case being'thus at issue, was referred to a referee to take
testimony. The case was set for hearing by the referee on
May 10, 1888, and was aftetwards adjourned to May 11.

COWLEY v. NORTHERN PACIFIfC RAIL[-OAI) CO. 571
Statement of the Case.

On the day originally set for the hearing, the land agent
of the Railroad Company made an oral offer to appellant's
attorneys, who were to receive one-quarter of the proceeds of
the action, to compromise the suit by the payment to appellant of $8000 in cash, and the conveyance of seven and onehalf acres of the land in question, the company to retain the
remainder of the land. This offer the appellant's attorneys,
Messrs. Ganahl & Hagan, advised him to accept. There was
some dispute as to whether it was actually accepted or not,
but the court found that it was. The allegation of the petition in this connection is "that after full and mature consideration of said proposition, said Cowley decided to reject the
same, and so notified his attorneys, Messrs. Ganahl & Hagan,
and being very anxious about having said cause prosecuted to
a final and successful issue in the courts, and being desirous
of having his case tried by attorneys having confidence in the
merits thereof, he determined to associate other counsel with
said Ganahl & Hagan in the defence of said cause, and so notified them, asking that such other counsel should take an equal
share with said Ganahl & Hagan in the conduct and defence
of said cause."
If the proposition was accepted, as claimed by the Railroad
Company, and found by the court, there is no doubt that it
was subsequently repudiated by Cowley, who informed his
attorneys that he was dissatisfied with it, and desired to employ other counsel with them, to which they refused to consent, except upon payment of their fees. There is no doubt
that appellant also telegraphed the general land agent of the
Railroad Company that he mugt have additional time to consider the proposition of compromise, to which the land agent
replied that there was nothing to consider, the settlement
having been made and the papers and money sent. The president of the First National Bank of Spokane Falls, to whom
the money and papers were sent by the Railroad Company on
May 16, took them to the office of appellant's attorneys and
informed them that, on the execution of a quitclaim deed by
appellant and his wife, the money would be paid over. But
it seems the appellant refused to execute the deed, and has

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ever since refused, and the money has ever since been in the
bands of the president of the bank, ready to be turned over.
On the following day, May 17, appellant wrote to the
attorney of the Railroad Company, and to its general land
agent, that the offer was not accepted; that Ganahl & Hagan
were no longer his attorneys; and that, all further communication should be made through his attorneys, Messrs. Blake
& Ridpath. These letters were received about May 18, and
were answered to the effect that until other attorneys were
regularly substituted by an order of court, Messrs. Ganahl &
Hagan would still be recognized by the company as appellant's
attorneys. On the same day on which appellant wrote these
letters, he also wrote Ganahl & 11agan stating that he discharged them as his attorneys and that.he had employed other
counsel, to which they made reply that they demanded $4000
for their fee, and would take nothing less, and that they had,
on motion, set the case down to take testimony on Monday,
May 21. On May 18, the referee set down the case to take
testimony on May 21, and notified the attorneys for the respective parties. Appellant telegraphed the attorney of the
Railroad Company that he could not go on upon that day, as
he had employed new counsel, to which the attorney replied
that he had made no arrangements for taking testimony, having supposed it would be unnecessary, and that at any rate he
could not go on until the general land agent of the company
was able to attend.
On May 21, which was the first day of the May term of
the court, the attorney for the Railroad Company, and"Ganahl
& Hagan as attorneys for Cowley, entered into a stipulation
to the effect that the case had been settled and compromised
on the terms above mentioned, and that judgment should be
entered for the plaintiff, the said Railroad Company, for the
restitution of the premises demanded in the complaint; denying the relief prayed in defendant's answer, with costs against
the plaintiff. Ganahl & Hagan also executed a receipt for the
papers and money then in the First National Bank, though,
in fact, they never received the money, which is still in the
bank on deposit. Upon this stipulation and receipt, judgment

COWLEY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC -RAILROAD CO.

573

Argument for Appellee.

was accordingly entered that the plaintiff Railroad Company
recover of the defendant the possession of the premises described in the complaint; that a writ of restitution issue; that
the relief prayed in defendant's answer be denied; and that
plaintiff pay the costs. Defendant did not know that the
stipulation had been made, or the receipt given, or judgment
entered, until it had been done, and upon hearing of it, he protested against it.
Thereafter, and without taking any further proceeding in
the original suit, appellant instituted this proceeding to set
aside the judgment in the former case, upon the ground of
fraud and collusion between Ganahl & Hagan and the attorney for the Railroad Company, and as being entered without
authority. The proceeding was begun in the District Court
of the Territory, and was afterwards proceeded with in the
Superior Court of Spokane County, in the State of Washington. It was then removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States, which rendered a decree dismissing the bill,
from which decree Cowley took this appeal. The opinion of
the Circuit Court is reported in 46 Fed. Rep. 325.
Mr. R. B. Blake for appellant. Mr. Lewis Abraham, Mr.
George Turner, Mr. Frank Graves, and Mr. W. X. R idyath
were with him on his brief.
Mr. A. 1-. Garland and Mr. William J. Curtis for appellee
submitted on their brief.
Plaintiff shows no case for the interposition of a court of
equity.
The principles governing courts of equity, where their aid
is invoked to enjoin or set aside judgments at law, are well
settled. In the leading case of Marine Ins. Co. of Alexandria
v. Iodgson, 7 Cranch, 332, 336, Chief Justice Marshall stated
the law in language which has often been quoted and relied
upon, as follows: "Without attempting to draw any precise
line to which courts of equity will advance, and which they
cannot pass, in restraining patties from availing themselves of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Appellee.

judgments obtained at law, it may safely be said that any fact
which clearly proves it to be against conscience to execute a
judgment, and of which the injured party could not have
availed himself in a court of law, or of which he might have
availed himself at law, but was prevented by fraud or accident, unmixed with any fault or negligence in himself or his
agents, will justify an application to a court of chancery. On
the other" hand, it may with equal safety be laid down as a
general rule that a defence cannot be set up in equity which
has been fully and fairly tried at law, although it may be the
opinion of that court that the defence ought to have been sus.
tained at law. In the case under consideration, the plaintiffs
ask the aid of this court to relieve them from a judgment on
account of a defence, which, if good anywhere, was good at
law, and which they were not prevented, by the act of the
defendants or by any pure and unmixed accident, from making at law." See also Ilendrick8on v. Hinckley, 17 How. 443,
Crim v. Handley, 94 U. S. 652; Brown v. County of Buena
Vista, 95 U. S. 157.
It follows from this that wherever the party seeking the
aid of a court of equity could, by any means, have obtained
in a court of law, and in the original action, the relief which
he seeks, equity will not interfere, but will leave him in the
position in which he has placed himself by his failure to avail
himself of the means of relief which were open to him in the
original action.
These rules apply not only to such grounds of complaint
as may arise from the party's failure to make, or to obtain
proper advantages of, defences or causes of action in the suit
at law, but also to.incidental matters relating to the conduct
of the action which have affected the result. If relief might
have been had in a court of law, in respect of any of these
matters, it will be a fatal objection to the bill, and equity will
no more give the plaintiff the relief which he might have obtained by motion in the original action than it will enable him
to avail himself of defences or claims which he might there
have set up. This rule was forcibly stated by Lord Chancellor Redesdale in Bateman v, Milloe, I Sch. & Lef. 201.

COWLEY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

575

Opinion of the Court.

See also lHendrickson v. Hinckley, 17 HoW. 443; Wilkinson
v. Rewey, 59 Wisconsin, 554; Bibend v. Krentz, 20 California,
110; Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3.
In White v. Crow, 110 U. S. 1,83, 188, where an appeal was
filed to set aside a judgment to enjoin the execution of a deed
by the sheriff upon a sale under a judgment which was alleged
to be void, upon the ground that it was entered before the
time to answer had expired, and upon consent of a person who
acted as agent for the defendant, but who, it was asserted, was
not authorized so to act, the court, by Mr. Justice Woods,
said: "But if he was not such agent, the question arises
whether the rendition of the judgment before the time for
filing defendant's answer had expired renders the judgment
void. We are of opinion that it does not; that its rendition
was simply erroneous, and nothing more. The court having
jurisdiction to render the judgment, and having rendered it,
the law, when the judgment is collaterally attacked, will make
all presumptions necessary, to sustain it. Grignon's Lessee v.
Astor, 2 How. 319. The defendant being in court, was bound
to take notice of its proceedings, and might have corrected the
error at any time during the term. It did not move to set the
judgment aside. It filed no answer. The presumption, therefore, which the law makes is either that it consented to a
submission of the case before the time for answer expired, or
that it subsequently waived the error by not seeking to correct
it."
If the rules laid down in the cases cited be applied to the
case'at bar, it will be seen that appellant shows no ground on
which a court of equity can interfere.
MR. JUSTIcE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The referee, to whom this case was referred by the district
territorial court, found, as a matter of fact, that Cowley did
not directly authorize Ganahl & Hagan to enter into the
stipulation and to consent to judgment, but that the stipulation and judgment were only incidental to the contract of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

settlement and substantially. embodied in the same terms, and
that by reason of such settlement, and the general powers of
attorney therein, and the power of attorney executed and
given to Hagan, and their general powers as attorneys in the
case, they were authorized to act in the manner they did, notwithstanding their agency was revoked and notice given to
the Railroad Company. He also found, as conclusions of law,
that the tlaintiff was not entitled to the relief asked, and that
the order and decree in the original case should be declared
to stand and remain in force.
On August 6, 1889, motion was made by Cowley to set aside
this report, defendant making a counter motion to confirm
it, except as to certain findings of fact. Washington was
admitted as a State by proclamation made November 11, 1889.
The case was transferred to the superior court of Spokane
County upon the admission of the State, and on January 6,
1890, was removed, upon the petition of the Railroad Company, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Washington, in which court it appears to have been
docketed as a case in equity. The motion to set aside the
report of the referee coining on to be heard before the Circuit
Court, that court struck out the paragraph of the referee's
finding above cited, and found that the agreement for a compromise was "only an understanding between the parties as
to the terms upon which the contract would be concluded, and
that there was not a contract actually made and concluded."
It further found that this agreement, even if it were .binding
in law and equity upon Mr. Cowley, had never been executed
or carried into effect; that it had never been performed on
defendant's part so as to entitle it to any judgment in the
district court in the original case; that the stipulation signed
by Ganahl & Hagan, as attorneys for Cowley, was not only
not authorized, but was made in defiance of his known wishes
in the matter, and hence that the judgment upon such stipulation was improperly rendered, and was unjust.
It was found, however, that the proceeding was in equity,
and that it was not according to equity practice to decree that
a judgment be vacated or anulled, or to act directy upon the

COWLEY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

.case in which an unjust or void judgment has been rendered.
That the plaintiff should have applied by petition or motion
in the original case, and that, his remedy at law being adequate,
the suit must be dismissed.
At the time this proceeding was instituted, the following
provisions of the Territorial Code of Washington were in
effect :
Section 436. "The district court in which a judgment has
been rendered, or by which, or the judge of which, a final
order has been made, shall have power after the term at which
such judgment or order was made to vacate or modify such
judgment or order.
" 1. By granting a new trial for the cause, within the time
and in the. manner, and for any of the causes prescribed by the
sections relating to new trials.
"2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendant served by publication only as prescribed in section sixtyseven.

"3. For mistakes, neglect, or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order.
."4. For fraud practised by the successful
party in obtaining
the judgment or order," etc.
Section 437 provides that "when the grounds for a new
trial could not with reasonable diligence have been discovered
before, but are discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of referee, or decision was rendered or made, the
application may be made by petition filed as in other cases,
not later than the second term after the discovery, on which
notice shall be served and returned, and the defendant held
to appear as in an original action." This manifestly refers to
applications under the first and second subdivisions of section
436.
Section 438 requires that "the proceedings to correct
istakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining
the judgment or order, shall be by motion," etc. This ev
dently refers to the third subdivision of section 436.
Section 439 requires that "the proceedings to obtain the
benefit of subdivisions four
shall be by petition, veri.

VOL. CLIX-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

fled by affidavit, setting forth the judgment or order, the facts
or errors constituting a cause to vacate or modify it, and the
facts constituting a defence to the action, if the party applying
was a defendant; and such proceedings must be commenced
within one year after the judgment or order was made unless
the party entitled thereto be a minor or person of unsound
mind, and then within one year from the removal of such
disability."
The judgment in the original case was entered upon May
21, 1888, and the petition in this case was filed on June 26 of
the same year. It does not appear, however, whether it was
at the same or a subsequent term of the District Court.
Section 440 provides that "in such proceedings the party
shall be brought into court in the same way, on the same notice
as to time, mode of service, and mode of return, and the pleadings shall be governed by the principles and the issues be made
up by the same form, and all the proceedings conducted in
the same way, as near as can be, as in an original action by
ordinary proceedings, except that the defendant shall introduce no new cause, and the cause of the petition shall alone
be tried."
Other sections provide that the judgment shall not be vacated until it is found that there was a valid defence or a valid
cause of action in the original suit, and that all liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modified
judgment. That the court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify the judgment before deciding
upon the validity, of the defence or cause of action. That an
injunction may issue suspending proceedings and prescribing
the form of judgment to be finally entered.
The petition was in the form of an independent complaint
by Cowley against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company,
setting forth certain facts which he alleged made it a fraud
upon his rights for his attorneys to agree to the judgment
which was entered up in the original case against himself,
and praying that the decree in that case be set aside, that he
be allowed to defend the action, and that he have judgment
for costs. The complaint appears to have been drawn in sub-

COWLEY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

579

Opinion of the Court.

stantial conformity with the Territorial statute, although it is
not entitled in the original cause, but has an independent entitling of its own. The defendant appeared in answer.to a summons issued under section 440, demurred to the complaint,
and, upon the demurrer being overrfiled, filed an answer, to
which plaintiff replied as in an original action. The difficulty
in the base seems to have arisen from the fact that, after the
removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the United States,
it was treated as a suit in equity, subject to all the limitations
attaching to the. equitable jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
instead of a special proceeding to obtain the benefit of the
statute; the court holding that the assistance of equity could
not be invoked so long as the remedy by motion existed. The
court declined to consider it as a proceeding under the code,
saying that the rights of the parties and the limitations, of
their rights, in such a statutory proceeding, were quite differ
ent from the rights and limitations and the rules which must
govern the decision in a suit in equity, and that the effect of a
decision or judgment was entirely different.
It would appear, however, in view of section 440 of the Territorial code, providing that the parties shall be brought into
court in the same way, on the same notice as to time, mode of
service, and mode of return, that the pleadings should be governed by the principles, and the issues made up in the form,
and all the proceedings conducted as in an original action by
ordinary proceedings, that there was no impropriety in filing
this petition or complaint as an original proceeding, or conducting the case in the ordinary method.
In the case of Gaines v. Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10, which was an
action to annul an alleged will, brought under the laws of
Louisiana, in the District Court of the Parish of Orleans, and
removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, it was
held that the suit was in effect an action between parties;
and that the Federal court had jurisdiction. It was said that
if the suit could be maintained in a,State court, it might also
be maintained by original process in a Federal court, where
the requisite diversity of citizenship existed.
In the subsequent case of L'a'ow v. lunton, 99 U. S.80, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

petition was filed in the same State court of Louisiana, praying for a decree of nullity of a judgment recovered against
the petitioner, setting forth as his grounds for such relief that
the judgment complained of was void, because it was founded
on a default taken, and no lawful service of the petition and
citation in the suit had ever been made upon the petitioner.
This case was also removed to the Circuit Court, where plaintiff, by leave of the court, amended his petition to conform to
the equity practice, converting it into a bill in equity containing substantially the same averments and praying the same
relief. It was said by Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering the
opinion of the court, that the question presented was whether
the proceeding was a separate suit, or a supplementary proceeding so connected with the original suit as to form an incident
to it, and substantially a continuation of it. "If the proceeding is merely tantamount to the common-law process of moving to set aside a judgment for irregularity, or to a writ of
error, or to a bill of review, or an appeal, it would belong to the
latter category, and the United States court could not properly entertain jurisdiction of the case." "On the other hand,"
said he, "if the proceedings are tantamount to a bill in equity
to set aside a decree for fraud in the obtaining thereof, then
they constitute an original and independent proceeding, and
according to the doctrine laid down in Gaines v. Fuentes the
case might be within the cognizance of the Federal courts."
"In the one class there would be a mere revision of errors and
irregularities, or of the legality and correctness of the judgments and decreds of the State courts, and in the other class,
the investigation of a new case arising upon new facts,
although having relation to the validity of an actual judgment or decree, or of the party's right to claim any benefit by
reason thereof." As the judgment complained of was sought
to be impeached simply because the defendant had never been
Lawfully summoned, and the decree was taken by default
against him, it was held that the proceeding was one that
affected the mere regularity of the judgment. "In the com
mon-law practice it would have been a motion to set aside the
judgment for irregularity, or a writ of error coram vo s. " It

COWLEY v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.

was further said that, although the fact that the action of
nullity can only, be brought in the court that rendered the
judgment, as in the present case, was entitled 'to some weight
in determining the question, the court was not disposed to
allow this consideration to operate so far as to make it an. invariable criterion of the want of jurisdiction in the courts of
the United States. "If the State legislatures could, by investing certain courts with exclusive jurisdiction over certain subjects, deprive the Federal courts of all jurisdiction, they might
seriously interfere with the right of a citizen to resort to those
courts. The character of the cases themselves is always open
to examination for the purpose of determining whether, ratione materia, the courts of the United States are incompetent
to take jurisdfction thereof. State rules on the subject cannot
deprive them of it. The classification of the causes of nullity
in the Louisiana Code into causes relative to form and those
relative to the merits is nearly coincident with the classification above suggested, of cases which are and cases which are
not cognizable in the courts of the United States. Causes of
nullity relating to form would fall in that class of cases which
could not be brought in these courts or be removed thereto.
The present case is one of that character."
The distinction between the two cases above cited is, that
in the latter case the judgment was impeached for a matter of
form, and in the former case for the falsity and insufficiency
of the testimony, upon which the will was admitted to probate -in other words, for a fraud connected with the probating of the will. The case under consideration, being for an
alleged fraudulent practice on the part of the attorneys, falls
obviously within the class of cases of which Gaines v. Fuentes
rather than Barrow v. Hfunton is an example. So far. as the
right of the court to deal with this petition is concerned, it
makes no difference that the court found that there was no
fraudulent conduct on the part of the attorneys, since the
petition averred a case of fraud within the fourth subdivision
of section 436. This Was sufficient to give the court jurisdiction to act, and such jurisdiction would not be defeated by
proof that no fraud was actually committed; and the plaintiff

OCTOBEIZ, TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Qourt.

would still be entitled to recover, if he were able to show that
he never assented to the compromise, or repudiated it, and revoked the authority of his attorneys. In this particular, the
case resembles one wherein the plaintiff claims an amount
sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction, but fails to
prove such amount. If the claim be made in good faith, the
court does. not lose jurisdiction, but may proceed and enter
judgment for the amount actually due.
But while, after the removal of the case to the Circuit
Court of the United States, it might properly be docketed and
tried °by the court as an equity suit, it still remained, so far as
the rights of the plaintiff were concerned, a special proceeding
under the Territorial statute; and the powers of the court in
dealing with it were gauged, not merely by its general equity
jurisdiction, but by the special authority vested in its own
courts by the statutes of the Territory. Had the case never
been removed to the Circuit Court, it would have proceeded
in the State court as a special proceeding under the Territorial statute, and we are of opinion that, upon its removal to
the Circuit Court, petitioner lost no right to which he would
have been entitled had the case not been removed. Even if it
were treated as in form a bill in equity, the right of the complainant would be gauged as well by the statute under which
the bill was filed, as by the general rules of equity jurisprudence. If any action or proceeding in a State court were subject to be defeated or impaired by one of the parties exercising
his statutory right to remove it to a Federal court, no one
would be safe in instituting such a proceeding in any case
wherein, by reason of diversity of citizenship or otherwise, it
might be subject to removal. While the Federal court may
be compelled to deal with the case according to the forms and
modes of proceeding of a court of equity, it remains in substance a proceeding under the statute, with the original rights
of the parties unchanged.
Although the statute of a State or Territory may not restrict or limit the equitable jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
and may not directly enlarge such jurisdiction, it may establish new rights or privileges which the Federal courts may

COWLEY v. NOThPHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD Co.

583

Opinion of the Court.

enforce on their equity or admiralty side, precisely as they
may enforce a new right of action given by statute upon their
common law side. Thus in Exparte MeViel, 13 Wall. 236, a
statute of the State of New York giving to the pilot, who first
tendered his services to a vessel, and was refused, a right to
half pilotage, was held to be enforceable upon the admiralty
side of the District Court. See also the cases of Broderick's
1Vill, 21 Wall. 503, 520, and Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, 203.
So, in Reynolds v. (rawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S. 405, a bill

in equity under a statute of Indiana, which averred that a
deed was void upon its face, was held sufficient to support the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States in that
district, to quiet the title of the complainant as against such
deed, although courts of equity had generally adopted the
rule that a deed void upon its face does not cast a cloud upon
the title, which a court of equity will undertake to remove.
It was also said in Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 231, that
"a party by going into a national court does not lose any
right or appropriate remedy of which he might have availed
himself in the State courts of the same locality. The wise
policy of the Constitution gives him a choice of tribunals."
Other cases to the same effect are Holland v. Challen, 110
U. S. 15; Marshall v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589; Johnson v.
Waters, 111 U. S. 640; Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86.
The case having been removed to the Circuit Court upon
petition of defendant, it does not lie in its mouth to claim that
such court had no jurisdiction of the case, unless the court
from which it was removed had no jurisdiction.
As the merits of the case, though appearing upon the
record, were not argued by counsel, the decree will be
Reversed, and the case remanded forfurther proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

