TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c. MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS AND SANDOVAL COAL
AND MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 308. Argued April 25, 1895. -Decided

June 3, 1895.

The issues In this case were substantially decided in the suit between the
same parties in the state courts of Illinois decided In the Circuit Court
of Marion County August 9, 1883, and affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State, January 25, 1888; and, so far as the plaintiff sets up a new
claim here, it is, if not barred by the statute of limitations, too stale
to receive favor from a court of equity.
OZIAS TOWNSEND, a citizen of the State of Missouri, brought
his bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois on November 30, 1887,
against the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company, and the Sandoval Coal and Mining Compiany, corporations created under the laws of the State of Illinois, and Isaac
Main, Lambert Noland, Frank Seymour, Charles Reinhardt,
Jacob Lichty, Margaret E. Edwards, executrix of Francis H.
Edwards, deceased, and Lucinda N. Rockwell, executrix of
C. N. Rockwell, deceased, all citizens of the State of Illinois.
A demurrer to this bill having been sustained, the complainant brought an amended bill against the same defendants on
August 14, 1888, which began with averments of the following facts:
On December 12, 1877, the St. Louis and Sandoval
Coal and
Mining Company was duly incorporated and organized under
the laws of the State of Illinois. The purpose of its incorporation was the mining and selling of coal, and the term
of its existence was to be ninety-nine years. Its principal
office was at the town of Sandoval, Marion County, Illinois,
and near that town it was to carry on its mining operations.
The capital stock of the company was fixed at $50,000, divided into 500 shares of $100 each. The directors were five

OCTOBER TEMIAM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

in number, namely: Isaac Main, John B. Mears, Henry
Wellhoener, James Sheals, and Ozias Townsend, the coinplainant. Among others, the testators of the said defentlants
Margaret E. Edwards and Lucinda N. Rockwell, and the
.defendants Isaac Main, Lambert Noland, Charles Reinhardt,
and. Jacob Lichty were subscribers to the stock. All the said
directors were stockholders. The complainant's subscription
to the stock was 391 shares, of which he was to hold 380
shares as trustee for the company, and to sell the same for its
benefit. The complainant attended to the incorporation and
organization of the company, secured to himself as its trustee
436 coal mining rights, and purchased with his own money
four acres of land to be used for mining purposes, and through
which, by means of a shaft and drifts, the coal underlying the
lands in respect of which he had secured the mining rights
could be reached and utilized. On January 9, 1878, he conveyed the said four acres of land to the company in fee simple.
In the work thus done by him in the interests of the company
he was continually engaged from July 1, 1877, to January 1,
1878, and besides paying $200 for the land, he expended in
connection with the incorporation of the company and the
securing of the mining rights the sum of $200. After the
organization of the company a regular meeting of its board
of directors was held on December 20, 1877, in the city of
St. Louis, at which all the members were present, and at
which meeting the salary of the complainant as president and
ex oficio superintendent of the company was fixed at $150 per
month, to commence on January 1, 1878, and provision made
that all his necessary expenses of travel in the interests of the
company should be repaid to him. In such action of the
directors the complainant did not participate. The complainant at once entered upon the duties of his said office, and
continued faithfully to perform them until the dissolution of
the company on January 25, 1886. In March, 1878, a duly
called meeting of the directors was held in East St. Louis,
,Illinois, for the purpose, among others, of auditing an account
which the complainant had against the company for securing
I*Qr it the said mining rights, and for money expended by him

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c. MINING CO.
Statement of the Ca

as aforesaid. All the directors were present at this meeting
except Isaac Main. James Sheals resigned as a director, and
True N. Blackman was duly chosen a director to fill his place,
and participated in the proceedings had. At this meeting
the complainant presented to the board, his account in the
sum of $12,050 for compensation for his services and for
money expended as before stated, and then retired from the
board and took no part in ifs deliberations. Thereupon, Mr.
Mears, one of the directors, offered a resolution, which stated
in the preamble thereof that the complainant had devoted
a large share of his time for the past year to the organization
of the company, and had freely expended his money in promoting its interests, in.
securing for it large and very valuable
mining privileges, and in travel, for all of which he had
received no compensation ; and provided as follows:
Be it resolved, 1st, That in full satisfaction for such services and expenditures and for his attention to the business
of this company up to and prior to the 1st day of January,
1878, the said Ozias Townsend is hereby allowed and this
company binds itself to pay to him the sum of ten thousand dollars, the same to be receipted for by him as in full
compensation for said services as aforesaid; and if he shall
wish to be endorsed upon the stock held by him as a member
of the association as so much paid on account of calls made
and to be made on such of the stock as may be held or indicated by him, and such endorsement by the secretary and
treasurer of this company shall be held and accounted for as
a receipt in full from him for calls on said stocks to the
amount of ten thousand dollars as aforesaid.
"Be it resolved, 2d, The secretary and treasurer is hereby
authorized and directed to endorse upon the stock held by
said Townsend, as he shall indicate, payments of calls on the
same to the extent aforesaid, and, in the event of such endorsement failing, then he shall have a valid claim against
this company to that extent for such services hereby acknowledged to be rendered, but not otherwise."
This resolution the members of the board who were present
adopted unanimously. The complainant accepted this settle-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ment of his claim, and the resolution was duly signed by each
member of the board present, being a majority of all the
directors.
After presenting the averments, of which the foregoing
statement is the substance, and averring that the amount so
allowed him was fair and reasonable compensation for the
time and labor which he had devoted to the interests of the
company, the complainant alleged that the defendant Main,
with intent to defraud the complainant and to prevent his
collecting the said amount allowed him by the board of directors, and the said salary and travelling expenses, combined
and confederated with the other stockholders residing in
Marion County, Illinois, to wreck the corporation by the
process of the courts, and to buy in all its assets at a sum
greatly below their real value, so that ostensibly the assets
would all be gone when the complainant should take steps
to collect the said debts; that with this end in view, on June
27, 1878, a bill in equity was filed in the Circuit Court of
Marion County, Illinois, by Isaac Main, Frank Seymour,
l4rancis H. Edwards, Lambert Noland, Charles Reinhardt,
Jacob Lichty, C. N. Rockwell, and Henry Wellhoener (the
latter of whom, as the complainant averred, withdrew from
the suit upon learning the animus thereof) against the said
company, Ozias Townsend, of St. Louis, Missouri, (the present
complainant,) and all the other subscribers to the capital stock
who resided out of the State of Illinois.
The complainant showed that the said bill *alleged,among
other things, that on January 10, 1878, the company had
entered into a contract with the said Frank Seymour (a defendant in the present suit) to sink a shaft on the said land down
to the coal thereunder; that Seymour, in pursuance of that
contract, had sunk a shaft to the depth of about 114 feet,
when he stopped work for the reason that the company bad
failed to perform its part of the contract; that the corporation
was indebted to Seymour on account of the said work in the
sum of about $1700, and owed other persons about $1300
(not mentioning, however, the company's said alleged indebtedness to the complainant. Townsend); that the whole cost

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c.: MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

of sinking the shaft down to the coal would be about $10,8 0o;
that on February 14, 1878, an assessment of five per cent on
the capital stock had been made, that the said plaintiffs Isaac
Main, Lambert Noland, Jacob Lichty, C. N. Rockwell, Charles
Reinhardt, Francis H. Edwards, and Henry Wellhoener paid
their assessments, but that all the other stockholders of the
company failed to pay; that, by reason -of such failure, the
stock of all the other stockholders except three (who do not
appear in the present suit) was,.on April 29, 1878, forfeited,
but that the holders thereof were still liable for their indebtedness to the company; that some time, between March 3
and April 6, (the year not being given,) the directors of the
company, with the exception of Isaac Main, fraudulently and
without consideration acknowledged, by resolution, an indebtedness of $10,000 to the said Ozias Townsend for services
claimed to have been rendered and money expended for the
company; that such services were never rendered, and that
no money was expended by Townsend for which the company
was liable; that, according to the provision of the said resolution, that if Townsend so desired the said $10,000 should be
endorsed upon the stock. held by him as a member of the
company, he had issued, of paid-up stock, to his wife $5000,
to George W. Wharton $4000, and to True N. Blackman
$1000, which stock those persons pretended to hold as paid-up
stock, but for which they had paid nothing to the company;
that the said mining rights were conveyed to Townsend in
trust for the company, with a condition that a shaft should be
sunk upon the land within two years from November 6, 1877;
that those rights were valuable, provided the shaft should be
sunk within the said time, but that in the then unfinished
condition of the shaft the mining rights and the land were
not worth enough to pay the company's debts; that such
property and the buildings upon the land were all the effects
the company owned; that nearly all the stockholders of the
company were insolvent; and that in the then present condition of the company it would be useless to attempt to continue
its business. The complainant showed that the prayers of
that bill were that the affairs of the company might be wound

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

up, a receiver be appointed, the property of the company be
sold, the proceeds of the sale thereof be applied to the payment of the company's debts, and that, if the same should be
insufficient to pay the debts, then the stockholders, might be
assessed to pay the balance, and that the corporation might
be dissolved.
The complainant averred that, as a defendant in the said
bill so described by him, no summons was served upon him
either in his individual capacity or as president of the company, and that neither he nor the company appeared, but
that summons was served upon said Isaac Main as a director;
that, at the August term, 1878, of the said Circuit Court of
Marion County a decree pro confesso against the defendants
in the aforesaid bill was entered, finding the facts alleged in
that bill to be true, and granting the relief therein prayed
for;, that the court appointed a receiver of the company's property, and directed him to sell the same; that on September
28, 1878, the receiver sold at public sale all the property
belonging to the company to the said Isaac Main, who was
the only bidder, for the sum of $200, and executed and delivere(d to him a properly acknowledged deed for the same; that
the sale was reported to the court, and that the court, on
February. 11, 1879, confirmed the same; that at that time
the property thus sold was worth $20,000; that on March 24,
1881, an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
and was there reversed on the ground that the service upon
Main as a director of the corporation when he was one of the
plaintiffs in the case was not legal service upon the corp ration,
and that the Circuit Court of Marion County had had no jurisdiction over it.
The complainant further averred that the cause having been
remanded to the said court, he and the other defendants therein
filed their answer to the bill, denying that the board of directors of the company wrongfully acknowledged an indebtedness
to him; that the company in its answer to the said bill denied
that it fraudulently acknowledged an indebtedness to him or
issued paid-up stock to him or to any one else without consideration, and that such allegations were the only ones in the

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c. MIXtNI

C(O.

Statement of the Case.

said bill and answers in regard to the company's indebtedness
to him.
He showed that the case was heard in that court in July,
1883, upon bill, answers, and evidence, and that the court
found that the company had, on March 10, 1878, ceased to
prosecute the work for which it was organized, leaving debts
unpaid to the said Frank Seymour and others (but making no
finding with relation to the complainant's claim); that the
business of the company had been mismanaged by its officers;
that the company was insolvent and that it would be useless
for it to resume business; and decreed that the corporation
be dissolved and that the appointment of the receiver be confirmed, and ordered the receiver to make a further report.
It was further averred by the complainant that in pursuance
of the fraudulent scheme to prevent the collection of his claim
against the company, Isaac Main and some of the plaintiffs in
the above-described suit organized a new corporation under
the laws of the State of Illinois, having its principal office at
Sandoval, called the Sandoval Coal and Mining Company,, for
the purpose of having the property of the old company conveyed to it; that Main, in the year 1879, conveyed to the new
company the said land and mining rights and all the assets of
the company for the nominal sum of $200, but really upon
the consideration that the new company should pay all the
debts of the old company, except the said debts of Townsend,
the present complainant; that the new company , took the
property with knowledge and notice of those debts, and also
of such scheme to prevent their collection ; that the property
was charged with a trust in fav6r of the complainant as a creditor of the old company; that at the time the property was
transferred by Main to the new company it was worth at least
$20,000, and that that company was not a bona jide purchaser
of the same.
The complainant showed that at the February term, 1885,
of the said court the plaintiffs in the aforesaid bill filed a supplemental bill in the cause, making the new company a party
defendant, and that the new company filed an answer thereto,
and at same time filed its cross-bill, in which it alleged that

OCTOBER TlERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

it had bought the said property from Main in good faith and had
paid all the debts of the old company, amounting to $2465.30;
that it had made valuable improvements under and upon the
said land; that the plaintiffs in the said bill against the old
company and others were the only legal stockholders in the
old company; that the complainant Townsend and others,
defendants in that bill, were not bona fide stockholders in the
old comph.ny; and prayed that a conveyance might be made
to it of the said property of the old company, and that the
old company might be restrained from prosecuting an ejectment suit against the new company, and also from prosecuting
an action of trespass against its officers. The complainant
showed that an answer was filed by him to the said cross-bill,
and that the case was heard by the Circuit Court of Marion
County,. and a decree entered therein in August, 1885, granting the relief prayed for in the cross-bill, and that thereupon
he and the old company and other defendants in the said
original, supplemental, and cross-bills appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the decree was affirmed.
It was alleged by the complainant that since the original
decree pro coinfesso had been held void by the Supreme
Court for want of proper service on the old company, and
since there was 'no new sale of the property under the
decree entered after the remanding of the cause, it followed
that the sale to Main under the former decree was also void.
He further alleged that thb question whether the old company,
if it had not been dissolved, would have been liable .to him
for his said services, and for money expended by him for
its benefit, was not in issue in either of the said cases and
was not determined therein; and that, therefore, he was
not estopped by the decrees entbred in those cases from
asserting in his present bill his rights as a creditor of the
old company.
The complainant finally averred that the new company,
pretending. that in the suit to dissolve the old corporation
his said debts due by it were considered, and. that the decree
entered therein was a final adjudication of his account, had
uever paid those debts or any part thereof, and refused to

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c. MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

do so. He stated his willingness to contribute his proportionate part toward the payment of his debts if the court
should be of opinion that he was a stockholder. He prayed
that the defendants might answer his bill, but not under
oath; that the court might require the individual defendants, holders of stock in the old company, to pay the balance
which, as he alleged, was due thereon; and might decree
that the, sale by the receiver to Main was void; that the
new company was a trustee of the property for the payment
of the debts due to the complainant; and that if the new
company should persist in its refusal to pay the same its
property, or as much as might be necessary to pay the said
debts, be sold and the debts be paid with the proceeds.
The Sandoval Coal and Mining Company filed its answer
to the complainant's amended bill on August 28, 1888, in
which it denied on information and belief that the complainant bad performed the alleged services or expended
money for the old company's benefit, or had purchased the
said land with his own money, and averred the fact to be
that the land was paid for by the new company; denied
that the complainant obtained any valid title to the said
mining rights, and averred that those rights were conveyed
on condition that the old company would sink a shaft to a
paying vein 'of coal, and work the same, within two years
from the conveyance of such rights, and that the shaft not
having been sunk to the coal'within the time limited, the
rights were forfeited; and denied on information and belief
that the complainant had performed the duties of president
of the company for the time stated in the bill, or for any
time. The defendant alleged that anything which might
have been done at the meeting described in the bill at
which, as averred therein, the complainant's salary as presiAent and superintendent of the company was fixed at $150
per month, was void for the reason that the meeting was
not authorized nor its acts legally ratified; and that the
aforesaid action of the board of directors at the meeting in
East St. Louis, Illinois, when Main was not present, by which
one-tifth of the capital stock of tle company was voted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

the complainant, was illegal and void, and was one of the
causes which led to the company's dissolution.
The defendant stated that the complainant had correctly
presented the allegations of the bill filed for the purpose of
dissolving the old company, and averred that, although nosummons to that proceeding was served upon the complainant
herein, yet he was served by publication, nnder the statute of
Illinois. It was denied by the defendant that the said property was worth $20,000 at the time it was sold by the receiver
to Main, and it was averred that the property was not worth
more than Main paid for it.
The defendant showed that, although, as was stated in the
bill, the aforesaid decree dissolving the old company was
reversed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, it was reversed in
part only, and that so much thereof as related to the appointment of the receiver was affirmed. It was, therefore, asserted
by the defendant that the judgment of the said Supreme Court
did not affect the decree entered in the Circuit Court of Marion County after the remanding of the cause, and that the reasons for the Supreme Court's partial reversal did not apply to
the complainant herein, because he answered the said bill
before the second hearing.
It was averred that by virtue of the decree entered upon the
second hearing the master in chancery of the Circuit Court of
Marion County executed and delivered to the defendant company a valid deed to the said property; and that under that deed
it held the property by an absolute title, and not in trust for
the complainant, as alleged in his bill. The defendant denied
that it took the property from Main with knowledge of the
complainant's debts against the old company; averred that,
on the contrary, it knew nothing of such debts or claims, and
insisted that so far as it and the complainant were concerned,
all business matters between them were finally settled in the
second decree of August, 1885. The defendant prayed that
the complainant's amended bill might be dismissed.
The other defendants, on the same day, filed tL ir joint and
several answer to the complainant's amended bill, denying thie
same allegations of the bill that, were denied in the answer of

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c. MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant company, and averring, among other things,
that the stock of the old company, taken by the complainant,
was taken for himself and not in trust for the company.
They showed that the said property was in the hands of the
receiver from August, 1878, to some time in the year ,885,
and averred that in all that time the complainant had not presented to the receiver his said claim or any claim. They stated
that they relied upon the aforesaid decrees and orders of the
Circuit Court of Marion County as a complete defence to the
complainant's amended bill, and denied that any debt was due
by them or by the old or new company to the complainant as
alleged in the bill, or that the complainant was entitled to the
relief which he prayed for, or to any relief. The dismissal of
the amended bill was prayed for by them also.
Replication was duly made by the complainant, and a
large amount of testimony taken, on which, and on the
amended bill, the answers, and the record of the proceedings
had in the state court, the cause was heard in the Circuit
Court, and a decree entered therein on February 7, 1889, by
which the amended bill was dismissed. From that decree the
complainant appealed to this court.
Mr. Upton M. Young for appellant.
Mr. Green B. Raum for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Our examination of this caAe has not been aided by any
findings of fact or law by the court below. It has, hence,
been necessary to make a very full statement of the facts
as disclosed in the pleadings and evidence. That statement
when made, however, does not disclose a case calling for
extended treatment.
The present 'bill of complaint filed in the Circuit Court of
the United States, as finally anmended, was met by answers,
in which, among other matters of defence, it was alleged
that, in proceedings instituted in the Circuit Court of Marion

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

County, Illinois, on June 27, 1878, by Isaac Main and others
against the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company,
and against Ozias Townsend, (the appellant in the present
case,) and which proceedings. resulted in a final decree, oin
August 9, 1883, in favor of the complainants, which final
decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois on
January 25, 1888, the same claims and matters of controversy
set up in the present bill were litigated and adjudicated in
favor of the appellees and against the appellant in the present
case.
Of course, if this were so, such final judgment of the courts
of Illinois would be a conclusive bar when pleaded to the
present bill, and it is so conceded, as necessarily it must be,
by the counsel of the appellant in his argument and brief in
this case.
It is, however, contended that the issues involved in this
suit were not the same with those involved and adjudicated
in the state court. The first question, then, for our determination is whether the matters tried and adjudged in the state
courts were the same with those which the appellant sought.
to have considered in the Circuit Court in the present case.
This question is readily determined by an inspection of tho
records in the respective cases.
As above stated, the bill as originally filed in the Circuit
Court of Marion County, Illinois, alleges the insolvency of
the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company,. and
that Ozias Townsend's claim against that company was without consideration and fraudulent, and asked for the appointment of a receiver and for a sale of the company's property.
Upon a decree pro confesso, a receiver was appointed and a
sale ordered. This decree was on appeal reversed by the
Supreme Court of Illinois for want of proper service of process, and the cause was remanded for further proceedings, the
receiver being continued. In the court below, when the cause
came back, a supplemental bill was filed making the Sandoval
Coal. and Mining Company a party defendant. The latter
company then filed an answer admitting all the allegations in
the original and supplemental bills filed by Main and others,

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &C. MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and also filed a cross-bill, in which were recited the facts of
the organization and insolvency of the St. Louis and Sandoval
Coal and Mining Company, and alleging that it had in good
faith bought the coal property and fixtures of the old company
from Isaac Main, who had purchased them under the original
decree of sale; that Ozias Townsend and his assignees were
not bonaftde stockholders in the old company, and praying the
court to so decree, and that the complainants in the original
bill were the only valid and legal stockholders in said old
company, and that the original complainant be ordered to convey, in the name of the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company by valid conveyance to the said Sandoval Coal
and Mining Company, the tract of land on which the shaft
was sunk and all mining rights held by said first-named company, and also praying that the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal
and Mining Company should be restrained from prosecuting
an ejectment suit and a trespass suit that had been brought
against the Sandoval Coal and Mining Company. As already
stated, this litigation terminated in a decree declaring that
the material allegations in the cross-bill were true ; that Isaac
Main and the other appellees in the present case were the only
stockholders in the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining
Company who had paid anything on their stock, and that they
were the only parties or stockholders who had any interest in
or right to determine how the assets of said company, which
had been dissolved by the decree of the court, should be disposed of, to whom, and for what consideration. The decree
further declared that Ozias Townsend and his assignees, defendants in the cross-bill, never had paid anything for their
supposed stock in said St. Lous and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company, and that if any such stock had been issued
to them it was wrongfully and fraudulently done, and that
neither of them had any interest in the assets of said company,
nor any right to interfere with the disposition of such assets.
The decree further adjudged that Isaac Main had bought the
property of the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company, at the instance and request of all the valid stockholders
therein, for the 1i)rpose of selling the same for enough to pay
VOL. CLIX-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

off the indebtedness of that company, which then amounted to
over two thousand dollars, and that Main afterwards, at their
instance and request, sold and conveyed all said property in
consideration of the sum of $2465, paid by the complainants
in the cross-bill, which sum was all the property was worth;
and it was further decreed that a deed of conveyance, in the
name of the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company, should be made of said property.
As already stated, Ozias Townsend and others appealed from
this decree to the Supreme Court of Illinois, where the same
was affirmed.
To escape from the conclusive effect of this decree, the complainant in the present bill asserts that his claims for services
and for money expended by him for the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company were not in issue in said cases,
and that as a creditor he can now assert such claim against
the assets of that company now in the possession of the new
company.
It may not be said that, in no case or in no circumstances,
can a creditor of a company dissolved by legal proceedings
assert a claim against its assets in the hands of a new company
organized on- its ruins, but it is clear that this complainant is
in no condition to maintain such a claim in the present instance.
Not only did the original bill against Townsend and others
allege that the stock held by him and by others to whom he
had caused stock to be issued had been fraudulently issued,
but the cross-bill directly charged that the credit of ten thousand dollars, for which said stock had been issued on account
of said Townsend, was fraudulently voted for pretended labor
and money furnished and performed by him, when no such
labor had ever been performed by 'him nor any money furnished or expended by him for such company. These allegations were traversed by answers, denying that the company
"-fraudulently acknowledged an indebtedness to the said Townsend or issued paid-up stock to him without a sufficient consideration or anybody else."
In the present bill Townsend alleges that by his agreement
with the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company

TOWNSEND v. ST. LOUIS &c. MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

he was to have a right to be credited on stock with ten thousand dollars for his services, and in his testimony he says that
he gave of this paid-up stock $5000 worth. to his wife, $4000
worth to George Wharton, and $1000 worth to True N.
Blackman. This stock so issued by Townsend to his wife,
Elizabeth Townsend, to Wharton and Blackman, was part of
the very stock declared by the Circuit Court of Marion County,
in its decree sustaining the cross-bill, to have been invalid as
issued without consideration.
The manifest purpose and aii of the present bill are to go
back of this decree, and to assert his original claim for services
against the new company. We are of opinion that the invalidity of his claim for services was substantially established by
the decree that the stock issued therefor was invalid, because
issued without anything having been paid for it; and we are
also of opinion that even if Townsend's original claim for services had not been merged in stock, but had remained as a
valid and unsatisfied claim, no ground has been shown "upon
which the court below could have declared that such claim
could be asserted at law or in equity against the Sandoval Coal
and Mining Company or its stockholders. Even if the complainant's claim had been a conceded and bona, fide claim
against the St. Louis and Sandoval Coal and Mining Company,
yet, as it had accrued to him, according to his own showing,
on January 1, 1878, it could not be successfully asserted in a
court of equity against purchasers at a judicial sale made in
August, 1878, by a bill filed November 30, 1885. If, as he now
is obliged to contend, Townsend did not assert his claim for
personal services during the long litigation in the state courts,
such claim, if not barred by the statute of limitations, was too
stale to receive favor from a court of equity.
The decree of the court below is
A ffiined.

