WEEKS v. BRIDGMAN.
Statement of the Case.

131, 181; Brooks v. -Missouri, 124 U. S. 394; . happell v.
Bradshaw, 128 U. S. 132; Brown v. Massachusetts, 144 U. S.
573; Schuyler National Bank v. Bollong, 150 U. S. 85;
Powell v. Brunswick County, 150 U. S. 433; Miller v.
Texas, 153 U. S. 535; Morrison v. Watson, 154 U. S. 111;
Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180.
The writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

WEEKS v. BRIDGMAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 44. Argued October 17, 1895. - Decided November 11, 1895.

In 1857 B., a mail contractor, applied to file a preemption declaratory statement for public land under the act of March 3, 1855, c. 201, 10 Stat. 683.
His application being rejected he appealed to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, by whom the decision below was sustained. He then
appealed to the Secretary of the Interior, who in 1861 reversed the Land
Commissioner's decision. Meanwhile, in 1860, Congress passed an act
for his relief, (12 Stat. 843, c. 63,) and under that act he paid for the
land, and in 1871 received a patent in which it was stated that the land
had been certified to the State of Minnesota for railroad purposes by
mistake. This certification was made in 1864. Held, as between the
grantee, of B. and the grantee of a railroad company to which the land
had been conveyed by the State, that the title derived from B. must
prevail.
THIS was an action brought'by Charles A. Weeks against
Coleman Bridgman in the District Court for the Seventh
Judicial District of Minnesota under a statute of that State to
determine adverse claims to vacant and unoccupied real estate.
Judgment having been rendered for plaintiff, the cause was
taken to the Supreme Court of Minnesota on appeal, the
judgment reversed, and the causo remanded. 41 Minnesota,
352. The cause was again tried in the District Court by the
court, a jury having been expressly waived, and judgment entered for defendant, which, on a second appeal, was affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

46 iMinn. 390. To this judgment the pending writ of error
was allowed.
The facts were in substance as follows:
By act of Congress of March 3, 1857, c. 99, 11 Stat. 195,
there was granted "to the Territory of Minnesota, for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of railroads, from Stillwater, by way of Saint Paul and Saint Anthony, to a point
between the foot of Big Stone Lake and the mouth of Sioux
Wood River, with a branch via Saint Cloud and Crow Wing,
to the navigable waters of the Red River of the North, at
such point as the legislature of said Territory may determine;
every alternate section of land, designated by odd
numbers, for six sections in width on each side of each of said
road and branches-; but in case it shall appear that the United
States have, when the lines or routes of said roads and
branches are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any parts
thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the right of pregmption
has attached to the same, then it shall be lawful for any
agent, or agents, to be appointed by the governor of said
Territory or future State to select, subject to the approval of
the Secretary of the Interior, from the lands of the United
States nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much
land, in alternate sections, or parts of sections, as shall be
equal to such lands as the United States have sold, or otherwise appropriated, or to which the rights of preemption have
attached, as aforesaid; which lands (thus selected in lieu of
those sold, and to which preemption rights have attached as
aforesaid, together with the sections and parts of sectibns designated by odd numbers as aforesaid, and appropriated as
aforesaid) shall be held by the Territory or future State of
Minnesota for the use and purpose aforesaid."
The Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company was organized as a railroad corporation under and pursuant to an act
of the legislature of the Territory, now State, of Minnesota,
approved May 22, 1857. The St. Paul and Pacific Railroad
Company was organized in conformity to an act of the legislature of the State, approved March 10, 1862, and, under and
by virtue of that act, became the owner of all the lines of

WEEKS ?,. BRIDGMAN.
Statement of the Case.

railroad formerly owned by the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company, and also of the lands granted to the Territory,
now State, of Minnesota, to aid in the construction of the
branch line of railroad from St. Anthony northward to St.
Cloud, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1857. On February 6, 1864, the First Division of the St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad was organized for railroad purposes, which organization was confirmed by act of the legislature of the State, approved February 6, 1866, and said First Division succeeded to
all the rights, privileges, and lands possessed or granted to the
Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company or to the St. Paul
and Pacific Railroad Company, as its successor, in any way
pertaining to the branch line.
The line of the branch railroad was definitely fixed, and a
map thereof filed with the Secretary of the Interior, December 30, 1857, and the land in controversy is part of an odd
section within six miles of said branch line, being section 13,
township 124 N., range 28 W. This section was certified to
the State of Minnesota by the Secretary of the Interior, October 25, 1864, as a part of the land granted by the act of Congress of March 3, 1857. The branch line of railroad was
constructed from St. Anthony to St. Cloud, opposite the land
in controversy, during September, 1866, and plaintiff in error
had acquired all the right and title to the land described in
the complaint that was ever possessed by the Territory or
State of Minnesota, or the First Division of the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company.
George F. Brott on September 9, 1855, entered into a contract with the United States to carry the mail from Minneapolis to supply the offices at St. Cloud, Monticello, and
Dayton. *This route was about sixty-five miles in length, and
the contract said: "The route from Minneapolis by Dayton
to Monticello and St. Cloud aforesaid, is to be deemed and
considered a post road during the continuance of this contract."
By act of Congress of March 3, 1855, c. 201, 10 Stat. 683,
684, it was provided that: "Each contractor engaged, or to be
engaged, in carrying mails through any of the Territories

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

west of the Mississippi, shall have the privilege of occupying
stations at the rate of not more than one for every twenty
miles of the route on which he carries a mail, and shall have
a prebnptive right therein, when the same shall be brought
into market, to the extent of six hundred and forty acres to
be taken contiguously, and to include his improvement." As
mail contractor, Brott, in 1855, selected for and built and
established his mail station upon section 13, which station
consisted of Stable and building for the use of his teams and
carriages, and maintained the same throughout the term of
his mail contract. Brott's route terminated at St. Cloud, and
no mail was carried west from there under the United States
government until the latter part of the year 1856, or some
time in 1857.
August 7, 1857, Brott made application to the United States
land office at St. Cloud to file a preemption declaratory statement for the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
said section 13, township 124, range 28, which embraced the
land in controversy, with other lands, claiming the right to
preempt the same, as a mail contractor, under the act of
March 3, 1855. This application was by the decision of the
local land officers rejected, and from such decision Brott
appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, by
whom the decision of the local land officers was sustained.
Brott thereupon appealed to the Secretary of the Interior, who
reversed the Commissioner's decision, on August 30, 1861, and
held that Brott should be permitted to enter the tracts mentioned in his application upon the production of prod of the
performance of his mail contract and of the occupation of the
stations, and upon compliance with the laws and regulations
in other respects applicable to the case. On May 26, 1860,
Congress passed an act, entitled "An act for the relief of
George F. Brott," providing, 12 Stat. 843, c. 63: "That George
F. Brott be, and he is hereby, authorized to enter the following described lands, to wit: [omitting description which includes that in dispute] in the district of lands subject to sale
at the land office at St. Cloud, Minnesota; said tracts contaiing five hundred and sixty-two and twenty hundredths

WEEKS v. BRIDGMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

acres, upon the payment by the said Brott of the usual minimum of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre therefor:
iProvided, That said entry shall in nowise interfere with or
embrace any land to which there is a valid subsisting claim
under the preemption la-ws of the United States; and the
Commissioner of the General Land Office is directed to issue
a patent on said entry."
No further effort was made by Brott to enter the land
simply as such mail contractor, but the entry of the same was
thereafter made by him under and in pursuance of the act of
Congress passed for his relief, he paying for the land the sum
specified.
In July, 1871, a patent for the land issued from the United
States to Brott in the usual form, except that it was stated
therein that the land had been certified to the State of Minnesota for railroad purposes by mistake. The defendant at
the time of the commencement of the action had and was
sdized of all the right and title to the lots in controversy that
Brott ever had or possessed under his patent, and claimed his
right to such title under and by virtue of mesne conveyances
duly made, executed, and delivered by and through Brott and
his grantees and duly recorded.
Mr. A. D. Grover for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error..
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The line of the road was definitely fixed December 30, 1857;.
the lands within the place limits then subject to the grant
were thereby segregated from the public domain; and the
grant took effect thereon. But under the granting act, lands
to which preemption rights had attached, when the line was
definitely fixed, were as much excepted therefrom as if in a
deed they had been excluded by the -terms of the conveyance.
And this was true in respect of applications for preemption
voL. cuix-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

rejected by the local land office and pending on appeal in the
land department at the time of definite location, since the initiation of the inchoate right to the land would prevent the
passage of title by the grant, and the determination of its
final destination would rest with the government and the claimant. Railway Company v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; Railroad Company v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357 ; Bardon v. Railroad
Gompany, 145 U. S. 535; Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537;
Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85. Brott selected certain lands,
including this in dispute, for and built and established his
mail stations thereon in 1855 and maintained the same dur'ing
the term of his mail contract; and filed his application to
enter these lands, as a mail contractor under the act of March
3, 1855, in the local land office August 11, 1857. The application was rejected by the local land officers, and Brott appealed
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and from his
decision to the Secretary of the Interior, who reversed the
rulings of the land officers and of the Commissioner, and held
Briott entitled to preempt the stations occupied. He was, indeed, required to produce proof of the performance of his mail
contract and of the occupation of the lands as stations, and he
actually entered them in pursuance of the act of Congress for
his relief, but in Ard v. Brandon, supra, it was held that when
a preemptor has the right to make entry, and applies to the
local land officers and they refuse to recognize his right, it
will be deemed to date from the time of his application, and
this notwithstanding he proceeds to obtain title in some other
way. The conclusion follows that Brott's preemption claim
must be regarded as having attached prior to the definite
location, December 30, 1857, and that the title did not pass
under the Congressional grant to the State.
But it is contended that as on October 25, 1864, the Secretary of the Interior included section 13 in the lists of lands
certified to the State of Minnesota under the act of August 3,
1854, (10 Stat. 346,) as a part of the lahds granted by the act
of March 3, 1857, that certification was an adjudication, that
the land in question had not been previously disposed of, and
that no preemiption right had attached thereto, and passed the

WEEKS v. BRIDGMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

legal title, whatever Brott's equitable rights might be; and
that while the certification might be voidable, it was not absolutely void. The act of August 3, 1854, provided that
where lands had been or should be thereafter granted to the
several States or Territories, and the law did not convey the
fee, simple title of such lands or,require patents to be issued
therefor, the lists of such lands which had been, or might
thereafter be certified, "shall be regarded as conveying the
fee simple of all the lands embraced in such lists that are of
the character contemplated by such act of Congress, and intended to be granted thereby ; but where lands embraced in
such lists are not of the character embraced by such acts of
Congress, and are not intended to be granted thereby, said
lists, so far as these lands are concerned, shall be perfectly
null and void, and no right, title, claim, or interest shall- be
conveyed thereby."
As we have seen, this particular land was not included in
the grant, and the Secretary of the Interior had so decided on
August 30, 1861, when he determined that the preemption
right had attached. And since it was not so included- nor
subject to disposition as part of the public domain, on October
25, 1864, the action of the land department in including it
within the lists certified on that day was ineffectual. Nfoble
v. Railroad Co., 147 U. S. 165, 174.
The distinctions between void and voidable acts need not
be discussed. It is rarely that things are wholly void and
without force and effect as to all persons and for all purposes,
and incapable of being made otherwise. Things are voidable
which are valid and effectual until they are avoided by some
act; while things are often said to be void which are without
validity until confirmed. 8 Bac. Abr. Void and Voidable;
Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S. 143; Ew parte Lange, 18 Wall.
163; State v. Richmond, 6 Foster (N. 11.) 232 ; Anderson v.
Roberts, 18 Johns. 515; Pearsoll v. Chapin, 44 Penn. St. 9.
As against Brott the certification had no operative effect.
It is also objected that Brott was not a qualified claimant
under the act of 1855, because that act only applied to a contractor engaged in carrying the mail through any of the Terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

tories west of the Mississippi, and because it does not appear
that his declaratory statement was ever accepted or recognized, or that he made proof of his occupation of the land as
a mail station, but these and other like objections involve
questions between Brott and the government, already determined in his favor, and which the railroad company and its
grantees are not in a position to raise upon this record.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE FIRST

CIRCUIT.
No. 745. Submitted October 2, 1895. -Decided November 11, 1895.

This court has appellate jurisdiction over a judgment rendered by a
Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States In a suit brought by the

United States in the Circuit Court of the Circuit, to cancel a patent for
an invention.
Where the appellate jurisdiction of this court is described in a statute in
general terms so as to comprehend the particular case, no presumption

can be indulged of an intention to oust or to restrict such jurisdiction; and
any subsequent statute claimed to have that effect must be examined in the
light of the objects of tile enactment, the purposes it is to serve and the

mischiefs it is to remedy, bearing in mind the rule that the operation of
such a statute must be restrained within narrower limits than its words
import, if the court is satisfied that the literal meaning of its language

would extend to' cases which the legislature never intended to include
in it.
MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion.

The case is

-Mr.James J. Storrow and Mr. Frederick P. Fish for the
motion.

Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Causten Browne, and Mr
Robert S. Taylor opposing.

