OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

MqCORMICK v. HAYES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 87'. Argued March 27, 28, 1895. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

In an action in which the plaintiff claims title under the act of September 28,
1850, c. 84, 9 Stat. 519, granting to the several States the swamp and overflowed lands in each unfit for cultivation, and the defendant claims title
under the act of May 15, 1856, c. 28, 11 Stat. 9, making a grant of lands to
the State of Iowa to aid in the construction of railroads, parol evidence
is inadmissible to show, in opposition to the concurrent action of Fefleral
and state officers having authority in the premises, that the lands in controversy were, in fact, at the date of the act of 1850, swamp and overflowed ground.

THIS writ of error brought up a judgment of the Supreme

Court of Iowa, which affirmed a judgment of the District Court
of Linn County in that State, declaring the defendant in error,
who was the plaintiff in the suit, to be the owner of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section nineteen,
township eighty-five, range eight, west of the fifth principal
meridian.
It was assigned as error that the judgment of the state court
deprived the defendant of rights secured to him under the laws
of the United States.
The plaintiff Hayes claimed title under the Swamp Land
act of Congress of September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84;
the defendant, under an act, of Congress, approved May 15,
1856, (and the acts amendatory thereof,) granting lands to the
State of Iowa in aid of the construction of certain railroads.
11 Stat. 9, c. 28.
The question of title cannot be fully understood without
examining various enactments, Federal and state, under which
the parties respectively claim the lands in dispute, as well
as some of the decisions of this court. This court felt, it said,
the more disposed to enter upon this examination because of
the statement by counsel in argument that many cases in the

McCORMICK v. HAYES.
Statement of the Case.

Supreme Court of the State depend, in whole or in part, on
the determination of the questions involved in this suit.
By the Swamp Land act of 1850 Congress granted to
Arkansas, to enable it to construct the necessary levees and
drains for reclaiming the swamp and overflowed lands within
that State, the whole of such lands made "unfit thereby for
cultivation." § 1. The act made it the duty of the Secretary
of the Interior to make out, as soon as practicable after its
passage, an accurate list and plats of those lands, and transmit
it to the governor of the State, and, at the request of the latter,
to cause a patent to be issued to the State therefor. "On that
patent," the act declared, "the fee simple to said lands shall
vest in the said State of Arkansas, subject to the disposal of
the legislature thereof." § 2. The required list and plats, it
was provided, should include all legal subdivisions, the greater
part of which were wet and unfit for cultivation, and exclude
each subdivision the greater part of which was not of that
character. § 3. The provisions of the act were extended to
and their benefits conferred upon each State inwhich swamp
and overflowed lands were situated. § 4.
The legislature of Iowa authorized the commissioner of the
State Land Office to provide -the proofs necessary to secure
those lands to the State. Laws of Iowa, 1850,1851, 169, c. 69.
By a subsequent statute of the State, approved January 13,
1853, all the swamp and overflowed lands granted to Iowa
were granted to the counties respectively in which they were
situated, for the purpose of constructing the necessary levees
and drains for reclaiming the same. If it appeared that any
of such lands had been sold by the United States after the
passage of the act of 1850, the counties in which they lay were
authorized to convey to the purchasers-the county court taking from the purchaser an assignment of all his rights in the
premises, with authority to receive from the United States the
purchase money. Where a county surveyor had made no examination and report of swamp lands within his county, in
compliance with instructions from the governor, the county
court was directed to appoint a competent person with authority to examine such lands, and make reports and plats to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

county court, which should transmit lists of the lands in each
of the counties, " in order to procure the proper recognition
of the same, on the part of the United States, which lists,
after an acknowledgment of the same by the general government," were to be recorded. Laws of Iowa, 1852, 29, c. 12,

§§1, 2, 3.
A subsequent' act, approved January 25, 1855, authorized
the governor to draw all moneys due or that might become
due fo the State, arising from any disposition of its swamp
lands by the government of the United States, to provide for
the selection of the swamp lands of the State, and to secure
the title to the same, and also for the selection, in the name
of the State, of other lands in lieu of such as had been or
might thereafter be entered with warrants; the selections
made by organized counties to be reported by the governor to
the authorities at Washington. Laws of Iowa, 1854, 1855,
261, c. 138.
Such was the legislation - so far as it need be noticed - at
the time Congress, by an act approved Mlay 15, 1856, granted
to Iowa, to aid in the construction of certain lines of railroad
in that State, every alternate section of land, designated by
odd numbers, for six sections in width on each side of said
roads, with liberty to the State to select, subject to the approval
of the Secretary of the Interior, from the lands of the United
States nearest to the tiers of sections above specified, so much
land, in alternate sections, or parts of sections, as should be
equal to such lands as the United States had sold or otherwise appropriated, or to which the rights of pre~rnption had
attached at the time the lines or routes of the respective roads
were definitely fixed; the land so located to be in no case
farther than fifteen miles from the lines of the roads. But
the act expressly exempted from its operation, and reserved
to the United States, any and all lands theretofore reserved
by any act of Congress, or in any manner by competent
authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal
:improvement, or for any other purpose- whatsoever, except so
far as it was found necessary to locate the routes of the railroads through such reserved lands, in which case the right of

McCORMICK v. HAYES.
Statement of the Case.

way only was granted, subject to the approval of the President of the United States. 11 Stat. 9, c. 28.
The next enactment in point of time was the act of Congress, approved March 2, 1857, 11 Stat. 251, c. 117, providing
that the selection of swamp and overflowed lands, granted
to the several States by the Swamp Land act, and by the
act of March 2, 1849, giving aid to the State of Louisiana in
(training the swamp lands within its limits, and theretofore
reported to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
so far as such lands remained vacant and unappropriated
and were not interfered with by an actual settlement under
any existing law of the United States, "be and the same are
hereby confirmed, and shall be approved and patented to the
said several States, in conformity with the provisions of the
act aforesaid, as soon as may be practicable after the passage
of this law."
The trust conferred upon Iowa by the act of Congress of
May 15, 1856, was accepted by the State by an act approved
March 26, 1860. And by the latter act so much of the lands,
interests, rights, powers, and privileges as were granted by
Congress in aid of the construction of a railroad from Lyons
City northwesterly to a point of intersection with the main
line of the Iowa Central Air Line Railroad, near Maquoketa,
thence on said main line running as near as practicable to the
42d parallel across the State to the Missouri River, were
granted and conferred upon the Cedar Rapids and Missouri
River Railroad Company, an Iowa corporation. Laws of
Iowa, 1860, 40, c. 37.
By an act of Congress, approved March 12, 1860, it was
provided that the selection to be made from lands then already surveyed in each of the States, under the authority of
the Swamp Land Act of 1850, and of the act, approved March,
1849, to aid Louisiana in draining the swamp lands. therein,
"shall be made within two years from the adjournment of
the legislature of each-State at its next session after the date
of this act; and, as to all lands hereafter to be surveyed, within
two years from such adjournment, at the next session, after
notice by the Secretary or the Interior to the governor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

State that the surveys have been selected and confirmed." 12
Stat. 3, c. 5.
At the trial in the District'Court the plaintiff introduced
witnesses having more or less knowledge of the land in dispute.
Their evidence, it is claimed, showed that at and ever since the
passage of the act of 1850 this land was, within the meaning
of that act, swamp and overflowed land.
The parties stipulated that the land in controversy was seventeen miles in a direct line from the Cedar Rapids and Missouri River Railroad, (now the Chicago and Northwestern
Railroad,) as constructed, built, and operated; that the railway was built, constructed, and was being operated on the
present line of the latter road, for a distance of about 100
miles west of Cedar Rapids, Ioawa, on and prior to, the 2d day
of June, 1864; and that the assessed value of the land in controversy for each and every year since 1866 to the present
time, as returned by the assessor, as shown by his assessment
books, Was $95.
The northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section
19, township 85, range 8, was selected as swamp and overflowed land.
The land here in dispute is the southwest quarter of the
northwest quarter of the same section, township, and range,
and is covered by a quitclaim deed to Hayes, acknowledged September 4, 1888, from the supervisors of Linn
County, State of Iowa, the consideration recited being one
dollar.
The present suit was commenced within a few days after
the. making of that deed.
The defendant's witnesses stated facts tending to show that
the land in controversy was not and never was swamp or overflowed land.
He introduced in, evidence a list of lands, aggregating 1809
acres, ceftified as having been granted by Congress to Iowa
for the Iowa Air Line Railroad, afterwards the Cedar Rapids
and Missouri River Railroad. This list designated lands
within the six-mile limit, and included the land in contro.Oersy, was signed by the Commissioner of the General Land

McCORMICK v. HAYES.
Statement of the Case.

Office, December 23, 1858, and approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, December 27, 1858.
The defendant read in evidence a list of lands in Linn
County, aggregating 668 acres, certified and approved in 1881
to the State by the Secretary of the Interior, under the act of
May 15, 1856, as having inured to the Cedar Rapids and
Missouri River Railroad Company. This list included the
land in suit, was in the form required by the Iowa statutes,
and was signed by the governor and register of the state land
office.
He also read in evidence a deed dated March, 1870, from
the Cedar Rapids and Missouri River Railroad Company to
the Iowa Railroad Land Company, and also a deed to him
from the Iowa Railroad Land Company, dated October 30,
1885 - both deeds covering the land in dispute.
It appears that the parties made the following stipulation,
which was read in evidence by the defendant, to wit: "In
order to. avoid the introduction of evidence upon the subject
hereinafter mentioned, it is stipulated and agreed by and
between the parties: That the county of Linn, prior to
1875, made seleetions of swamp lands as shown by the
,records of the register of the state land office, which selections so made embrace certain tracts in section 19, township
85, range 8, in Linn County, and among them the northwest
quarter of N. W. quarter and the southeast quarter of the N. W.
quarter of said above-named section. The said selections so
made, or a copy thereof, are on file in the Secretary of State's
office in the State of Iowa, and that the tract in controversy
[the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of the same
section] was not included in any such selections, and that so
far as shown by any record of the State or county the tract
in controversy has never been patented to the State nor by
the State to the county,)
It was also proven by the defendant that the Cedar Rapids
and Missouri River Railroad Company and the Iowa Railroad
Land Company and himself had annually paid the state,
county, and other taxes assessed and levied on said land from
1866 to 1888, both inclusive.
VOL,

LUX-22 ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Each party objected to the evidence introduced by the
other on the ground of incompetency.
This was the case on which the District Court gave judgment establishing and quieting the plaintiff's title.
Xr. Charles A. Clark for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.D. E. Voris for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTIC HARLAN, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
Undoubtedly, the certification to the State by the Department of the Interior, of the lands in controversy, under the
railroad act of May 15, 1856, as having inured to the Cedar
Rapids and Missouri River Railroad Company, was unauthorized by law, if the lands at the date of the Swamp Land
act of 1850 were swamp and overflowed lands, whereby they
were unfit for cultivation; for, lands of that character were
expressly reserved from the operation of the railroad grant of
1856. If they were not granted to the State for the benefit
of the railroad company, because previously granted to the
State as swamp and overflowed lands, they could not be
legally certified or transferred to the State to be applied in
aid of the construction of the railroad.
This is made clear by the decision in Railroad Company v.
Fremont County, 9 Wall. 89, 94.
That was a suit in equity to quiet the title to a tract of
land in Iowa, both parties claiming under grants by Congress
the plaintiff, the county of Fremont, under what is known
as the Swamp Land act of 1850; the railroad company, under
the above act of Congress of May 15, 1856, granting lands to
Iowa to aid in the construction of railroads. After referring
to that part of the act reserving from its operation any and
all lands theretofore reserved to the United States by any
act of Congress, or in any manner by competent authority
for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or for any other purpose whatever, the court, among
other things, said: "These reservations clearly embrace the

McCORMICK v. HAYES.
Opinion of the Court.

previous grant of the swamp and overflowed lands for the
purpose of enabling the States to redeem them and fit them
for cultivation by levees and drains. At the time of the
passage of this act, (May 15, 1856,) a moiety of the lands in
controversy had been selected and reported to the land department; and the authorities of the State, under instructions
from that department, were engaged in the selection of the
remainder. The lands already selected and returned had
been withdrawn from sale, and were not in the market at
the time of the passage of the act ; and as soon as the remaining lists were returned, which was January 21, 1857, they
were also withdrawn from the market. In the language of
the railroad act, the whole of the lands in controversy were
'otherwise appropriated,' and were ' reserved' for the purpose
of aiding the States in their objects of internal improvements.'
Many decisions of this court are to the same effect.
The controlling question, therefore, in this case, so far as
the plaintiff is concerned -and he must recover upon the
strength of his own title, even if that of the defendant be
defective -is whether, under the circumstances disclosed
by the record, the particular lands in controversy, in the
absence of any selection and certification of them by the
United States to the State, under the Swamp Land act,
can be shown by parol testimony to have been, in fact, at
the date of that act, swamp and overflowed lands? Congress
having made it the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to
make out accurate lists and plats of the lands embraced by
the Swamp Land act, and transmit the same to the governor
of the State, and, at the request of the latter, to cause a
patent to be issued to the State therefor, and having provided that "on that patent the fee simple to said lands shall
vest in said State subject to the disposal of the legislature
thereof," did the title vest in the State, by virtue alone, and
immediately upon the passage of the act, without any selection' by or under the direction of the Department of the
Interior, so that the State's grantees could maintain an action
to recover the possession of them ?
At the term of the court at which Railroad Company v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Fremont County was determined the case of Railroad Company v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95, was decided.
The latter case
was ejectment by a railroad company to recover certain
lands in Missouri. It deduced title from an act of Congress,
approved June 10, 1852, granting public lands to that State
to aid in the construction of certain railroads.
The State
accepted the grant, and by statute vested in the railroad
company the lands so granted, without any description of
their boundaries. The defendant Smith, asserting title under
the Swamp Land act, introduced parol evidence tending to
show that, at the date of that act, the lands in dispute were,
in fact, wet and unfit for cultivation, and, therefore, were to
be deemed swamp and overflowed lands within the meaning
of the act of Congress. It was admitted that the title had
vested in the railroad company, -unless the land was of the
class that was reserved by the above act of 1852, which,
in that respect, was similar to the act of 1856 granting lands
to Iowa to aid in the construction of railroads. The court
held this evidence to be competent.
Mr. Justice Clifford did not concur in the 'judgment of
the court, being of the opinion that as special power was
conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior to make out
an accurate list and plats of the lands, it was quite clear
that a jury was no more competent to ascertain and determine whether a particular subdivision should be included,
or excluded, from the list and plats required to be made
under that section, than they would be to make the list
and plats dturing the trial of a case involving the question
of title; and that courts and juries were not empowered to
make. the' required list and plats, nor determine what particu.l*r lands shall be included in the list and plats before
.they were prepared by the officer designated by law to
perform that duty; otherwise, he said, the States could
select for themselves, and if their title was questioned by
the United States or by individuals, they could claim of
right that the matter shall be determined by jury.
The next case is that of French v. Fyan, 93 U. S.169, 172,
173. That was also ejeetment, and the question was, whether,

McCORMICK v. HAYES.
Opinion of the Court.

as against a patent for the lands there in controversy, issued
by the United States to Missouri under the Swamp Land act
of 1850, it was competent to show by parol testimony that
the lands so patented. were not, in fact, swamp and overflowed
lands within the meaning of the act. In that case, the plaintiff, by purchase in 1872, became vested with such title 6s
had passed in 1854 to the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company
under the act granting lands to aid that corporation in the
construction of its road. The defendant based his claim on a
patent issued by the United States in 1857 under the Swamp
Land act of 1850. It thus appeared on the face of the
papers -treating the grant 'by the Swamp Land act as one
inprcesexti, and any patent issued under it, no matter when
issued, as relating to the date of the grant - that the better
title was with the defendant, because the grant under 'which
the railroad company claimed was not made until after the
passage of the Swamp Land act. In this view, the question
arose whether, in an action at law, in which these evidences
of title came in conflict, parol testimony could be admitted
that the land was never, in fact, swamp and overflowed, and,
in that way, collaterally impeach the patent issued to the
State under the act of 1850.
In considering that question the court, in French v. Fyan,
reaffirmed the general doctrine, to which there are some
recognized exceptions not important to be here stated, that
when the law has confided to a special tribunal the authority
to hear and determine certain matters arising in the course
of its duties, the decision of that tribunal, within the scope of
its authority, was conclusive u-pon all others. Speaking by
Mr. Justice Miller, who delivered the opinion in the previous
case of Railroad Co. v. Smith, the court, in French v. Fyan,
said: "We see nothing in the case before us to take it out of
the operation of that rule; and we are of opinion that, in this
action at law, it would be a departure from sound principle,
and contrary to well-considered judgments in this court, and
in others of high authority, to permit the validity of the
patent to the State to be subjected to the test of the verdict of a jury on 'such oral testimony as might be brought

342

OCTOBER TElM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

before it. It would be substituting the jury, or the court
sitting as a jury, for the tribunal which Congress had provided to determine the question, and would be making a
patent of the United States a cheap and unstable reliance as
a title for lands which it purported to convey."
In the argument of*French v. Fyan. great reliance was
placed by the counsel on Railroad Co. v. Sinith, above cited,
in which, as we -have seen, parol evidence was held to be
competent to prove that a particular piece of land was swamp
and overflowed land within the meaning of the act of Congress. Upon this point the court, in French v. Fyan, said:
"But a careful examination will show that it was done with
hesitation, and with some dissent in the court. The admission was placed expressly on the ground that the Secretary of
the Interior had neglected or refused to do his duty; that he
had made no selection or lists whatever, and wozld issue no
pIatents, although many years had elapsed since the passage
of the act. The court said: 'The matter to be shown is one
of observation and examination; whether arising before the
Secretary, whose duty it was primarily to decide it, or before
the court whose duty it became, because the Secretary had
failed to do it, this was clearly the best evidence to be had,
and was sufficient for the purpose.' There was no means, as
this court has decided, to compel him to act; and if the party
claiming, under the State in that case could not be" permitted
t6 prove that the land which the State had conveyed to him
as swamp land was in fact such, a total failure of justice
would occur, and the entire grant to the State might be
defeated by this neglect or refusal of the Secretary to perform his duty. Gaines v. Thormpson, 7 Wall. 347; Secretary
v. MeGarrahan, 9 Wall. 298; Litchfield v. Register and
Receiver, 9 Wa.ll. 575. There is in this no conflict with what
we decide in the present case, but, on the contrary, the
strongest implication, that if, in that case, the Secretary
had made any decision, the evidence would have been excluded."
The same general question arose, under somewhat different
circumstances, in Ehrlaardt v. Jtoyaboom, 115 U. S. 67, 69,

McCOiRMICK v. HAYES.
Opinion of the Court.

which was an action to recover possession of a tract of land
in California; the plaintiff deraigning title through a conveyance by one to whom the United States had issued a patent
in 1875; the defendant contending that the lands in controversy, although covered by the above patent, were, in fact,
lands that passed to the State under the Swamp Land act of
1850. The question was, whether the defendant, who did not
connect himself in any way with the title, and was a mere
intruder, without color of title, could be admitted to show by
parol evidence that the lands were in fact swamp and overflowed.
The court said: "In that case [French v. Fyan, 93 U. S.169]
parol evidence to show that the land covered by a patent to
Missouri under the act was not swamp and overflowed land,
was held to be inadmissible. On the same principle parol
testimony to show that the land covered by a patent of the
United States to a settler under the pre(mption laws was such
swamp and overflowed land must be held to be inadmissible
to defeat the patent. It is the duty of tho land department,
of which the Secretary is the head, to determine whether land
patented to a settler is of the class subject to settlement under
the preemption laws, and his judgment ds to this fact is not
open to contestation in an action at law by a mere intruder
without title. As was said in the case cited of the patent to
the State, it may be said in this case of the patent to the preemptioner, it would be a departure from sound principle and'
contrary to well-considered judgments of this court to permit,
in such action, the validity of the patent to be subjected to
the test of the verdict of a jury on oral testimony."
It is supposed by counsel that these principles were modified
in IWright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488, 511, 512, 518. But
such is not the fact. In that case the plaintiff sued to recover
possession of a tract of land in California. He asserted title
under that act, claiming by conveyance from parties who had
purchased from the State; the defendants, under patents of
the United States issued under the preemption laws to them
or to parties from whodi they derived their interest. The
particular point to which the court directed its attention was
whether an action could be maintained upon the title to swamp

OCTOBEIt TE4RM, 1895.
Opiuiou of the Court.

and overflowed lands in Californiauntil they had been certified as such pursuant to the fourth section of the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, entitled " An act to quiet land titles in
California." In determining that question it became necessary
to examine the course of legislation and of judicial decision
under the Swamp Land act of 1850. Referring to the act of
July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 218, c. 219, the court said that "Congress changed the provisions of law for the identification of
swamp and overflowed lands in that State. It no longer left
their identi~fcation to the Secretary of the Interior, but pro-

vided for such identification by the joint action of the state
and Federal authorities." That act, the court said, tended to
remove the uncertainty and confusion which prevailed in relation to land titles in that State, "principally by recognizing
the action of the State in disposing of the lands granted to her,
in cases where such disposition was made to parties in good
faith, and did not interfere with previously acquired interests,
and by providing a mode for identifying the swamp and overflowed lands in the future without the action of the Secretary
of the Interior." It appeared in proof that the lands there in
controversy had been segregated as swamp and overflowed
lands by the authorities of the State of California; that their
designation as such lands on a plat of the township made by
the surveyor general of the United States was approved by
that officer, and forwarded to the General Land Office, pursuant to the act of 1866; and that such plat was approved by
the Commissioner, as shown by its official use of it. "The
act of Congress," the court said, "intended that the segregation maps prepared by authority of the State, and filed in the
state surveyor general's office, if found upon examination by
the United States surveyor general to be made in accordance
with the public surveys of the general government, should be
taken as evidence that the lands designated thereon as swamp
and overflowed were such in fact, except where this would
interfere with previously acquired interests." So far from
modifying the rule announced in French v. Fyan, the court
recognized the authority of that case, and distinguished it from
the one then under consideration.

McCORMICK v. IIAVES.
Opinion of the Court.

In Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S.573, 585, the court held that
the decision of the land department on the question whether
lands were swamp and overflowed, within the meaning of the
act of 1850, was the decision of a fact, which, in the absence
of fraud or imposition, was conclusive upon the courts.
The latest case in this court upon the general question be
fore us is Chandler v. Calumet & Hecla Mining Co., 149 U. S.
79, 88, 89, 92. The action was ejectment, each party holding
a conveyance from the State of Michigan; that to the plaintiff, Chandler, having been made many years subsequent to
the one made to the defendant. The plaintiff claimed that
the premises in controversy were a part of the swamp and
overflowed lands granted to the State by the act of September
28, 1850, and -were patented to him by the State on the 3d
day of November, 1887, whereby he acquired a title to the
same, superior to that attempted to be passed to the defendant
by the prior patent based on an act of Congress of August
26, 1852, granting public lands to Michigan to aid in the construction of a ship canal around the Falls of St. Mary. There
was proof showing that the State and the Interior Department made a selection of lands under the Swamp Land act,
and that the lands there in controversy were not embraced in
such selection, nor in the patent to the State for them. The
defendant contended that this action of the State and of the
Interior Department was a determination that the particular
land in dispute was not covered by the act of 1850, and its
having been selected and certified to the State under the act
of 1852 was a determination that it was included in the canal
grant; and that this determinAtion could not be collaterally
attacked in an action at law. Referring to RailroadCompany
v. Smith, Mr. Justice Jackson, speaking for the court, after
observing that the converse of the situation existing in that
case was presentedin the case then before it, said: "But aside,
from this, the rule as to oral evidence, recognized in that case,
was afterwards explained, and limited in its operation to cases
in which there had been non-action or refusal to act on the
part of the Secretary of the Interior in selecting lands granted,
as appears in the subsequent cases of French v. Fyan, 93

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 169, 173, and Ehrhardt v. llogaboom, 115 U. S. 67, 69,
where parol evidence was offered to show that patented lands
were not of the character described."
After examining French v. Fyan and Ehrkardt v. Hogaboom, above cited, and stating that nothing said or involved
in Wright v. Rosebery was in conflict with the rulings in those
cases, the court proceeded: " Under the principle announced
in that case, and under the foregoing facts in the present case,
it would seem that there had been such affirmative action on
the part of the Secretary of the Interior in identifying the
lands in this particular township, containing the lands in controversy, as would amount to an identification of the lands
therein, which pass to the State by the swamp land grant,
and that the selection by the State of the demanded premises
under the canal grant of 1852, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, and the certification of the department
to the State that they were covered by the latter grant, may
well be considered such an adjudication of the question as
,should exclude the introduction of parol evidence to contradict it. The exclusion of the land in dispute from the swamp
lands selected and patented to the State, and its inclusion in
the selection of the State as land coming within the grant of
1852, with the approval of such selection by the Interior
Department and the certification thereof to the State, operated
to pass the title thereto as completely as could have been done
by formal patent, Frasher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102; and
being followed by the State's conveyance to the canal coMpany, presented such official action and such documentary
evidence of title as should not be open to question by parol
testimony in an action at law. Under the facts of this case
we are of opinion that the plaintiff in error could not properly
establish by oral evidence that the land in dispute was in
fact swamp land, for the purpose of contradicting and invalidating the department's certification thereof to the State and
the latter's patent to the canal company."
To this review of the former decisions of this court but
little need be added. The case before us is not like that
of Railroad Company v. Smith, in which, as subsequently

McCORMICK v: HAYES.
Opinion of the Court.

explained in French v. Fyan, it was shown that there was an
absolute neglect of duty on the part of the Interior Department, in that it neither made, nor would make any selection
or lists whatever, and, therefore, there was no action by that
department that could be relied on as a determination of the
question whether the particular lands then in dispute were or
were not embraced by the Swamp Land act. That case was
exceptional in its circumstances, and seemed t6 justify the
decision rendered, in order to prevent a total failure of justice, arising from the unexplained neglect of the land department to perform the duty imposed by the act of 1850. What
was said in French v. Fyan shows that this court not only so
rqgarded the previous case, but it was, in effect, said that the
ruling in *RailroaZ
Company v. Smith was not to be extended
to any case in which the land department had taken action
or made a decision or determination under the Swamp Land
act.
In the case now before us, the selection by Linn County,
grantee of the State, prior to 1875, of swamp and overflowed
lands in the very section of which the lands in dispute formed
a part, without including the latter in such selection, together
with the acquiescence in that selection by the Interior Department, and the selection by or under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, and their certification to the State, first
in 1858, and again in 1881, of the lands in dispute, as lands
inuring, under the act of Congress of May 15, 1856, to the
Cedar Rapids and Missouri River Railroad Company, and,
therefore, not lands embraced by the act of 1850, constituted
a determination, based on "6bservdtion and examination,"
that the lands here in dispute were not swamp and overflowed, and, therefore, had not been reserved or appropriated,
prior to the date of the railroad land grant act, but passed, as
,the Secretary of the Interior certified, to the State, for the
purposes named in the railroad act. Twice the land department certified these lands, to the State as inuring to it under
the railroad land grant act, and it does not appear that the
State has ever questioned the correctness of that certification
or applied to the Secretary of the Interior for a refxamination

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

as to the character of the lands. Nor did the county of Linn,
so far as the record shows, ever contend that these lands
belonged 'to it, under the act of 1850, as the grantee of the
State, until its board of supervisors for the consideration of
$50, (their deed, however, reciting one dollar as the consideration,) sold them to the plaintiff, taking his promissory note
for the price. This was in 1888, a few days before this suit
was brought, and more than thirty years after the Secretary
of the Interior first certified them to the State as railroad
grant lands.
We are of opinion that this case comes within the ruling of
previous cases, particularly Ckfandler v. Calumet & Hecla Mining Co., and French v. Fya.
Upon the authority of former adjudications, as well as upon
principle, it must be held that parol evidence is inadmissible to
show, in opposition to the concurrent action of Federal and
state officers, having authority in the premises, that these
lands were, in fact, at the date of the act of 1850, swamp and
overflowed grounds, which should have been embraced by
Linn County in its selection of land of that character, and
withheld from the State as lands granted expressly in aid of
railroad construction within its limits.
The plaintiff was not entitled to the relief asked, and, as the
case was tried by the court, judgment should have been rendered for the defendant.
As the court below did not proceed upon the grounds we
have stated to be proper, and as its judgment deprived the
defendant of rights secured by the laws and exercised under
the authority of the United States, that judgment must be
reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

