OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

in that vein at the point of its intersection with the so-called
West vein, which had its apex on the Pine Tree mine, because
tie Carrington mine was the older or prior location; and
that this could only be determined by an application of sections 2322 and 2336 of the Revised Statutes. But the decision
of the Supreme Court was clearly based upon the estoppel
deemed by that court to operate against plaintiffs in error
upon general principles of law and the statute of California
in respect of such a conveyance as that to Stinchfield, irrespective of any Federal question. And this was an independent ground broad enough to maintain the judgment. The
writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed. Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361; Rutland Railroad Co. v. Central Vermont
Railroad Co., 159 U. S. 630.
Writ of error dismissed.

LAMBERT v. BARRETT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 771.

Submitted November 11, 1895.-

Decided November 18, 1895.

The several questions raised by the counsel for the petitioner are matters
for the determination of the courts of the State, and their determination
there adversely to the petitioner Involves no denial of due process of
law, or the infraction of any provision of the Constitution of the United
States.
The administration of justice ought not to be interfered with on mere pretexts.
THIS is an appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of New Jersey, denying the
petition of Theodore Lambert for a writ of habeas corpus.
It appeared from the petition that Lambert was convicted by
the verdict of a jury, June 15, 1894, of the murder of William
Kairer, in the court of oyer and terminer and general jail
delivery of Camden County, New Jersey, and sentenced,
October 13. to be hanged on December 13, 1894; that on the

LAMBERT v. BARRETT.
Statement of the Case.

fourth of December the governor of New Jersey granted a
reprieve, suspending the execution of the sentence until January 3, 1895, and on December 22, 1894, issued a death warrant for the execution of Lambert on said third of January;
that on December 29, 1894, application was made to one of the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Third
Circuit for a writ of habeas corpus, which was denied, and on
January 2 an appeal was taken to this court; that on the same
day a citation was issued to Barrett, sheriff of the county of
Camden, in whose custody petitioner was, together with an
order by one of the justices of this court, staying the execution of Lambert "until the further order of this court." It
also appeared that the appeal was heard in this court March
25, 1895, and the appeal thereafter dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, and a mandate to that effect was duly issued, but
that it was not filed nor any entry of final judgment made in
the Circuit Court. Petitioner further averred that on May 28,
1895, the governor issued another death warrant to the sheriff
of Camden County, directing the execution of the death sentence on the 27th of June following; that on June 5, 1895, a
petition was presented to the Supreme Court of New Jersey
for a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause of the
detention of Lambert, and that the same was granted and
made returnable on June 10, and after hearing argument the
court held that Lambert was lawfully in custody; that subsequently application was made to the Chancellor of the State
for a writ of error to remove the last mentioned judgment to
the Court of Errors and Appeals, which' was refused.
Petitioner charged that under section 766 of the Revised
Statutes any proceedings to carry out the judgment against
him by or under the authority of the State of New Jersey
before final judgment was entered in the Circuit Court were
null and void, and that as such judgment had not been entered, the sheriff restrained him of his liberty for the purpose
of carrying the death warrant into execution in violation of
that statute of the United States; that the governor had no
prerogative, right, or authority under or by virtue of the laws
of New Jersey to grant the reprieve or issue the death war-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

rant; and that the second death warrant was in the nature of
a new sentence, which could not be had without the presence
of petitioner, and placed petitioner twice in jeopardy of his
life; all of which was in violation of the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
Mr. John L. Semple for appellant.
Mr. Wilson R. Jenkins for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating

the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By section 766 of the Revised Statutes, where an appeal
from the final .decision of a Circuit Court of the United
States, denying the writ of habeas corpus to a person alleging restraint df his liberty by state authority in violation of
the Constitution or laws of the United States, is "in process
of being heard and determined," any proceeding against such
person in respect of the matter under consideration is to be
deemed null and void. As no order staying proceedings under state authority is made a condition to such stay, the bare
pendency of the appeal has that effect, and in consequence
many applications for habeas corpus have been made to the
Circuit Courts, and, on denial, many appeals taken to this
court on inadequate and insufficient grounds. It is natural
that counsel for the condemned in a: capital case should lay
hold of every ground which, in their judgment, might tend to
the advantage of their client, but the administration of justice
ought not to be interfered with on mere pretexts.
When in the instance of the first application for habeas corpus made by this petitioner, the appeal to this court was dismissed, the supersedeas fell with the disposition of the case;
and when final judgment was entered here, and especially after
the mandate had issued, the authorities of the State had power
to proceed, although the mandate may have been, as is said,
delivered to them instead of to the Circuit Court. In re
Jugiro, 140 U. S. 291, 295, 296.
The constitution of New Jersey provides that the governor

GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

may grant reprieves "to extend until the expiration of a time
not exceeding ninety days after conviction ;" and by section
123 of the Criminal Procedure Act of that State, it is provided
that when. a reprieve is granted to any convict sentenced to
the punishment of death and he is not pardoned, it shall be the
duty of the governor to issue his warrant to the sheriff of the
proper county for the execution of the sentence at such time
as is therein appointed and expressed. It is contended that
if there is no reprieve there can be no warrant; that there was
no authority to issue either, except within ninety days after
conviction; and that appellant must be brought before the
trial court and a new date be fixed for the execution. But
these are matters for the determination of the state courts, and
they appear to have been passed upon adversely to the petitioner. That result involves no denial of due process of law,
or the infraction of any provision of the Constitution of the
United States. Lambert v. Barrett,157 U. S. 697; Jlolden v.
Minnesota, 137 U. S.483 ; Schwab v. Berggren, 143 U. S.442 ;
McElvaine v. Brush, 142 U. S. 155, 159; In re Cross, 146
U. S.271, 278.
Order afirmed.

GOODE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 616. Argued November 1, 1S95. -Decided

November 25, 1895.

When a verdict is general upon all the counts in an indictment, sufficient in
form, it must stand if any one of the counts was sustained by competent
testimony.
In an indictment under Rev. Stat. § 5467, against a letter carrier charged
with secreting, embezzling or destroying a letter containing postage
stamps, the fact that the letter was a decoy is no defence.
A letter addressed to a fictitious person, known to be such, is a letter

within the meaning of the statute, and for the purposes of Rev. Stat.
§§ 5467 and 5469 a letter which bears the outward semblance of a genuine
communication, and comes into the possession of the employ6 in the

