BALTIMORE & 01110 IAILROA

1 C0. v.UI

,IIFITIL 603

Statement of the Case.

BALTIMORE

ERROR TO THE

& OHIO RAILROAD
GRIFFITH.
CIRCUIT COURT
SOUTHERN

No. 58.

OF

THE UNITED

COMPANY

v.

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued October 18, 1895. -Decided

November 18, 1895.

When the judgment actually rendered in the court below was for an
amount giving this court jurisdiction, which amount was reached by
adding to a verdict for $5000, interest from the time of the verdict to
the time of the entry of the judgment in a district where the local state
law does not permit that to be (lone, and the plaintiff ,below, although
excepting to the allowance of interest, and to the refusal of the court
below to permit a remittitur, brings no writ of error to correct the
alleged error, this court cannot dismiss a writ of error brought by the
defendant to review other rulings in the case.
In an action against a railway company to recover damages for injuries
caused by one of its trains striking a wagon in which the plaintiff and
another woman were seated as it was crossing the track on a public highway at grade, the negligence of the defendant having been established,
there was further evidence tending to show that the women were driving
slowly and with a safe horse; that the train was several minutes behind
time; that as they approached the low place at which a train could be
seen if one were there, they stopped to look and listen, but neither saw
nor heard anything; that after stopping they started driving slowly up
the hill to a point at the top between forty and fifty yards from the
track, where the slope commenced, and there they stopped again and
listened, but heard nothing; they then drove slowly down the hill, both
listening all the time, without talking, and heard nothing; and that just
.as they got to a cut and the horse had his feet on the nearest rail, the
train came around a curve and the collision occurred. Held, that the
question whether there was contributory negligence on the part of
the plaintiff was properly submitted to the jury for determination.

THIS was an action brought by Emma Griffith in the Court
of Common Pleas of Licking County, Ohio, against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to recover for injuries received on August 1, 1888, by the collision of a train of that
company with the vehicle in which plaintiff was then being
conveyed. The cause was removed on the petition of the
company into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, where it was tried, and resulted in

OCTOBER TEF

M, 1895.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for five thousand dollars.
A motion for a new trial was made and overruled and judgment entered on the verdict, with interest added, to review
which this writ of error was sued out.. The charge to the jury
by Sage, J., and his opinion on the motion for new trial are
reported, 44 Fed. Rep. 574, 582.
The following errors assigned were relied on in the brief for
plaintiff ifi
error: "Sixth. The said court erred in refusing to
give the ninth charge asked by the plaintiff in error. Seventh.
The court erred in refusing to give the tenth charge asked by
the plaintiff in error. Tenth. The court erred in overruling the
motion of the plaintiff in error for a new trial. Eleventh. Upon
the whole record, judgment should have been rendered in said
cause in favor of the plaintiff in error and against the defendant in error, instead of the judgment which was rendered."
The instructions thus referred to were as follows: "9. The
testimony in this case shows that the plaintiff was guilty of
negligence contributing to her injury. Such being the fact
she is not entitled to recover and your verdict must be for
the defendant.
"10. It was the duty of the plaintiff to stop before driving
on this railroad track and allow the train to pass before she
attempted to cross, and if she failed so to do and was thereby
injured she cannot recover in this case."
Mr.John K. Co wen, (with whom was Mr.Hugh L. Bond,
Jr., on the brief,) for plaintiff in error, contended that, on
the undisputed evidence in the case, the defendant in error
was guilty of cont1butory negligence in law, citing: Horn v.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 6 U. S. App. 381; Cleveland,
Columbus &c. Railroad v. Elliott, 28 Ohio St. 340; Pennsylvania Company v. Rathgeb, 32 Ohio St. 66; Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad v. Whitacre, 35 Ohio St. 627; Imaprovenen'
Co. v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442; Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall.
116; Schofield v. Ch.Mil. & St. Paul Railway,.114 U. S.615;
Artz v. Chicago, Rock Island &o. Railroad, 34 Iowa, 153;
Pennsylvania Railroad v. Beale, 73 Penn. St. 504; Rhoades
v. Chicago & Grand Trunk Railway, 58 Michigan, 263;

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO. v. GRIFFITH.

605

Opinion of the Court.

Sahwfert v. Chicago Milwaukee do. Railway, 62 Iowa, 624;
Turner v. Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad,74 Missouri, 602;
Gorton v. Erie Railway, 45 N. Y. 660 ,Delaware & Lackawanna Railroad v. Toffey, 38 N. J. L. 525.
Mr. Samuel M. Hunter for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The verdict was returned June 11, and the motion for a
new trial was overruled and jddgment entered on the verdict,
December 12, 1890. The Circuit Court gave interest on the
verdict and rendered judgment for $5154.17 and costs. Plaintiff's counsel excepted to the allowance of interest and also to
the refusal of the court to permit a remittitur. Conceding
that it is ordinarily within the discretion of the court below
to permit or to deny a remittitur, Pacific Conpany v. O' Connor, 128 U. S. 394, and cases cited, it is argued here that interest was not allowable on verdicts under the local law; that
in view of section 966 of the Revised Statutes, the judgment
was improperly increased by the inclusion thereof, A'ass.
Benefit Association v. Miles, 137 U. S. 689; and that therefore the writ of error should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction. But if the Circuit Court committed error in this regard,
plaintiff below brought no writ of error to correct it, and the
question is not open to examination on this record. As the
judgment actually rendered was for an amount which gives us
jurisdiction, we cannot dismiss the writ on the ground that it
should have been for less.
The contention of plaintiff in error is that on the undisputed evidence in the case defendant in error was guilty of
contributory negligence in law, and that the court erred in
refusing to direct a verdict accordingly.
This renders it necessary to make a brief reference to the
evidence.
The plaintiff was riding with her mother in a phaeton
buggy from their home in the. country to Newark, Ohio, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

mother driving. About four miles south from Newark it was
necessary to cross the track of the railroad at a place called
Locust Grove crossing, and it was there that the injury was
inflicted. The railroad ran nearly north and south in a cut
through a small hill, and the highway crossed it at right
angles, approaching the crossing through the same hill. The
track from the south came to the crossing on a curve of four
degrees through the cut,'which was from twelve to eighteen
feet deep, and the slope of the cut was about forty-five degrees.
The bottom of the railroad cut was fifteen feet wide, and the
highway as it came down to the track was about sixteen feet
wide, though there was some conflict of evidence in regard to
it. The train was coming from the south and the buggy was
coining from the west. The field on the west of the track
and on the south of the highway for a considerable number
of feet and up to the crossing was covered with growing corn
over ten feet high, so that by reason of the cut and the corn
there was no view of the track by a person coming from the
west on the highway until he got down into the railway cut.
A stream called Hog Run flowed westerly under the track at
the bridge of the railroad, 2430 feet south of the crossing, and,
after making a curve northerly, passed under a county bridge
on the highway in question. The highway from the county
bridge ran easterly until about three hundred feet from the
crossing, and thence due east to the crossing and after leaving
that bridge went by a low place from which the train could
be seen coining from the south, until it ran into the cut which
commenced about six hundred feet south of the crossing and
on a curve to it. The highway proceeding towards the crossing passed up the hill into the cut, and then. there was no
view of the railroad whatever to the south on account of the
highway being cut down and the growing corn on that side.
The highway was graded down, leaving a bank on both sides,
the descent being gradual, and the highway cut deepening
until it reached the place where it crossed at the railroad
level at the bottom of the cut. Just as the horse and buggy
reached the west rail, a passenger 'train, going at the rate of
forty to forty-five miles an hour, and giving, as alleged, no

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO. v. GRIFFITH.

607

Opinion of the Court.

signals of its approach to the crossing, struck the horse in the
neck, wrecked the buggy, knocked the plaintiff about forty
feet, and inflicted permanent injuries, the mother just before
the stroke doing all she could to pull the horse to the left,
across the highway, to get it out of the way.
It seems to be conceded, and properly, that the
jury were
justified in finding that the railroad company was guilty of
negligence. The case stated in the complaint was on the
common law liability of defendant for failure to give signals,
but the statutes of Ohio may be referred to as showing what
constituted negligence in that regard. And they provided:
"Suc. 3336. Every company shall have attached to each
locomotive engine passing upon its road, a bell of the ordinary
size in use on such engines, and a steam whistle; and the engineer or person in charge of an engine in motion, and approaching a turnpike, highway, or town crossing, upon the same
level therewith, and in like manner when the road crosses any
other travelled place, by bridge or otherwise, shall sound such
whistle at a distance of at least eighty and not further than
one hundred rods from the place of such crossing; and ring
such bell continuously until the engine passes such road crossing; but the provisions of this section shall not interfere with
the proper observance of any ordinance passed by any city
or village council regulating the management of railroad
locomotives and steam whistles thereon, within the limits of
such city or village.
"SEc. 3337. Every engineer or person in charge of any
such engine who fails to comply with the provisions of the
preceding section shall be perhonally liable to a penalty of
not less than fifty nor more than one hundred dollars, to be
recovered by civil action, at the suit of the State, in the court
of common pleas of any county wherein any such crossing is;
ond the company in whose employ such engineer or person in
charge of an engine is, as well as the person himself, shall be
liable in damages to any person or company injured in person
or property by such neglect or act of such engineer or person."
I Rev. Stat. Ohio, 960.
There was evidence that no bell was rung, and that the

OCTOBER TERM,. 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

engine whistled, if at all, at the railroad bridge, almost half a
mile from the crossing.
The jury were warranted in finding that no sufficient warning was given of the approach of the train, which was running
at the speed of fifty-eight to sixty-six feet a second, and that
the collision was caused by the negligence of those in charge
of the train. Cleveland, COlumus c&c. Railroadv. Crawford,
24 Ohio St. 631.
It was held in Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati &f Indianapo'L Railroadv. Elliott, 28 Ohio St. 340, that the omission to
ring the bell or sound the whistle at public crossings is not of
itself sufficient ground to authorize a recovery, if the injured
party might, notwithstanding such omission, 'by the exercise
of ordinary care, have avoided the accident. And in Pennsylvania Company v. Rathgel, 32 Ohio St. 66, that if all the
material facts touching alleged negligence of the plaintiff be
undisputed, or be found by the jury, and admit of no rational
inference but that of negligence, in such case the question of
contributory negligence becomes a matter of law merely, and
the court should so charge the jury. But these were cases in
which the court was of opinion that the omission to give the
ordinary, signals by bell or whistle, as in itself it did not absolve the plaintiff from the necessity of exercising ordinary
care, did not furnish sufficient ground for recovery, because by
due diligence in the use of ordinary precautions by the person
injured, the consequence of the defendant's negligence might
have been avoided.
In Continental Improvement Co. v. Stead, 95 U. S. 161,
164, which was a case of collision between a train of passenger cars of the plaintiff in error and the wagon of the defendant in error, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court,
stated the duties and obligations resting upon travellers and
railroad companies thus:
"If a railroad crosses a common road on the same level,
those travelling on either have a legal right to pass over the
point of crossing, and to require due care on the part of those
travelling on the other, to avoid a collision. Of course, these
mutual rights have respect to other relative rights subsist-

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO. v. GRIFFITH.

609

Opinion of the Court.

ing between the parties. From the character and momentuin of a railroad train, and the requirements. of public travel
by means thereof, it cannot be expected that it shall stop and
give precedence to an approaching wagon to make the crossing
first ; it is the duty of the wagon to wait for the train. The
train has the preference and right of way. But it is bound to
give due warning of its approach, so that the wagon may stop
and allow it to pass, and to use every exertion to stop if the
wagon is inevitably in the way. Such warning must be reasonable and timely. But what is reasonable' and timely warning
may depend on many circumstances. It cannot be such, if
the speed of the train be so great as to render it unavailing.
The explosion of a cannon may be said to be a warning of the
coming shot; but the velocity of the latter generally outstrips
the warning. The speed of a train at a crossing should not be
so great as to render unavailing the warning of the whistle and
bell; and this caution is especially applicable when their sound
is obstructed by winds and other noises, and when intervening
objects prevent those who are approaching the railroad from
seeing a coming train. In such cases, if an unslackened speed
is desirable, watchmen should be stationed at the crossing.
"On the other hand, those who are crossing a railroad track
are bound to exercise ordinary care and diligence to. ascertain whether a train is approaching. They -have, indeed, the
greatest incentives to caution, for their lives are in imminent
danger if collision happen; and hence it will not be presumed,
without evidence, that they do not exercise proper care in a
particular case. But notwithstanding the hazard, the infirmity of the human mind. in ordinary men is such that they
often do manifest a degree of negligence and temerity entirely
inconsistent with the care and prudence which is required of
them, such, - namely, as an ordinarily prudent man would
exercise under the circumstances. When such is the case,
they cannot obtain reparation for their injuries, even though
the railroad company be in fault. . ..
"For, conceding that the railway train has the right of
precedence of crossing, the parties are still on equal terms as
to thc exeicise of care and diligence in regard to their relative
VOL. CLIX-39'

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

dilties. The right of precedence referred to does not impose
upon the wagon the whole duty of avoiding a collision. It is
accompanied with, and conditioned upon, the duty of the train
to give due and timely warning of its approach. The duty of
the wagon to yield precedence is based upon this condition.
Both parties are charged with the mutual duty of keeping a
careful lookout for danger; and the degree of diligence to be
exercised on either side is such as a prudent man would exercise under the circumstances of the case in endeavoring fairly
to perform his duty.
"The mistake of the defendant's counsel consists in seeking
to impose on the wagon too exclusively the duty of avoiding
collision, and to, relieve the train too entirely from responsibility in the matter. Railway companies cannot expect this
immunity so long as their tracks cross the highways of the
country upon tihe same level. The people have tho same' right
to travel on the ordinary highways as the railroad companies
have to run trains on the railroads." And see Delaware,Lackawanna &o. Railroad v. Conver8e, 139 U. S. 469, 472.

Tested by these principles, we think the Circuit Court did
not err inleaving the case to the jury.
There was evidence tending to show that these women were
driving slowly and with a safe horse; that the train was
several minutes behind time; that as they approached the low
place at which a train could be seen if one were there, they
stopped to look and listen, but neither saw nor heard anything; that after stopping they started driving slowly up the
hill to a point at the top between forty and fifty yards from
the track, where the slope commenced, and there they stopped
again and listened, but heard nothing; they then drove slowly
down the hill, both listening all the. time, without talking, and
heard nothing; and that just as they got to the cut and the
horse had his feet on the nearest rail, the train came around
the curve and the collision occurred.
Since the absence of any fault on the part of a plaintiff may
be inferred from circumstances, and the. disposition of persons
to take. care of themselves and to keep out of difficulty may
properly be taken into consideration, Railrbad Company v.

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.

611

Syllabus.

Gladmon, 15 Wall. 401, it is, impossible to hold in the light of
this evidence, as matter of law, that the conduct. of plaintiff
was such as to defeat a recovery. The rule was thus expounded by Mr. Justice Lamar in Grand Trunk Railway v.
Ires, 144 U. S. 408, 417: "There is no fixed standard in the
law by which a court is enabled to arbitrarily say in every
case what conduct shall be considered reasonable and prudent,
and what shall constitute ordinary care, under any and all
circumstances. The terms 'ordinary care,' ' reasonable prudence,' and such like terms, Vs applied to the conduct and
affairs of men, have a relative significance, and cannot be
arbitrarily defined. What may be deemed ordinary care in
one case, may, under different surroundings and circumstances,
be gross negligence. The policy of the law has relegated the
determination of such questions to the jury, under proper instructions from the court. It is their province to note the
special circumstances and surroundings of each particular case,
and then say whether the conduct of the parties in that case
was such as would be expected of reasonable, prudent men,
under a similar state of affairs. When a given state of facts
is such tha t reasonable men may fairly differ upon the question as to whether there was negligence or not, the determination of the matter is for the jury. It is only where the
facts are such that all reasonable men must draw the same
conclusion from them, that the question of negligence is ever
considered as one of law for the court."
Judgment affirmed.

FOLSOM v. NINETY SIX.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 854. Submitted December 8, 1894. - Decided November 18, 1895.

When'a township has been created by law as a territorial division of a
State, with no express grant of corporate powers, and with no definition
or restriction of the purposes for which it is created, it is within the

