OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

error to the Suprem 6 Court of Iowa each judgment was
affirmed.
For the reasons stated in the opinion in Sioum City & St.
Paul Railroad Company v. United States, just decided, it
must be held that the railroad company did not have, at the
time those actions were instituted, any interest whatever in
the 26,017.33 acres, or any of them, certified back to the
U.nited Sfates by the governor of Iowa pursuant to a statute
of that State. It had previously received its full complement
of public lands under the act of May 12, 1864, on account of
road certified by the governor of the State as having been
constructed in accordance with the requirements of that act.
The judgment, in each case, is
Airmed.

SWEET v. RECHEL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 18. Argued December 14, 1894. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

The authority of a legislature to enact provisions for. taking private property for public use rests upon its right of eminent domain; and it is a
condition rrecedent to its exercise that the statute conferring the power
make reasonable provision for compensation to the owner of the land.
Unless the constitution of the State in which the lands are situated requires
payment or tender of payment for land so taken for public use before
the rights of the public therein can become complete, a statute which
authorizes the taking of the property for public use and directs the ascertainment of the damages without improper delay and in a legal mode,
and which gives the owner a right to judgment therefor, to be enforced
by judicial process, is sufficient to transfer the title.
The act of the legislature of Massachusetts of June 1, 1867, c. 308, to enable
the city of Boston to abate a nuisance, and for the preservation of the
public health in sAid city, and which provided for the taking of certain
private lands therein, and for th.eir improvement, filling up, and complete
draining, so as to abate an existing nuisance and preserve the health
of the city, and which further orovided for the payment of the cost
of the lots so taken through judicial proceedings, was within the

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Statement of the Case.
constitutional power of the legislature of that State, and the fee in
said lands, when acquired by the city, passed to it under the act, and the
previous owners ceased to have any interest in them, but were only
entitled to reasonable compensation, to be ascertained in the manner
provided by the act.

THE real estate - the title to which is involved in the
present writ of entry -formerly belonged to Peleg Tallman,
Sen., of Maine, who died on the 12th day of March, 1840, having made a will which was duly admitted to record in that
State, and a copy whereof was admitted to probate, May 10,
1841, in Suffolk County, Massachusetts, where the premises in
controversy are situated.
The. parcel of land in dispute, with other real estate, was
devised to Henry Tallman, to hold for life, and at his decease
to descend to his son Peleg Tallman, Jun. The devisee in
remainder was born April 18, 1836, and died April 15, 1863,
leaving two children, Frank G. Tallman and Peleg H. Tallman; also a widow, who subsequently intermarried with
William A. Sweet, one of the plaintiffs in error.
The plaintiffs in error, who were the plaintiffs below and
are citizens of New York, claim title under the will of Peleg
Tallman, Sen.
The defendant, a citizen of Massachusetts, claims title under
proceedings instituted by the guardian of the devisee in remainder in the probate court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts,
by the order of which court, and in full compliance therewith,
as is contended, the interest of Peleg Tallman, Jun., in certain
real estate, including the lot in dispute, was sold in 1844Henry Tallman, the owner of" the life estate, becoming the
purchaser. . In the same year the latter conveyed, with
warranty, to Robert Knott who purchased in good faith at
the price of $2900. In 1869, Knott conveyed by warranty
deed to the defendant Reehel, for the sum of $4800 in cash or
its equivalent. Rechel bought in good faith, for full value,
without actual notice of any alleged defect in the title, and
erected buildings and made improvements on the premises in
dispute at a cost of $8575.
The defendant also claims that the title to the lot in con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

troversy was taken by the city of Bos.ton in 1867-the title
being, at that time, apparently, in Knott -under a statute of
Massachusetts, approved June 1, 1867, entitled "An act to
enable the city of Boston to abate a nuisance existing therein,
and for the preservation of the public health in said city."
Laws of Mass. 1867, c. 308.
By reason of its grade being lower, and because it was incapable ot being properly drained, the condition of the territory, of which the lot in controversy was a part, was such
during the period between the years 1860 and 1870 as to
endanger the public health. Various plans having been suggested for the raising of the grade and for the proper drainage
of that territory, the legislature passed the act of June 1, 1867.
By that act it was provided that the city of Boston "may
purchase or otherwise take the lands or any of them in said
city, with the buildings and other fixtures thereon," situated
within a certain defined district which included the lands here
in dispute; that the "city shall within sixty days from the
time they shall take any of said lands, file in the office of the
registry of deeds for the county of Suffolk, a description of
the lands so taken, as certain as is required in a common conveyance of lands," with "a statement that the same are taken
pursuant to the provisions of this act, which said description
and statement shall be signed by the mayor of said city;"
that "the title to all land so taken shall vest in the city of
Boston, and if any party whose land is taken shall agree with
the said city upon the damage done to him by the said. taking,
the same shall be paid td him by the said city forthwith." It
was made "the duty of the city of Boston forthwith to raise the
grade of said territory so taken or purchased, laying out and'
filling up the same with good materials, with reference to a
complete drainage thereof, so as to abate the present nuisance
and to preserve the health of the city." ยง 1.
Any person having an interest in the land taken, was
at liberty, within one year after the same was taken, as well
in his own behalf as in behalf of all other persons having
estates therein, to file a bill in equity in the Supreme Judicial'
Court, in the county of Suffolk, setting forth the taking of

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Statement of the Case.

the complainant's land, the condition of the sauve in respect
to its capacity for drainage, and whether the complainant
claimed any and what damages against the city or the Boston
Water Power Company, or other corporation or person, "by
reason of any and what wrongful act or omission by their
causing a diminution in the value of his land at the time of
said taking, and praying an assessment of damages against
notice of such bill being given to the parties
such parties"
named therein as defendants, according to the course of courts
of equity, and also public notice thereof, to all persons in
whose behalf such bill was filed, to appear and become parties
thereto, if they thought fit to do so. It was made the duty
of the. court to prescribe how such public notice should be
given, and what length of time should be allowed for appearing and becoming' a party to the suit. Any one interested
who failed to appear and become a party within the time
prescribed by the court was forever barred from recovering
any damages on account of such taking. Each person appearing and becoming a party, having filed a written description.
of the land in which he claimed an estate, together with a
plan thereof, so as clearly to distinguish the same from all
other lands, was required, to declare what estate he claimed
therein. If he claimed that the value of said lands at the
time of the taking was lessened by any unlawful act or omission of the city of Boston, or of the Boston Water Power
Company, or of any other corporation or person, "so that the
value of the land in its condition when taken would not be a
just compensation for 'all the estate and rights of the party in
and in reference to the same," he was also to state " what
such injury is, and howr and by whom the same had been, or
is, caused, and what right or title of the party is violated, and
what amount of damages in gross is claimed by him, as compensation therefor, from each of the parties defendant." ยง 2.
Other sections of the act provided for the appointment of
commissioners to hear the parties, after due notice, to assess
the value of the land taken, and to make report to the court
of their doings. Any party aggrieved by the report might
except thereto and have his exception heard as in a suit in

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

equity, or might apply for the framing of proper issues to be
tried by a'jury.
The seventh section provides: "When it shall be finally
determined what amount of damages any party is entitled
to recover against the city of Boston, or the Boston Water
Power Company, or any other party defendant, a separate
decree shall be entered accordingly and execution therefor
shall be i~sued, without regard to the pendency of the claims
of any other party or parties, or of other claims of such complainant."
The city council approved and spread upon its records an
instrument reciting the act of 1867, and stating that, pursuant
to its provisions, the city "has taken, and by these presents
does take," a certain parcel of land "belonging to Robert
Knott" -in whose name, as we have seen, the title then
stood of record -" to have and to hold the same to the said
city of Boston, its successors and assigns, to its and their sole
use and behoof forever, agreeably to the provisions of the said
act." This instrument was approved by the mayor, who certified that "the lands described in said instrument were and
are taken pursuant to the provisions of the said act." Within
sixty days of the taking of the land,.to wit, on May 22, 1868,
that instrument was filed in the SUffolk registry of deeds, and
was fully recorded.
It Was admitted at the trial that the city followed the provisions of the statute, and that the premises were held by the
defendant under Knott and the city; also, that the city forthwith performed the duty imposed on it by the statute at an
immense outlay; that "the grade of the land was raised and
the buildings thereon, the territory was laid out and filled,
a complete and effective system of drainage was provided,
the nuisance abated, and the value of the land was greatly
enhanced. The lot in suit was filled in to a depth of several
feet, the buildings were raised and underpinned, and the value
increased."
Subsequently, a settlement was had with the assignee of
Knott, in relation to the taking of the land, %nd-Knott
having executed a release -- the city conveyed, by deed of

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

March 14, 1870, to the defendant Rechel, the deed reciting
that the property had been previously taken by the city
under the above act of 1867.
It was also admitted that no compensation was ever paid
to the plaintiffs by reason or on account of any proceedings
by the city under the act of June, 1867. And it was agreed
that "in 1869 a bill in equity was brought under the statute,
reported in 109 Mass. 438, the case being Cobb v. Boston,
on behalf of Cobb and all others entitled to have damages
assessed for this taking; that this case was pending in the
Supreme Court until the April term; 1882; that it was
ordered by the court in this case that the time from December 23, 1869, to first Tuesday of April, 1870, be allowed to
parties to bill; that notice was published in papers on said
order, and that such persons as came in had their damages
assessed under said bill."
Mr. Thomas A. Jenokes, (with whom was Mr. James- E.
Leach on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error, argued, (1) that
there were defects of procedure in the Probate Court and in
the subsequent acts of the guardian to divest the ward of his
title to this real estate; and (2) that the proceedings under
the act of June 1, 1867, did not divest the plaintiff in error
of his title. The view taken of. the case by the court renders
it unnecessary to notice the position of counsel with respect
to the first of these points. In regard to the second be con-tended as follows:
The provisions in this act that the city shall take the land,
that the title to the land taken shall vest in the city, that the
owner shall agree with the city upon the damage done to him.
by the taking and the pay.ment therefor, that in case the
owner, and city cannot agree, a mode for ascertaining payment is provided, by suit 'and appointment of commissioners
to assess the damages, and an appeal to a jury, upon proper
issues, are all inconsistent with the idea that the act was
framed for the purpose of exercising the general police or su.
perintending power over private property, which is vested in
vol. cLKix-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the legislature, or in order to prohibit a use of it, which was
deemed injurious to or inconsistent with the rights and interests of the public. If such were the object of the statute, there
would be no necessity for the appointment of commissioners,
or for the provisions making compensation to those injured
in their property thereby. Such enactments woul be unusual in a statute intended only for a prohibition and restraint
,.upon the appropriation or use of private property by its
owners; but are the necessary and ordinary provisions where
the legislature intend to exercise the right to take it for a
supposed public use. Talbot v. ludson, 16 Gray,
417.
It has been determined, by a course of decisions in Massachusetts, that the power of the legislature to pass this and
similar acts lies in the provision of the Constitution, Part II,
c. 1, art. 4, that, "full power and authority are hereby given
and granted to the said general court, from time to time, to
make, ordain, and establish, all manner of wholesome and
reasonable orders, laws, statutes, and ordinances, directions
and instructions, either with penalties or without; so as the
same be not repugnant or contrary to this constitution, as
they shall judge to be for the good and welfare of this commonwealth." Dingley v. Boston, 100 Mass. 544; Lowell v.
Boston, 111 Mass. 454; Turner v. Nye, 154 Mass; 579.
If, therefore, the act of June 1, 1867, was passed under the
authority "to make, ordain and establish all manner of wholesome and reasonable orders, laws, statutes, and ordinances, so as the same be not repugnant or contrary to this constitution" (as Dingley v. Boston decides,) and if this "provision
above quoted does not authorize the legislature to take property from one person and give it to another, nor to take private property for public uses without compensation," (Turner
v. Nye,) then it is submitted that no title to the land in question ever passed to the city of Boston, because no compen,sation was ever actually paid to the owners.
It is urged by the defendant that the act in question, because it provides a mode for ascertaining the amount of compensation, is constitutional, and to that proposition the plaintiffs in error make no dissent; but unless compensation for

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the land .taken and appropriated is actually made, no title
passes; in other words, the plaintiffs in error assert that the
title to the land did not vest in the city of Boston, unless
compensation had, in a form to comply with the requirements
of the constitution, actually been made. For it is a prime
requisite that compensation 'shall be made for the appropriation of lands for public purposes.
It is incumbent on the party taking or his grantee to prove
that this constitutional provision has been complied with, or
else title derived under the act of condemnation will be invalid. The construction and application of this constitutional
provision should be vigorously upheld in its full extent and
fair meaning, as affording the only adequate security and
protection to private property. People v. McRoberts, 62 Illinois, 38 ; Stacey v. Vermont .Cent. Railroad, 27 Vt. 39 ; Balt. d
Susgtehanna Railroadv. Tesbit, 10 How. 395.
In all the cases which we have examined, where the fee of
the condemned land has become vested in a municipal or
other corporation, the compensation for the land taken has
been made, and the courts have all declared such to be a
constitutional prerequisite to the vesting of the title. In all
where there have been attempts on the part of the former
owners, although they have been paid the' full value of the
land taken, either to recover subsequently the land itself or
to prevent the municipal or other corporation -from selling or
disposing of it, on the ground that the municipal or other
corporation, upon an abandonment or vacation of the use for
which it was originally taken, had no right to put the property
to a different use than the one contemplated by the special
act, compensation had been made. In no case, however,
have we found that where compensation has not been made,
has the title vested, either by virtue of the act of the legislature or by the taking and use of the land, without first having
compensated the owner. Water Works Co. v. Burkhart, 41
Indiana, 364; Brooklyn Park Commissioners v. Armstrong,

45 N. Y. 234; Coster v. New Jersey Railroad, 23 N. J. Law,
(3 Zabriskie,) 227; De Varaigne v. Fox, 2 Blatchford, 95;
Wheeler v. Rochester & Syracuse Railroad, 12 Barb. 227;

OCTOBER TERN, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Baker v. Johnson, 2 Hill, 342; Ieyward v. New York, 7
N. Y. 314; Bloodgood v. Mohawk & Hudson River Railroad,
18 Wend. 9; Walther v. Warne?, 25 Missouri, 277; San
Franciscov. Scott, 4 California, 114; Fox v. Western Pacific
Railroad,31 California, 538; -Henryv. Dubuque & Pacifc
Railroad,10 Iowa, 540; Ferrisv. Bramble, 5 Ohio St. 109 ;
State v. Graves, 19 Maryland, 351; Bonaparte v. Camden
& Amboy Railroad,Baldwin, 205; Nichols v. Somerville &
Iennebec Railroad,43 Maine, 359.
In Kennedy v. Indianapolis,103 U. S. 599, the facts were
these: An act of the legislature of Indiana, passed January 27,
1836, authorized the board of internal improvements to construct the Central Canal, and for this purpose to enter upon,
take possession of and use any lands necessary for the
prosecution and completion of the work; and provided that
persons injured by what was dohe could claim -damages,
which were to be appraised in a certain way, but in making
the appraisement the benefits resulting to the claimant were
to be taken into consideration, and any sum found to be due
was to be paid by the board, but no claim could be recovered
or paid unless made within two years after the property was
taken possession of. The board was also authorized to acquire,
by donation or purchase for the State, the necessary ground
for the profitable use of any water power that might be
created by the construction of the canal, and to lease for
hydraulic purposes any surplus of water there might be over
and above what was required for navigation. Section 7, Art.
1, of the constitution of Indiana provided, "that no man's particular services shall be demanded, or property taken or applied to public use, without the consent of his representatives,
or without a just compensation being made therefor."
The canal was built, land the land -involved in the suit was
taken, but no compensation was ever made to the then owner.
In 1850 the legislature passed an act to sell the canal, and
the land in question was sold, and the question as presented,
was the appropriation by the State sufficient to divest the
owners of their title, and convey to the purchasers under the
act of 1850 any title to the premises. The case was a bill in

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

equity brought to quiet the title to these lands by the grantees
from the purchaser under the sale thereof by virtue of the act
of 1850.
Chief Justice Waite says, in reviewing the Indiana cases:
"But, so far as we have been able to discover, it has never
yet been held that the title passedout of the owner until ' just
compensation' had actually been made. In fact the decisions
appear to have been uniformly to the effect that it did not."
After referring to the New York and Maine cases he says:
"Not to multiply cases further, it seems to us that on principle
and authotity the rule is, under such a constitution as that of
Indiana, that the right to enter on and use the property is
complete as soon as the property is actually appropriated
under the authority of law for a public use, but that the title
does not pass from the owner without his consent until just
compensation has been made to him.

.

.

.

It is not con-

tended that compensation in money was ever made for any of
the land in dispute.

.

.

.

To hold that the title passed by

mere appropriation, if no claim for damages was made within
the two years, would be in effect to decide that if the State
entered on land for a particular use and kept possession as
against the owner for two years, it got a title in fee whether
the property was ever put to the use or not. Such we cannot
believe to be the law."
If possession of the property has been actually taken without compensation to the owner, then the owner becomes entitled to recover possession by an action of ejectment. Doe v.
Georgia Railroadand Banking Co., 1 Georgia, 524; Gardinerv.
Tisdale, 2 Wisconsin, 153; Weisbrod v. Chicago & Northwestern
Railway, 21 Wisconsin, 602; Wager v. Troy Union Railroad,
25 N. Y. 526; Lezier v. New York Central Railroad,42 Barb.
466; Nichols v. Lewis, 15 Conn. 137; McClinton v. Pittsburg,
&c. Railroad,66 Penn. St. 404; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Knox College, 34 Illinois,195.
The fact that Qpportunity was provided in the act for compelling compensation is not sufficient, and there is no obligation
imposed on the owner to resort to a legal tribunal to enforce
polyrent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for PJaintiffs in Error.

The Circuit Court decided that'the land was not taken under
the right of eminent domain, but under the police power of
the State. The case of Bancroft v. Cambridge,126 Mass. 438,
is cited in its opinion not as conclusive of the present case,
but as illustrative that the present act was passed in exercise
of the police power of the legislature, and that the act in
question can be justified under that power. From a comparison of the act commented upon in that case, it will be seen
that it is totally different from the act involved in this case.
The act in Bancroft v. Cambridge was a regulation o.r restraint
solely upon the owners in the use of their property, and it
gave the municipality authority to raise the grade of the land,
and made the expenses a lien or charge on the lands filled to
be collected in the manner provided for the collection, of taxes
on real estate. In other words, it belonged to that class of
cases, in which the owners of lands are required to make an
improvement for the benefit of the public, and the whole
expense thereof is charged to them. It is based, however, upon
the theory that there is a consequent increase in the value of
the owners' lands. See also Dingley v. Boston, 100 Mass. 544;
Bingham &b Quincy Bridge and Turnpike Co. v. Norfolk
County, 6 Allen, 353; Lowell v. Boston, 111 Mass. 454. In
this case there was a taking of property from an individual,
and giving it to another without compensation, and no court
has heretofore justified such a proceeding. It is contrary to
the principle under which acts of the legislature in exercise of
the police power have been passed. It is not the owner's use
of the property which is destroyed, bnt the property itself
which is taken. It is not a regulation of the use of the property under the maxim, "sic utere tuo ut alienum non loydas,"
but is a confiscation and appropriation of property without
compensation.
. In Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53, Chief Justice Shaw
forcibly presented the difference between the exercise of the
police .power of the State and the assertion of its right of
eminent domain. But in no case. in Massachusetts has the
police power been enlarged to include the taking of private
property, except in case of forfeiture for crime. Dingley v.

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

Boston, 100 Mass., 544; Stdte v. Tewlesbury, 11 Met. 55; Fisher
v. McGirr,1 Gray, 1; Talbot v. Hudson, 16 Gray, 417; Salem
v. Eastern Railroad Company, 98 Mass. 431; Blair v. Forchand, 100 Mass. 136; Watertown v. Afayo, 109 Mass. 315;
Young v. Blaisdell, 138 Mass. 344; Rideout v. Knox, 148
Mass. 368.
Mr. Samuel J. Elder, (with whom was Mr. Charles i. Gallagher on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The grounds upon which the plaintiffs impeach the validity
of the sale of 1844 are: That the notice required to be given
of the proceedings in the Suffolk Probate Court was not
shown to have been published as often as required, and, therefore, such jurisdiction of the ward was not acquired as authorized an order for the sale of his property ; that the notice of
the sale did not specify both the time and place of sale; that
the guardian could only sell for money in hand, and was without authority to sell and convey and immediately take, as
was done, a mortgage back for the purchase money; that no
return of the proceeds of sale was ever made by the guardian;
and that an affidavit setting forth the time and place of the
sale was not filed by the guardian within the time prescribed
by the statute.
.But, obviously, the question to be first considered is whether
an absolute title passed to the city of Boston. If the title
passed in virtue of what was done under the act of 1867, it
will become unnecessary to determine whether the sale made
by the guardian of Peleg Tallman, Jun., in 1844 was invalid
upon any of the grounds assigned by the plaintiffs. For, if
that sale was, in itself, ineffectual to divest the title of the
devisee in remainder, and if,.at the time the city proceeded
under the statute of 1867, the title was not, in law,'in Knott
or in the defendant Rechel, but in the children and widow of
the devisee in remainder upon his death in 1863, the title
nevertheless passed to the city, if the provisions of that statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

were followed, unless, as plaintiffs contend, the statute was
unconstitutional and void.
The constitution of Massachusetts recognizes the right of
each individual to be protected in his life, liberty, and property, according to standing laws; declares his obligation ,to
contribute his share to the expense of such protection; and
provides that "no part of the property of any individual can,
with justice, be taken from him, or applied to public' uses,
without his own consent, or that of the representative body of
the people." And " whenever the public exigencies require,
,that the property of any individual should be appropriated to
public uses, he shall receive a reasonable compensation therefor." Mass. Const. Part 1, art. 10. The legislative department of the Commonwealth has, however, full power "from
time to time to make, ordain, and establish, all manner of
wholesome and reasonable orders, laws, statutes and ordinances, directions and instructions, either with penalties or
without, so as the same be not repugnant or contrary to this
constitution, as they shall judge to be for the good and welfare of this Commonwealth, and for the government and
ordering thereof." Part 2, c. 1, art. 4.
The authority for- the enactment of the statute of 1867 is
found in these constitutional provisions. The territory of
which the lot in controversy formed a part, was in such condition,-for many years, as to require, or at least to justify,
legislative interference under the power to ordain'and establish wholesome and reasonable regulations conducive to the
good and welfare of the people, and not inconsistent with the
fundamental law of the Commonwealth. And no restrictions
are imposed by the Massachusetts constitution upon the mode
in which this power may be exerted, except that it is expressly
xequired that the orders, regulations, and statutes prescribed
by the legislature must not be repugnant to the constitution,
and it was n ecessarily implied that the exercise of the power
must have some real, substantial relation to the general good
and welfare. But in determining whether the legislature, in a
particular enactment, has passed the limits of its constitutional
authority, every reasonable presumption must be indulged in

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

favor of the validity of such enactment. It must be regarded
as valid, unless it can be clearly shown to be in conflict with
the constitution. It is a well-settled rule of constitutional
exposition, that if a statute may or may not be, according to
circumstances, within the limits of legislative authority, the
existence of the circumstances necessary to support it must be
presumed. Talbot v. Hudson, 16 Gray, 417, 422; Fletcher v.
Peck, 6 Oranch, 87, 128; Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700,
718.
We must, therefore, assume that the act of 1867 had for its
real object the protection of the public health, and not the
mere acquisition of the property in question for purposes of
sale and profit, after it had increased. in value by reason of the
grade being raised. It is not alleged in the pleadings, nor
was there any evidence tending to show, that the cost of raising the grade would have been so slight, compared with the
real value of the property, that a due regard to the constitution demanded that the owner should have been given opportunity to raise the grade at his own expense, and retain the
property in its improved condition. On the contra,:ry, it
appears that the public health justified prompt action and the
use of such means as could be effectively supplied only by
municipal authority acting under legislative sanction.
In Dingley v. Bostoo., 100 Mass. 544, 554-60, this act of 1867
was assailed upon various grounds. It was there adjudged
that the statute authorized the property described in it to be
taken by the city for public purposes; that its language imported a title in fee simple. The point was pressed that the
legislature had assumed the power to declare the existence of
a public nuisance on the land of the plaintiff, and that this
was an exercise of judicial power because it charged him with
an offence, and decided the question without giving him an
opportunity to be heard, and then proceeded to deprive him
of his land. But this point was overruled, the court holding
that the statute did not regard him as an offender in any
sense, because it gave him a right to compensation, not only
for all damage occasioned by the taking of his land, but for
its deterioration in value before the taking; that it regarded

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

him as an innocent person whose land was taken on the
ground of public necessity in order to protect the health of
the city ; and that upon the facts stated, it was apparent that
no indictment would lie against him, notwithstanding the
nuisance, for it had been created by the acts of others which
were beyond his control, and it was not in his power to remove it.
After observing that the work specified in- the act was
regarded by the legislature as a great public enterprise to
accomplish a highly important object, one that needed to be
prosecuted by legislative authority, and which could not have
been dealt with by a judicial tribunal under any known forms
of proceeding, the court proceeded: "Where the sanitary condition of a large city requires an interference with the real
estate of a great number of persons, making expensive and
essential changes in the condition and character of the land,
a case is presented within that clause of the constitution
which confers authority upon the legislature to make 'all
manner of wholesome and reasonable laws, so as the same
be not repugnant or contrary to this constitution.' Part 2,
c. 1, ยง 1, art. 4. In Hingham & Quincy Bridge and Turnpike Co. v. (ouidty of Yorfolk, 6 Allen, 353, Bigelow, C. J.,
says one of the main" purposes of this clause was to vest in
the legislature a superintending and controlling authority,
under and by virtue of which it might enact all laws not
repugnant to the constitution of a police and municipal nature,
and necessary to the due regulation of the internal affairs of
the Commonwealth."
In the same case it was objected, that as the act authorized
the city to first take the land and thereby transfer to itself
the. fee without the consent of the owners, and as the only
object of the legislature was to abate a nuisance, the act
should only have granted power to occupy the land until its
object was effected by raising the grade, which being done,
the laud should have been restored to the owners, applying
the benefit received therefrom in offset to the damages.
That objection was fully met. Conceding it to be true that
the raising of the grade did not require an occupation of the

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

land for a great length of time, and that when the work was
completed the nuisance was abated, and the land in a condition
to be -occupied by private persons, the court said: "But its
condition will be greatly changed; almost as much as raising
flats into upland. The former surface will be deeply buried
under the earth that will have been brought upon it, and the
changed condition is to be perpetual. If the old property is
restored, the new property which has been annexed to it must
go with it. This would be very unjust to the city, which has
been compelled to incur the great expense. of destroying the
nuisance, unless the owner were required to make a reasonable
compensation, which might be far beyond the amount of the
damages to which he would be entitled. It would be difficult
to adjust the matter; and in many cases it might operate
harshly-upon the owner to compel him to take and pay for
the improvements. On the whole, therefore, the plan of compelling the city to take the land in fee simple, and the owner
to part with his whole title for a just compensation, would
seem to be the most simple and equitable that could be
adopted; unless there is some objection on the ground that a
fee simple is more sacred than an estate for life or years, or
than an easement of greater or less duration. We can see no
ground for regarding one of these titles as more sacred than
another, or for regarding land as more sacred than personal
property." Again: "Whether land be taken under the clause
authorizing the making of wholesome and reasonable laws, or
,by virtue of the clause authorizing the appropriation of private
property to public uses, it mutt in either case be left to the
legislature to decide what quantity of estate ought to be taken
in order to accomplish its purpose, and do the most complete
justice to all parties.

.

.

The constitution provides for the

protection of all private property, and it provides that when
the public exigencies require that the property of any individual shall be appropriated to public uses, he shall receive a
reasonable compensation therefor. But it leaves the legislature, without any restriction, express or implied, to decide in
each case as it arises, what constitutes such exigency; and, if
land is to be taken, what estate in it shall pass."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

But the validity of the act of 1867 is questioned on the
ground - not suggested in Dingley v. Boston

-that

it did

not provide for compensation to be made to the owners of
the property in advance of its actual appropriation by the
Commonwealth.
Upon this point the defendant insists that the statute was
enacted under the authority to ordain and establish laws and
regulations reasonably adapted to secure the good and welfare of the people, and that statutes, having such objects in
view, which deprive individuals of the control and use. of
their property; need not make provision at all for compensation
to such individuals.
In support of this position reference is made to Bancroft v.
Cambridge, 126 Mass. 438, 441. That case arose under a
statute empowering the city of Cambridge to require the
owners of certain lands to fill them to a prescribed grade in
order to abate a nuisance. If the owners failed to do so, then
the city was authorized to raise the grade, the expense thereby
incurred to bedome a lien on the land filled. If any one gave
due notice of his dissatisfaction with the assessment of the expense of raising the grade, the city was thereupon required to
"take" the land, and, within a named time, file in the registry of deeds a description of it, together with a statement that
it was taken underthe statute. If the parties did not agree
as to the amount of damage done by the taking, then the
question of damage was to be determined by a jury, proper
allowance being made for the improvement by reason of the
grade of the land being raised.
The court said that the compensation to which the owner
was entitled was the value of the land at the time of the taking, making due allowance for the improvement; that, this
excluded loss or inconvenience caubed to the owner by proceedings prior to the taking; that the purpose of the statute' was
to give to each owner the right to elect whether he would pay
the expenses of filling his larod and retain his estate, or surrender his estate to the city for a fair compensation; and that
the act gave no right either to the owner who surrendered, or
t9, the owner who did not surrender, to recover for previous

SWEET :v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

loss or inconvenience. "Nor," the court said, "is the statute
made uncQnstitutional by this construction. It is entitled an act
to provide for the prevention and abatement of nuisances and
the preservation of the public health. It was not passed to
delegate the right of eminent domain, but under the police
power of the Commonwealth. Laws passed in the legitimate
exercise of this power are not obnoxious to constitutional,
provisions, merely because they do not provide compensation
to the individual who is inconvenienced by them. He is presumed to be rewarded by the common benefits secured. Instances of its exercise are found in all quarantine and health
regulations, and in all laws for the abatement of existing
and the prevention of threatened nuisances. . . . The
legislature is ordinarily the proper judge of the necessity for
the exercise of the power, and there is nothing in this case
which shows that this act was not required for the preservation of health and protection against a nuisance."
That case does not sustain the view advanced in behalf of
the present defendant. The statement, in the opinion of the
court, that laws passed in the legitimate exercise of the police
power are not to be held objectionable, on constitutional
grounds, merely because they do not provide for compensation
to the individual inconvenienced by them, had reference only
to so much of the statute then under examination as directedN
in the interest of the public health, the abatement of the nuisance created by the Condition of the property in question.
The abatement of a nuisance - nothing more being required
or done -is not of itself, and within the meaning of the constituiion, an appropriation of property to public uses. The
court did not say that private property, the condition of
which was such as to endanger the public health, could be
legally taken by the Commonwealth and appropriatedto public use without reasonable compensation to the owner. On
the contrary, the statute there under examination contemplated
that if the owner did not himself abate the nuisance in the
mode prescribed, then the property, the condition of which
was the cause of the nuisance, was to be taken by the city, the
owner to receive such damages as a jury awarded, allowance,

OCTBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

being made for the improvement that resulted from the raising
of the grade at the expense of the city. That case, it is manifest, proceeded upon the ground that the provisions of the
constitution above quoted are to be construed together, so that
if private property be actually taken and appropriated for
public uses, although taken or appropriated in virtue of a statute having as its main or primary object the conservation of the
public health, reasonable compensation must be made to the
owner. This necessarily follows from. the restriction imposed
by the constitution to the effect that statutes passed in the
exercise of the'police -power of .'the Commonwealth must not
be repugnant or contrary to the constitution, one of the provisions of which is, that the owner of private property,
aTprojpriatedto public uses, shall receive a reasonable compensation therefor. And it was so appropriated when the city
took the fee" and thereby acquired a right to sell the property
after it was improved, and put the proceeds into its treasury.
Brooklyn Park Commisioners v. Armstrong, 45 N. Y.,234,
244.
Undoubtedly, the State, without taking the title to itself,
may, in some appropriate mode and without compensation to
the owner, forbid the use of specified private property, where
such use would be injurious to the public health. For, as said
by Chief Justice Shaw in Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cush. 53,
84, "it is a settled principle, growing out of the nature of wellordered civil society, that every holder of property, however
absolute and unqualified may be his title, holds it under the
implied liability that his use of it shall be so regulated that
it be not injurious to the equal enjoyment of others having an
equal right to the enjoyment of their property, nor injurious
to the rights of the community." "Rights of property, like
all other social and conventional rights, are subject to such
reasonable limitations in their enjoyment, as shall prevent
them from being injurious, and to such reasonable restraints
and regulations established by law, as the legislaturd, under
the governing and controlling power vested in them by the
constitution, may think necessary and expedient." This, the
court said, was not the power of eminent domain, but rather

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

the police power, "the power vested in the legislature by the
constitution, to make, ordain, and establish all manner of
wholesome and reasonable laws, statutes, and ordinances,
either with penalties or without, not repugnant to the constitution, as they shall judge to be for the good and welfare of
the Commonwealth and of the subjects of the same."
When, however, the legislature provides for the actual
taking and appropriation of private property for public uses,
its authority to enact such a regulation rests upon its right of
eminent domain - a right vital to the existence and safety of
government. But it is a condition precedent to the exercise
of such power that the statnte make provision for reasonable
compensation to the owner.
The difference between an act passed with exclusive reference to the police power of the State, without any purpose
to take and apply property to public uses, and a statute like
the one here involved, which, for the general good, ordains
and establishes regulations declaring the existence of a nuisance created by the condition of particular property, and,
in addition, and as the best mode of accomplishing the end
in view, authorizes the same property to be appropriated by
the public, is illustrated by Comm onwealtk v. Tewksbury, 11
Met. 55, 59. That case related to a statute of Massachusetts,
which, for the protection of the harbor of Boston, forbade,
under penalties, the removal of any stones, gravel, or mud
from any of the beaches in the town of Chelsea. The court,
observing that all property was acquired and held under the
tacit condition that it should not be so used as to injure the
equal rights of others, or to destroy or greatly impair the public rights and interests of the community, said that "a law
prohibiting an owner from removing the soil composing a
natural embankment to a valuable, navigable stream, port or
harbor, is not such a taking, such an interference with the
right and title of the owner, as to give him a constitutional
right to compensation, and to render an act unconstitutional
which makes no such provision, but is a just restraint of an
injurious use of the property, which the legislature have
authority to make."

OCTOBER. TERM, 1895.Opinion of the Court.

The principle is, also. illustrated by the case of Turner v.
Nye, 154 Mass. 579, 581, 582. That case involved the validity
of a statute authorizing the. flowage of certain lands or fiats,
uponprescribed terms and conditions, for the purpose Of creating and -raising a pond for the cultivation of useful fishes.
Referring to the constitutional provision giving power to
enact all manner of wholesome and reasonable laws for the
general good, (Const. Mass. Part 2, c. 1,'art. 4,) the court in
that case said : "The provision above quoted does not authorize the. legislature to take private property from one person
and give it to another, nor to take property for public' uses
without compensation; nor wantonly to interfere with private
rights. These are always to be carefully guarded and protected. But of necessity cases will arise where there will or
may be a conflict of interests in the use or disposition-of property, and questions may and will come up affecting the public
welfare in regard to the use which shall or shall not be permitied of certain property." Salem v. Eastern Railroad Co.,
98 Mass. 431, 437.
But must compensation be actually made or tendered in
advance of such taking or appropriation? Is it not sufficient,
in order to meet the requirements of the constitution, if adequate provision be made for. compensation?
The constitutions of some of the States expressly require
that compensation be first made to the owner before the rights
of the public can attach. But neither the constitution of
Massachusetts nor the Constitution of the United States contains any such provision. The former only requires that the
owner "shall receive a reasonable compensation;" the latter,
that private property shall not be taken for public use. "without just compensation." Reasonable compensation and just
compensation mean the same thing.
In Haverhill,Bridge' Proprietorsv. Esse County Commissioners, 103 Mass. 120, 124, the court said: "The duty of
paying an adequate compensation, for private property taken,
is inseparable from the exercise of the right of eminent
domain. The act granting the power must provide for compensation, and a ready means of ascertaining the amount.

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

Payment need not precede the seizure; but the means for
securing indemnity must be such that the owner will be put
to no risk or unreasonable delay."
A leading case upon this point is Connecticut River Railroad
v. Franklin County Commissioners,127 Mass. 50, 52, 54, 55, 56.
That case arose under a statute of Massachusetts authorizing
the manager of a railroad owned by the Commonwealth to take
land for a passenger station to be used by that and other
railroads, and providing no other mode of compensation to
the owner than that the land should be paid for out of the
earnings of the railroad. The statute was held to be void.
The court said: "It has long been settled by the decisions
of this court, that a statute which undertakes to appropriate
private property for a public highway of any kind, without
adequate provision for the payment of compensation, is unconstitutional and void, and does not justify an entry on the
land of the owner without his consent" -citing among other
cases Boston & Lowell Railroadv. Salem & Lowell Railroad,
2 Gray, 1, 37. Again: "Statutes taking private property for
a public highway, and providing for the ascertaining of the
damages, and for payment thereof out of the treasury of the
county, town or city, have often been held to be constitutional. But, in the cases in which it has been so held, the
liability to pay the damages rested upon the whole property
of the inhabitants of the municipality, and might be enforced
by writ of execution or warrant of distress, or by mandamus
to compel the levy of a general tax. The rule has not been
extended to cases in which only a special fund was charged
with the payment of the damages, and -the municipality had
no power to levy a general tax to pay them." "When," the
court said, "private property is taken directly by the Commonwealth for the public use, it is not necessary or usual that
the Commonwealth should be ntade subject to compulsory
process for the collection of the money to be paid by way of
compensation. It is sufficient if the statute which authorizes
the taking of the property should' provide for the assessment
of the damages in the ordinary manner, and direct that the
damages so, assessed be paid out of the treasury of the ComVOL. CLIX-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

monwealth, and authorize the governor to draw his warrant
therefor."
Much stress was placed by counsel in that case upon the
admitted fact that the earnings of the railroad owned by the
Commonwealth would probably be sufficient to meet and
extinguish all claims for damages for lands taken. But that,
the court well said, fell short of the constitutional requirement that the owner of property shall have prompt and certain
compensation, without being subjected to undue risk or unreasonable delay.
In the later case of Brickett v. Haverhill Aqueduct Co., 142

Mass. 394, 396, the language of the court was that "a statute
which attempts to authorize the appropriation of private
property for public uses, without making adequate provision
for compensation, is unconstitutional and void."
In view of these authorities, it is clear that as the constitution of Massachusetts does not require compensation to be first
actually made or tendered before the rights of the public, in
the property taken or applied, become complete, the requirements of that instrument are fully met where the statute
makes such provision for reasonable compensation as will be
adequate and certain in its results. It is equally clear that
an adequate provision is made when the statute, authorizing a
public municipal corporation to take private property for public uses, directs the regular ascertainment, without improper
delay and in some legal mode, of the damages sustained by
the owner, and gives him an unqualified right to a judgment
for the amount of such damages which can be enforced, that
is, collected, by judicial process.
Substantially the same principles have been announced by
this court when interpreting the clause of the Constitution of
the United States that forbids the taking of private property
for public use without just compensation. In Cherokee JNation
v. Southern Kansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641, 659, it was sug-

gested that the act of Congress there involved violated the
Constitution of the United States in that it did not provide for
compensation to be made to the plaintiff before the defendant entered upon lands taken for the purpose of constructing

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

its road over them. This objection was not sustained. The
court said: "The Constitution declares that private property
shall not be taken 'for public use without just compensation.'
It does not provide or require that compensation shall be actually paid in advance of the occupancy of the land to be taken.
But the owner is entitled to reasonable, certain, and adequate
provision before his occupancy is disturbed. Whether a particular provision be sufficient to secure the compensation to
which, under the Constitution, he is entitled, is sometimes a
question of difficulty. In the present case, the requirements
of the Constitution have, in our judgment, been fully met.
The third section provides that before the railway shall be
constructed through any lands proposed to be taken, full
compensation shall be made to the owner for all property to
be taken or damage done by reason of the construction of
the road. In. the event of an appeal from the finding of the
referees, the company is required to pay into court double the
amount of the award to abide its judgment; and, that being
done, the-company may enter upon the property sought to be
condemned, and proceed with the construction of its road.
We are of the opinion that this provision is sufficiently reasonable, certain, and adequate to secure the just -compensation to
which the owner is entitled. The plaintiff asks, what will be
its condition, as to compensation, if, upon the trial de novo of
the question of damages, the amount assessed in its favor
should exceed the sum which may be paid into court by the
defendant? This question would be more embarrassing than it
is if, by the terms of the act of Congress, the. title to the property appropriated lpassed from the owner to the defendant,
when the latter - having made the required deposit in court
- is authorized to enter upon the land pending the appeal,
and to proceed in the constructiorr of its road. But clearly
[under the act of Congress] the title does not pdtss until compensation is actually made to the owner. Within the meaning
of the Constitution, [and under that act,] the property, although
entered upon,- pending the appeal, is not taken until the compensation is ascertained in some legal mode, and being paid
the title passes froma the owner."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

In -Kennedy v. Indianapolis, 103 U. S. 599, 603, cited by
the plaintiffs, the controlling question was whetherethe owner
Qf certain lands, taken under an Indiana statute for a public
obect, had been divested of his title. And that question
depended upon the construction of the clause of the state
constitution, providing "that no man's particular services
shall be demanded, or property taken or applied to public use,
without the consent of his representatives, or without just
compensation being made therefor." Const. Indiana, 1816,
art. 1, ยง 7. It should be here stated that the Indiana statute
Rev. Stat. Indiana, 1838, p. 337, c. 55 contained no clause expressly declaring at what stage of the proceedings the owner's
title should be divested. Necessarily, therefore, it was held
that; under the Indiana constitutio, the owner was not
divested of title until he was compensated. After referring
to adjudged cases in that and other States, this court, speaking by Chief Justice Waite, said: "Not to multiply cases further, it seems to us that both on principle and authority the
rule is, under such a constitution as that of Indiana, that the
right 'to enter and use the property is complete as soon as
the property is actually appropriated under the authority of
law for a public use, but the title does not pass from the
owner without his consent until just compensation has been
made to him.'!
But that case by no means controverts the doctrine that
the legislature may authorize a municipal corporation to take,
for public use, at the outset, the absolute title to specific
private property, if either the statute under which that is
done, or a general statute, recognizes the absolute, right of the
owner, upon his property being taken, to just or reasonable
compensation therefor, and makes provision, in the event of
the disagreement of the parties, for the ascertainment, by
suit, without unreasonable delay or risk to the owner, of the
compensation to which under, the constitution he is entitled,
and to a judgment in his favor, enforceable against such corporation in some effective mode, so that the owner can
certainly obtain the amount of such compensation. The
Massachusetts statute of 1867, unlike the Indiana statute,

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

expressly declares that from the moment the property was
taken in accordance with its provisions, the title should be
vested in the city of Boston; that the city should thereupon
proceed forthwith with the work of raising the grade; and
that the owner should have the right, for the prompt enforcement of which adequate provision was made, to obtain reasonable compensation for his property.
Numerous authorities have been cited which, it is supposed,
are in conflict with the views we have expressed. But a
careful examination will show that the cases cited are distinguishable from those to which we have referred.
In Baltimore & Susquehanna Railroad v. Nesbit, 10 How.
395, 398, 399, it was said that it Was the payment or tender
of' the value assessed by the inquisition that gave title to a
railroad company that had taken private property for its road,
and, consequently, without such payment or tender, no title
could pass. But it was so declared because, by the very terms
of the statute, the company was entitled to the estate and
interest of the owner in the land condemned when it paid or
tendered the value so ascertained.
In Bloodgood v. Mohawk & Hudson Railroad,18 Wend.
9, 17, 18- which was a casc of private property taken for a
railroad company - Chancellor Walworth said that the payment of the damages awarded, or the deposit of the amount
as prescribed, was in the nature of a condition precedent, not
only to the acquisition of the legal title to the land,.but also
to the right to enter and take permanent possession of the
land for the use of the corporation. But that was said with
reference to a statute providing that upon the payment of the
damages awarded, with the costs of the appraisement, or upon
the deposit of the amount in a bank in a named city to the
credit of the owner, of which notice should be given, the railroad company should "be deemed to be seized and possessed
'of the fee simple of all such land or real estate as shall have
been appraised." That the chancellor did not hold to the doctrine that payment' or tender of payment must in every case
precede the divestiture of the owner's title, is clear from the
preceding parts of his opinion. He said: "It certainly was

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

not the intention of the framers of the constitution to authorize the property of a citizen to be taken and actually appropriated to the use of the public, and thus to compel him to
trust to the future justice of the legislature to provide him
a compensation, therefor. The compensation must be either
ascertained and paid to him before his property is thus appr6priated, or an appropriateremedy must be provided, and upon
an adequatefund; whereby he may obtain such compensation through the medium of the courts of justice if those
whose duty it is to make such compensation refuse to do so."
"The public purse, or the property of the town or county upon
which the assessment is to be made, may justly be considered
an adequate fund. He has no such remedy, however, against
the legislature to compel the passage of the necessary laws to
ascertain the amount, of compensation he is to receive, or the
fund out of which he is to be paid."
So, in People v. flayden, 6 Hill, 359, 361, Chief Justice
Nelson said: "Although it may not be necessary, within the
constitutional provision, that the amount of compensation
should be actually ascertained and paid before property is
thus taken, it is, I apprehend, the settled doctrine, even as it
respects the State itself, that, at least, certain and ample provision must be first made by law, (except in cases of public
emergency,) so that the owner can coerce payment through
the judicial tribunals or otherwise without any unreasonable
or unnecessary delay." See also Brinckerhoff v. IFemple, 1
Wend. 470, 471, 472; Rogers v. Bradshaw, 20 Johns. 735,
741 ;. Baker v. Johnson, 2 Hill, 342, 347.
In Stacey v. Vermont Cent. Railroad,27 Vermont 39, the
court said that the railroad company derived no title-to the
condemned land nor any easement growing out of it, and acquired no right to enter upon it or exercise ownership over
the same, until it paid the damages awarded to the owner or
deposited the money as prescribed by the statute. The reason given for this was that the statute expressly provided that
that should be done before any right in the land accrued to
the company.
The case now before us differs from all, or nearly all, of

SWEET v. RECHEL.
Opinion of the Court.

those cited by the plaintiffs in this, that in the latter the
statute, under which the property was taken, either expressly,
or by necessary implication, made the payment or tender of
the compensation awarded to the owner of the property appropriated to public use, a condition precedent to the acquisition
of title by the party at whose instance the property was taken;
whereas, in the present case, the statute vests the title in the
city of Boston from, at least, the time it filed in the office of
the registry of deeds a description of the lands taken by it
describing them with as much certainty as is required in a
common conveyance of lands, and stating that the same were
taken pursuant to the provisions of the statute. As soon as
they were so taken, the city - invested from that time with
the title--had the right forthwith to raise the grade, and
could not throw the property back upon the former owner,
or compel him to pay the cost of raising the grade; and the
owner became from the moment the property was .taken absolutely entitled to reasonable compensation, the amount to be
ascertained without undue delay, in the mode prescribed, and
its payment to be assured, if necessary, by decree against the
city, which could be effectively enforced.
We are of opinion that, upon both principle and authority,
it was competent for the legislature, in the exercise of the
police powers of the Commonwealth, and of its power to
appropriate private property for public uses, to authorize the
city to take the fee in the lands described in the statute, prior
to making compensation, and that the provision made for compensating the owner was certain and adequate.
It results that, as a title to the lands here in question passed
to the city of Boston when such lands were actually taken in
the mode prescribed in the statute of 1867, the persons who
were then the owners, whoever they were, had thereafter no
interest in them, but were only entitled to reasonable compensation.
If the proceedings in the probate court of Suffolk County
were so defective that the title of the ward was not legally
divested by the sale in 1844- upon which question it has
become unnecessary, in the present case, to express any opin-

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ion- nevertheless, the title passed, under the act of 1867,
to the city of Boston, when, following the provisions of that
statute, it took these lands. in this view, no action can be
maintained by the plaintiffs to recover the land under the
title of the owner as that title existed prior to the acquisition
of the property by the city.
The judgment is affirmed.

BORGMEYER, Administrator, v. IDLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 582. Submitted October 15, 1895.- Decided October 28, 1895.

Colorado G(entral Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138, affirmed and applied to
this case upon the points: (1) that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court of the United States is invoked upon the ground that the determination of the suit depends upon some question, of a Federal nature, it
must appear, at the outset, from the pleadings, that the suit- Is one of
that character of which the Circuit Court could properly take cognizance
at the time its jurisdiction -was invoked; and (2) that whenthe jurisdiction of a Circuit Court Is invoked solely on the ground of diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final, although
another ground for jurisdiction in the Circuit Court may be developed in
the course of subsequent proceedings in the case.
The mere fact that the matter in controversy in an action is a sum of money
received by one of the parties as an award under a treaty with a Foreign
Power, providing for the submission of claims against that Power of
arbitration, does not in any way draw in question the validity or the
construction of that treaty.
BORGmEYER, administrator of the estate of Alexander Chataing, deceased, under letters griinted September 14, 1892;
brought an action September 15, 1892, against William Idler
and John W. tazeltine, administrators de boni8 non of the
estate of Jacob Idler, deceased, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, averring that he was a citizen of the State of New Jersey and that
the defendants were citizens of the State of Pennsylvania.
Plaintiff's statement of claim or declaration, filed September

