OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Parties.

cannot review the action of that court and the Court of
Appeals in this particular on habeas corpus.
The general rule is that the writ of habeas corpus will not
issue unless the court, under whose warrant the petitioner is
held, is without jurisdiction; and that it cannot be used to
correct errors. Ordinarily the writ will not lie where there is
a remedy by writ of error or appeal; but in rare and exceptional cases it may be issued although such remedy exists.
We have heretofore decided that this court has no appellate
jurisdiction over the judgments of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in criminal cases or on habeas corpus;
but whether or not the judgments of the Supreme Court of
the District, reviewable in the Court of Appeals, may be
reviewed ultimately in this court in such cases, when the
validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, the
United States is drawn in question, we have as yet not been
obliged to determine. In re iapman, Petitioner,156 U. S.
211. And that inquiry is immaterial here, as we have no doubt
that the courts below had jurisdiction.
Leave denied.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 863.

Submitted March 5, 1895. - Decided June 3, 1895.

An instruction on the trial of a person indicted for murder, whereby the
verdict of guilty of murder or manslaughter turns alone upon an inquiry
as to the way in which the killing was done, is held to be reversible

error.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. T X1. Cravens for plaintiff in error.
21hr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney and Mr. William
II. Pope for defendants in error.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE HAREAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an indictment, in which the defendant, a white
man and not an Indian, was charged in one count with the
crime of having killed and murdered, on the 8th day of December, 1891, at the Cherokee Nation, in the Indian country,
and within the Western District of Arkansas, one Josiah Poorboy; in another count, with having killed and murdered on
the same day and in the same nation, county, and District,
one Thomas Whitehead.
The accused was convicted of the crimes charged and sentenced to be hanged. Upon writ of error to this court the
judgment was reversed, and the eause was remanded, with
directions to grant a new trial. The grounds of that reversal
are set forth in the opinion of Mr. Justice Jackson in Brown v.
United States, 150 U. S. 93.
At a second trial Brown was again found guilty on each
count. A motion for a new trial having been made and overruled, the accused was sentenced, on the second count, to
suffer the punishment of death by hangifig, but the sentence
on the first count was postponed "to await the result of the
judgment against him for killing Whitehead."
This writ of error brings up for review the judgment last
rendered.
It appeared in evidence on the last trial, as on the first one,
that Poorboy and Whitehead were in search of James Craig
and Waco Hampton for the purpose of arresting. them.
Previous to that time, Craig had been arrested by a deputy
marshal, Charles Lamb, upon a charge of adultery, and had
escaped from the custody of that officer. Lamb testified that
he had verbally authorized Poorboy to arrest Craig. It seems,
also, that Hampton was under indictment, and there was a
warrant for his arrest in the hands of deputy marshal Bonner.
Tihe shooting occurred in a public road, along which Hampton, Roach, and Brown were riding, (the latter riding behind
Roach, on the same horse,) about nine or ten o'clock at night,
when an effort was made by Poorboy and Whitehead to arrest
Hampton and Brown. There was evidence tending to show

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that Brown (who at the time of the killing wa6 19 years of age)
was supposed by Poorboy and Whitehead, in the darkness of
the evening, to be Craig. There is considerable conflict in
the evidence as to what occurred at the time the shooting took
place, but it is reasonably certain that Brown shot and killed
either Whitehead or Poorboy, after he and Roach were compelled to dismount from their horse.
After the court had completed its charge to the jury, the
accused made two requests for instructions, which were given
with certain modifications, but the giving of them was accompanied with the admonition that the principles of law then
announced were to be taken in connection with what had
been previously said by the court.
The first, of the instructions asked by the accused was as
follows: " The evidence in this case shows that the deceased,
Poorboy and Whitehead, were not officers, but were acting as
private citizens, private individuals, without any warrant for
Brown, and having no charge against Brown. Therefore, if
unintentionally, or by mistake, believing him to be somebody
else, they undertook to arrest the defendant, and the defendant
resisted such arrest, and in such resistance killed the deceased,
or killed the parties attempting such arrest, such killing would
not be murder, but would be manslaughter." The court gave
this instruction with this modification: "Unless such killing
was done in such a way as to show brutality, barbarity, and a
wicked and malignant purpose. If it was done in that way,
then it would still be murder."
. There Was some evidence before the jury which, if credited,
would have justified a verdict against the defendant for manslaughter only. Upon that evidence, doubtless, was based the
above instruction asked by the defendant. If in resisting arrest
he showed such brutality and barbarity as indicated, in connection with other circumstances, that he did not shoot simply to
avoid being wrongfully arrested, but in execution of a wicked
or malignant. purpose to take life unnecessarily, or pursuant
to some previous understanding with Hampton that he would
assist in the killing of Whitehead and Poorboy, or either of
them, the court should have so modified the defendant's in-

CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
Syllabus.

struction as to express that idea. But the jury might well
have inferred, from the instruction, as modified, that they
were at liberty to return a verdict of murder because alone of
the way or mode in which the killing was done, even if they
believed that, apart from the way in which the life -of the
deceased was. taken, the facts made a case of manslaughter,
not of murder. We do not think that a verdict of guilty of
manslaughter or -murder should have turned alone upon an
inqtriry as to the way in which the killing was done.. The
inquiry rather should have been whether at the moment the
defendant shot there were present such circumstances, taking
all of them into consideration, including the mode of killing,
as made the taking of the life of the deceased manslaughter
and not murder.
Because of the error above indicated, and without considering other questions presented by the assignments of error,
the judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, with directions to set aside the judgment as well as the verdict upon
each count of the indictment, and grant a new trial.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER and MR. JUSTICE BROWN dissented.

CENTRAL LAND COMPANY v. LAIDLEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE

STATE

OF

WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 289.

Argued March 29, April 1, 1895. -Decided

June 8, 1895.

This court has no jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state court, on the
ground that the obligation of a contract has been impaired, when the
validity of the statute under which the contract was made is admitted,
and the only question is of its construction by that court.

When the parties have been fully heard in the regular course of judicial
proceedings, an erroneous decision of a state court does not deprive the
unsuccessful party of his property without due process of law, withiu
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

