408

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ion- nevertheless, the title passed, under the act of 1867,
to the city of Boston, when, following the provisions of that
statute, it took these lands. in this view, no action can be
maintained by the plaintiffs to recover the land under the
title of the owner as that title existed prior to the acquisition
of the property by the city.
The judgment is affirmed.

BORGMEYER, Administrator, v. IDLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 582. Submitted October 15, 1895.- Decided October 28, 1895.

Colorado G(entral Mining Co. v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138, affirmed and applied to
this case upon the points: (1) that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit
Court of the United States is invoked upon the ground that the determination of the suit depends upon some question, of a Federal nature, it
must appear, at the outset, from the pleadings, that the suit- Is one of
that character of which the Circuit Court could properly take cognizance
at the time its jurisdiction -was invoked; and (2) that whenthe jurisdiction of a Circuit Court Is invoked solely on the ground of diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final, although
another ground for jurisdiction in the Circuit Court may be developed in
the course of subsequent proceedings in the case.
The mere fact that the matter in controversy in an action is a sum of money
received by one of the parties as an award under a treaty with a Foreign
Power, providing for the submission of claims against that Power of
arbitration, does not in any way draw in question the validity or the
construction of that treaty.
BORGmEYER, administrator of the estate of Alexander Chataing, deceased, under letters griinted September 14, 1892;
brought an action September 15, 1892, against William Idler
and John W. tazeltine, administrators de boni8 non of the
estate of Jacob Idler, deceased, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, averring that he was a citizen of the State of New Jersey and that
the defendants were citizens of the State of Pennsylvania.
Plaintiff's statement of claim or declaration, filed September

BORGMEYER, Administrator, v. IDLER.
Statement of the Case.

22, alleged the recovery by Jacob Idler, after prolonged litigation, of a judgment against the Republic of Venezuela in
September, 1832, and that throughout the litigation Chataing 'was Idler's attorney and Qounsel, and that he had advanced Idler the sum of 4400 pesos. 'he statement then
continued thus : "Thereupon, after obtaining said judgment,
the said Jacob Idler executed in favor of said Chataing, in
consideration of his then past services and advances, two
promises in writing, expressed in tWe Spanish language, a copy
of each of which, bearing date at Caracas, together with a
translation of each, is hereby appended, marked respectively
B and A. By the first of these, dated September 25, 1832,
the said Jacob Idler promised to pay to the said Chataing ten
per cent (10%) of the amount of said judgment at such time
and in such manner as Venezuela should make payment
upon the latter; by the second, dated January 9, 1833, he
further promised to repay to the said Chataing, out of the first
money which should be paid by Venezuela upon said judgment, the said four thousand four hundred (4400) pesos.
After, very great and unlooked for delays upon the part of
Venezuela in satisfying the said judgment, it was made the
basis of awards against the Republib in favor of the said Jacob
Idler, and the defendants, by certain mixed commissions,
authorized thereto by the United States and that Republic
in the years 1868 and 1890; and under said awards, since
September 3, 1890, and up to the present date, Venezuela has
paid to, and to the order of, the said Jacob Idler, or the defendants, by instalments as awarded, a portion of the said judgment,
deducting from which portion ertain legitimate expenses by
the latter incurred in obtaining said awards, there has as yet
come to the hands of said Jacob Idler or the defendants, in
all, ninety-three thousand nine hundred and eighty-six dollars
and sixty-five cents ($93,986.65) for principal and interest;"
and plaintiff claimed to recover a commission of ten per cent
under the paper of September 25, 1832, and a balance due on
the advance of 4400 pesos.
Defendants filed an affidavit of defence, setting up as to the
ten per cent commission, that the judgment was annulled in

OUCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

1839 by the highest court in Venezuela and no payment had
ever been made thereon; that Chataing died August 30, 1836,
and Idler employed other agents to endeavor to obtain payment of the claim, and that after Idler's death, May 26, 1856,
William Idler continued these efforts and employed other
agents and counsel; that an award was made in favor of Idler
and his associates in 1868 by a mixed commission created under a treaty of 1866, and that in 1871 there was paid by the
Department of State of the United States, under this award,
$17,696.98, and in 1876 the further sum of $20,225.12; that
by a treaty of June 4, 1889, all the awards were reopened and
a mixed commission appointed under that treaty which heard
and determined, in the city of Washington in 1890, the validity of the claim of. Idler and his associates de novo; that no
claim was made before this commission for or on account of
any interest in this award by Chataing or his estate ;. that the
commission reopened the award made under the treaty of
1866 and heard and decided as to the validity of the claim,
reduced the award, and made a division between all who,
the court decided, had interests therein; that fiom 1833 to
1891 no claim or demand of any nature was made by Chataing
in his lifetime, nor after his death, against Idler in his lifetime
or his associates; nor was any claim or demand of any natuire
or kind against the estate of Idler, or against his associates,
made by the estate of Chataing or any person for his estate or
heirs, for or on account of the claims in this suit until 1891, a
period of fifty-eight years; and defendants set up the bar of
the statute of limitations, payment, etc.
At the trial the Circuit Court directed a verdict for plaintiff, reserving all the questions of law, and subsequently entered judgment in favor of plaintiff on the verdict. Defendants
took the case on error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Third Circuit, which reversed the judgment of the Circuit
Court and entered judgment for the defendants, notwithstanding the verdict, on the points of law reserved atthe trial. The
Court of Appeals held as to the claim for commission that the
record disclosed the fact that Idler's judgment in Venezuela
had been annulled by the courts of that country, and that

BORGMEYER, Administrator, v. IDLIER
Statement of the Case.

nothing had been paid by Venezuela on the footing of that
judgment, and the court observed:
"Idler's judgment having thus been swept away, the consideration for his promise to pay to Ohataing a commission
thereon wholly failed. The event upon which the commission was to be paid never occurred. Very certain is it that
nothing was paid by Venezuela to Idler or to the personal
representatives on the footing of the judgment. To apply
then the writing of September 25, 1832, to the state of affairs
brought about more than half a century afterwards by the
award made by a mixed commission acting under an international treaty would be a perversion of the paper, and would
workthe greatest injustice to the estate of Idler. The whole
situation had radically-changed without his fault. His judgment had utterly failed him. The allowance of the claim was
ultimately secured by the action of an independent tribunal
proceeding upon original grounds. The favorable result was
due to the long continued personal exertions of Idler and his
associates and the services at a vast expense of other agents
and attorneys. All this the evidence shows. To the result
neither Chataing nor hig personal representatives contributed
aught.
"We do not consider it a matter of any moment that in
pressing their claim before the mixed commissions Idler's administrators relied upon the Venezuelan judgment of 1832.
That judgment was a part of the complicated transactions
between their intestate and the government of Venezuela. It
perhaps afforded some evidence of the correct amount of the
indebtedness in dispute. Nor is it important how the majority of the commissioners may have regarded that judgment.
Neither its correctness nor its existence was recognized by
either of the treaties. The mixed commissions were to decide with reference to the merits of all claims submitted to
them. The opinion filed on behalf of the majority of the
last commission shows that the Idler claim was investigated
and sustained by them upon its original merits. They were
at liberty, had the facts so warranted, to have found against
the claim altogether. That they awarded the face amount of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the judgment with interest is of no consequence. The reasons
for their award are immaterial here. The important fact is
that whatever moneys Venezuela paid on the Idler claim were
paid on the awards of the mixed commissions and .not otherwise. (Construing the paper df September 25, 1832, with reference to its terms, its subject-matter, and the situation of the
parties, we conclude that no payment or satisfaction of the
judgment' therein. recited was ever made or realized within
the true intent of the parties, and that the stipulated commission
to Chataing never became payable. It follows, therefore, that
the'reserved questions of law appertaining to this branch of
the case should have been decided in favor of the defendants.'
As to the claim for a balance of the 4400 pesos and interest, the Circuit, Court of Appeals held that the proof of its
actual payment by Idler in his lifetime was remarkably full
considering its antiquity, and that its non-assertion for over
fifty years was inexplicable except upon the hypothesis of full
payment in the lifetime of Chataing, but that independently
of the proof of payment, the presumption of payment arose
after the lapse of twenty years, and that even on plaintiff's
own view the moneys received in 1871 on the first award were
in excess of the 4400 pesos, and consequently that presumption had operated against the debt before suit was brought.
The opinions of the Circuit Court and of the Circuit Court of
Appeals are reported in 65 Fed. Rep. 910. A writ of error to
this court having been allowed, the cause came on on a motion
to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. M Hampton Todd and Mr. Edward H, Weil for the
motion.
Mr. Samuel F. Phillips,Mr. Frederick D. MeKenney, and
Mr. Henry R. Edmunds opposing.
MR.

CHIEF JuSTicE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

In Colorado CentralMining Co. v. Tur k,,150 U. S. 138, we
-held that when the original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of
the United States is invoked upon the ground that the deter-

BORGMEYER, Administrator, v. IDLER.
Opinion of the Court.

mination of the suit depends upon some question of a Federal
nature, it must appear, at the outset, from the pleadings, that
the suit is one of that character, of which the Circuit Court
could properly take cognizance at the time its jurisdiction is
invoked ; and that when the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court is
invoked solely on the ground of diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final, although
another ground for jurisdiction in the Circuit Court may be
developed in the course of subsequent proceedings in the case.
It was there said: "By the judiciary act of March 3, 1891,
it is provided that the review by appeal, by writ of error, or
otherwise, from existing Circuit Courts shall be had in this
court, or in the Circuit Courts of Appeals thereby established,
according to the provisions of the act regulating the same.
The writ of error in this case was brought under section six of
that statute, which provides that I judgments or decrees of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases in which
the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties
to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens of the
United States or citizens of different States,' and also that ' in
all cases not hereinbefore, in this section, made final there
shall be of right an appeal or writ of error or review of the
case by the Supreme Court of the United States where the
matter in controversy shall exceed ofte thousand dollars besides
costs.' 26,Stat. 826, 828, ยง 6, c. 517. If the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit was final,
under the section in question, then this writ of error must be
dismissed. And in order to maintain that the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals was n6t final, it must appear that the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not dependent entirely
upon the opposite parties being citizens of different States."
Applying these principles to the case at bar, it is apparent
that this writ of error will not lie. The jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court was invoked by the issue of summons September 15, 1892, followed by the filing of the statement of
claim or declaration, September 22, 1892, and therefrom it
appeared that the suit was one of which cognizance could be
properly taken on the giound of diverse citizenship, and it did

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

not appear therefrom that jurisdiction was rested or could be
asserted on any other ground.
By the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, appeals or
writs of error from the District and Circuit Courts of the
United States to this court were allowed, among other cases,
"in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty
made under its authority, is drawn in question," but it was
not suggested in the summons and statement of claim that
the validity or construction of any treaty made under the
authority of the United States was drawn in question, and
no such question was decided either by the Circuit Court or
the Circuit Court of Appeals. It is unreasonable to contend
that any question was raised directly touching the validity or
construction of either of the treaties of Venezuela by plaintiff's statement of claim or by clear and necessary intendment
therefrom, and, under the rule laid down in Turk's case, this
writ of error must be dismissed. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended entirely upon diverse citizenship when
the suit was commenced, and to that point of time the
inquiry must necessarily be referred.' Had the case been
brought to this court from the Circuit Court the writ of
error could not have been entertained.
We do not think, indeed, that the validity or construction
of either of the treaties was actually drawn in question, and
the ground of the judgment really involved neither such
validity nor construction.
The point was long ago settled in principle upon the record
of a suit in a state court.
The twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of September 24,
1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 85, provided that a writ of error would
lie to a final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest
court of law or equity of a State in which a decision in the
suit could be had, "where is drawn in question the validity of
a treaty or statute of . . . the United States, and the decision is against their validity, . . . or where is drawn in

question the construction of any clause-of the Constitution, or
of a treaty, or statute of, or commission held under the United

CALIFORNIA v. HOLLADAY.
Statement of the Case.

States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege,
or exemption specially set up or claimed by either party,
under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty, statute, or
commission."
In Gill v. Oliver, 11 How. 529, 54:5, on error to the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, it was held, where an award had
been obtained under a treaty with Mexico and both parties
claimed under the award, that the introduction of the treaty
and the award merely as part of the history of the case did
not in any way involve the validity of the treaty or its construction and that the writ of error could not be maintained.
See Williams v. Oliver, 12 How. 111; Baltimore & Potomac
Railroad v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, 225.
Writ of error dismissed.

CALIFORNIA v. HOLLADAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 566. Submitted November 1, 1895.-

Decided November 11, 1895.

This case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction, on the authority of San
Francisco v. Itsell, 133 U. S. 65; Beatty v. Benton, 135 U. S. 244; and
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; and cases cited.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The action was brought on behalf of

the people of California to remove buildings and fences of
the'defendants from what wasg claimed to be a public park.
The defendants were in possession of the land, under claim
of title, and had been for many years.
The complaint alleged that a certain piece of land (describjng a tract four blocks in extent, including the part thereof
here in dispute) " was heretofore, to wit, on the eleventh day of
March, A.D. 1858, by the lawful owner and proprietor thereof,
lawfully dedicated to public use as a public square, by the
name of 'Lafayette Park,' and such dedication accepted by
the public, and then was arid still is laid down upon the official

