OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

BUCKLIN v. UNITED STATES (INo. 2).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 572.

Submitted October 21, 1895. -Decided

November 18,1895.

The consolidation of several indictments against different persons growing
out of the same transaction, and the trial of all at the same time and by
the same jury, if not excepted to at the time, cannot be objected to after
verdict.
The indictment in this case, in every substantial particular, states an offence
against the laws of the United States.
A refusal to grant a new trial cannot be reviewed on writ of error.
An instruction, on the trial of several defendants indicted separately for
offences growing out of the same transaction, that, while they might
find a verdict of guilty as to all the defendants, or find some guilty and
some not guilty, they could not find a verdict as to some and disagree as
to others, contains prejudicial error which may be taken advantage of
by a defendant who is found guilty and convicted.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

MAr. Thomas T. Taylor for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Diokinson for defendants
inerror.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is the same case as the one just disposed of. The
accused being in doubt whether the judgment against him
could be reviewed here on appeal, brought this writ of error.
The plaintiff in error was indicted in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Kansas under section 5392
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, providing that
"every person who, having taken an oath before a competent
tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of the
United States authorizes an oath to be administered, that he
will testify, declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any written testimony, declaration, deposition, or certificate by him
subscribed is true, wilfully and contrary to such oath states

BUCKLIN v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
Opinion of the Court.

or subscribes any material matter which he does not believe
to be true, is guilty of perjury, and shall be punished by a
fine of not more than two thousand dollars, and by imprisonment, at hard labor, not more than five years; and shall,
moreover, thereafter be incapable of giving testimony in any
court of the United States until such time as the judgment
against him is reversed."
By the third section of the act of June 14, !878, c. 190, 20
Stat. 113, entitled "An act to amend an act entitled ' An act
to encourage the growth of timber on the Western prairies,' "
(18 Stat. 21, c. 55,) it was provided, in reference to the affidavit required to be filed by any person applying for the
benefits of that act, "that if at any time after the filing of
said affidavit, and prior to the issuing of the patent for said
land, the claimant shall fail to comply with any of the require:
ments of this act, then and in that event such land shall be
subject to entry under the homestead laws, or by some other
person under the provisions of this act: Provided,That the
party making claim to said land, either as a homestead-settler,
or under this act, shall give, at the time of filing his application, such notice to the original claimant as shall be prescribed
by the rules established by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office; and the rights of the parties shall be determined
as in other contested cases."
This act, and all laws supplementary thereto or amendatory
thereof, were repealed by the act of March 3, 1891, entitled
"An act to repeal timber-culture laws and for other purposes."
But the repealing act declared that it should not affect any
valid rights theretofore accrued or accruing under said laws,
but all bona fide claims lawfully initiated before its passage
might be protected on due compliance with law, in the same
manner, on the same terms and conditions, and subject to the
same limitations, forfeitures, and contests, as if the repealing
statute had not been enacted. 26 Stat. 1095, c. 561.
The indictment charged, in substance, that the accused, for
the purpose of contesting a named timber-culture claim that
had been made and entered in the proper land office at
Wichita, Kansas, presented himself before H. P. Wolcott, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

duly appointed, qualified, and acting register of the United
States land office at Lamed, in the second division of the District of Kansas, and authorized by law to administer oaths in
contests relating to timber-culture entries; that the accused,
after being sworn by the said register to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth touching his right
to enter such contest, did knowingly, wilfully, feloniously,
and falsely testify to certain facts (fully set out in the indict.
ment) material to the proceeding of contest; that his testimony was embodied in a deposition, subscribed and sworn to
by him before said register, and was by him stated to be true
when he did not believe it to be true, and that in so doing he
wilfully and corruptly committed perjury, etc.
At the time of the trial there were pending in the court below two other separate indictments, one against Thomas Bucklin and one against George Elder, each of whom was indicted
for perjury growing out of the same transaction as that set
out in the indictment against Daniel A. Bucklin.
By order of the court the three cases were consolidated and
tried at the same, time and by the same jury.
Upon the conclusion of the evidence, and after receiving the
instructions of the court, and hearing the argument of counsel,
the jury retired, and, having deliberated three days, without
making a verdict, came into court, in a body, and through their
foreman propounded to the court this question: "Can we find
a verdict as to some of the defendants and disagree as to the
others?" The court answered, "You can find a verdict of
guilty as to all, a verdict of not guilty as to all, or you can
find some guilty and some not guilty, but you cannot find a
verdict as to some and disagree as to others." To this action
of the court the accused excepted.
The jury again retired, and returned a verdict of guilty as
to Daniel A. Bucklin, and not guilty as to each of the other
defendants.
Motions for new trial and in arrest of judgment having been
successively made and overruled, the defendant was sentenced
to hard labor in the penitentiary for the term of one year and
six months and to pay a fine of one hundred dollars.

BUCKLIN v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
Opinion of the Court.

1. It is assigned for error that the court below consolidated
the three indictments, and permitted them to be tried together.
As the charges against the defendants, respectively, grew out
of the same transaction, both the court and the defendants
may have deemed it convenient to have all the cases tried at
the same time and by the same jury. It is consistent with
the record that the plaintiff in error preferred that the jury
which-tried the other defendants should try him. But as it
does not appear that the plaintiff in error objected at the time
.to being tried by the same jury with the other parties indicted, nor that he excepted to the order of consolidation, we
need not consider whether that order, if objected to seasonably, could have been properly made. He cannot now
complain of the action of the court. Logan v. United States,
144 U. S. 263, 296.
2. One of the grounds for arrest of judgment was that the
indictment does not state an offence under the laws of the
United States. This point does not seem to be pressed in
the brief of counsel. It is without merit. The indictment
conforms, in every substantial particular, to section 5396 of the
Revised Statutes, providing that "in every presentment or indictment prosecuted against any person for perjury, it shall
be sufficient to set forth the substance of the offence charged
upon the defendant, and by what court, and before whom the
oath was taken, averring such court or person to have competent authority to administer the same, together with the
proper averment to falsify the matter wherein the perjury is
assigned, without setting forth the bill, answer, information,
indictment, declaration, or any part of any record or proceeding, either in law or equity, or any affidavit, deposition, or
certificate, other than as hereinbefore stated, and without setting forth the commission or authority of the court or person
before whom the perjury was committed."
3. It is assigned for error that the court overruled the de.
fendants' motion for a new trial. A refusal to grant a new trial
cannot be reviewed upon writ of error. Blitz v. United States,
153 U. S. 308, 312; Wheeler v. United States, 159 U. S. 523.
4. But there was error prejudicial to the accused in tle

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

instruction to the jury that while they might find a verdict of
guilty as to all three defendants on trial, or find some guilty
and some not guilty, they could not find a verdict as to some
and disagree as to others.
The learned Assistant Attorney General refers to section
1036 of the Revised Statutes, providing that "on an indictment against several, if the jury cannot agree upon a verdict
as to all, they may render a verdict as to those in regard to
whom they do agree, on which a judgment shall be entered
accordingly; and the cause as to the other defendants may be
tried by another jury." He properly insists that that section
is not, in terms, applicable to separate indictments, tried
together. But he frankly states that the instruction is so
clearly erroneous as to suggest the possibility of a mistake in
the bill of exceptions.
Upon a careful examination of the record we find nothing
that justifies the assumption that a mistake occurred in the
preparation of the bill of exceptions.
Taking the record as disclosing all that occurred at the time
the jury came into court for additional instructions, there was
error in the ruling that the jury could not find. a verdict as to
some of the defendants and disagree as to others. The jurors
had been deliberating for three days without returning a verdict as to either of the defendants, when they were instructed
that their duty was either to find each defendant not guilty,
or each guilty, or some guilty and the others not guilty. If
solne of the jurors wavered in their minds as to the guilt of all
the defendants'--and the delay -in returning the verdict justifies the belief that such was the fact -it
may be that the
instruction of which complaint is made worked injury to the
plaintiff in error. We cannot say that it did not. To sa'y
that the court would not receive from the jury a report of a
disagreement as to one defendant was, in effect, to announce
that the jurors would be held together until the court should
deem it to be its duty to discharge them finally, and would
not be discharged unless or until they returned a verdict of
guilty or not guilty. This tended to coerce the jury into
making a verdict.. 'The accused was entitled, of right, to go

THE BAYONNE.
Syllabus.

before a new jury, if the one that tried him was unable to
agree that he was guilty of the offence charged.
As it was competent for the jury to return a verdict of
guilty or of not guilty as to the defendants Thomas Bucklin
and George Elder, and to report a disagreement as to Daniel
A. Bucklin, the instruction complained of must be held to
have been erroneous ; and as this error may have injuriously
affected the rights of the accused, the judgment is reversed,
with directions to grant him a new trial.

THE BAYONNE.
APPEAL FROM THE

DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 215, Submitted November 18,18M5.- Decided December 2,1895.

The District Court of tne United States for the Southern District of New
York has monthly terms. The decree in this case was entered December
21, and an appeal allowed December 31, 1892. On the 17th of the followIng January, during a new term of the court, the assignment of errors
was directed to be filed nunc pro tune as of December 31, 1892. Held,
that if that assignment could be treated as a certificate, it came too late,
and, as there was nothing in the record prior to the expiration of the
December term, to indicate any attempt or intention to file a certificate
during that term, and there was no omission to enter anything which
had actually been done at that term, the case did not come within the
rule that permits an amendment of the record nunc pro tune.
The filing of an assignment of errors in a Circuit Court, by order of that
court and the taking a general appeal and its allowance by that court, is
not a compliance with the statutory provision in the judiciary act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, and is not equivalent to the certificate
required by that act.
In so deciding the court must not be understood as intimating any opinion
upon the question whether jurisdictional questions existed, within the
meaning of ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1891.
In re Lehigh Mining & *ManufacturingCo., 156 U. S. 322, and Shields v. Coleman, 167 U. S. 168, distinguished from this case.

THIs Was a libel filed by the United States in the District

