OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

tories west of the Mississippi, and because it does not appear
that his declaratory statement was ever accepted or recognized, or that he made proof of his occupation of the land as
a mail station, but these and other like objections involve
questions between Brott and the government, already determined in his favor, and which the railroad company and its
grantees are not in a position to raise upon this record.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN BELL TELEPHONE
COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOR THE FIRST

CIRCUIT.
No. 745. Submitted October 2, 1895. -Decided November 11, 1895.

This court has appellate jurisdiction over a judgment rendered by a
Circuit Court of Appeals of the United States In a suit brought by the

United States in the Circuit Court of the Circuit, to cancel a patent for
an invention.
Where the appellate jurisdiction of this court is described in a statute in
general terms so as to comprehend the particular case, no presumption

can be indulged of an intention to oust or to restrict such jurisdiction; and
any subsequent statute claimed to have that effect must be examined in the
light of the objects of tile enactment, the purposes it is to serve and the

mischiefs it is to remedy, bearing in mind the rule that the operation of
such a statute must be restrained within narrower limits than its words
import, if the court is satisfied that the literal meaning of its language

would extend to' cases which the legislature never intended to include
in it.
MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
stated in the opinion.

The case is

-Mr.James J. Storrow and Mr. Frederick P. Fish for the
motion.

Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Causten Browne, and Mr
Robert S. Taylor opposing.

UNITED STATES v. AMEiR. 3ELL TELEPHONE CO. 549
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF

JusTicE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a suit by the United States t6 cancel a patent for an
invention granted to the American Bell Telephone Company,
as assignee of the-inventor, Emile Berliner. On a hearing in
the Circuit Court there was a finding'and decree for the complainant. 65 Fed. Rep. 86. The cause having been taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, the decree
of the Circuit Court was reversed, and it was ordered that the
bill be dismissed. 68 Fed. Rep. 542. From this decree an
appeal was taken by the United States to this court, which
appellees now move to dismiss " for want of jurisdiction in this
court to entertain it under the Circuit Court of Appeals act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 6, 26 Stat. 826, 828, for the reason that
the case is a case arising under the patent laws."
The Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction, under the
Constitution, in all cases to which the judicial power extends,
(other 'than those in respect of whic4 it has original jurisdiction,) "with such exceptions and under such regulations as
the Congress shall make." It was early held that in the
passage of the judiciary act of 1789, Congress was executing
the power of making exceptions to the exercise of appellate
jurisdiction, and that the affirmative description of the cases to
which the appellate power extended was to be understood as
implying a negative on the exercise of such appellate poywer as
was not comprehended within it, but that as this restriction
rested on implication founded on the manifest intent of the
legislature, it could be sustained only when that manifest intent
appeared. Durousseau v. United States, 6 Cranch, 307.
Where the appellate jurisdiction is described in general
terms so as to comprehend the particular case, no presumption can be indulged of an intention to oust or to restrict such
jurisdiction ; and any statute claimed to haVe that effect must
be examined in the light of the objects of the enactment, the
purposes it is to serve and the mischiefs it is to remedy,
bearing in mind the rule that the operation of such a statute
must be restrained within narrower limits than its words

,OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

import, if the court is satisfied that the literal meaning of its
language would extend to cases which the legislature never
intended to include in it. Petri v. Commercial National Bank
of Chicago, 142 U. S.644, 650; Brewer's Lessee v. Blougher,
14 Pet. 178; Reiche v. Smythe, 13 Wall. 162, 164; Market
Company v. Ilofman, 101 U. S. 112.
We inquire then whether the appellate jurisdiction of this
court over controversies to which the United States are parties
has been circumscribed by Congress in respect to the right of
appeal.
By section 629 of the Revised Statutes, original jurisdiction
was conferred upon the Circuit Courts (with a limitation as to
the value of the matter in dispute) of all suits in equity and all
suits at common law where the United States are petitioners
or plaintiffs; all suits at law or in equity, arising under any
act providing for revenue from imports or tonnage ; all causes
arising under any law providing internal revenue; all causes
arising under the postal laws; and all suits at law or in
equity arising under the patent or copyright laws of the United
States. By the fifth paragraph of section 711, the jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States of all cases " arising under
the patent right or copyright laws of the United States"
was declared to be exclusive.
By the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, it was
provided: "The Circuit Courts of the United States shall have
original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several
States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law or in
equity, where the matten in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs,
the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority, or in
which the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners;" and
this was repeated in substance, the differences being immaterial here, in the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24 Stat. 552,
and August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat. 433.
And this court had appellate jurisdiction over all final
judgments and decrees of any Circuit Court, or of any
District Court acting as a Circuit Court, in civil actions

UNITED STATES

.

AMER. BELL T'ELEPHONE CO. 551
Opinion of the Court.

where the matter in dispute exceeded the sum or value of five
thousand dollars. Rev. Stat. §§ 690, 691, 692; 18 Stat. 315.
The primary object of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, as
stated in American Construction Company v. Jacksonville
Railway Company, 148 U. S. 372, 382, " well known as a
matter of public history, manifest on the face of the act, and
judicially declared in the leading cases under it, was to relieve
this court of the over burden of cases and controversies, arising from the rapid growth of the country, and the steady
increase of litigation; and, for the accomplishment of this
object, to transfer a large part of its appellate jurisdiction to
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, thereby established in each
judicial circuit, and to distribute between this court and those,
according to the scheme of the act, the entire appellate jurisdiction from the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States."
By section five of this act, appeals or writs of error may be
taken from the Circuit Court directly to this court in six
specified classes of cases: where the jurisdiction of the court
below is in issue; in prize causes; in cases of convictions of
capital or otherwise infamous crimes; in cases involving the
construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States; in cases in which the constitutionality of any law of
the United States, or the validity or construction of any
treaty made under its authority, is drawn in question; in cases
where the constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in
contravention of the Constitution of the United States. Cases
in which the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners are not
enumerated as falling within either of these classes, nor are
cases involving merely the construction of a law of the
United States, those ordinarily arising under the heads of
jurisdiction in respect of subjects-matter treated of in the
sixth section.
By the sixth section, it is provided that the Circuit Courts
of Appeals shall have .ppellate jurisdiction "in all cases other
than those provided for in the preceding section of this act,
unless otherwise provided by law." The Courts of Appeals,
therefore, have appellate jurisdiction of all cases in which

OCTOBER TERM1, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

original jurisdiction is conferred on the Circuit Courts by
reason of the United States being plaintiffs or petitioners.
It is further provided by that section that "the judgments or
decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all
cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon
the opposite parties to the suit or controversy, being aliens and
citizens of the United States or citizens of different States; also
.in all cases arising under the patent laws, under the revenue
laws, and under the criminal laws and in admiralty cases."1
And the last paragraph of the section provides that "in all
cases not hereinbefore, in this section, made
final, there shall
be of right an appeal or writ of error or review of the case by
the Supreme Court of the United States where the matter in
controversy shall exceed one thousand dollars besides costs."
Judgments or decrees in cases in which the ground of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is that the United States are plaintiffs
or petitioners are not made final in terms, and such cases would
fall within the last paragraph, unless restricted by the previous
enumeration. And the contention is that the words "cases
arising under the patent laws," must be held to operate as
such restriction, and to render the judgments and decrees of
the Circuit Courts of Appeals final, notwithstanding the existence of another distinct ground of jurisdiction in the Circuit
Court, and that there would consequently be a right of appeal
from a decree of a Circuit Court of Appeals dismissing a bill
by the United States to cancel a patent for land, but none
where the bill is one to repeal an invention patent.
In United States v. Telephone Company, 128 U. S.315, 359,
we said: "In the present case the United States are plaintiffs,
and the bill asserts that the suit is one of a civil nature, and of
equitable cognizance; and manifestly if it presents a good cause
of action, it arises under the laws and Constitution of the United
States. It is, therefore, within the language both of the Constitution and of the statute conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Courts." Two grounds to support the jurisdiction were
thus indicated, but the question there was whether the judicial
power of the United States under the Constitution extended to
a suit by the United States to repeal a patent, and in that view

UNITED STATES v. AMER. BELL TELEPHONE CO. 553
Opinion of the Court.

it was held that such a suit was a case arising under the
laws pf the United States, as had been previously adjudged
many times by the court. In the language of appellee's counsel,"the judgments in the great contests reported in Cranch
and Wheaton established that these words embraced, and therefore carried the judicial power to, every case wherein the existence or extent of a right purporting to be given by Federal
authority and claimed by either party, became an essential
ingredient."
Nevertheless, in respect of removals of suits from the state
courts to the Circuit Courts under the acts of March 3, 1887,
and August 13, 1888, we held, upon what was deemed the
true construction of the statutes, that the right of removal was
limited to cases in which it appeared from the plaintiff's statement of his own claim that his cause of action was one arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States. Tenne88ee v. Union & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Chap ell v.
Waterworth, 155 U. S. 102.

In Colorado Mining Jomnany v. Turck, 150 U. S. 138, it
was ruled that when the original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court
is invoked upon the sole ground that the determination of the
question depends upon some question of a Federal nature, it
must appear, at the outset, from the pleadings, that the suit is
one of that character of which the Circuit Court could properly
take cognizance at the time its jurisdiction was invoked; and
that where the jurisdiction was invoked solely on the ground
of diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was final, although another ground for jurisdiction in
the Circuit Court might be developed in the course of subsequent proceedings in the case. How the case might be if the
plaintiff had invoked jurisdiction on two distinct grounds, one
of them being independent of diverse citizenship, was not determined. Nor is it necessary to pass upon that question in this
instance, for the motion may be disposed of upon the inquiry
whether it was manifestly the intention of Congress to include
such a case as that before us in the words "arising under the
patent laws." Now, actions at law for infringement, and suits
in equity for infringement, for interference and to obtain

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

patents, are suits which clearly arise under the patent laws,
being brought for the purpose of vindicating rights created by
those laws, and coming strictly within the avowed purpose of
the act, to relieve this court of that burden of litigation which
operated to impede the dispositio of cases of peculiar gravity
and general importance. We are of opinion that it is reasonable to assume that the attention of Congress was directed to
this class of cases, and that the language was used as applicable only to them; and that there is nothing in the objects
sought to be attained and the mischiefs sought to be remedied
by the act which furnishes foundation for the belief that Congress manifestly intended to place a limitation on the appellate
jurisdiction of this court in a case such as this.
Moreover, in those cases, the subject-matter is everything
in respect of jurisdiction, and the character of the parties
nothing'; while here, the character in which the plaintiffs sue
and the nature of the case are inseparably blended.
In instituting this suit, the government appeared
on behalf
of the public, and, as it were, in the exercise of the beneficent
function of superintending authority over the public interests,
and the rule of construction in such cases is properly regarded
as affected by considerations of public policy. It is upon the
principle of public policy that the United States have been
held not bound by statutes of limitation unless Congress has
clearly manifested that they should be so bound. United States
v. Nashville &c. Railway, 118 U. S. 120, 125; Stanley v.
Schwalby, 147 U. S. 508; and the same rule is applicable to
the exercise of the prerogative of parens patrime inherent in
the supreme power of every State, in respect of which it was
observed by Mr. Justice Strong in Savings Bank v. United
States, 19 Wall. 227, 237, that so much of the royal prerogative as belonged to the King in his position as universal trustee enters as much into the principles of our state as it does
into the principles of the British government. Hence it was
held in United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S. 338, that the United
States are not bound by any statute of limitations, nor barred
by laches of their officers, in a suit brought by them, as sovereign, to enforce a public right or to assert a public interest.

MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
Syllabus.

In United States v. Telephone Company, 8upra, it was de.
cided that where a patent for a grant of any kind issued by
the United States has been obtained by fraud, by mistake or
by accident, a suit by the United States against the patentee
is the proper remedy for relief, and that in this country, where
there is no kingly prerogative but where patents for land and
inventions are issued by the authority of the government, and

by officers appointed for that purpose who may have been
imposed upon by fraud or deceit, or may have erred as to
their power, or made mistakes in the instrument itself, the
appropriate remedy is by proceedings by the United States
against the patentee.
We cannot impute to Congress the intention of narrowing
the appellate jurisdiction of this court in a suit brought by
the United States as a sovereign in respect of alleged miscarriage in the exercise of one of its functions as such; deeply
concerning the public interests; and not falling within the
reason of the limitations of the act.
Motion denied.
MR. JUsTICE GRAY took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this motion.

MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 23. Argued January 25, 1895. - Decided November18, 1895.

The plaintiff below imported Into the port of New York in 1887 and 1888 a
quantity of pieces of glass, cut in shapes to order and with bevelled
edges, intended to be used in the manufacture of clocks. The collector
classified them as "articles of glass, cut, engraved," etc., subject to a
duty of.45 per cent ad valorem. The importer claimed that they were
dutiable as "parts of clocks," and as such subject to a duty of 30 per
cent ad valorem; paid the duty imposed under protest; and brought
this action to recover the excess. The trial court instructed the jury

