CALIFORNIA v. HOLLADAY.
Statement of the Case.

States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege,
or exemption specially set up or claimed by either party,
under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty, statute, or
commission."
In Gill v. Oliver, 11 How. 529, 54:5, on error to the Court
of Appeals of Maryland, it was held, where an award had
been obtained under a treaty with Mexico and both parties
claimed under the award, that the introduction of the treaty
and the award merely as part of the history of the case did
not in any way involve the validity of the treaty or its construction and that the writ of error could not be maintained.
See Williams v. Oliver, 12 How. 111; Baltimore & Potomac
Railroad v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, 225.
Writ of error dismissed.

CALIFORNIA v. HOLLADAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 566. Submitted November 1, 1895.-

Decided November 11, 1895.

This case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction, on the authority of San
Francisco v. Itsell, 133 U. S. 65; Beatty v. Benton, 135 U. S. 244; and
Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; and cases cited.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The action was brought on behalf of

the people of California to remove buildings and fences of
the'defendants from what wasg claimed to be a public park.
The defendants were in possession of the land, under claim
of title, and had been for many years.
The complaint alleged that a certain piece of land (describjng a tract four blocks in extent, including the part thereof
here in dispute) " was heretofore, to wit, on the eleventh day of
March, A.D. 1858, by the lawful owner and proprietor thereof,
lawfully dedicated to public use as a public square, by the
name of 'Lafayette Park,' and such dedication accepted by
the public, and then was arid still is laid down upon the official

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

map of said city and county as a public square as aforesaid:"
that the defendants had erected fences within said public
square, which enclosed, and were the means of excluding
plaintiffs from, a certain piece or parcel of said public square
(describing the land in dispute), and that defendants had
erected and maintained a dwelling-house and other, permanent improvements within and upon the premises, which
interfered with and hindered the use by the public of said
public square, and which were accordingly public nuisances,
and the prayer was that they be abated, etc. The defendants
answered, denying that the land ever was dedicated; admitting their occupation of the six fifty-vara lots in dispute, and
their intention to keep out the public; and as special defences
they pleaded three judgments ih bar and estoppel: One of
the judgments so pleaded was against the people of the State
of California, and two of them was against the city and
county of San Francisco. The actions in which those judgments were made in each instance involved the same land
and the same question of dedication as here in dispute; and
the prevailing parties were these defendants or their predecessor in interest.
The trial court decided that each of the two judgments
against th6 city and county of San Francisco was, as a
plea a bar and as evidence conclusive against the claim of
dedication made by the plaintiffs in the present action; and
that the court was thereby precluded from again inquiring
into the question or claim of dedication made by the plaintiffs
in this action. That decision was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State.
To that judgment this writ of, error was, sued out by the
State; and the defendants moved to dismiss it for want of
jurisdiction, on the ground that no Federal question was
involved. On behalf of the State of California it was contended that a Federal question was involved, as follows:
"The Supreme Court of the State of California first decided
that the land in controversy was in fact dedicated to the
public, as alleged in the complaint, by the Van Ness Ordiiance, the act of the legislature of California, and the act

SONN v. MAGONE.
Syllabus.

of Congress of July 1, 1864, entitled ' An act to expedite the
settiement of titles to land in California.'
It then decided
that the dedication was annulled by the judgments given in
the suits of S. W. Ilolladay v. The City and County of San
Francisco, and of The City and County of San Franciscov.
S. W. Ilolladay and others, To these two records the people
of the State of California were strangers. The State never
consented that the city and county might submit the rights
of the public to judgment in either of those actions. Hence
they claim, that those judgments, so far as the people are concerned, were given without due process of law."
Mr.S. W Holladay in person, and Mr.E. Burke Rolladay
for the motion.
Mr. W. F Fitzgerald, Attorney General of the State of
California, ]Mr. William Matthews, and Mir. William Craig
opposing.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The opinions of the Supreme Court
of California in this case are reported 68 California, 439;
93 California, 241; 102 California, 661. The motion to dismiss is sustained on the authority of San Franciscov. Itsell,
133 U. S. 65; Beatty v. Benton, 135 U. S. 244; Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S.'361; and cases cited. And see ibadley v. Sdn Fran-s0co, 94 U. S.4.; Hloadley v. San Francisco,124 U. S.639.
Writ of error dismissed.

SONN v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 16. Argued October 15, 1895. - Decided November 11, 1895.

Lentils and white medium beans in a dry state, both mature and ordinarily
used for food,, though sometimes sold for seed, imported into New York
in the years 1887 and 1888, were properly classified by the collector as
VOL. CLIX-27.

