MILLS v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

MILLS v. GREEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 782. Submitted October 28, 1895. - Decided November 25, 1895.
When, pending an appeal from the judgment of a lower court, and without
any fault of the defendant, an event occurs which renders it impossible
for the appellate court, if it should decide the case in favor of the plaintiff, to grant him any effectual relief, the court will not proceed to a
formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal.
When, pending an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity to secure
a right to vote at the election of delegates to a constitutional convention, the election is held and the convention assembles, on the days
appointed by the statute calling the convention, the appeal must be dismissed, without considering the merits of the bill.
This court, on appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, takes
judicial notice of the days of public general elections of members of the
legislature, or of the constitutional convention of a State, as well as of
the times of the commencement of its sitting, and of the dates 1rhen its
acts take effect.
MoTIoN

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William A. Barber, 'Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, Mr. Edward XoGrady, and Mr. George S.
Mower for the motion.
Mr. fenry N. Obear opposing.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed April 19, 1895, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina, by Lawrence P. Mills, alleging himself to be a citi,
zen of the State of South Carolina and of the United States,
and a resident of a certain precinct in the county of Richland,
and qualified to vote at all Federal and State elections in the
precinct, and suing in behalf of himself and all' other citizens

OCTOBER, TERM4, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the county in like circumstances, for an injunction against
W. Briggs Green, the supervisor of registration of the county.
The bill alleged that by a statute of South Carolina of December 21, 1894, a convention was called to revise the constitution of the State, the delegates to be elected on the third
Tuesday of August, 1895, and the convention to assemble on
the second Tuesday of September, 1895; that the same and
other statutes of South Carolina contained regulations as to
the registration of voters, and as to certificates of registration,
which were in violation of the constitution of South Carolina,
and of the Constitution of the United States, in various particulars pointed out, as abridging, impeding and destroying
the suffrage of citizens of the State and of the United States;
.that the defendant was exercising the duties prescribed by
those statutes, and intended to continue to do so, and specifically intended to furnish and deliver, to the boards of
managers appointed to hold the election of delegates to the
constitutional convention, the registration bqoks of the several precincts, to be used by the managers at that election;
that the plaintiff had failed to register as a voter, because,
notwithstanding repeated efforts to become registered, he
found himself unable to comply with the unreasonable and
burdensome regulations prescribed by the unconstitutional
registration laws; that he was desirous of voting for delegates to the constitutional convention at the election pre-scribed by the statute of 1894 for that, purpose; that the
registration books in the defendant's hands did not and
would not contain the plaintiff's name; that he, and others
under like circumstances, would not be permitted by the
managers to vote at that election, unless their names were
found upon the books, and unless they could produce registration certificates; and that, if the defendant were permitted
to continue the illegal, partial and void registration, and were
allowed to turn over the books to the managers, the plaintiff
would be deprived of his right to vote at that election, and
grievous and irreparable wrong would be done to him, and
to other citizens under like circumstances.
The prayer of the bill was for "a writ of injunction, re-

MILLS v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

/

straining and enjoining the said defendant, individually and,
as supervisor of registration, from the performance of any of
the acts hereinbefore complained of," and for further relief.
On the filing of the bill, the Circuit Court granted a temporary injunction, as prayed for, and ordered notice to the
defendant to show cause on May 2, 1895, why it should not
be continued in force; and on that day, after a hearing, ordered it to be continued until the final determination of the
case, or until the further order of the court. 67 Fed. Rep. 818.
The defendant appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which, on June 11, 1895, reversed the orders of the Circuit
Court, dissolved the injunction, and remanded the case to that
court with direictions to dismiss the bill. 25 U. S. App. 383.
The plaintiff, on September 4, 1895, appealed to this court;
and the appeal was entered in this court on September 19,
1895.
The defendant moved to dismiss the appeal, assigning, as
one ground of his motion, "that there is now no actual controversy involving real and substantial rights between the
parties to the record, and no subject-matter upon which the
judgment of this court can operate."
We are of opinion that the appeal must be dismissed upon
this ground, without considering any other question appearing on the record or discussed by counsel.
The duty of this court, as of every other judicial tribunal,
is to decide actual controversies by a judgment which can be
carried into effect, and not to give opinions upon moot questions or abstract propositions, or to declare principles or rules
of law which cannot affect the matter in issue in the case
before it. It necessarily follows that when, pending an appeal
from the judgment of a lower court, and without any fault of
the defendant, an event occurs which renders it impossible for
this court, if it should decide the qase in favor of'the plaintiff,
to grant him any effectual relief whatever, the court will not
proceed to a formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal.
And such a fact, when not appearing on the record, may be
proved by extrinsic evidence. Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 251;
Californiav. San P~ablo & Tlare Railroad,149 U. S. 308.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

If a defendant, indeed, after notice of the filing of a bill in
equity for an injunction to restrain the building of a house, or
of a railroad, or of any other structure, persists in completing
the building, the court nevertheless isnot deprived of the
authority, whenever in its opinion justice requires it, to deal
with the rights of the parties, as they stood at the commencement of the suit, and to compel the defendant to undo what
he has wrongfully done since that time, or to answer in damages. Tucker v. Howard, 128 Mass. 361, 363, and cases cited;
Attorney General v. Great Northern Railway, 4 De G. & Sm.
75, 94; Terhune v. Midland Railroad, 9 Stew. (36 N. J. Eq.)
318, and 11 Stew. (38 N. J. Eq.) 423; Platteville v. Galena d
Southern Wisconsin Railway, 43 Wisconsin, 493.
But if the intervening event is owing either to the plaintiff's
own act or to a power beyond the control of either party, the
court will stay its hand.
For example, appeals have been dismissed by this court
when the plaintiff had executed a release of his right to
appeal; Elwell v. Fosdick, 134 U. S. 500; or when the rights
of both parties had come .under the control of the same persons; Lord v. Veazie, 8 How. 251; Cleveland v. Chanberlain,
1 Black, 419; Wood Paper Co. v. Heft. 8 Wall. 333; East Tennessee Railroad v. Southern Telegraph Co., 125 U. S. 695;
South Spring Co. v. Amador Co., 145 U. S.300; or when the
matter had been compromised and settled between the parties;
Dakota County v. Glidden, 113. U. S.222; or when, pending
a suit concerning the validity of the assessment of a tax, the
tax was paid; San Mateo County v. Southern Pacific Railroad, 116 U. S.138; Little v. Bowers, 134 U. S.547; Singer
Co. v. Wright, 141 U. S.696;. or the amount of the tax was
tendered, and deposited ina bank, which by statute had the
same effect as actual payment and receipt of the money;
Californiav. San Pablo &. Tulare Railroad,149 U. S.308.
Where appeals were taken from a decree of foreclosure and
sale, and also from decrees made in execution of that decree,
and the principal decree was reversed, it was held that the
later appeals having ben annulled by operation of law, their
subject-matter was withdrawn, and they must be dismissed

MILLS v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

for lack of anything on which they could operate. Chicago
& Vincennes Railroad v. Fosdick, 106 U. S. 47, 84.
Where, pending an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill to
restrain a sale of property of the plaintiff under assessments
for street improvements, and to cancel tax lien certificates, the
assessments and certificates were quashed and annulled by a
judgment in another suit, the appeal was dismissed, without
costs to either party. Washington Market Co. v. District of
Columbia, 137 U. S. 62.
Where, pending a writ of error in an action which did not
survive by law, the plaintiff died, the writ of error was abated.
Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 151 U. S. 673.
In the great case of The State of Pennsylvania v. The
Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company, which was a bill in
equityfiled in this court, under its original jurisdiction, for an
injunction against the construction and maintenance of a
bridge across the Ohio River to the obstruction of the free
navigation of the river, this court entertained jurisdiction, apd
on May 27, 1852, decreed that the bridge was an obstruction
and a nuisance, and should be either abated or elevated so as not
to interfere with the free navigation of the river, and awarded
costs against the defendant; but suspended the enforcement
of the decree for a limited time, to allow the defendant to
carry out a scheme by which the obstruction to navigation,
might be removed. 13 How. 518, 626, 627. By the act of
Congress of August 31, 1852, c. 111, ยง 7, the defendant was
authorized to have and maintain the bridge at its then site
and elevation; and the officers and crews of all vessels and
boats navigating the river were required to regulate the use
of their vessels and boats, and of any pipes or chimfieys belonging thereto, so as not to interfere with the elevation and
construction of the bridge. 10 Stat. 112. The bridge having
been blown down by a violent storm in the summer of 1854,
and the defendant preparing to rebuild it according to the
original plan, the plaintiff, on June 26, 1854, obtained from
Mr. Justice Grier in vacation an injunction, which was served
upon the defendant, notwithstanding which it proceeded with
the erection of the bridge, and completed it in November,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

1854. At December term, 1854, of this court, the defendant
moved to dissolve that injunction; and the plaintiff filed
motions for a sequestration against the defendant, and for an
attachment for contempt against its officers, for disobeying
the former decree of this court and the injunction of Mr.
Justice Grier, and for an execution for the costs awarded by
the former' decree of this court. This court held that the act
of 1852 was a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce, and that since that act the
portion of its former decree which directed the alteration or
abatement of the bridge could not be carried into execution;
and therefore denied the plaintiff's motions for sequestration
and attachment, dissolved the injunction, and only granted
to the plaintiff execution for the costs decreed by this court
before the passage of the act of Congress. 18 How. 421, 431,
436, 459, 460.
In a suit by a county to restrain a railroad corporation from
building a railroad along a public highway, the Supreme
Court of Iowa held that an order refusing an injunction,
though erroneous when made, should not be reversed, when
the legislature, pending the appeal, had authorized the act
complained of. Linn County v. Hewitt, 55 Iowa, 505.
Still more analogous to the present case is one brought before the Court of Appeals of New York, and stated in its
opinion as follows: "This action was commenced to restrain
certain persons from proceeding to incorporate the village of
North Tarrytown under the general act of the legislature
authorizing the incorporation of villages. The persons made
defendants are those who signed the notice required, and the
officers of the town who would be inspectors of the election.
A temporary injunction was obtained, which was dissolved,
and the election was held, and a majority of votes determined
in favor of the incorporation, and the proceedings for such
incorporation have been perfected, village officers chosen, and
the corporation is in operation. By a supplemental complaint
these facts were set up, and judgment demanded that all
these acts be declared null and void. The grounds of the
action are that the statute was not complied with, and that

MILLS v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute itself is unconstitutional.

We do not deem it nec-

essary to determine whether the action is maintainable as
originally commenced. As it appeared upon the trial, and is
presented to us upon appeal, no effectual judgment can be
rendered in it. The-acts sought to be restrained have been
consummated, and from a project to incorporate a village, the
village has become incorporated. The defendants are not
necessary or proper parties to the action upon the facts -disclosed at the trial. The village itself, or the trustees who
are now exercising the franchise, are the necessary parties to
the action, and an injunction restraining the defendants would
have no practical effect upon the corporation. We do not
deem it proper, therefore, to express an opinion upon the
points presented, involving the validity of the statute or the
regularity of the proceedings under it, for the reason that a
decision could not be made effectual by a judgment." People
v. Clark, 70 N. Y. 518.
In the case at bar, the whole object of the bill was to secure
a right to vote at the election, to be held, as the bill alleged,
on the third Tuesday of August, 1895, of delegates to the constitutional convention of South Carolina. Before this appeal
was taken by the plaintiff fr6m the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals dismissing his bill, that date had passed;
and, before the entry of the appeal in this court, the convention had assembled, pursuant to the statute of South Carolina
of 1894, by which the.convention had been called. 21 Statutes of South Carolina, pp. 802, 803. The election. of the
delegates and the assembling of the convention are public
matters, to be taken notice of by the court, without formal
plea -or proof. The lower courts of the United States, and
this court, on appeal from their decisions, take judicial notice
of the constitution and public laws of each State of the Uniol.
Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet. 607, 625; Lamar v. _Mficou, 112 U. S.452,
474, and 114 U. S.218, 223 ; H-anley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S.1, 6;
FourthNational Bank v. Francklyn,120 U. S.747,751; Gormley v. Bunyan, 138 U. S. 623; Martin v. Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad,151 U. S.673, 678. Taking judicial notice of the con-

stitution and laws of the State, this court must take judicial
VOJ, CLI4W-J

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

notice of the days of public general elections of members of
the legislature, or of a convention to revise the fundamental
law of the State, as well as of the times of the commencement
of the sitting of those bodies, and of the dates when their acts
take effect. 1 Greenl. Ev. ยง 6; Brown v: Piper, 91 U. S. 37,
42 ; Gardner v. Collector, 6 Wall. 499; Hoyt v. Russell, 117
U..S. 401 ; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, 216.
It is obvious, therefore, that, even if the bill could properly
be held to present a case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, no relief within the scope of the bill could now be
granted.
Appeal dismissed, without
costs to eitherparty.

GILLIS v. STINCHFIELD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 661.

Submitted November 11, 1895. -Decided

November 25, 1895.

The decision by the highest court of a State that the grantor of a portion
of the ground of a mining claim is estopped, on general principles of law
and by the statutes of the State, from claiming priority of title to a space
of vein-intersection within the granted premises, by reason of his locating
the portion retained by himself before a location of the granted portion
by his grantee, presents no Federal question.

THIS was an action brought by Stinchfield against Gillis
and others in the Superior Court of Tuolumne County, Cali-.
fornia, to recover the value of certain gold alleged to have
been taken by defendants from the mining claim of plaintiff.
Gillis, for many years, had held and asserted ownership of a
mining claim known as the Carrington, and had sold and conveyed by deed of grant, bargain and sale a portion of the
ground to Stinchfield. Immediately after executing the deed
to Stinchfield, Gillis located that portion of the claim which
he retained, and denominated his location the Carrington, and
afterwards Stinchfield located the ground he had purchased
and denominated it the Pine Tree claim. Thereafter Gillis,

