RICHARDS

o. CHASE ELEVATOR

COMPANY.

Syllabus.

vegetable carbons could not be sustained because charcoal had
been used before in incandescent lighting. There is undoubtedly a good deal of testimony tending to show that, for the
past fifty or sixty years, the word "charcoal" has been used
in the art, not only to designate carbonized wood, but mineral
or hard carbons, such as were commonly employed for the
carbon pencils of arc lamps. But we think it quite evident
that, in the patents and experiments above referred to, it was
used in its ordinary sense of charcoal obtained from wood.
The very fact of the use of such word to designate mineral
carbons indicates that such carbons were believed to possess
peculiar properties required for illumination, which before that
had been supposed to belong to wood charcoal.
We have not found it necessary in this connection to consider the amendments that were made to the original specification, upon which so much stress was laid in the opinion of
the court below, since we are all agreed that the claims of
this patent, with the exception of the third, are too indefinite
to be the subject of a valid monopoly.
As these suggestions are of themselves sufficient to dispose
of the case adversely to the complainant, a consideration of
the question of priority of invention, or rather of the extent
and results of the Sawyer and Man experiments, which was so
fully argued upon both sides, and passed upon by the court below, becomes unnecessary.
For the reasons above stated the decree of the Circuit
Court is

Affirmed.

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.
PETITION FOR A REHEARING.
No. 819 of October term, 1894.

Received June 8,1895- Denied November 11, 1895.

The court, on application to file a petition for rehearing, adheres to Its
opinion, reported in 158 IT. S. 299, that letters patent No. 308,095, issued

Ntveinber 18, 1884, 1t JEdward S. Itie hards fr a grain

transqferring a p-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Petition for Rehearing.
paratus, are wholly void upon their face, for want of patentable novelty
and invention.
While the omission of an element in a combination may constitute invention if the result of the new combination be the same as before; yet, if
the omission of an element is attended by a corresponding omission of
the function performed by that element, there is no invention if the elements retained perform the same function as before.
When the result of a combination of old elements is a mere aggregation of
the several functions of the different elements of the combination, each
performing its old function in the old way, there is nothing upon which
a claim to invention can be based.

THIS was an application for leave to file a petition for the rehearing of'a case decided at October term, 1894, and reported
in 158 U. S. 299, and of two other cases, argued with that
case and decided in accordance with the decision in it. The
petition was as follows:
"And now comes the above named complainant, appellant,
and respectfully petitions this honorable court to grant a rehearing in the three several above entitled causes, and for
cause therefor says :
"I. It seems to us entirely evident from a reading of the
opinion of Mr. Justice Brown in this case, that such opinion
was arrived at by two mistaken and erroneous conclusions as
to -questions of fact in regard to the Richards patent in question, and its relation to the grain elevators of this country.
It is assumed in the first place, that the judicial knowledge
which this court has of the construction and operation of
grain elevators, is such that the court can see no patentable
distinction or difference between a grain elevator and the grain
transferring and weighing devices of the Richards patent.
Buildings denominated elevators in this country for the storage of grain are a distinct classification to themselves. Such
buildings are called interchangeably elevators, warehouses and
stores, but the entire object and purpose of these elevators,
stores and warehouses is to afford the opportunity of housing
and storing vast quantities of grain at desired points.
"In the Eastern States these buildings are called 'stores,'
in the Middle States, ' warehouses,' and in the principal cities
of the Western States, 'elevators.' But their common object

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.

479

Petition for Rehearing.

and purpose is the same, namely, the housing aid storage of
grain in great quantities for indefinite periods of time.
"Now, the object of Mr. Richards' invention is to entirely
obviate and do away with elevators, and the adoption of the
invention of Mr. Richards' patent would mean the conversion
of every elevator in this country to other and different commercial purposes. There can be no better practical illustration of the truth of this statement, than to call the attention
of this court to the fact, which we think the court will take
judicial notice of from simply travelling upon the lines of
two of the principal railroad defendants in these cases, in late
years, namely, the Michigan Central Railroad Company and
the Chicago Grand Trunk Railroad Company. Both of these
roads have 'elevators' of all sizes and capacities in connection
with and along the lines of their main track and branches.
' Elevators' on the banks of lakes, ' elevators' on the banks of
rivers, ' elevators' on the banks of canals, yet neither of these
defendant roads will or can use such elevators 'for transferring
and weighing grains without mixing the different lots or loads
with each other, thus preserving the identity of each lot while
it is being transferred from one car to another.' And both of
these defendants will let their ' elevators' lie idle and vacant
and will build alongside of them the cheap and simple device
of Richards' patent, for transferring their grain from one car
to another without storage and without mixing, etc.
"This court says: ' We do not feel compelled to shut our
eyes to a fact so well known as that elevators have, for many
years, been used for transferring grain from railway cars to
vessels lying alongside, and thdt this method involves the use
of a railway track, entering a fixed or stationary building; an
elevator apparatus; elevator hopper scales for weighing the
grain ; and a discharge spout for discharging the grain into the
vessel.'

"While it may be true that in some part of an 'elevator'
building all of the above may be found with no suggestion
or capacity of utilization, as described by Richards, we most
earnestly contend that the court should not also shut its eyes
to the fact that no elevator ever constructed in this country

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Petition for Rehearing.

was ever used or adapted or could be used or adapted for
continuous and automatic transfer of grain from one car to
another, weighing the grain 4in transitu and preserving the
identity -of each lot of grain in such transfer.
"There is not the slightest capacity in the grain transferring
and weighing devices of Richards for any housing or storage
capacity. That element has been entirely eradicated by the
employmdnt of the Richards devices and intentionally so. We
believe that this whole confusion of the Richards invention at
stake with elevators, arises from the fact of the illustrative
drawings which Mr. Richards' solicitor saw fit to employ in
setting forth Mr. Richards' invention.
"Figure 1 of said drawings furnishes grounds of suggestion
of the ' elevator characteristic,' but it will be readily seen, even
by reference to figure 1, that such drawing simply discloses a
covered framework for weather protection in the employment
of the transferring apparatus of Richards from one car to another. There is no possible opportunity of storage or warehouse purposes present in such drawings, as the hopper I is
merely a unit part of the hopper scales and serves its only
purpose in retaining the grain on the scales until the desired
weight is registered. This whole question of ' elevator identity' was raised in the Patent Office, and that office, upon an
investigation of the 'facts, at once recognized the distinction
between every and all classes of elevators in this country and
the Richards invention, and passed the patent to grant, and
all we ask in this case, is that this great court will not itself
decide these mechanical questions and the question of miechanical effects, upon a recollection of devices, wherein there is
opportunity for mistake and an equal opportunity of making
certain disputed questions by testimony in relation to which
there can be no mistake.
"Take, for example, Where this court finds that in the ' elevators' of this country there can be found ' hopper scales for
weighing grain'
This court certainly cannot take judicial
notice of the fact, for such fact never exists, that grain is taken
from one car and delivered directly to these hopper scales for
any purpose whatever; much less for automatically weighing

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.

481

Petition for Rehearing.

the grain by such scales and delivering such grain without
deposit in the elevator to a companion car for continuous
transferring.
"Take, for example again, the quoted reference of the judicial knowledge of this court as to a discharge spout. This
court cannot certainly take judicial notice that there has ever
existed in any elevator construction a spout connected with
hopper scales, wherein grain is weighed by such scales and
delivered continuously and instantly therefrom to an awaiting
railroad car. To makeour position more apparent, supposing
Mr. Richards, in the drawings of his patent, had not disclosed
the skeleton framework of the building for suppofting his
transferring and weighing mechanism, but had simply disclosed the means for effecting such transfer, and his claim had
read as follows: ' What I claim as new and desire to secure by
letters patent is: In combination with two oppositely facing
railroad tracks and cars, means for continuously receiving ar d
elevating the grain of one car into elevated hopper scals,
means for automatically weighing and registering such elevated grain by such hopper scales, and means for discharging such elevated grain, so weighed, and registered into
said oppositely facing railroad car, continuously by one operation.'

"Could there have been any contention that this invention
so stated, would be met by any elevator or warehouse in this
country, and of which this court could take judicial notice?
Yet the above represents the actual invention of Mr. Richards, and we most earnestly contend that the awkward and
inartistic description of his invention by such statement of
his specification, as associates and connects such invention in
the mind of the court with a supposed elevator building,
should not stand to the destruction of his patent and invention, without any opportunity given him by a trial and day
in court to demonstrate and convince this court of the correctness of his contentions.
"II. The second ground of contention upon which we base
this petition for rehearing resides in the statement of Mr.
Justice BI'own that ' Not a new function or reimlt is sugVOL. cijx-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Petition for Rehearing.

gested by the combination in question.' Most earnestly and
emphatically do we take issue with this statement.
"We again state in italics, Mr. Richards' statement of
invention as taken from his patent: 'lThe purpose of my
invention is to provide i proved vaeans for transj~eringand
weiqhiny grain withoat mixiny the (lfe/ lotl or loads with,
each other, thus preserviny the identity of each lot, while it is
being transm.rred from one car to another.'
" Every function and result of this means and apparatus is
new. Wi'at was the new function or result suggested by the
combination in question?'. Briefly stated, such new function
and result of Richards' combination, was its continuous transfer by the mechanical means described of a carload or lot of
grain from one car to another, weighing the grain in its
travel, so that when the grain was lodged in a desired car by
a continuous operation its identity had been preserved and its
weight actually ascertained. No such function or result in
any kind of a conibination had ever existed in this country,
as can be shown, absolutely, by unassailable testimony, if the
opportunity is given, and nothing can be more clearly demonstrated if such opportunity is given, that in no 'elevator,'
warehouse or store in this country was such function or result
known or capable of employment. In every elevator that
exists or ever existed in this country, as can be demonstrated,
and .proven if the opportunity is offered, it is simply impossible to transfer and weigh the grain without mixing the
different lots or loads with each other, and it was and is
simply impossible to preserve the identity of one lot or load
one from the other in any elevator ever constructed, or to
continuously transfer one carload of grain to another, weighing the grain as a part of such transfer, an4 no contention has
ever been made that such function or result could be accomplished in any elevator in this country. The Lake Shore and
Michigan Southern Railroad Company paid the patentee
Richards more than $100,000 for employing this new function
and result, that railroad having elevators galore along the
sides of their track at the time they made such payment,
and incurred its obligation. Is it too much to ask at the

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.

483

Petition for Rehearing.

hands of this court an opportunity to prove the correctness of
this statement, that the function and result of this combination is new, especially as the government has so decided and
,given Richards his grant here in contest therefor?
'We fail to appreciate the relevancy of the suggested parallelism between Mr. Richards' invention of means for transferring and weighing grain ' without mixing different lots;' and
the conditions set forth in the opinion of Mr. Justice Brown.
"Take, for example, the statement of the opinion as follows:
Suppose, for instance, it were old to run a railroad track into
a station or depot for the reception lid discharge of plassengers, it certainly would not be patentable to locate such stations
between two railroad tracks for the reception of passengers
on both sides, and to add to the accommodation a ticket
office, a newspaper stand, a restaurant, ard cigar stand, or the
thousand and one things that are found in buildings of that
character. It might as well be claimed that the man who
first introduced an elevator into a private house, it having
been previously used in public buildings, was entitled to a
patent for a new combination.' What connection have these
conditions to do with Mr. Richards' invention when analyzed
and applied ?
"A fair illustration of the value of Mr. Richards' inventions
using the conditions set forth in the above quotation from the
opinion can be illustrated as follows: Supposing Mr. Rihards
had invented an improved means by which the railroad depots
and stations for the reception and housing of passengers could
be done away with in this country, and the passengers in the
different cars, first and second class, and parlor cars, could be
transferred to their respective associate and companion cars
upon oppositely facing tracks iwithout delay and harmoniously
and continuously by mechanical devices without any effort,
danger or responsibility upon the part of the passengers themselves, would not the doing away with the passenger stations
and depots of this country and the mechanical transferring
of passengers from one car to another be an invention of a
high order, the principal element of which would have been
the avoidance of expense, and delay attendant to the erection,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Petition for Rehearing.

support and continuance of the railroad stations and depots of
the country? Such conditions would be analogous to the inventions of Mr. Richards, who has done away with the elevators of this country, and the housing of grain therein, and has
substituted therefor the mechanical devices of his patent for
transferring and weighing grain at terminal points without
the necessity, use or employment of elevators.
"III. The third ground of complaint we have against the
reasoning and opinion of the court in the disposal of Mr. Richards' patent is the closing sentence of the opinion, namely:
' In fact, the combination claimed is a pure aggregation.' It
is most difficult to reconcile the above statement with the
apparent facts in this case. Having in view, however, the
function and result of the combination, namely, the transfer
of grain from one car to another, and the weighing of the
same in such continuous operation of transfer, keeping each
lot and load distinct and separate from the other, wherein can
it be contended that any portion of the mechanism or devices
utilized to produce this result is in any sense an aggregation.
From the track and car where the loaded grain is first taken
and acted upon to the track and car where it is taken to
and deposited, the operation is continuous and uninterrupted,
Every mechanical element entering into the carrying out of
and production of this result co-acts either simultaneously or
successively with every other element of the combination.
iNot a single element entering into any one of the mechanical
combinations of Richards to transfer and weigh grain, as identified by either claim, can be omitted without destroying the
combination and its effectiveness, furiction and result. How
then can it be claimed that a combination of mechanical means
and devices, producing a result, co-acting together, wherein
no one element of the combination can be omitted without
destroying the combination, function and result, is a pure
aggregation, we confess we are at a loss to appreciate or understand. Moreover, whether or not an alliance-of mechanism is
a mere aggregation and juxtaposition of parts is a question
which, if disputed, can only be determined by proof, and we
most earnestly and confidently contend that if the opportunity

RICHARDS v. CHASE ELEVATOR COMPANY.

485

Opinion of the Court.

is offered the patentee Richards to determine this question
of aggregation, as represented by his combination, abundant
proof can be offered that cannot be contradicted, to the effect
that every element of his combination enters into and produces
the new function and result identified as his invention, and
that all parts co-act together to produce this result, and that
such result and function would be impossible if any of the
identified parts should be omitted from the combination. For
the above reasons briefly stated, we gubmit that this petition
for rehearing should be granted, and Mr. Richards should be
given his day in court to demonstrate not only the patentability and validity of his patent grant in question, but also its great
value commercially, as an invention, over every and all of the
old devices that can be arrayed as an anticipation or comparison therewith."
.r. Charles K. Ofjield for the petitioner submitted on the
petition.
MR. JusTicE@ BROWN delivered the opinion of the court.
A petition was filed at the last term for a rehearing in
these cases upon the ground that the court erred in assuming judicial knowledge of the construction and operation of
grain elevators, and in holding that these elevators contained
practically the same elements as the grain transferring apparatus of the Richards patents. The argument isthat the
object of Mr. Richards' invention was to obviate and do away
with elevators, by securing the continuous and automatic transfer of grain from one car to another, weighing it in transit, and
preserving the identity of each lot; whereas, in the ordinary
elevator, the grain is raised from the car or vessel, doposited in
a storage bin where its identity is lost, and other grain is withdrawn, as required, from the storage bin, to take its place.
That the device described may be a convenient and valuable
method of transferring grain from one car to another is not
denied. The question is whether it involves invention.
There is certainly no novelty in the result, since the grain
may be transferred by shovels from one car to a platform or

OCTOBER rRM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

bin, where it may be weighed, and again transferred to a
receiving car, though doubtless this is a slow and laborious
process. Is there any novelty in the method by which this
is done? The grain is shovelled from one car into a chute,
from which it passes into the elevator leg, through which the
buckets move upward, and is discharged into a hopper. It is
there weighed, without being mixed with other grain, a valve
is opened,. and the grain discharged into the receiving car.
There is clearly no novelty in the individual steps of this transfer. Indeed, the failure to claim either one of the elements
separately raises a presumption that no one of them is novel.
The novelty, then, must be in the combination, which differs from the combination of an ordinary elevator only in the
omission of the storage feature, by which grain is housed in transit, and its identity lost. While the omission of an element in
a combination may constitute invention, if the result of the
new combination be the same as before; yet if the omission
of an element is attended by a corresponding omission of the
function performed by that element, there is no invention, if
the elements retained performed the same function as before.
This is well illustrated in the case of Stow v. Chicago, 3 Bann.
& Ard. 92, decided in the same circuit. If, for instance,
another person should take out a patent for this same combination, with the weighing hopper omitted, such patent would
clearly be void, unless another method of weighing were substituted. The invention in this case is said to consist in the
fact that the grain is not stored in transit, but is delivered
directly from one car to another. Of course, its identity is not
lost, and cannot be lost, since the storage feature, which destroys the identity of the grain in the elevator, is omitted. But
this is a mere accident and not a new function of the transferring device. The same thing would happen in the case of an
elevator, if, while a cargo of wheat were being transferred
from a vessel to a train of cars, there happened to be no other
grain in store with which the cargo in question could become
mixed. In the Richards' device there is never but one lot of
grain being transferred at a time, so that there is no possibility
of the grain losing its identity, while the ordinary course of

ISAACS v. UNITED STATES.
Statemnt. of the Case.

business in an elevator is for the grain to be dlealt with in
large cargoes, so that the-identity of a particular lot is lost by
its being mixed with others. After all, the invention resolves
itself into the omission of the storage feature and a necessary
incident thereto.
To make a combination of old elements patentable, there
must be some new result accomplished, and as the result in
this case is a mere aggregation of the several functions of
the different elements of the combination, each performing
its old function in the old way, we see nothing upon which
a claim to invention can be based. The device is undoubtedly
a convenient one, and appears to have proven profitable to the
patentee; but we aire unanimously of opinion that it lacks
the necessary quality of invention.
The application is, therefore,
Denied.

ISAACS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

W1kSTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 609.

Submitted October 28, 1S95.

Decided November 11, 1895.

The action of the trial court upon an application for a continuance is purely
a matter of' discretion, not subject to review by this court, unless it
clearly appears that the discretion has been abused.
The court committed no error in charging that the fact that the man killed
was a white man might be shown by the statement of tim defendant
taken in connection with other facts and circumstances.
It is no ground for reversal that the court omitted to give instructions
which were not requested by the defendant.

THE plaintiff in error, Webber Isaacs, a Cherokee Indian,
was indicted, with two others, for the murder of a white man
in the Indian country. There were four counts in the indictment, two charging that the murdered man was Mike' P.
Cushing, and two that he was an unknown white man. No
witness who testified saw the act of killing; but it was shown

