ANigk0C

v. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

ANSBRO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 588.

Argued November 19, 1895. - Decided December 2, 1895.

An assignment of errors cannot be availed of to import questions into a
cause which the.record does not show were raised in the court below
and rulings asked thereon, so as to give jurisdiction to this court under
the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826.
If the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court is questioned in order that this court

take jurisdiction it Is necessary that there should be a certificate of such
question to this court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Albert A. Wray for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. James

Emerson Carpenter and -Mr.John F. Foley were with him on
the brief.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
,"ror.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
John Ansbro was indicted for the crime of dumping injurious deposits within the harbor and adjacent waters of New
York city, in violation of the act of Congress of June 29,
1888, (25 Stat. 209, c. 496,) was tried before Judge Benedict
and a jury in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, convicted, and sentenced
December 20, 1894, to six months' imprisonment. There
were six counts in the indictment against him, three of which
were waived by the district attorney; he was acquitted upon
two and convicted upon the second count alone. The act in
question is entitled "An act to pre'vent obstructive and injurious deposits within the harbor and adjacent waters of New
York city, by dumping or otherwise, and to punish and pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

vent such offences," and has just been referred to in the case
of The Bayonne, ante, 687.
By its first section the discharge or deposit of refuse, dirt,
ashes, mud, and other specified matter, in the harbor of New
York city or adjacent waters within the limits prescribed by
the supervisor of the harbor, is forbidden; every such act
made a misdemeanor; and every person engaged in or who
shall aid, abet, authorize, or instigate a violation of the section,
subjected to a punishment therein prescribed. Section two
provides that every master and engineer on board of any boat
or vessel who shall knowingly engage in towing any scow,
boat, or vessel loaded with such prohibited matter to any
point or place of deposit or discharge in the waters of the
harbor of New York or in its adjacent or tributary waters. or
in those of Long Island Sound, or to any point or place elsewhere than within the limits defined by the supervisor of the
harbor, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the act, and
punished as provided. Section three, under which Ansbro
was convicted, is as follows:
"That in all cases of receiving on board of any scows or
boats such forbidden matter or substance as herein described,
it shall be the duty of the owner or master, or person acting
in such capacity, on board of such scows or. boats, before proceeding to take or tow the same to the place of deposit, to
apply for and obtain from the supervisor of the harbor appointed hereunder a permit defining the precise limits within
which the discharge of such scows or boats may be made;
and any deviation from such dumping or discharging place
specified in such permit shall be a misdemeanor within the
meaning of this act; and the master and engineer, or person
or persons acting in such capacity, on board of any towboat
towing such scows or boats, shall be equally guilty of such
offence with the master or person acting in the capacity of the
master of the scow, and be liable to equal punishment."
The punishment prescribed by sections, one and two of the
act consists of fines of not less than $250 or more than $500,
or imprisonment not less than thirty days or more than one
yeax, or both.

ANSBRO v. UITEI) STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Ansbro sued out a writ of error from this court, and we are
met on the threshold of the case with the question whether
we can take jurisdiction. Under section five of the judiciary
act of March 3, 1891, appeals or writs of error may be taken
from the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts
directly to this court in any case in which the jurisdiction of
the court is in issue and the question of jurisdiction is certified
from the court below for decision; in cases of conviction of
a capital or otherwise infamous crime; in any case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States; and in any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the United States is drawn in question.
The offence for which Ansbro was indicted is not punishable
by imprisonment for a term of over one year or at hard labor;
and persons convicted thereof cannot be sentenced to imprisonment in a penitentiary. Rev. Stat. §§ 5541, 5542. Ansbro
was not convicted, therefore, of an infamous crime.
If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was in issue, no certificate of such question of jurisdiction to this court for decision appears in the record, and without such certificate the
case is not properly here on that ground.
The jurisdiction of this court must be maintained then, if at
all, on the ground that this is a case "that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United
States," or "in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States is drawn in question." But we cannot find that
any constitutional question was, raised at the trial. Motions
to quash, to instruct the jury to find for the defendant, for
new trial, and in arrest of judginent were made, but in neither
of them, so far as appears, nor by any exception to rulings
on the admission or exclusion of evidence, nor to instructions
given or the refusal of instructions asked, was any suggestion
nade that defendant was being denied any constitutional
right or that the law under which he was indicted was unconstitutional. The first time that anything appears upon that
subject is in the assignment of errors, filed February 13, 1895.
A case may be said to involve the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States when a title, right,

OCTOBEIR TEIZM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

privilege, or immunity is claimed under that instrument, but
a definite issue in respect of the possession of the right must
be distinctly deducible from the record before the judgment
of the court below can be revised on the ground of error in
the disposal of such a claim by its decision. And it is only
when the constitutiofiality of a law of the United States is
drawn in question, not incidentally but necessarily and directly,
that our jurisdiction can be invoked for that reason. Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159 U. S. 408; Garey v. Railway Company, 150
U. S. 170; _14 re -Lennon, 150 U. S. 395 ; Northern Pacific
Railroad Company v. Amato, 144 U. S. 465, 472; Sayward v.
Denny, 158 U. S. 180. An assignment of errors cannot be
availed of to import questions into a cause which the record
does not show were raised in the court below and rulings
asked thereon, so as to give jurisdiction to this court under
the fifth section of the act of March 3, 1891.
Writ of error dismissed.

LITTLE ROCK AND MEMPHIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND
GEORGIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued and submitted November 14, 1895.-Decided December 2, 1895.

No appeal could b6 taken to this court from a decree in a Circuit Court
made on the 1st of October, 1891, in a case like this case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. U. M. Rose and Xr. G. B. Rose, for appellant, submitted on their brief.
Mr. John P. Dillon, (N¢ith whom was Mr. Winslow S.
Pierce and .Mr. Rush Tagpart on the brief,) for St. Louis,
Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company, appellee.

