WHEELEIR v. UNITE)

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

exceptions but declined to make any ruling on them. Obviously, they were too late. Mich. ns. Bank v. Eldred, 143
U. S. 293, 298.
These are all the errors assigned. We find nothing in the
record of which the defendant has any just complaint, and,
therefore, the judgment is
Afyirmed.

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 571. Submitted October 24, 1895. - Decided November 11, 1895.

An indictment for murder in the Eastern District of Texas which alleges that
the accused and the deceased were not Indians nor citizens of the Indian
Territory is sufficient, without the further allegation that they were not
citizens of any Indian tribe or nation.
The overruling a motion for a new trial is not assignable as error.
A boy five years of age is not, as matter of law, absolutely disqualified as a
witness; and in this case the disclosures on the voir dire were sufficient
to authorize his admission to testify.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

No appearance for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On January 2, 1895, George L. Wheeler was by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas
adjudged guilty of the crime of murder and sentenced to be
hanged. Whereupon he sued out this writ of error. Three
errors are alleged: First, that the indictment is fatally defective in failing to allege that the defendant and the deceased
were not citizens of any Indian tribe or nation. It charges

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that they were not Indians nor citizens of the Indian Terri
tory. The precise question was presented in Westmoreland v.
United'States, 155 U. S. 545, and under the authority of that
case this indictment must be held sufficient.
Another contention is that the court erred in overruling the
motion for a new trial, but such action, as has been repeatedly
held, is not assignable as error. Moore v. United States, 150
U. S. 57; Holder v. United States, 150 U. S. 91; Blitz v. United
States, 153 U. S. 308.
The remaining objection is to the action of the court in permitting the son of the deceased to testify. The homicide took
place on June 12, 1894, and this boy was five years old on the
5th of July following. The case was tried on December 21,
at which time he was nearly five and a half years of age. The
boy, in reply to questions put to him on his voir dire, said
among other things that he knew the difference between the
truth and a lie; that if he told a lie the bad man would get
him, and that he was going to tell the truth. When further
asked what they would do with him in court if he told a lie, he
replied that they would put him in jail. , He also said that his
mother had told him that morning to "tell no lie," and in
response to a question as to what the clerk said to him, when
he held up his hand, he answered, "don' you tell no story."
Other questions were asked as to his residence, his relationship
to the deceased, and as to whether he had ever been, to school,
to which latter inquiry he responded in the negative. As the
testimony is not all preserved in the record we have before us
no inquiry as to the sufficiency of the testimony to uphold the
verdict, and are limited to the question of the competency of
this witness.
That the boy was not by reason of his youth, as a matter
of law, absolutely disqualified as a witness, is clear. While
no one would think of calling as a witness an infant only
two or. three years old, there is no precise age which determines the question of competency. , This depends on the
capacity and intelligence of the child, his appreciation of the
difference between truth and falsehood, as well as of his duty
to tell the former. The decision of this question rests prima-

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

rily with the trial judge, who sees the proposed witness, notices
his manner, his apparent possession or lack of intelligence,
and may resort to any examination which- will tend to disclose
his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of
the obligations of an oath. As many of these matters cannot be photographed into the record the decision of the trial
judge will not be disturbed on review unless from that which
is preserved it is clear that it was erroneous. These rules
have been settled by many decisions, and there seems to be
no dissent among the recent authorities. In Brasier's case,
(1 Leach, Cr. L. 199,) it is stated that the question was submitted to the twelve judges, and that they were unanimously
of the opinion "that an infant, though under the age of seven
years, may be sworn in a criminal prosecution, provided such
infant appears, on strict examination by the court, to possess
a sufficient knowledge of the nature and consequences of an
oath, for there is no precise or fixed rule as to the time within
which infants are excluded from giving evidence; but their
admissibility depends upon the sense and reason they entertain of the danger and impiety of falsehood, which is to be
collected from their answers to questions propounded to them
by the court." See, also, 1 Greenleaf's Evidence, § 367; 1
Wharton's Evidence, §§ 398, 399, and 400; 1 Best on Evidence,
§§ 155, 156; State v. Juneau, 88 Wisconsin, 180; Ridenhourv.
IKansas City Cable Company, 102 Missouri, 270; _McGi.ff v.
State, 88 Alabama, 147; State v. Levy, 23 Minnesota, 104;
Davidson v. State, 39 Texas, 129; Commonwealth v. ]ullin,
2 Allen, 295; Peterson v. State, 47 Georgia, 524; State v.
-Edwards,79 N. C. 648; State v. Jackson, 9 Oregon, 457;
Blackwell v. State, 11 Indiana, 196.
These principles and authorities are decisive in this case.
So far as can be judged from the not very extended examination which is found in the record, the boy was intelligent,
understood the difference between truth and falsehood, and
the consequences of telling the latter, and also what was required by the oath which he had taken. At any rate, the
contrary does not appear. Of course, care must be taken by
the trial judge, especially where, as in this case, the question

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

is one of life or death. On the other hand, to exclude from
the witness stand one who shows himself capable of understanding the difference between truth and falsehood, and who
does not appear to have been simply taught to tell a story,
would sometimes result in stayving the hand of justice..
We think that under the circumstances of this case the disclosures on the voir dije were sufficient to authorize the decision that the witness was competent, and, therefore, there
was no error in admitting his testimony. These being the
only questions in the record, the judgment must be
.Afirmed.

WINONA AND ST. PETER LAND COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 31. Argued October 16, I895.-- Decided NOvcliber 11, I195.
The provisions in the statutes of Minnesota exempting from taxation the
lands granted by the State to the WVinona & St. Peter Railroad Company
to aid in the construction of its railroad, until the land should be sold
and conveyed by the company, ceasedi to be operative when the full
equitable title was transferred by the company, and the railroad company
could not, thereafter, by neglecting to convey thellegal title, indefinitely
postpone the exemption. 8tats v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad Co., 21
Minnesota, 472, followed.

Statutes exempting property from taxation are to be strictly construed.
Chapter 5 of the Laws of Minnesota of 1881, providing generally for the
assessment and taxation of any real or personal property whijch had been

omitted from the tax roll of any preceding
applied to the land gianted by that State
Railroad Company, deprive the owners of
without due process of law, in violation of

year or years, does not, when
to the Winona & St. Peter
that land of their property
the provisions of the Four-

teenth Amendment to the Constitution of tie United States.

A legislature can provide for collecting back taxes on real property without making a like provision respecting back taxes on personal property.
ON March 3, 1857, Congress passed an act, 11 Stat. 195,
c. 99, granting lands to the Territory, now State, of Minnesota,
to aid in the building of railroads. ()1 at.y 22, 1857, the

