OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

is one of life or death. On the other hand, to exclude from
the witness stand one who shows himself capable of understanding the difference between truth and falsehood, and who
does not appear to have been simply taught to tell a story,
would sometimes result in stayving the hand of justice..
We think that under the circumstances of this case the disclosures on the voir dije were sufficient to authorize the decision that the witness was competent, and, therefore, there
was no error in admitting his testimony. These being the
only questions in the record, the judgment must be
.Afirmed.

WINONA AND ST. PETER LAND COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 31. Argued October 16, I895.-- Decided NOvcliber 11, I195.
The provisions in the statutes of Minnesota exempting from taxation the
lands granted by the State to the WVinona & St. Peter Railroad Company
to aid in the construction of its railroad, until the land should be sold
and conveyed by the company, ceasedi to be operative when the full
equitable title was transferred by the company, and the railroad company
could not, thereafter, by neglecting to convey thellegal title, indefinitely
postpone the exemption. 8tats v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad Co., 21
Minnesota, 472, followed.

Statutes exempting property from taxation are to be strictly construed.
Chapter 5 of the Laws of Minnesota of 1881, providing generally for the
assessment and taxation of any real or personal property whijch had been

omitted from the tax roll of any preceding
applied to the land gianted by that State
Railroad Company, deprive the owners of
without due process of law, in violation of

year or years, does not, when
to the Winona & St. Peter
that land of their property
the provisions of the Four-

teenth Amendment to the Constitution of tie United States.

A legislature can provide for collecting back taxes on real property without making a like provision respecting back taxes on personal property.
ON March 3, 1857, Congress passed an act, 11 Stat. 195,
c. 99, granting lands to the Territory, now State, of Minnesota,
to aid in the building of railroads. ()1 at.y 22, 1857, the

WINONA & ST. PETER LAND CO. v. MINNESOTA.

527

Statement of the Case.

territorial legislature granted a portion of these lands, including those in controversy, to the Transit Railroad Company.
Laws of Minnesota, 1857, special session, p. 17. The fourth
section of this act provided that "the lands so granted shall
be.and are exempted from all taxation until the same shall
have been sold and conveyed by said company." The Transit
Company failed to comply with the conditions of this act,
and, thereafter, by an act passed March 10, 1862, all its rights,
benefits, property, and franchises, including the exemption
of the lands from taxation, were transferred to the Winona
and St. Peter Railroad Company. Laws of Minnesota, 1862,
c. 19, p. 243. The latter company accepted the transfer and
grant, and proceeded to build the railroad, and, as built, the
lands were from time to time certified to the State, and by
the State deeded to the company, some of the lands being
thus conveyed in 1869 and others in 1870 and 1871.
On October 31, 1867, the railroad company entered into a
contract with D. N. Barney and others. This contract recited
the adjustment and settlement of an indebtedness of the company to Barney and his associates for money theretofore advanced, and provided for payment thereof in bonds and lands.
No particular description was made in this contract of the
lands to be thus conveyed, but only a general reference to the
lands as those included in this congressional and state grant.
The plaintiff in error, having succeeded to the rights of
Barney and his associates, sought to obtain title to the lands,
but the railroad company refused to convey, whereupon in
1879 suit was instituted, which terminated March 7, 1887, in
a final decree of the Circuit Court of the United States
directing a conveyance.
In 1881 (Laws 1881., c. 5, p. 24) the legislature of Minnesota passed an act providing generally for the assessment and
taxation of any real or personal property which had been
omitted from the tax roll of any preceding year or years.
Under this statute, in 1886, the officers of Redwood County
proceeded to assess and, tax these lands for the taxes of past
years. In the proceedings thus instituted the plaintiff in error
appeared, and defended on the ground that the lands were,

OCTOBER TERA, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

by virtue of the fourth section of tlie act of May 22, 1857,
exempt from taxation until after the decree of March 7, 1887,
and also on the further ground that the act of 1881 was
unconstitutional in failing to provide proper notice to the
owners of the property sought to be assessed and taxed. The
proceedings terminated adversely to the plaintiff in error,
and it immediately sought a review thereof in the Supreme
Court of the State. That court directed judgment to be entered against the land for the taxes for the six years immediately preceding the assessment, holding that all claims for
prior years were- barred by the statute of limitations. Redwood County V. Winona & St. Peter land Co., 40 Minnesota,
512. To reverse this judgment plaintiff in error sued out this
writ of error.
Mr. James A. Tawney for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Hi. W. Childs, Attorney General of the State of Minnesota, for 'defendant in error. -Mr. George B. Edgerton was
on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE BRiEWER, after. stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

/Two questions are presented: First, has the State of Minr esota, in disregard of section 10 of article 1 of the Consti'ution of the United States, passed any law impairing the
obligation of contracts; and, second, were the tax proceedings in violation of that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
which prohibits a State from depriving any person of property
without due process of law9
With respect to the first question, it may be noticed that
since the grant in 1862 to the Winona and St Peter Railroad
Company the legislature of the State has passed no statute
in terms referring to the lands, or attempting to repudiate or
break the contract of exemption. The act of 1881 is one
making general provision for putting upon the tax roll all
lands that have escal)ed taxation in prior years. Of the valid-

WINONA & ST. PETER, LAND CO. v. 'MINNESOTA.

529

Opinion of the Court.

ity of a statute of that character
that is, one providing
generally for subjecting to taxation lands that have improperly escaped taxation in prior years there can be no serious
doubt; so that the real contention is that the taxing officers
applied this valid statute to lands which ought not to have
been subjected to its operation by reason of a prior contract
between the State and its grantee. Does this bring the case
within the constitutional inhibition against a State's passing
a law impairing the obligation of a contract? Railroad 0ompany v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177; St. Paul c e. Railway v. Todd
County, 142 U. S. 282; Mobile & Ohio Railroad v. Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Central Land Company v. Laidley, 159
U. S. 103.
Assuming, but not deciding, that this law of 1881, enacted
subsequently to the contract created by the acts of 1857 and
1862, as practically applied by the officers of the State to the
taxation of these lands, presents the question of a violation of
the constitutional inhibition -and the confention of plaintiff
in error is that it does, an(! that the question was distinctly
presented to the state court and by it decided -we
are of
opinion that the judgment of that court was correct, and that
it must be affirmed. The contract of exemption was by the
terms of the act to continue until the lands were "sold and
conveyed." Plaintiff in error insists that these words extend
the exemption until the legal title is conveyed, which was not
done until the decree of 1887. The state court held that the
exemption was continued only until the full equitable title
was transferred, and that the railroad company could not
thereafter, by neglecting to convey the legal title, postpone
indefinitely the exemption. This question was first presented
to that court in State v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad Co.,
21 Minnesota, 472, and the decision in the present case was
simply an affirmance of the prior ruling. See also Brown
County v. Land Company, 38 Minnesota, 397; Brown County
v. Land Comapany, 39 Minnesota, 380.
It is familiar law that statutes exempting property from
taxation are to be strictly construed. Bank v. Tennessee, 104
U. S. 493; Railroad Conbpany v. Dennis, 116 U. S. 665;
VOL. CLIX-34

OCTOBER TEI~R,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

Railroad Company v. I'honas, 132 U. S. 174 ; S&kurz v. Cook,
148 U. S. 397.
Section 4 of the act of 1857, after providing that the lands
should be exempted from taxation until "sold and conveyed,"
added that, in consideration of the grant of land and other
franchises, the railroad company should pay into the treasury
of the Territory or State three per cent upon all the gross
earnings, and that this three per cent, when paid, should be
in lieu of all' taxes whatever. Construing the entire section,
the Supreme Court of the State held that the manifest object
was to apply the full value of the land to the construction of
the road; that when 'that object was secured, the purpose of
the exemption ceased; that it could not have been the contemplation of the legislature to have created an exemption
dependent wholly upon the will of the grantee and entirely
irrespective of the complete accomplishment of the object for
which the lands were granted; that it was not to be expected
that a sale could be made of the entire body of lands at once;
that sales would progress slowly and from time to time as
purchasers could be found, and that it would obviously detract
from the value of the grant if, while holding these lands only
for purposes of sale, the company was compelled to pay taxes
thereon, but that when the company had received full payment for the lands, its interest in the matter ceased, and the
purpose of the grant was accomplished. It could not be supposed that the legislature purposed to bestow an exemption
upon purchasers from the railroad company. The company,
and not its grantees, was the intended beneficiary. The matter of exemption was between it and the State. It was to
pay three per cent of its gross earnings, and this in lieu of all
other taxes, including those upon these lands. No such equivalent was suggested as between the purchasers and the State.
No contract of any kind was expressed as between them.
Reference was made in the opinion to Carroll v. Safford, 3
How. 441, and Witkerspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, in which
this court held, as to lands purchased from the United States,
that after the full equitable title had passed and the governmniet simply held the naked legal title as trustee for the purchaser, they became subject to state taxation.

WINONA & ST. PETER LAND CO. v. MINNESOTA.

531

Opinion of the Court.

We concur in these views. A permanent exemption of land
from taxation, or an exemption dependent upon the will of
an individual, is something not to be adjudged unless the language creating such exemption clearly compels such construction; and when a statute creates an exemption with the
evident design of aiding in accomplishing a particular result,
the exemption should be expected to cease when that result
has been accomplished, and the statute should be read in the
light of such expectation. While it may be that the word
"conveyed" generally implies the passing of the legal title, it
is not inaptly or incorrectly used to describe a transfer of title,
legal or equitable, and whether it is used with a narrow and
technical meaning, or in a broad and general sense, is to be determined by the context, and the circumstances under which
the entire instrument or document, in which it is found, was
framed. "There can be no doubt whatever of the general
proposition that, in the interpretation of any particular clause
of a contract, the court is not only at liberty, but is required, to
examine the entire contract, and may also consider the relations of the parties, their connection with the subject-matter
of the contract, and the circumstances under which it was
signed." Chicago, Rock Island &c Railway v. Denver & Rio
Grande Railroad,143 U. S. 596, 609. Read in the light of
these rules of construction the words "sold and conveyed," as
found in the exempting section, are satisfied when the railroad
company has received full payment for the lands, and executed
an instrument by which all its equitable and substantial interest
in them is transferred. It has then not contracted to sell, but
has sold; it has not contracted to convey, but has conveyed.
It has parted with all its interest, and is thereafter only a
barren trustee of a naked legal title held for the benefit of the
true owner.
It is now earnestly contended by plaintiff in error that
the Barney contract did not operate to transfer the full equitable title. Two propositions are relied upon: First, it is said
that the contract contained dependent covenants, and that
the covenant to convey the lands depended upon the performIll,' of certain conditions by the xntractors, and, second,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

that the lands were not particularly described. With reference
to these contentions, it may be remarked that the only part of
the record in the case of Barney and others v. The Railroad
Company, which is before us, is the decree which recites no
performance of conditions precedent, but simply adjudges a
conveyance. Can we assume, therefore, that it was based
upon the performance by the plaintiff of conditions precedent?
Must it not rather be held that it adjudicated rights created
solely by the original contract and enforced a conveyance stipulated in it? Turning to the contract itself, we find that it
recites the advancement of large slums of money by Barney
and associates theretofore made for the construction and equipment of 105 miles of railroad, a liquidation of the indebtedness
thereby created, and part payment thereof, and then contains
an agreement to issue certain bonds in further part payment,
and f6r the residue of the said indebtedness promises to convey all the granted lands earned by the construction of the
105 miles of railroad. It is also true that there is no description of the lands by sections, towns, and ranges, and that the
contract stipulates that the conveyance shall be when the
railroad company shall obtain'the title; but the description by
reference to the acts of Congress and the territorial and state
legislatures is sufficient, and the right to a conveyance is established by the contract, and is given as final payment of an
indebtedness already existing. Subsequent to these stipulations there is a further promise that the contractors will fully
pay and discharge certain floating debts of the company,
amounting to the sum of $49,000, which is undoubtedly part
of the consideration on the part of the contractors. But such
promise seems to stand as an independent covenant, and it
would be doing violence to the language to hold that performance of this promise was a condition precedent to the right to
receive payment in bonds and lands. Not only that, the contractors in terms agreed to, "receive and accept the property
and things hereinbefore agreed to be transferred to them in
full payment, satisfaction, and discharge of all indebtedness"
of the railroad conipanv to them. It is also true that the contract contemlplated the possibility of an extension of the road,

WINONA & ST. PETER LAND CO. v. MINNESOTA.

533

Opinion of the Court.

and that such extension, if made by Barney and his associates,
was to be paid for by an additional issue of bonds and the
conveyance of the lands within the limits of the grant to be
earned by such further construction. But there is nothing in
the record to show that such construction was in fact undertaken by Barney and his associates, or that any of these lands
passed by virtue thereof.
But a conclusive answer to the contention is this: The proceedings in the District Court were commenced to enforce the
payment of taxes delinquent and unpaid on the first Monday of
January, 1888, and the final decision of the Supreme Court
limited the right to recover such delinquent taxes tc the period
of six years prior thereto. The decree in the Circuit Court of
the United States was entered on March 7, 1887. The findings of fact show that the suit in which this decree was entered was commenced in 1879. The decree relates back to
the time of the commencement of the suit, and adjudicates the
rights of the parties as of that date. It was, therefore, an adjudication that in 1879 Barney and his associates held the full
equitable title to these lands ; but the lands were held subject
to no taxes prior to those of 1880. It is, therefore, unnecessary
to enter into any elaborate discussion of the terms and stipulations of the contract, or to seek to 'determine what are or
are not dependent covenants. It is enough to rest upon the
fact that by conclusive decree of a competent court it is eptablished that the full equitable title had passed to the plaintiff
in error prior to the time at which the lands were adjudged
taxable. The case, therefore, in this direction is narrowed to
the single question, as to the scope and meaning of the exempting statute of May 22, 1857; and for the reasons stated, we
agree with the Supreme Court of the State in its construction
thereof.
The other contention of plaintiff in error is that in these tax
proceedings there was a lack of due process of law. That they
were in substantial conformity with the provisions of the Minnesota statutes, and that there is nothing in those statutes in
conflict with the state constitution, is settled for this court
adversely to the plaintiff in error by the decision of the

OCT(
1)I-

R TEIM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the State. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92
U. S. 575-618; Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S. 660; Pittsburg, Ciininnati&c. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421.
We pass, therefore, to consider the claim that the Minnesota statutes, so far as they attempt to provide for the subjection of property which has escaped taxation in prior years, to
the taxes of those years violate that clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the United States Constitution which forbids
a State to deprive one of property without due process of law.
What are the provisions of those statutes? The general tax
law of the State is found in the statutes of 1878, commencing at page 2, Section 113 contemplated the collection of
unpaid back taxes. This section was amended in 1881, (Laws
of 1881, page 24,) so as to read as follows*:
"If any real or personal property shall be omitted in the
assessment of any year or years and the property shall thereby escape taxtation, when such omission shall be discovered,
the county auditor shall enter such property on the assessment and tax books for the year or years omitted, and he
shall assess the same and extend all arrearage of taxes properly
accruing against such property with seven (7) per cent interest
thereon, from the time said taxes would have become delinquent, and the same shall be extended against such property
on the tax list for the current year."
This being an amendatory statute places the amended section as part of the general tax law, and it is to be construed
accordingly. The section provides that if any property shall
have been omitted from the assessment of any year it shall,
upon discovery of that fact, be entered upon the assessment
and tax books for that year, that all taxes, for that year be
charged thereon against it, with interest, and then extended
against it on the tax list for the current year. In other words,
for the purposes of collection, it stands on the tax list for the
current year the same as any other property, and all taxes
thereon are to be collected in the same manner. The amount
of the tax for the omitted year is the same as that which was
enforced against all other properties for that year, so that the
only difference is in the mode of assessment and the charge
of interest.

WINONA & ST. PETER LAND CO. v. MINNESOTA.

535

Opinion of the Court.

We must, therefore, inquire, in the first place, whether under
the general tax law there is sufficient provision for notice to
the owner of property before it is subjected to sale for nonpayment of taxes; in the second place, whether the difference
in the mode of assessment deprives the property owner of any
constitutional right; and, in the third place, whether there is
in section 113 any other matter which vitiates it.
With reference to the collection of taxes it may be remarked
generally that the Minnesota statute authorizes such collection by suit in court. By section 70 the county auditor is
required, between June 1 and 15, to file in the office of the
clerk of the district court of the county a list of the delinquent
taxes upon real estate, which shall contain a description of the
land, the name of the owner if known, and if unknown so
stated, and the amount of the delinquent tax for each year,
which list shall be verified by his affidavit; and the filing of
this list is to be considered as the filing of a complaint by the
county against each piece or parcel of land therein described
to enforce payment of the taxes and penalties appearing
against it. Publication is then to be made of this list, together
with a notice in the form prescribed by statute, for at least
two weeks in some newspaper of general circulation in the
county. (Secs. 71 and 72.) Upon the final publication of
this notice the jurisdiction of the court over the property
attaches. (Sec. 73.) Within twenty days after the last publication any person having an estate, right, title, or interest in

or lien upon any parcel of land described in such list may file
in the office of the clerk of the court an answer setting forth
his defence or objection to the tax or penalty, which shall
describe the piece or parcel of land and state the facts constituting his defence or objection to such tax or penalty, and
thereupon the court is to hear and determine the questions
raised by this complaint and answer, as it hears and determines any other action. (Sec. 75.) It is a full defence that
the taxes have been paid or that the property is not subject to
taxation. (Sec. 79.) The list is primafacie evidence of com
pliance with all provisions of law in relation to the assessment
and levy of taxes. No omission of any of the things required

ooT?)IE

tEI

1,895.

Opinion of the Court.

by law in relation to such assessment and levy" shall be a
defence or objection to the taxes appearing upon any piece or
parcel of land, unless it be also made to appear to the court
that such omission has resulted to the prejudice of the party
objecting, and that the taxes against such piece or parcel of
land have been partially, unfairly, or unequally assessed; and
in such case, but no other, the court may reduce the amount
of taxes upon such piece or parcel, and give judgment accordingly." (Sec. 79.)
We think this opens to the property owner full opportunity
for defence, and that he can raise every objection to which in
law he is entitled. If he has paid his taxes, or if the land is
not subject to taxation, the property is wholly discharged.
If there has been any irregularity in the proceedings which
worked to his predjudice he can show such irregularity, and,
so far as it has injured him, secure a reduction in the amount.
In reference to this matter we quote from the opinion of the
Supreme Court of the State in this case, which shows fully
the extent to which a party can, under the statutes of the
State of Minnesota, make defences to these tax proceedings:
"Within twenty days after the last publication of the delinquent list any person may, by answer, interpose any defence
or objection he may have to the tax. He may set up as a
defence that the tax is void for want of authority to levy
it, or that it was partially, unfairly, or unequally assessed.
Corn'rs of St. Louis Co. v. Nettleton, 22 .Minn. 356. He may
set up as a defencepro tanto that a part of a tax has not been
remitted, as required by some statutes. Com'rs of Houston
Co. v. Jessup, 22 Minn. 552. That the land is exempt, or
that the tax has been paid. County qf Chisago v. St. Paul
& Duluth. Railroad, 27 Minn. 109. That there was no authority to levy the tax, or that the special facts authorizing
the inserti~n of taxes for past years in the list did not exist,
or any omissions in the proceedings prior to filing the list, resulting to his prejudice. County of Olmsted v. Barber, 31
Minn. 256. The filing of the list is the institution of an action
against each tract of land described in it, for the recovery of
the taxes appearing in the list against such tract, and tenders

WINONA & ST. PETER LAND (( ),.-

MINNES()TA.

5?

Opinion of the Court.

an issue on every fact necessary to the validity of such taxes.
Ghauncey v. Wass, 35 Minn. 1. The only limitation or restriction upon the defences or objections which may be interposed is that-contained in section 79, to the effect that, if a
party interposes as a defence an omission of any of the things
provided by law in relation to the assessment or levy of a tax,
or of anything required by any officer to be done- prior to filing
the list with the clerk, the burden is on him to show that such
omission has resulted in prejudice to him, and that the taxes
have been partially, unfairly, or unequally assessed. This
relates not to want of authority to levy the tax, but to some
omission to do or irregularity in doing the thibgs required to
be done in assessing or levying a tax otherwise valid..
om'rs
of St. Louis Co. v. NYettleton, supra. And certainly, in justice
or reason, a party cannot complain that, when he objects to a
tax on the ground of some omission or irregularity in matters
of form, he is required to show that he was prejudiced."
All the privileges which are secured to the property owner
in respect to the taxes of the current year are also secured to
him in reference to those imposed under amended section 113.
Be is, therefore, notified and given an opportunity to be heard
before his property is taken from him. Questions of this kind
have been repeatedly before this court, and the rule in respect
thereto often declared. That rule is that a law authorizing
the imposition of a tax or assessment upon property according to its value does not infringe that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that
no State shall deprive any person of property without due
process of law, if the owner has an opportunity to question
the validity or the amount of it either before that amount is
determined or in subsequent proceedings for its collection.
McMillen v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 37; Davidson v. New Or],eans, 96 U. S. 97; Hagar v. Reclamation District,111 U. S.
701; Spencer v. M[erchant, 125 U. S. 345; Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S. 660; Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316; tittsburg, Cincinnati &c. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421.
That the notice is not personal but by publication is not sufficient to vitiate it. Where, as here, the statute prescribes the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895,
Opinion of the Court.

court in which and the time at which the various steps in the
collection proceedings shall be taken a notice by publication
to all parties interested to appear and defend is suitable and
one that sufficiently answers the demand of due process of
law. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 609; Ntagar v.
Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, 710; Kentucky Railroad
Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321; Lent v. Tillson, 140 U. S. 316, 328;
Pittsburg, Cincinnati &c. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421.
It cannot be doubted under these various authorities that in
respect to the collection of these taxes ample provision is made
for notice, and, therefore, that it cannot be adjudged that the
owner is for want thereof deprived of his property without
due process of law.
With respect to the next inquiry, it is true there is a difference in the mode of assessment. Section 113 authorizes the
county auditor to make the assessment, while as to property
generally the assessment is made by the county assessor.
The latter also acts upon actual view, (see. 33,) while there is
in section 113 no such direction to the county auditor. The
assessment made by the assessor comes before a town board
of review, (sec. 39,) and subsequently before a county board of
equalization. (Sec. 44.) Neither of these provisions is found
in section 113. So that the difference between the two modes
of assessment may be stated thus : in the one case! there is an
assessment by one officer, with a right to review his action; in
the other, there is an assessment by a different officer, and no
provision for a review except as the matter comes bef*ore the
court in the proceedings for the collection of taxes. But there
is nothing in this difference to affect the constitutional rights
of a party. The legislature may authorize different modes of
assessment for different properties, providing the rule of assessment is the same. Kentucky Railroad Cases, 115 U. S. 321,
337; Pittsburg,0incinnati&c. Railway v. Backus, 154 U. S.421.
One other suggestion is made by counsel for plaintiff in
error. Section 113 contemplates the assessment and taxation
of both real and personal property- It is claimed that the
taxation of personal property is manifestly void because, even
under the, general tax law, there is no provision for notice to

WINONA & ST. PETER LAND(.

v. MINNESO)TA.

539

Opinion of the Court.

the owner of the property before the charge is fixed upon
him, and that it cannot be assumed that the legislature would

attempt to provide for the taxing of real property which had
escaped taxation in prior years without also providing for a
like taxation of personal- property, and hence that the whole
section must fail. The Supreme Court of the State was of
opinion that even if the tax on personal property was not
collectible under the general provisions of the tax law for the
reason claimed, yet there was at least a valid tax which, in
the absence of any law providing another method, might be
enforced by an ordinary personal action. It seems to us, also,
that the assumption that it cannot be believed that the legislature would never seek to provide for the collection of back
taxes on real property without at the same time including
therein a like provision for collecting back taxes on personal
property, cannot be sustained. The case is different from
that of an ordinary tax law in which there may be some
foundation for the claim that the legislature is expected to
make no discrimination, and would not attempt to provide for
th&collection of taxes on one kind of property without also
making provision for collection of taxe on all other property
equally subject to taxation. For this statute rests on the
assumption that, generally speaking, all property subject to
taxation has been reached and aims only to provide for those
accidents which may happen under any system of taxation, in
consequence of which here and there some item, of property
has escaped its proper burden; and it may well be that the
legislature in view of the probabilities of changes in the title
or situs of personal property might deem it unwise to attempt
to charge it with back taxes, while at the same time, by reason
of the stationary character of real estate, it might elect to
proceed against.that. At any rate, if it did so it would vio,Jate no provision of the Federal Constitution, and whether it
did so or not was a matter to be determined finally by the
Supreme Court of the State.

These being the only matters presented, and in them appearing no error, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the

8tate will be

Ajlrmned,.

