GILFILLAN v. McKEE.
Syllabus.

GILFILLAN v. McKEE.
McPHERSON, EXECUTOR, v. McKEE.
APPEALS

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
Nos. 26, 4. Argued March 14, 15, 1895. - Decided October 21, 1895.
When a decree in chancery awards to a party in the suit a portion of a
special fund, forming one of the matters in dispute therein, and denies
to him the right to a part of a general fund, forming another and distinct matter in dispute, his acceptance of the awarded share in the special
funl does not operate as a waiver of his right of appeal from so much
of the decree as denies to him a share in the general fund.
Where a decree is several as to different defendants, and the interest represented by each is separate and distinct from that of the others, any
party may appeal separately, to protect his own interests.
Some years before the commencement of the civil war, Cochrane, who had
already acted as agent of the Choctaws in prosecuting their claims
against the United States, contracted with them to continue to prosecute
all their unsettled claims, and they contracted to pay him for such services thirty per cent of all sums collected through his efforts, when they
should be paid by the United States. Under- this contract he had collected a large amount when the war broke out, and the Choctaws
sided with the South. On the termination of the war Latrobe was employed by the Choctaws in supporting such claims, and did valuable
service. In 1866 Cochrane, being about to (lie, and desiring to secure
pay for the services he had rendered, made a verbal arrangement for
assigning the contract to Black, and by will authorized his executor to
sell, assign or compromise his claims. He also recognized by his will
that Lea was entitled to an interest in the contract equal to his own.
This interest afterwards became vested in Gilfillan and his associates.
Cochrane's executor, McPherson, agreed with Black for the continued
prosecution of the claims on the terms named in the original contract, to
which the Choctaws assented. Black and his partner, Lamon, and Lamon individually, continued acting under 'this contrloct until 1870, when
the Choctaws made a new contract with McKee and his partner to prosecute their claims; and (the partner soon (lying) this contract was executed by McKee. Under it the prosecutor was to receive thirty per cent
of the amounts awarded, and it was provided that he should adjust the
claims of all parties who had previously prosecuted claims for the Choctaws and should pay to the widow of Cochrane five per cent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Stittement of the Case,

-

thirty per cent. In 1881 the question of the liability of the United States
on- these claims was referred to the Court of Claims and a judgment was
rendered in favor of the Choctaws, which was substantially affirmed
by this court, 119 U. S. 1. Congress then. made ani appropriation of
$2,858,798.62 for the payment of that judgment. Before this appropriation was made, and In view of it, the Choctaw council recognized the
contract with McKee, and another with Luce, as valid, and appropriated
thirty per cent of the amount to be -received from Congress under the
appropriation to their satisfaction. The council also by the same act
appropriated $ 14,140 as a sum shown to be due to Cochrane for services
performed by him in his lifetime. After the passage of the appropriation bill by Congress McKee drew from the Treasury twenty-five per cent
of the whole jiudgment, and Luce five per cent, the two making the thirty
per cent. Suits in equity were then commenced against McKee by
Lamon, as surviving partner of Black & Lamon; by Gilfillan and others
interested with him; by McPherson as executor of Cochrane; and by
Mrs. Latrobe as executrix of her husband; setting up their various
claims upon the fund. McKee filed a bill of interpleader in the Lamoncase, and subsequent proceedings were had in the several suits as set
forth in detail in this and the following two cases. They resulted in
decrees that one-half of the special fund should be paid to McPherson,
as executor of Cochrane, and the other half to Gilfillan and his associates; and that the general fund should be distributed to Cochrane's
widow, to Latrobe, and to Lamon, in specified proportions. Lamon
was awarded$ 35,000 and interest for his services and disbursements,
and the claims of Lamon and Black, as assignees of the Cochrane contract, and as surviving partners, were disallowed. McPherson, as executot, appealed from so much of the decree as denied him participation in
the general fund; Gilfillan and others from the decree distributing the
general fund, and from a decree dismissing their cross-bill; McKee
from the decree giving a distributive share in the gqneral fund to
Latrobe; and Lamon and Black from the decree disallowing their claim.
Held,
(1) That McPherson had a right of appeal from the decree excluding
him from participation in the distribution of the general, fund,
lthough he had accepted payment of his share of the special fund;
(2) That the sum awarded -to Mrs. Cochraue by the Choctaws was intended as a donation to her, and not as compensation to Cochrane,
and that the judgment of the court below to that effect should be
sustained;
(3) Further holdings were made in regard to the contentions in McKee
v. Lamon, post, 317, and McKee v. Latrobe, post, 327, which will
be found set forth in the head notes to'those cases respectively.

Tim litigation involved in this and the following cases was
originally instituted by a bill filed July 7, 1888, by Ward T.

GILFILLAN v. McKEE.
Statement of the Case.

Lamon and Chauncy F. Black, survivors of themselves and
Jeremiah S. Black, (Black, Lamon & Co.,) against Henry
E. McKee,. the object of which was to protect and enforce
their equitable rights and interest in an appropriation of
$2,858,798.62, made by an act of Congress approved June 22,
1888, 25 Stat. 239, c. 503, to carry into effect the decision of
this court in the case of the Choctaw Nation against the
United States, relating to what is known as the Choctaw net
proceeds claim. 119 U. S. 1. Six days after the filing of
this bill by Lamon and Black another bill was filed, July 13,
by John H. B. Latrobe, against Henry E. McKee and others,
for the same general purpose of sharing in the sum recovered
by McKee.
On July 19, McKee filed a bill of interpleader, which
is
the subject of the opinion in this case, against a large number of defendants, claiming, under eight or nine different
titles, to share in the fund held by him, of which he admitted that they or some of them were entitled to the sum
of $161,197.63,,which he paid into court. This amount was
made up of a general fund of $147,057.63, being five per
cent of a commission of thirty per cent, which had been
dedicated by the Choctaw Indians to the payment of attorneys and agents in the prosecution of their claims, and which
had been received by McKee; and also of a special fund of
$14,140, due to the estate of John T. Cochrane, for which a
special appropriation had been made by an act of the general council of the Choctaw Nation of February 25, 1888,
and which McKee had agreed to pay. The bill prayed that
the defendants interplead, and that the court determine to
whord the money should be paid.
On October 1, 1889, a decree of interpleader was entered,
the defendants were enjoined from instituting or prosecuting
any suit or action for the recovery of the money paid into
the registry of the court by the complainant, and complainant was dismissed as a party to the suitwith his costs to be
taxed. The decree, however, was made without prejudice to
the rights of any of the defendants to institute any action at
law or in equity, to recover from the complainant any deVOL. CLX-20

OCTOBER TEI{±L, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

mands which they might have for amounts due from him
over and above the money paid into court.
Answers and cross-bills were filed by the several defendants making claims to both funds, and upon a hearing upon
pleadings and proofs one-half of the special fund of $14,140
was ordered to be pai d to McPherson, executor of the will
of John T. Cochrane, and the remaining half to the solicitors
of James Gilfillan, John A. Rollings, and the estate of C. D.
Maxwell. The general fund -was ordered paid to Ellen Cochrane, widow of John T. Cochrane, John I-. B. Latrobe, and
Ward H. Lamon, in certain specified proportions. The claims
asserted by certain other defendants, including a claim of
McPherson, executor of Cochrane, to be paid out of the
general fund for professional services rendered by Cochrane,
was denied, and an appeal allowed in the decree. An appeal
was also allowed to Gilfillan, Rollings, and Eastman, administratrix of the estate of C. D. Maxwell, from so much of the
decree as awarded the general 'fund to Ellen Cochrane, John
I. B. Latrobe, and Ward If.Lamon, and also from a decree
previously rendered sustaining a demurrer to the cross-bill of
Rollings, Gilfillan, and Maxwell, and dismissing the same.
As to the last decree the appeal was dismissed.
Subsequently, as it appears from the certificate of the clerk,
of March 1, 1895, the money deposited in court was paid out
to the several persons to whom it had been awarded by the
above decree.
The facts underlying all these cases were substantially as
follows:
1. That the Choctaw Nation, having various unsettled
claims against the United States, arising out of treaty stipulations, the principal of which was a claim for the net proceeds of certain lands, by resolutions of its legislative council,
adopted November 9, 1853, and November 1, 1854, appointed
certain citizens of that nation, the principal one of whom was
one Pitchlynn, to prosecute such claims, and, in the name of
the Choctaw people, "to enter into any and all contracts
which in their judgment are or may become necessary and
proper, to bring to a final ind satisfactory adjustment and

GILFILLAN v. McKEE.
Statement of the Case.

settlement all claims and demands whatsoever, which the
Choctaw Nation or any member thereof has against the government of the United States by treaty or otherwise."
2. Pursuant to this authority, on February 13, 1855, these
delegates entered into a contract with John T. Cochrane, in
which, after reciting the abandonment of a similar contract
that had been made with Albert Pike, and the fact that
Cochrane had already been for three years before acting as
the agent of the Choctaw Nation in the prosecution of a
claim for arrearages of annuities and school moneys, in which
he had rendered valuable and most important services, Coch,
rane bound himself to continue to prosecute all unsettled
claims and demands of the Choctaw Nation, and especially
a claim arising undur the.' treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek of
September 27, 1830, to the net .proceeds of the lands ceded
to the United States by that treaty, and to do his utmost to
secure payment of said claims and demands, the Choctaws
upon their part agreeing to pay him thirty per cent of every
and all such sums of money, payable to them, as soon as the
same was paid over by the United States.
3. Shortly thereafter Cochrane succeeded in inducing the
authorities of the United States to enter into a treaty with
the Choctaws, which was concluded June 22, 1854, 11 Stat.
611, by which it was agreed that the claim'of the Choctaws
for the net proceeds of the lands in question should be submitted for adjudication to the Senate, which body was thus
charged with and assumed the functions of an dmpire, and
on the 9th of March, 1859, made an award in favor of the
Choctaws, according to certain principles, and referred the
matter to the Secretary of the Interior to state an account
showing the amount due to them according to such principles. That official made his report to the Senate on May 8,
1860, certifying that there was due to the Choctaw Nation,
tinder the award of the Senate, the sum of $2,981,247.30, and
in 1861 there was paid to the Choctaws on account thereof
the sum of $250,000.
4. No progress was made in the further prosecution of
their claim from 1861 to 1866, by reason of the alliance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895
Statement of the Case.

the Choctaws with the Southern confederacy during the
war. After the close of the war, however, Cochrane procured a treaty to be entered into between the United States
and the Choctaw Nation, relieving them of their disabilities.
14 Stat. 769.
5. In 1866;.Cochrane was stricken with a mortal illness; and
with a view of securing to himself and family some remuneration for the services he had performed in behalf of the Choctaws, proposed to assign to Ward H. Lamon, or to some one
in his behalf, all his interest in the contract of February 13,
1855; and verbal arrangements for the accomplishment of that
result by the assignment of said contract to Jeremiah S. Black
were made before the death of Cochrane. Before his death
Cochrane made a will dividing his property equally betweqn
his wife Ellen and his sister Mary Magruder, and authorizing
John D. McPherson, his executor, to sell, assign, or compromise
his claims under his contract with the Choctaws as he should
deem most for the interest of his estate. There was also an
acknowledgment in this will that an equal interest in the
Choctaw contract belonged to Luke Lea After Cochrane's
death, McPherson having qualified as his executor, a contract
was entered into between him and Jeremiah S. Black, November 8, 1866, for the further prosecution of the Choctaw claims
by Black, as the successor of Cochrane, and upon the terms of'
the contract made with Cochrane February 13, 1855, to which
assignment the Choctaw delegates gave their assent.
6. The firm of Black, Lamon & Co., in whose behalf the
assignment to Black was in fact made, at once entered upon
and continued the work of prosecuting this claim until Judge
Black withdrew from active practice, from which time the
duty of prosecuting the claim devolved solely upon Lamnon.
7. Nothing, however, was definitely accomplished before
July 16, 1870, when, for reasons unnecessary to be here stated,
the delegates of the Choctaw Nation entered into a new contract with James G. Blunt and Henry E. McKee to prosecute
their claim, stipulating to pay them for their services and
expenses thirty per cent of the sum already awarded and due
.to the Chootaw Nation, or of any sum that might be paid,

GILFILLAN ??. MWKEE.
Statement of the Case.

whenever the money or bonds arising from said claim should
come into the possession of the party or parties authorized by
the Choctaw people to receive the same. This contract contained a further stipulation of Blunt and McKee "to pay to
Mrs. John T. Cochrane of Washington, D. C., five per centum
from the thirty per centui a before referred to whenever they
shall receive the same; and the said Blunt and McKee further
agree to adjust the claims of all parties who have rendered
service heretofore in the prosecution of said claim upon the
principle of equity and justice, according to the value of the
services so rendered." Blunt soon afterwards died, leaving
McKee to carry out the contract alone.
8. In 1881, an act was passed by Congress, 21 Stat. 504,
c. 139, referring the question of the liability of the United
States in respect to the Choctaw claims to the Court of Claims,
and in March, 1886, a judgment was rendered in the Court of
Claims in favor of the Choctaw Nation. 21 C. Cl. 59. From
the judgment so rendered both parties appealed to this court,
which also decided in favor of the Choctaws, and held that
the award made by the Senate in 1859 determined the amount
due in respect of the claim, 119 U. S. 1, and on June 29, 1888,
an appropriation was made for the payment of the judgment
of $2,858,798.62. 25 Stat. 217, 239, c. 503, § 9.
9. On February 25, 1888, an act of the legislative council
of the Choctaw Nation, after reciting the recovery of the
judgment, and that McKee and his associates were making
proper efforts to secure from Congress an appropriation for
the payment, enacted that the contract with McKee and another with one Luce should be recognized as valid, that the
services required had been fully performed, and that to satisfy
the obligations of the Choctaw Nation to McKee and Luce,
who was jointly interested with him, there should be appiropriated thirty per cent of the amount appropriated by Congress for the payment of the judgment, twenty-five per cent
of which should be paid to McKee, and it was made the duty
of the treasurer of the nation ta make such payment. The
fourth section enacted that 1the sum of $14,140 shown to be
due to the late John T. Cwhrane, deceased, by an act of the

OCTOBER TERM[, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

general council of November 1, 1861, is hereby
appropriated
out of any money received from the United States in pay ien
of said judgment, and the payment of said amount shall be
made to said Henry E. McKee," etc. The fifth section enacted
"that the payments herein directed to be made shall, wheui
made, either under this act, or said other two acts hereinbefore
referred to, be taken and accepted as full and complete payment and final discharge and satisfaction of all the contracts
and obligations of the Choctaw Nation to any and all attorneys
for services rendered to the nation in the prosecution of said
claim against the United States."
10. On the filing of the bill of complaint July 7, 1888, by the
surviving partners of Black, Lamon & Co. in the following
case, a preliminary restraining order was issued enjoining the
defendant McKee from demanding or receiving said money
from the Treasury. But, in violation of this order, McKee,
on July 9, collected and received from the Treasury the sum
of $783,768.82, being the thirty per cent fund mentioned in
the Cochrane and McKee contract as set aside for the compensation for services rendered in the prosecution of said
claim. McKee, being subsequently ordered to pay into the
registry of the court the sum of $136,500 in the same case,
in addition to the sum of $161,197.63 paid into the court in.
this case, refused to obey the order, and to avoid doing so
absconded from the jurisdiction of the court, and has ever
since kept himself concealed to avoid process.
.Mr.John J. Weed and Mr. Jeferson Chandler for McKee.
Mr. S. S. flenkle for Mrs. Cochrane; Mr. Enoch Totten
and Mr.Reginald Fendall for Mrs. Latrobe; and Mr.James
Coleman and Mr. Nathaniel Wilson for Lamon & Black submitted on their several briefs on the motion to dismiss.
-Mr. Totten and 2Mr. Fendall for Mrs. Latrobe and Mr.
Ltenkle for Mrs. Cochrane, submitted on their briefs, on the
merits.
Mtr. A. B. Dihvall for Gilfillan submitted on his brief.

GILFILLAN v. McKEE.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Willis B. Smith for Marbury, Administrator, submitted on his brief.
JMr,. George F

Appleby and Mr. Calderon Ca'lisle for

McPherson.
IMR. JUSTIcE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
A motion to dismiss the appeal of McPherson, made by the
appellees, demands a preliminary consideration. This motion
is made upon the ground, first, that the appellant is precluded
from questioning the validity of the decree because, having
been awarded a large sum of money out of the fund for distribution, he applied for and received the same, as did all the
other beneficiaries to whom awards were made; and that the
decree disposed of the entire fund and'has been fully executed;
second, that the decree was joint against the appellants and
also against the other co-defendants, whereas the appellants
appeal separately and alone, their co-defendants not joining,
and without any proceeding in the nature of a summons and
severance.

1. It did undoubtedly appear from the certificate of the
clerk above mentioned that McPherson was paid $7070 of the
amount decreed to him out of the special fund. But it further
appeared that he claimed to be paid from the general fund of
$147,057.63, and that his claim in that particular was denied.
While the acceptance of the whole or a part of a particular
amount awarded' to a defendant might perhaps operate to
estop him from insisting upon an appeal, there were practically two decrees in this case, one applicable to the special
fund, which, in the bill, the subsequent pleadings, and in the
decree, had been kept as a distinct and separate matter, a
portion of which fund was awarded to McPherson; and the
other applicable to the general fund in which McPherson had
been denied any participation whatever. Clearly his acceptance of a share in the special fund did not operate as a waiver
of his appeal from the other part of the decree disposing of
the general fund. There is nothing inconsistent in his action

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in accepting the amount awarded to him from the special
fund, and appealing from the refusal of the court to award
him the general fund. As was said by this court in Embry v.
Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 8: "No waiver or release of, errors,
operating as a bar to the further prosecution of an appeal or
writ of error, can be implied except from conduct which is inconsistent with the claim of a right to reverse the judgment or
decree which it is sought to bring into review. If the release
is not expressed, it can arise only upon the principle of an
estoppel. The present is not such a case. The amount
awarded, paid, and accepted constitutes no part of what is in
controversy. Its acceptance by the plaintiff in error cannot
be construed into an admission that the decree he seeks to
reverse is not erroneous."
2. The objection tlbat an appeal was not taken by the other
defendants' that they did not join in the appeal, and that
there was nothing in the nature of a summons and severance,
is equally untenable. The decree was several, both in form
and substance, and the interest represented by each defendant
was separate and distinct, from that of the other. In such
cases any party may appeal separately to protect his own
interest. Cox v. United States, 6 Pet. 172; Todd v. Daniel,
16 Pet. 521; Hanrick v. Patrick,119 U. S. 156; City Bank
v. -Hunter,129 U. S. 557, 578.
3. As to the merits, 'we are only concerned in this case with
the general fund of $147,057.63, which is five per cent upon
the thirty per cent which the Choctaws agreed to pay to
McKee for his services. This fund was awarded by the final
decree to Ellen Cochrane, individually, and to Latrobe and
Lamon, the fund being divided into 2 571- parts, of which
Latrobe took 75, Lamon 35, and Ellen Cochrane the residue.
The parts assigned to Latrobe and Lamon represent the decree
obtained by them upon their separate bills against McKee
in the two following cases. Both McPherson as executor of
Cochrane, and Rollings and Gilfillan, assignees of Lea, appealed from the decree in the present case. The interests of
these appellants are in reality identical. Cochrane, in his will,
made in 1866, acknowledged an equal interest in the Choctaw

GILFILLAN v. MK EE.
Opinion of the Court.

contract to belong to Colonel Luke Lea, and on September 24,
1869, Lea assigned all his interest to Rollings and Gilfillan.
No controversy exists between these parties; but if McPherson be awarded the fund, both are interested to defeat the
claims of, Latrobe and Lamon, which diminish bv the amount
of their decrees the sums which would otherwise go. to the
Cochrane estate. Both are also interested adversely to Ellen
Cochrane, who claims the entire fund individually, while the
appellants claim it as assets of Cochrane's estate to pass under
his will, one-half to Rollings and Gilfillan, assignees, and the
other half to be divided equally between Ellen Cochrane, his
wife, and Mary Magruder, his sjster.
The controversy between them turns upon the construction
of the contract of July 16, 1870, between McKe6 and the
Choctaws, in which Blunt and McKee agreed "to pay to Mrs.
John T. Cochrane of Washington city, D. C., five per centum
from the thirty per centum before referred to whenever they
shall receive the same." The view of the court below was
that, if there were a trust in favor of parties who had rendered valuable services before the execution of the McKee
contract of July 16, 1870, that trust attached to every dollar
received by McKee, and that it was not .in his power to disengage any particular dollar or any particular sum of money
from the charge, and hence that the amount paid into court
by McKee in this case was subject to the trust found by the
court to exist in the other cases in favor of Latrobe and
Lamon. As the court also awarded the residue to Ellen
Cochrane, it follows that it must have treated this as a donation to Mrs. Cochrane and not'as a payment for services rendered by Cochrane, as, under the latter theory, it would have
been ordered paid to McPherson, as executor, to become a
part of the assets of his estate.
Two questions then arise upon this appeal. First, was the
payment in the McKee contract to be made to Mrs. Cochrane
intended as a personal gift to her, or as a payment for Cochrane's services ? Second, was such sum subject to a trust in
favor of Latrobe and Lamon?
In disposing of the fRst question it is only necessary to

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

consider the contract between the Choctaws and McKee, in
which the former agreed that for services rendered and
money expended and to be expended in the prosecution of
the claim, Blunt and McKee should receive thirty per cent
of the amount awarded, or of any sum that may be paid by
the United States, Blunt and McKee on their par ' agreeing
to pay five per cent of this thirty per cent to Mrs. Cochrane,
and also to adjust the claims of all parties who have rendered
service heretofore in the prosecution of.said claim, upon the
principle of equity and justice, according to the value of the
services so rendered. By section 4 of the act of the Choctaw
council of February 25, 1888, the sum of $14,140 was the
amount fixed as due the late John T. Cochrane, deceased, by
.an act of the general council of November 1, 1861, and that
sum was appropriated out of any money to be received from
the United States in payment of said judgment. Exactly for
what this was intended as a payment does not clearly appear,
but the fact that it was found to be due by an act passed in
1861 indicates very clearly that it could not have been for
services subsequently rendered, although section 5 provides
that the payments therein directed to be made should be
accepted as full discharge and satisfaction of all the contracts
and obligations of the Choctaw Nation to any and all attorneys for services rendered to the nation in the prosecution
of said claim. This appropriation was evidently intended to
discharge that obligation to him personally.
The argument for Mrs. Cochrane is based upon this plain
agreement on McKee's part to pay her the five p~r cent,
although, as no consideration moved from her either to McKe- or to the Choctaws, it is in reality a donation. Upon the
contrary, the appellants insist that the payment was intended
as compensation for the services of Cochrane, which had been
undoubtedly of great value to the Choctaws, and that the
nation had no right to divert what must naturally have been
intended as a payment for those services away from his
estate, to which it properly belonged, and turn it into a donation to his widow. The oral testimony as to the intentioin of
the parties, if competent at all, is conflicting and wholly
unsatisfactory.

GILFILLAN v. McKE-E,
Opinion of the Court.

As already observed, the Cochrane contract provided for
payment to him of thirty per cent of the amount collected,
but it was a contract wholly contingent upon his success, and
was never performed either by Cochrane personally, or by
Black and Lamon, his assignees. Nothing was ever earned
by them under this contract, and neither Cochrane's executor
nor his assignee ever stood in position to sue upon it, or to
claim anything by virtue of it. At the same time, both the
Choctaws and McKee were ready to concede that Cochrane
had rendered valuable services, which had doubtless contributed much to the ultimate success of the venture, and were,
therefore, willing that compensation should be made in some
form. Under the circumstances, there was nothing unreasonable in providing that this compensation should take the
shape of a personal gift to Mrs. Cochrane, and thus relieve
the estate from litigation with a horde of other claimants,
who might be expected to appear and claim to have rendered
services to Cochrane, for which they were equitably entitled
to share in the compensation. The oral testimony indicates
that the insertion of Mrs. Cochrane's name instead of the
executor of her husband's estate was an idea of Pitchlynn's,
the chairman of the delegation, who thought that such a provision would prevent the necessity of the fund going through
the probate court. In this connection McKee also states that
the provision was put in at the instance of Pitchlynn, who
stated that he considered the death of Cochrane ended his
contract, and his right to any further compensation for his
services in the prosecution of the claim, but he was determined to make some provision Which would not be subject to
the control of Cochrane's executor or subject to his creditors,
but that it should be paid directly to her, to be held and
enjoyed by her in her own right; and hence that Pitchlynn
insisted upon the provision in the contract in favor of Mrs.
Cochrane, and the contract on the face of it expressed exactly
what was intended by the contracting parties at the time.
Had Cochrane or his assigns earned anything under this contract, and the promise had been to pay money earned for
services fully performed, a question might have arisen as to

()('TOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the power of the Choctaws or of McKee to divert it from
the estate in favor of the widow, but as the obligation, if
any existed at all, was only a moral one, the parties had a
right to discharge it in their own way.
This construction is consonant with the language of the act
of the Choctaw council appropriating $14,140 in payment of
the anwount due to the estate of Cochrane, and providing that
such payinent should be a final discharge and satisfaction
of their obligation to him personally. Upon the whole, we
think the court construed this provision of the- contract
correctly.
As Mrs. Cochrane did not appeal from that part of the
decree admitting Latrobe and Lamon to share with her, and
as the appeal of the other parties turns primarily upon the
validity of the allowance to Mrs. Cochrane, and not upon
the fact that Lamon and Latrobe were admitted to share in
such allowance, it is unnecessary to consider the second question. If the amount decreed to them were reduced, such
reduction would redound to Mrs. Cochrane's benefit and not
to the appellants.
While, as before observed, we think the court made a correct disposition of the case so far as this appeal is concerned,
the reversal of the following case may make it necessary to
readjust the amount due to Lamon and Black, and consequently
Our decree in this case must be for a reversal to await the
dispositionof the following case, andforfurther proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

