OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

purpose will not take it out of the exception. But if it is
commonly, practically, and profitably used for a different
purpose, it cannot be considered as used expressly for manure,
even if in the majority of instances it is so used." It follows
that whilst Xlfagone v. Heller adhered to the settled rule of
chief use, a guide was there announced by which to discover
whether the facts established such chief use. Chief use in
itself is a vague and uncertain term. Magone v. Heller, therefore, held that chief use was to be ascertained by that which
was commonly, practically, and generally done, and was not
to be overthrown by an occasional excepti6n for practical or
experimental purposes. Thus, we repeat, Magone v. feller,
whilst enforcing and applying the rule of chief use, furnished
the instrument for determining and measuring its operation
and giving certainty to its application. It is.for this reason
that in the recent case of Sonn et al. v. Magone, 159 U. S. 417,
Magone v. Heller was cited as authority for and in elucidation
of the correct test by which use as a measure of classification
was to be controlled. The charge given by the court below,
and which was excepted to, was manifestly correct, for in giving the rule of chief use the principles by which chief use was
to be ascertained were fully stated exactly in accordance with
the law subsequently announced by this court in Magone v.
Heller.
Affl47md.

DEJONGE v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

ATATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 56. Argued November 1, 1895. - Decided November 18, 1895.

Papers, coated, colored and embossed to imitate leather, and papers coated
with flock, to imitate velvet, imported into the United States In 1888,
were subject, under Schedule M of the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121,
to a duty of 25 per cent ad valorern, as "paper hangings . . . not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act," and not to a duty of 1C

DEJONGE v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.
per cent ad valorem, as manufactures of paper, or of which paper is a
component material, not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act.

THE action below was brought to recover the amount of
alleged excessive exactions imposed by the defendant, while
collector of the port of New York, as duties upon two importations into the port of New York made by the plaintiffs in
1888, of two kinds of paper, the one coated, colored, and embossed to imitate leather; the other coated with flock to imitate
velvet; which importations were classified by the collector as
dutiable under Schedule M of the tariff act of March 3, 1883,
c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 510, which reads as follows:
"Paper hangings and paper for screens or fireboards, paper
antiquarian, demy, drawing, elephant, foolscap, imperial, letter, note, and all other paper not specially enumerated or provided for in this act: twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
The goods were described in the invoices as " manufactures of
paper," and in their protest the importers claimed that they
were dutiable at only fifteen per cent ad valorem, under a
paragraph of the same schedule of the act referred to, which
reads as follows:
"Paper, manufactures of, or of which paper is a component
material, not specially enumerated ot provided for in this act:
fifteen per centum ad valorem."
A member of the plaintiff firm testified, and the evidence
generally tended to show, that the articles in question were
embraced in a class of surface coated papers, known to commerce and trade at the time of the passage of the tariff act of
1883 as "fancy papers," and were specifically designated and
known to the trade at that time, the imitation of leather paper
as "embossed paper" or "morQcco paper," and the other as
'imitation of velvet paper."
The process by which fancy papers of the character referred
to are produced, while requiring different machinery, the employment of workmen not accustomed to making ordinary
paper, or the completed paper which is used in this manufacture, yet is substantially the same method as is used in the
manufacture of wall paper. Ifideed, the unquestioned proof

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

was, that paper as completed in paper mills, in order to make
wall paper, is subjected to further treatment to fit it for the
new use. As to the imitation of leather paper, there are no
ingredients contained in it not found in ordinary paper, though
the sizing and coloring are different.
In the production of these fancy papers, printing paper or
sized paper, white and man illa papers as completed in the
paper mills are used. In the case of imitation of velvet paper,
the process consists in first putting a strong sizing on the
paper, then sifting the different colored flocks in the wet sizing, and then drying the product; and, in the case of the
paper coated, colored, and embossed to imitate leather, color
is first laid upon the paper, it is then dried, sized, and -finally
passed through engraved steel rollers, which emboss its surface. It was in evidence that the embossed or morocco paper
was used to cover books, for covering paper boxes, for album
covers, fancy boxes, or sample cards, for pocket-books, for
pamphlets, and for a great many other purposes to imitate
leather; and the imitation of velvet paper was used for mats
to contain photographs, to frame photographs, for fancy
boxes to imitate velvet, and also for wall decoration. A witness for the defendant testified that imitation velvet or flock
paper had been used to put upon walls for more than forty
years, and that the product when intended for use as wall
paper was put up in rolls. In the catalogue issued by plaintiffs to the trade, put in evidence, and in which, as testified to
by one of the plaintiffs, the imitation of velvet paper was
embraced under the designation of " Leather Papers," the
following appears:
" LEATHI-ER

PAPERS.

"Our own manufacture.
" $20,00 per ream of 500 sheets, 20 x 25.
"$2.00 per roll of 25 inches by 25 yards.
"Prices subject to the fluctuations of the market.
"These goods come in nine colors, as follows: Russia
red, Turkey red, leather color, light brown, (lark brown,
light blue, navy blue. dark green, and black, and can be had
in plain or smooth, seal grain, alligator, bamboo, and other

DEJONGE v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.

patterns; are waterproof finished on the best 40-pound rope
manilla stock."
At the close of the evidence each party moved for a peremptory direction to the jury, and exceptions were duly taken
and noted to the overruling thereof.
The following requests to charge were submitted on behalf
of the plaintiffs, and a separate exception taken to each refusal so to instruct the jury :
"5. If the articles in suit are made by the addition of foreign substances to paper not covered by the popular definition
nor the dictionary definition of paper, they cannot be classified as paper for purposes of duty.
" 6. Unless you find that trade and commerce in 1883 and
theretofore in this country had affixed a different meaning to
the word ' paper' from the ordinary meaning, the articles here
in suit not being within the latter, are not to be assessed as
paper."
"8. The general words of section 392 of the tariff must be
construed as though they read 'and all other papers of that
class (designated by the nine preceding words) not specially
enumerated or provided for in this act,' and unless you find
that the articles in suit belong to that class they cannot be
considered as provided for in section 392, unless by the words
'paper hangings and paper for screens and fireboards.'"
The plaintiff also excepted to the following portion of the
charge of the court:
"Was this article, in the trade and commerce of this country, when Congress legislated in 1883, a variety of paper? In
other words, if the committee of Congress that framed this
act and reported it to Congress had turned to the trade and
commerce of this country of 1883 and had asked that trade
for a comprehensive list of all kinds of paper known to them
and dealt in commercially as such, would paper like this have
been included in such list? If the commerce of the country
had furnished to the committee of Congress, in answer to such
a request, a list of all the kinds of paper known to that trade,
and if such list enumerated articles like these, then they are
covered by the phrase ' all other papers' in paragraph 892.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The collector was right, and the defendant is entitled to a
verdict. If, on the other hand, an article such as this would
not have been included in that list at that -time, then the
plaintiff, having established by the proof that they are manufactures of paper, is entitled to your verdict."
The full charge to the jury is contained in 41 Fed. Rep.
432.
.Mr. Albert C(mstock for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendant in
error.
MR. JUS'rTICE WHTITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The paragraph of the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22
Stat. 488, 510, under which the classification complained of
Was made, is contained in the statement of facts. It is contended by counsel for plaintiffs in error that it should be construed so as to read as follows:
"Paper hangings and paper for screens or fireboards, paper
antiquarian, demy, drawing, elephant, foolscap, imperial, letter, note, and all other paper (of the class of paper anti
quarian, demy, drawing, elephant, foolscap, imperial, letter,
and note) not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act: twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
This contention is based upon the claims that a. The products in question are manufactures of paper as
contradistinguished from paper, because completed paper, as
produced in paper mills, is but one of the tangible ingredients,
the other products, sizing of a particular description, watercolor paints, wood flock, and the like, being materials entirely
foreign to the art of the paper maker, and that complete
merchantable paper is employed simply. as the material, and
is subjected to elaborate mechanical processes involving the
employment of machinery entirely unknown to the .paper
maker's art, and operated by workmen who are not paper
makers; and,

DEJONGE v. MAGON.
Opinion of the Court.

6. That paper hangings and paper for screens and fireboards are a group of products manufactured from an inferior
grade of paper stock, and standing equivocally between paper
and manufactures of paper, and that as the other nine articles
enumerated in the paragraph under which the classification
of plaintiff's importations was made, viz., paper antiquarian,
demy, drawing, elephant, foolscap, imperial, letter, and note
paper, are of the writing and drawing class of papers, a high
grade of paper stock, and solely the product of paper mills,
nothing is paper within the meaning of the term, as it is employed in the expression, "and all other paper not specially
enumerated or provided for in this act," which is not of the
class of papers last enumerated.
But it is established by the evidence beyond dispute that
at the time of the passage of the tariff act of 1883 "fancy
papers" were largely dealt in in commerce and were well
known in the commerce and trade of this country; that there
were a great variety of fancy papers, and that such designation covered both the importations out of which this controversy arose. It is not reasonable to suppose that Congress
assumed that the manipulation or treatment of particular
paper in the completed condition in which produced at a
paper mill, by mere surface coating, a process which did not
change its form, but only increased the uses to which such
paper might be put, had the result to cause the article to
cease to be paper and to become a manufacture of paper,
especially in view of the continued commercial designation
of the article as a variety of paper and its sale and purchase
in commerce as paper.
Congress must be presumed to have known that the paper
employed in paper hangings and paper for screens or fireboards was printing paper, sized in the paper mill, and subjected to treatment elsewhere, by which the value of the
article as paper was greatly enhanced, and the association of
those products with the writing and drawing class of papers
in the paragraph in question is convincing evidence that
paper hangings and paper subjected to similar processes by
which paper hangings were produced was regarded as paper

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

and not as manufactures of paper. Not alone to avoid doubt
and confusion, would such products as paper hangings likely
be provided for separately, rather than in association with
writing anddrawing papers, if deemed to be "manufactures"
of paper, but as an article clearly a manufacture of paper, to
wit, "paper envelopes," was assessed at a duty of twenty-five
per cent ad valorem, opportunity existed to place paper hangings in the same paragraph, and such would likely have been
done if paper hangings had been deemed "manufactures of"
and not "paper."
Nor is it at all probable that Congress would specifically im
pose a duty of twenty-five per centum upon paper hangings,
and intend that an importation of velvet paper of a similar
class to Wall paper and used for wall decorations should be
assessed as a manufacture of paper at a rate of fifteen per
centum ad valorem.
While, directly speaking, the products in question might be
termed manufactures of the particular variety of paper stock
employed as their basis, yet the resultant product of such
manufacture was a higher and better grade of paper. There
was no such change ot form as in the case of paper screens,
paper boxes, paper envelopes, and other like manufactures of
paper. The case is analogdus in its main features to Hartranft
v.Wiegmann; 121 U. S. 609, 615, where it was held that shells
cleaned by acid, and then ground on an emery wheel, and
afterwards etched by acid, and intended to be sold for ornaments, as shells, remained shells, and that they had not been
manufactured into a new and different article, having a distinctive name, character, or use from that of a shell.
In the schedule of the tariff act of 1883 under consideration,
Congress attempted a classification of paper generally. A
duty of twenty per cent was laid upon "paper, sized or glued,
suitable only for printing paper;" a duty of fifteen per cent
was laid upon "printing paper, unsized, used for books and
newspapers exclusively;" a duty of ten per cent was laid
upon "sheathing paper;" and all other paper was embraced
in the paragraph under which the paper in question was classified and made dutiable at twenty-five per centum ad valorem.

COWLEY v. NORLTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAI) C).

569

Syllabus.

As cheaper grades of paper than the writing and drawing
paper enumerated in the paragraph last referred to were elsewhere referred to in the act, it is obvious that the expression
"and all other paper not specifically enumerated or provided
for in this act" meant precisely what was expressed, and embraced paper of any grade, not elsewhere enumerated in the
act. "Other paper, not elsewhere provided for," would embrace "tissue" paper, Lawrence v. Merritt,127 U. S. 113, and
that term would also seem to include the various grades of
brown and other wrapping paper, and the rope manilla paper
out of which the "leather goods" of plaintiffs in error were
produced, even though not of the high grade of paper known
as writing and drawing papers.
It follows from what has been stated that the court rightly
refused the charges requested by plaintiffs in error. It equally
follows that if the word "paper" had a well-known signification in trade and commerce in 1883, which embraced these
products, that meaning would control. Cadwalader v. Zeh,
151 U. S. 171, and cases cited p. 176. This principle clearly
authorized the court to submit to the jury the question : "Was
this article, in the trade and commerce of this country, wheni
Congress legislated in 1883, a variety of paper ?" and to inistruct them, in the event they answered the question in the
affirmative, to find in favor of the collector.
Affirmed.

COWLEY v. NORTHIERIN PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 6Li Argued and submitted October 22, 1895.-Decided November 18, 1895.

In a proceeding-conimenced in a court of the State of Washington, under
the statutes of that State, by filing a j etition to set aside a judgment
charged to have been obtained there through fraud and collusion between
the plaintiff's attorney of record and the defendant's attorney of record,

