SONN v. MAGONE.
Syllabus.

of Congress of July 1, 1864, entitled ' An act to expedite the
settiement of titles to land in California.'
It then decided
that the dedication was annulled by the judgments given in
the suits of S. W. Ilolladay v. The City and County of San
Francisco, and of The City and County of San Franciscov.
S. W. Ilolladay and others, To these two records the people
of the State of California were strangers. The State never
consented that the city and county might submit the rights
of the public to judgment in either of those actions. Hence
they claim, that those judgments, so far as the people are concerned, were given without due process of law."
Mr.S. W Holladay in person, and Mr.E. Burke Rolladay
for the motion.
Mr. W. F Fitzgerald, Attorney General of the State of
California, ]Mr. William Matthews, and Mir. William Craig
opposing.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The opinions of the Supreme Court
of California in this case are reported 68 California, 439;
93 California, 241; 102 California, 661. The motion to dismiss is sustained on the authority of San Franciscov. Itsell,
133 U. S. 65; Beatty v. Benton, 135 U. S. 244; Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S.'361; and cases cited. And see ibadley v. Sdn Fran-s0co, 94 U. S.4.; Hloadley v. San Francisco,124 U. S.639.
Writ of error dismissed.

SONN v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 16. Argued October 15, 1895. - Decided November 11, 1895.

Lentils and white medium beans in a dry state, both mature and ordinarily
used for food,, though sometimes sold for seed, imported into New York
in the years 1887 and 1888, were properly classified by the collector as
VOL. CLIX-27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case,
vegetables under paragraph 286 of Schedule G of the act of March 3,
1883, c. 121, and as such were subject to a duty of ten per cent ad
valorem.
Maddock v. Magone, 152 U. S.368, affirmed to the point that "in construing
a tariff act, when it is claimed that the commercial use of a word or phrase
in it differs from the ordinary signification of such word or phrase, in
order that the former prevail over the latter it must appear that the
commercial designation is the result of established usage in commerce
and trade, and that at the time. of the passage of tie act that usage was
definite, uniform, and general, and not partial, local, or personal."
Whether the lentils and beans were properly classified by the collector was
a matter for the court to decide.

THis was an action to recover duties exacted by the collector of customs of the port of New York, and paid by the
importers under protest in order to get their goods. The importations were made in the years 1887 and 1888, and the
articles were invoiced in four of the six invoices as "white
hand-picked Danubian beans ;" in one as "haricots;" and in
another as "Bohemia lentils."
By section 2502 of the customs duties act, passed March 3,
1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. 121, as a substitute for Title XXXIII
of the Revised Statutes, duties were levied on the following
articles: Under Schedule A, entitled "Chemical products,"
paragraph 94,." All barks, beans, berries, balsams, buds, bulbs,
and bulbous roots and excrescences, such as nut-galls, fruits,
flower, dried fibres, grains, gums, and gum-resins, herbs, leaves,
lichens, mosses, nuts, roots and stems, spices, vegetables, seeds,
(aromatic, not garden seeds,) and seeds of morbid growth,
weeds, woods used expressly for dyeing, and dried insects, any
of the foregoing of which are not edible, but which have been
advanced in value or condition by refining or grinding, or by
other process of manufacture, and not specifically enumerated
or provided for in this act, ten per centum ad valorem." Par.
16. "Castor beans, or seeds, fifty cents per bushel of fifty
pounds."
Under Schedule G, entitled "Provisions," paragraph 259:
"Wheat, twenty cents per bushel." Par. 260. "Rye. and
barley, ten cents per bushel." Par. 263. "Indian corn or
maize, ten eents lper bushel." Par. 264. " Oats, ten cents

SO NN v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.

per bushel." Par. 285. " Potatoes, fifteen cents per bushel
of sixty pounds." Par. 286. "Vegetables, in their natural
state, or in salt or brine, not specially enumerated or provided
for in this act, ten per centum ad valorem." Par. 287. "Vegetables, prepared or preserved, of all kinds, not otherwise provided for, thirty per centum ad valorem."
Under Schedule N, entitled " Sundries," Par. 452: "Hemp
seed and rape seed, and other oil seeds of like character, other
than linseed or flaxseed, one quarter of one cent per pound."
Par. 465. "Garden seeds, except seed of the sugar beet,
twenty per centum ad valoreqn." Par. 466. "Linseed or flaxseed, twenty cents per bushel, of fifty-six pounds; but no
drawback shall be allowed on oil cake made from imported
seeds."
By section 2503 the following articles were exempted from
duty:
Par. 636. "Drugs, barks, beans, berries, balsams, buds,
bulbs, and bulbous roots and excrescences, such as nut-galls,
fruits, flowers, dried fibres; grains, gums, and gum-resin;
herbs, leaves, lichens, mosses, nuts, roots, and stems; spices,
vegetables, seeds aromatic, and seeds of morbid growth ; weeds,
woods used expressly for dyeing, and dried insects, any of the
foregoing of which are not edible and are in a crude state, and
not advanced in value or condition by refining or grinding, or
by other process of manufacture, and not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act."
Par. 760. "Plants, trees, shrubs, and vines of all kinds not
otherwise provided for, and seeds of all kinds except medicinal seeds not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act." Par. 761. ".Plants, trees, shrubs, roots, seed cane, and
seeds imported by the Department of Agriculture or the
United States Botanical Garden." Par. 778. "Seed of the
sugar beet." Par. 808. "Tonquin, Tonqua or Tonka beans."
The importations were classified by the collector as vegetables under paragraph 286 and subjected to duty accordingly;
while the importers claimed that they should have been classified as seeds under paragraph 760 and adnlitted free. The
Circuit Court directed a verdict for the defendant, and judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ment having been rendered thereon, this writ of error was
brought.
Mr. Henry Edwin Tremain, (with whom was Mr. Mason
W.Tyler on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR. CHIEF JuSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
These articles were not string beans or beans in the pod,
but mature beans in a dry state, consisting of two varieties,
lentils and white medium beans. It appeared that the main
use of both lentils and beans was for food, though sometimes
they were sold for seed, and that they were never, bought and
sold under the name of vegetables or under the name of seeds,
but simply as beans or lentils, as the case might be. Some
evidence was adduced to the effect that although the seed,
root, or top of the plant might properly be called a vegetable
if green, yet that if the article were mature and dried, it
thereupon ceased to be a vegetable -tnd became a seed. But,
as the Circuit Judge well said, the testimony did not deal
in the commercial designation of the article or what it was
called in trade and commerce, but only tended to show how
the witnesses thought it should be classified. It is true that
one of the plaintiffs stated that if a customer inquired for a
certain kind of field bean, he would ask him whether he
wanted the "field pea bean," or "the seed of the field pea
bean," or "the seed of the white medium bean," or what
kind of beans he wanted; and that they imported the seeds
of the lentil and the seeds of the bean, though they did not
import the seed of the wheat plant, of the rye plant, or of
the oat plant. It would be absurd to regard this as tending
to establish a commercial designation.
In construing a tariff act, when it is claimed that thecommercial use of a word or phrase in it differs from the ordinary
signification of such word or phrase, in order that the former

SONN v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

prevail over the latter, it must appear that the commercial
designation is the result of established usage in commerce
and trade, and that at the time of the passage of the act
that usage was definite, uniform, and general, and not partial)
local, or personal. 'Maddock v. I~agone, 152 U. S. 368.
The articles were known in trade and commerce as lentils'
and beans. They did not come within the paragraphs of the
tariff, specially enumerating certain beans and seeds, or referring to inedible beans, seeds, and vegetables; but the words
vegetables" are employed in other paragraphs,
"seeds " and "'
and it is conceded that these articles fell under the one or the
other. The word "seeds," as found in paragraph 760 in the
free list, is joined with "plants, trees, shrubs, and vines,"
the obvious intention being to encourage agriculture, hortioculture, and arboriculture by facilitating seeding and transplanting, and the words being applicable to seeds used for
seeding purposes-in common understanding, for propagation. The word "vegetables" is found in paragraph 286,
under the heading "Provisions," and in common parlance
applies to articles of food. The predominant use of leptils
and beans is for food, and as so used they are commonly
called vegetables, although they may be regarded botanically
as seeds, and may sometimes be used for seeding purposes.
Under such circumstances, ordinary use, not occasional or
subsequent use, furnishes the guide for classification. Maillard v. Lawrence, 16 How. 251; Worthington v. RolbinS,
139 U. S. 337; Magone v. Ileller, 150 U. S. 70. The words
"seeds" and " vegetables " are words of common speech, and
there is no room here for the contention that they had acquired a special signification by usage or had a scientific,
different from the popular, meaning. Whether the articles
were properly classified as vegetables was a matter for the
court to decide.. The interpretation of wbrds of common
speech is within the judicial knowledge and matter of law.
Marvel v. Merritt, 116 VI. S. 11; Nix v. Iedden, 149 U. S.
304; Cadwalader v. Zeh, 151 U. S. 171; Saltonstall v. Wie-

busch, 156 U. S. 601.
As stated by counsel for the government, a verdict should

OCTOBER TERLM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

not be directed where, before the meaning of the statute can
be known, it is necessary to learn from conflicting evidence
the controlling use of the article in question ; or its similitude
to some other article; or the values of its component materials;
or its weight and fitness; or whether labor is necessary to fit
it for use by the consumer; or its commercial designation; but
we have no such case before us.
We entirely concur with the Circuit Court in the course pursued, which was in harmony with the ruling in Robertson v.
Salomon, 130 U. S. 412. There practically the same question
was raised, that is, whether beans were free of duty as seeds or
dutiable at ten per cent as vegetables, and Mr. Justice Bradley,
in delivering the opinion of the court, after stating that beans
were seeds in the language of botany and natural history, but
not in commerce or in common parlance, said: " On the other
hand, in speaking generally of provisions, beans may well be
As an article of food
included under the term 'vegetables.'
on our tables, whether baked or boiled, or forming the basis
of soup, they are used as a vegetable, as well when ripe as
when green. This is the principal use to which they are put.
Beyond the common knowledge which we have on-this subject,
very little evidence is necessary, or can be produced. But, on
the trial, the parties deemed it important to introduce a great
deal of testimony. The court, however, did not allow the
defendant to prove the common designation of beans as an
The common designation as used in
article of food. . .
every-day life, when beans are used as food, (which is the
great purpose of their production,) would have been very
proper to be shown in the absence of further light from commercial usage. We think that the evidence on this point
ought to have been admitted. In addition to this, the court
told the jury that ' the commercial designation of the article,
or what the article is called in trade and commerce, or the
name bean, has nothing to do with the question.' We think
the court erred in this instruction. The commercial designation, as we have frequently decided, is the first and most important designation to be ascertained in settling the meaning
But if the comand application of the tariff laws.

THORN WIRE CO. v. WASHBURN & MOEN CO.

423

Syllabus.

mercial designation fails to give an article its proper place
in the classifications of the law, then resort must necessarily
be had to the common designation.
We think, therefore,
that the court erred both in its charge and in the exclusion
of the evidence offered; especially as, without any evidence,
and with the common knowledge which we all possess, the
court might almost have been justified in directing a verdict
for the defendant." In this case the court was not only
almost but altogether justified in such direction, and while
,there are expressions in that opinion which have been laid
hold of as qualifying the general rule as to judicial knowledge, they must be treated as. induced by the state of the
record, and are not to be regarded as having that effect.
Many exceptions were taken to the exclusion and admission
of evidence, and to the refusal of the court to give instructions asked on plaintiff's behalf, but we find no reversible
error in either of the rulings thus questioned and they need
not be discussed.
Judgment afrmed.

THORN WIRE HEDGEt COMPANY v. WASHBURN
AND MOEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
WASHBURN AND MOEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. THORN WIRE HEDGE COMPANY.
APPEALS

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 57, 58.

Argued April 29, 80, 1895. -'Decided Novqmber 11, 1895.

The parties to thes6 suits having had extensive dealings founded upon
mutual agreements and arrangements respecting the manufacture
of and licenses to manufacture patented articles, and having had serious misunderstandings touching their accounts, came-to an agreement
whereby the Thorn Company, in consideration of the sum of $10,000
paid to it by the Washburn and Moen Company, released and discharged
the latter from all claims and demands of everykind and nature lvhatso.

