SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

349

Statement of the Case.

SIOUX CITY & ST. PAUL RAILROAD
v. UNITED STATES.

COMPANY

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT- OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 20.

Argued April 16, 17, 1895.-

Decided October 21, 1895.

The Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad Company having failed to complete the
entire road from Sioux City to the Minnesota line, as contemplated by
the act of Congress of May 12, 1864, c. 84, 13 Stat. 72, making a grant of
public land in aid of its construction, and as required by the statutes of
Iowa, has not only received as many acres of public land as it could right.
fully claim under that act, but has also received 2004.89 acres in excess
of what it could rightfully claim.
Grants of odd-numbered sections of public lands to aid in the construction
of railways imply no guaranty that each section shall consist of 640
acres, nor any obligation on the part of the United States to give other
public lands to supply deficiencies in reaching that amount.
Under the said act of 1864, the grant was made to the State as trustee, and
not to the railroad company, and the title under the patent, when issued,
vested in the State as trustee.
When lands are granted by acts of Congress of the same date, or by the
same act, to aid in the construction of two railroads that must necessarily intersect, or which are required to intersect, each grantee, when
the maps of definite location are filed and accepted, takes, as of the date
of the grant, an equal undivided moiety of the lands within the conflicting
place limits, without regard to the time of the location of the respective
lines.

THIS suit was brought by the United States against the
Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company, pursuant to the
act of Congress of March 3, 1887, providing for the adjustment of land grants in aid of the construction of railroads,
and for the forfeiture of unearned lands theretofore granted.
24 Stat. 556, c. 376.
Upon its appearing that from any cause lands had been
erroneously certified or patented to or for the use and benefit
of any company to aid in the construction of a railroad, it
became the duty of the Secretary 9 f the Interior to demand
the relinquishment or reconveyance of such lands, whether
within granted or indernnity limits. If the company failed

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

for ninety days to comply with that demand, it was made the
duty of the Attorney General to institute proceedings for the
cancellation of -the patents, certifications, or other evidence of
title issued for such lands, and for the restoration of the title
to the United States. § 2.
The decree from which the present appeal was taken
quieted the title of the United States, as against the Sioux
City and* St. Paul Railroad Company, and Elias F. Drake
and Amherst H. Wilder, trustees in mortgages given by that
company, to certain tracts of lands in Dickinson County, Iowa,
alleged to contain 800 acres, and to other tracts in O'Brien
County, in the same State, alleged to contain 21,179.85 acres;
in all, 21,979.85 acres. United States v. Sioux City & St. Paul
P*ilroad,43 Fed. Rep. 617.
The railroad company claimed title under an act of Congress, approved May 12, 1864, c. 84, granting lands to Iowa in
aid of the construction of railroads in that State, 13 Stat. 72,
and also under statutes of Iowa passed in execution of the objects of that act.
The United States claimed that the company had received
a larger quantity of lands than it was entitled to receive under
the act of 1864, and, therefore, could have no claim to the particular lands here in controversy.
The relation of the parties to these lands and the facts upon
which the question of title depended was shown by the following summary of the evidence:
By the above act of May 12, 1864, Congress granted lands
to the State of Iowa to aid in the construction of two railroads
in that State ; one, from Sioux City to the south line of Minnesota, at such point as the State of Io-wa might select between
the Big Sioux River and the west fork of the Des Moines
River; the other, for the use and benefit of the McGregor
Western Railroad Company, an Iowa corporation, to aid in
the construction of a railroad extending from South McGregor, Iowa, in a westerly direction, by the most practicable
route on or near the forty-third parallel of north latitude,
until it intersected, in the county of O'Brien, the proposed
road from Sioux City to the Minnesota state line.

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

351

Statement of the Case.

The grant was of every alternate section, desigiiated by odd
numbers. But if it appeared, at the date of definite location,
that the United States had sold any granted section or part
thereof, or that any preemption or homestead right had
attached thereto, or that the same had been reserved by the
United States for any purpose whatever, the Secretary of the
Interior was to select,. or cause to be selected; for the purposes
stated in the act, from the public lands nearest to the tiers of
sections specified, so much, in alternate sections or parts of
sections, designated by odd numbers, as was equal to the lands
lost to the State in either of the modes just stated. The lands
thus selected were to be held by the State for the above uses
and purposes, and were not, in any case, to be located more
than twenty miles from the lines of the road to be constructed.
All lands, previously reserved to the United States by any act
of Congress, or in any other manner by competent authority
for the purpose of aiding in any work of internal improvement
or other purpose, were expressly reserved and excepted from
the operation of the act, except so far as it was found necessary to locate the routes of the roads through such reserved
lands. § 1.
The lands granted were "subject to the disposal of the legislature of Iowa for the purposes aforesaid, and no other;" and
the railroad was to be and remain a public highway for the
use of the government of the United States, free of toll or
other charge upon the transportation of the property or troops
of the United States, as well as for the transportation of the
mail at such price as Congress should fix. §§ 3, 6.
The fourth section of the a~t was the subject of much discussion by counsel. It provided: "That the lands hereby
granted sittll be disposed of by said State, for the purposes
aforesaid only, and in manner following, namely: V ien the
governor- of said State shall certify to the Secretary of the
Interior that any section of ten consecutive miles of either of
said roads is completed in a good, substantial, and workmanlike manner as a first-class railrokd, then the Secretary of the
Interior shall issue to the 'State patents for one hundred sections of land for the benefit of the road having completed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ten consecutive miles as aforesaid. Wen the governor of
said State shall certify that another section of ten consecutive
miles shall have been completed as aforesaid, then.the Secretary of the Interior shall issue patents to said State in like
manner, for a like number; and when certificates of the completion of additional sections of ten consecutive miles of either
of said roads are, from time to time, made as aforesaid, additional secfions of lands shall be patented as aforesaid, until said
roads or either of them are completed, when the whole of the
lands hereby granted shall be patented to the State for the uses
aforesaid and none other:

.

.

.

Providedfurther, That

if the said roads are not completed within ten years from their
several acceptance of this grant, the said lands hereby granted
and not patented shall revert to the State of Iowa for the purpose of securing the completion of the said roads within such
time, not to exceed five years, and upon such terms as the
State shall determine: And providedfurther,That said lands
shall not in any manner be disposed of or incumbered, except
as the same are patented under the Provisions of this act; and
should the State fail to complete said roads within five years
after the ten years aforesaid, then the said lands undisposed of
as aforesaid shall revert to the United States."
The lands embraced by the act were to be withdrawn from
market as soon as the governor of the State filed, or caused
to be filed, with the Secretary of the Interior, maps designating the routes of the respective roads. § 5.
The last section of the act granted to the State of Minnesota four additional alternate sections of land per mile - to be
selected under the conditions, restrictions, and limlitations contained in a former act of Congress, approved March 3, 1857,
e. 99, 11 Stat. 195 - for the purpose of aiding the construction of a railroad in that State, extending from St. Paul and
St. Anthony, by way of Minneapolis, to a 'convenient point of
junction west of the Mississippi, in the southern boundary of
the State, and in the direction of the mouth of the Big Sioux
River. § 7.
By an act approved April 3, 1866, Iowa accepted the lands,
powers, and privileges conferred upon it by the act of May 12,

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

353

Statement of the Case.

1864; and, so mu h of the lands, interests, rights, powers, and
privileges as were or could be granted and conferred in pursuance of the act of Congress, for the purpose of aiding the construction of the railroad from Sioux City to the Minnesota
line, -qrere disposed of, granted, and conferred upon the Sioux
City and St. Paul Railroad Company, an Iowa corporation,
t.o be hereafter called, for the sake of brevity, the Sioux City
company. That act authorized the company to select and
designate the point upon the south line of Minnesota to which
its road should be built. Laws of Iowa, 1866, 143, c. 134,

§§1, 2, 7.
By. a subsequent -statute of Iowa, approved April 20, 1866,
it was provided that the lands, powers, duties, and trusts
conferred by the act of Congress of "July 12, 1864," were
accepted by the State upon the terms, conditions, and restrictions therein contained, and that "whenever any lands shall
be patented to the State of Iowa, in accordance with the provisions of said act of Congress, said land shall be held by the
State in trust for the benefit of the railroad company entitled
to the same by virtue of said act of Congress, and to be deeded
to said railroad company as shall be ordered by the legislature
of the State of Iowa." Laws of Iowa, 1866, 189, c. 144. The
word " July" in that act, inserted by mistake, was stricken
out by an act passed March 24, 1868, and "iVMay" substituted,
and the acceptance intended to be made by the act of April
20, 1866, was ratified and confirmed. Laws of Iowa, 1868,
4-9, c. 42.
On the 17th of July, 1867, the Sioux City company filed in
the General Land Office a map showing the location of its
route from Sioux City, Iowa, northwardly to the south line of
Minnesota, a distance of 83.52 miles. This map was accepted
by the Interior Department, and, August 26, 1867, the oddnumbered sections within the ten and twenty-mile limits of
the located line were withdrawn from the market.
The company -commencing,
not at 'Sioux City, as was
apparently contemplated by Congress and indicated by the
map of definite location, but at the Minnesota line-began
the construction of its road in 1872, and. completed it southvoL. cLmx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

wardly in the direction ofr Sioux City, but only as far as Le
Mars, in Plymouth County, a distance of 56.13 miles. No
road was ever constructed by that company between Le Mars
and Sioux City, a distance of about 25 miles, although it did
construct, in 1872, within the corporate limits of Sioux City,
about two miles of track, and erected there machine shops,
depots, and round-houses of the value of $125,000, of which
$30,000 were the proceeds of a, special tax levied and collected
by that city un(ler a statute of the State.
In conformity with the act of 1864 the governor of Iowa
certified, July 26, 1872, to the completion, in a good, substantial, and workmanlike manner, as a first-class railroad, of two
sections of ten consecutive miles each, or twenty miles; August 10, 1872, of one section or ten miles; February 4, 1873,
two other sections or twenty miles; in all fifty miles or five
sections of ten consecutive miles each.
The Secretary of the Interior, as has been seen, was authorized by the fourth section of the act of 1864 to issue patents
for one hundred sections of land as each section of ten consecutive miles was certified by the governor of the State to
have been properly completed. Nevertheless, he issued to
the State in the name of the United States for the use and
benefit of the Sioux City company patents for 191,464.04
acres, October 16, 1872; 205,374.76 acres, June 17, 1873;
10,911.41 acres, January 25, 1875; and 160 acre§ June 4,
1877 in all, 407,910.21 acres. As one tract of 40 acres was
patented twice, the real amount patented to the State was
407,870.21 acres.
If each odd-numbered section for ten sections in width on
each side of the road, within the terminal limits of the fifty
miles of road certified as completed,. had contained the full
complement of 640 acres, the utmost quantity which the Secretary pf the Interior was authorized to patent to the State on account of that fifty miles of road would have been 320,000 acres.
Of the 407,870.21 acres of land patented to the State,
322,412.81 acres were conveyed by the State to this company,
the Stateretaining within its control the title to the balance,
namely, 85,457.40 acres.

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

355

Statement of the Case.

The legislature of Iowa by an act of March 13, 1874, directed
the governor to certify to the Sioux City company, in accordance with the provisions of the act of April 20, 1866, any and
all lands then held in trust for its benefit. That act, however,
only required the conveyance of such of the trust lands, held
by the State,-as the company was entitled to by virtue of
the act of Congress. For this reason, it is suggested, the
governor did not convey the 85,457.40 acres that remained
after conveying to the company the 322,412.81 acres of the
407,870.21 acres.
It was stipulated by the parties that the State had never
conveyed to the Sioux City company the lands in Dickinson
and O'Brien Counties which are here in dispute and claimed
by the United States.
In 1878 the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company, to be hereafter referred to as the Milwaukee company, having succeeded to the rights of the McGregor Western Railroad Company, the other corporation named in the
act of 1864, completed the construction of the McGregor railroad to a point of intersection with the line of the Sioux City
road at Sheldon, a town in Iowa between Le Mars and the
Minnesota line. And in 1879 the Milwaukee company instituted a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa against the Sioux City company and others
for a decree determining the respective rights of itself and
the Sioux City company in the lands at and near the point of
intersection, where the grants for the road from Sioux City to
the Minnesota line and the grant to the McGregor company
necessarily came in conflict. That case came to this court
upon the appeal of the Sioux City company, and it was here
adjudged: 1. That the odd sections within the ten-mile limits
of the Sioux City road, and not within the ten-mile limits
although within, the twenty-mile limits of the Milwaukee
road, belonged exclusively to the Sioux City company.
2. That like sections within the ten-mile limits of the Milwaukee road, and not within the ten-mile limits although
within the twenty-mile limits of the Sioux City road, belonged
exclusively to the Milwaukee company. 3. That the lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
.

Statement of the Case.

within the ten-mile limits of both roads belonged to the companies in equal undivided moieties. 4. That the lands within
the twenty-mile or indemnity limits of both roads, and not
within the ten-mile or absolute grant limits of either road, the
title tonone of which could accrue until selection was made
for one road or the, other, should, in view of the situation in
which the title had been placed by the action of Federal and
state officers, be equally divided between the companies.
Sioui City & St. Paul Railroad v. Chicago, Milwaukee &
St. Paul Railway, 117 U. S. 406.
.The principles of this decision were carried into a decree of
partition in the Circuit Court. From that decree it appears
that of the 322,418.81 acres conveyed by the State, under the
act of May 12, 1864, to the Sioux City company, there remained to that corporation 280,725.29 acres, after deducting
the lands set apart to the Milwaukee company.
. It is necessary now to refer to certain facts in relation
to
the line of road which the Sioux City company located, but
never constructed, between Sioux City and Le Mars.
By. an act of Congress, approved May 15,.1856 - more than
eight years before the grant in aid of the construction of the
road from Sioux City to the Minnesota line - a giant of lands
was made to' the State of Iowa to aid in the construction of a
railroad from Dubuque to a point on the Missouri River at or
near Sioux City. 11 Stat. 9, c. 28. This grant was accepted
by an act of the Iowa legislature approved July 14, 1866, and
the lands were granted and conferred upon the Dubuque -and
Pacific Railroad Company, which located its line or route
and filed its map of definite location with the Secretary of
the Interior. Laws of Iowa, 1856,. Special Session, 1, c. 1.
And, in 1870, that road was completed from Le Mars south.
wardly to Sioux City by the Iowa Falls and Sioux City Railroad Company, the successor of the Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Company.
In the year 1879 the Sioux City company conveyed to the
St. Paul and Sioux City Railroad Company, a Minnesota corporation, its roadbed, rolling stock, depots, depot grounds, and
other property and franchises in connection with its railroad:

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

357

Statement of the Case.

and the latter company in 1881 sold and conveyed the same
property and franchises to the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis
and Omaha Railroad Company, which still owns and .operates
the road constructed by the Sioux City company north of
Le Mars. The last-named company has remaining no other
property or assets, except such land as may inure to it under
the grant of Congress of May 12, 1864, out of the lands patented to the State but not conveyed to that corporation, all of
which are pledged, so far as that could be legally done, to
secure the debts specified in the mortgages in which Drake
and Wilder were trustees. One of those mortgages was executed August 26, 1871; the other February 5, 1884. The original debts secured by the mortgages aggregated $2,800,000, all
of which has been paid off by sales of lands, except $660,000.
The preamble of an act of the legislature of Iowa, approved
March 16, 1882, referred to the act of May 12, 1864, providing that if the road from Sioux City to the Minnesota line was
not completed within ten years from the acceptance of the
grant, the lands granted and not patented should revert to
the State for the purpose of securing the completion of the
road, and also to the statute of Iowa of April 3, 1866; and
after, reciting the failure of the Sioux City company to complete, or cause to be completed, any road on the line adopted
therefor from Sioux City to Le Mars or any road in lieu thereof,
it was declared "that all lands, and all rights to lands, granted
or intended to be granted to the Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company by said acts, of Congress and of the general
assembly of the State of Iowa, which have not been earned
by said railroad company by a compliance with the conditions
of said grant, be and the same are hereby absolutely and
entirely resumed by the State of Iowa, and that the same be
and are absolutely vested in said State as if the. same had
never been granted to said railroad company." Laws of Iowa,
1882, 102, c. 107.
On the 27th day of March, 1884, the State passed another
act, by the first section of which it relinquished and con veyed
to the United States all. lands and rights to land resumed and
intended to be resumed by the above act of March 16, 1882, § 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

By the second section of that act the governor was directed
to certify to the Secretary of the Interior all lands not theretofore patented to the State to aid in the construction of the
Sioux City road, the lands so certified to be deemed those
above relinquished and conveyed to the United States by
the first, section, "provided, that nothing in this section contained shall be construed to apply to lands situated in the
counties of Dickinson and O'Brien." Laws of Iowa, 1884,
78,c. 71.
Pursuant to the latter act the governor, on the 12th day of
January, 1887, relinquished and conveyed to the United States
26,017.33 acres of the 85, 457.40 acres of land which, as already
stated, had been patented to the State for the benefit of the
Sioux City company, but which were never certified to that
company. Those lands are in Plymouth and Woodbury
Counties, and do, not embrace the lands in dispute.
The Sioux City road was so constructed as to form a continuous line with the railroad of the St. Paul and Sioux City
Railroad Company, a Minnesota corporation, to aid in the
construction of which from St. Paul and St. Anthony to the
southern boundary of that State Congress made the grant of
March 3, 1857. The latter is the road referred to in the
seventh section of the act of May 12, 1864. Upon the construetion by the Sioux City company of the road from the Minnesota line to Le Mars, that corporation obtained by lease the
right to run and operate its cars over the road of the Iowa
Falls and Sioux City railroad extending from Le Mars to Sioux
City, (and now operated by the Illiniois Central Railroad Company,) from which time the Iowa and Minnesota corporations
and their grantees have continued to run and operate their
roads as one continuous line from St. Paul to Sioux City.
Part of the lands in controversy here were entered upon by
different persons between 1882 and 1885, claiming under the
homestead and preknptlon laws of the Upited States, and
making formal applications to enter such lands. Their applications were rejected, but they appealed from those decisions,
continuing to improve and cultivate the lands under their
elaims, and, in some instances, unaking valuable improvements.

SIOUX CITY &c. IAILROAD v. UNiTEi) STATES.

359

Opinion of the Court.

And before the bringing of this suit the Sioux Citv company
had commenced actions in ejectment in one of the state courts
against the parties in possession.
In 1887 application was made to the Secretary of the Interior on behalf of certain persons, in O'Brien County, who had
settled on the lands'in controversy, as well as on lands referred
to in the above partition decree, requesting suit to be brought
by the United States to assert its title to said lands. After
argument before the Secretary by counsel severally representing the settlers as well as the Sioux City and Milwaukee companies, that officer- Secretary Lamar - rendered an elaborate
opinion, in which the whole subject was reviewed. 6 Land
Dec. 50, 62.
.Mr. George B. Young, (with whom was Mr.J. R. Swan on

the brief,) for appellants.
iMr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for appellees.

-Mr. William 1. Joy, for settlers, filed a brief on behalf of
the United States.
Mr. Tilliam ,Lawrence, representing settlers on the lands

in controversy, filed a brief for the United States.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case as above rereported, delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The lands now in dispute are part of the 85,457.40 acres
patented by the United States to Iowa for the use and benefit of the Sioux City company, but never conveyed by the
State to that company.
If the company has received as much of the public lands
as it was entitled to have on account of constructed road,
may not the lands in dispute -the time limited by Congress
for the completion of the entire road having passed -be regarded as "undisposed of" within the meaning of section
four of the act of 1864, and may they not, therefore, be
claimed by the government as belonging to the United
States ? According to that section, if the two roads named

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in it were not completed within ten years from the several
acceptances of the grant, the lands granted and not patented were to revert to the State "for the purpose of
securing the completion of the said roads within such time,
not to exceed five years, and upon such terms as the State
shall determine." And the second proviso was to the effect
that said lands should not in any manner be disposed of or
incumbered, except as the same were patented under the provisions of the act; "and should the State fail to complete said
roads within five years after the ten years aforesaid, then the
said lands undisposed of as aforesaid shall revert to the United
States."
If the terms of an act of Congress, granting public lands,
"admit of different meanings, one of extension and the othey
of limitation, they must be accepted in a sense favorable to the
grantor. And if rights claimed under the government be set
up against it, they must be so clearly defined that there can
be no question of the purpose of Congress to confer them."
Leavenworth &'c.Railroad v. United States, 92, U. S. 733, 740,
Acts of this character must receive such construction "as will
carry out the intent of Congress, however difficult it might b&
to give full effect to the language used if the grants were by
instruments of private conveyance."
lVinona & St. Peter
Railroadv. Barney, 113 U. S.618, 625. "Nothing is bettei
settled," this court has said, "than that statutes should receivw
a sensible construction, such as will effectuate the legislative
intention, and, if possible, so as to avoid an unjust or an absurd
conclusion." Laa Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 59.
Giving effect to these rules of statutory interpretation, we
cannot suppose that Congress intended that the rail-road company should have the benefit of more lands than it earned.
As the lands granted could only be devoted to the construction of the Sioux City road from Sioux City to the Minnesota
line, and as the State, holding the legal title in trust, has not
disposed of and doe not intend to dispose of them for the
purpose of.completing that part of the road located between
Sioux City and Le Mars, we perceive no sound reason why,
within the-meaning of the act of 1864, these lands may not

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

361

Opinion of the Court.

be regal:dIed as "undisposed of," and equitably the property
of the United States, if it be true that the railroad company
has received as much of the public lands as it was entitled'to
have on account of constructed road certified by the goyernor
of the State. This was the interpretation placed by the State
upon the act of Congress; for, by the act of the Iowa legislature of March 16, 1882, the State, because of the failure of the
Sioux City company to construct any road between Sioux City
and Le Mars, resumed the title to all lands that had not been
"earned" by the railroad company; and by the subsequent
statute of March 27, 1884, it relinquished and conveyed to
the United States all lands and rights of land resumed and
intended to be resumed by a previous act.
It is apparent, therefore, that the fundamental question in
the case is, whether the Sioux City company, having failed to
complete the entire road from Sioux City to the Minnesota
line, has received as many acres of the public lands as it could
rightfully claim under the act of 1864? If this question be
answered in the affirmative, the company cannot complain of
the final decree as one to the prejudice of its substantial
rights. Before considering this question it is necessary to
examine certain propositions relating to the quantity of lands
to which the Sioux City company was entitled for constructed
road.
2. On behalf of the company it is contended that in ascertaining the extent of the grant, we must assume that each
odd-numbered section in the place limits 6ontained its full
complement of six hundred and forty acres, and that if any
section contained, in fact, less than that quantity, the United
States was- under a legal obligation to make good the difference. Clearly, the act of 1864 does not admit of this construction. The record shows that many sections in the
granted limits, as surveyed and marked, contained less than
640 acres. The grant was of the odd-numbered sections for
ten sections in width on each side of the road, whether they
contained six hundred and forty acres, or more or less than
that quantity. The United States did not undertake that -the
granted sections should contain any given number of acres.

OCTOBER TERNT, 1895.
Opiniou of the Court.

If it appeared, at the time the line of the road was located,
that the United States had sold or reserved any particular
section, the selection from the public lands, nearest to the
tiers of the granted sections, to supply that loss, was limited
by the act to the quantity of lands actually in the section so
sold or reserved. The court below well said that there was
no guaranty by the United States that the quantity of land
covered by the grant should equal any fixed number of acres
either for the construction of the entire road or any portion
thereof, and that the exceptions named in the act clearly
show that the company undertaking the construction of the
line of the proposed railway was to get only the quantity of
land that was ultimately found to be, in fact, covered by the
grant.
3. The company, also, contends that it was entitled to
lands for the whole number of miles of road actually constructed by it; that is, for the fifty miles certified by the
governor to have been completed, and, also, for the fraction
of six miles and a quarter immediately north of Le Mars,
which was never certified to the Secretary of the Interior.
We cannot assent to this construction of the act of Congress.
Congress evidently had in view the construction of an entire
road from Sioux City to the Minnesota state line. And to
that end, the first section of the act of 1864 grants to the
State every alternate section of land designated by odd
numbers for ten sections in width on each side of the road.
But that section must be taken in connection with the fourth
section prescribing the mode in which the grant shall be
administered. By the latter section, it is provided that the
State shall not dispose of the lands granted, except for the
purposes indicated by Congress and in the manner prescribed;
further, that "said lands shall not in any manner be disposed
of or incumbered, except as the same are patented under the
provisions of this act." Now, the manner prescribed for disposing of the lands granted was, that patents should be-issued
to the State for one hundred sections of land for each section
of ten consecutive miles, when the governor certified to the
completion of such section in good, substantial, and workman-

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

363

Opinion of the Court.

like manner as a first-class railroad. This was evidently the
interpretation given by the State to the act of Congress, for
the governor never certified.to the construction of any section
of road less than ten consecutive miles in length.
It does not follow from this interpretation of the act that
the company could never get lands for a fractional part of
constructed road, less than ten consecutive miles. Provision
was made for such cases by the clause directing patents to be
issued to the State, as each section of ten consecutive miles
was constructed, and was properly certified by the governor,
"until said roads, or either of them, are completed, when the
whole of the lands hereby granted shall be patented to the State
for the uses aforesaid and none other." In other words, for a
completed road, the State should have the full quantity of lands
granted and found in odd-numbered sections, with the right
to select other lands to supply any losses in either of the
modes specified in the act of Congress. But the time never
came when the State could rightfully demand patents for
the whole of the lands granted. The road was never completed, and, therefore, patents could not bo legally issued,
except for one hundred sections of land for each section of
ten consecutive miles of road, certified by the governor of the
State to have been constructed in the mode required by Congress. The result of this view is, that the Secretary of the
Interior was without authority to issue patents, except for
the five sections of ten consecutive miles each, that is, for fifty
miles of constructed road certified by the governor of the
State. The State could not, without completing the road,
or causing it to be completed, demand patents on account of
the construction of less than a section of ten consecutive miles.
This was the view taken by Secretary Lamar who said that
"a careful consideration of the granting act convinces me
that there is no authority of law for patenting any lands on
account of the six and a quarter miles of road, [immediately
north of Le Mars,] and that no lands have been earned by the
construction thereof." 6 Land Dec. 51.
4. Another contention is, that upon the issuing of the
patents of 1872 and 1873 to the State for the use and benefit

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of the railroad company the title vested absolutely in the
company, and the lands were thereby freed from restraints of
alienation, from conditions subsequent, or from liability to
forfeiture. In support of this contention reference is made to
Bybee v. Oregon & California Railroad, 139 U. S. 663, 674,
676-7;

Van Wyck v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 360; lVisconsin

CentralRailroad v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496; Deseret Salt
Co. v. Tarpey, 142 U. S. 241; St. Paul & Pacific Railroad
v. 2forthern Pacific Railroad,139 U. S. 1, 6. But these are
cases, as an examination of them will how, in which thie
grant was directly to the railroad conpany, or in which the
act of Congress required that the patents for lands earned
should be issued, not to the State for the benefit of the railroad company, but directly to the company itself. In the
case now before us, the statute directed patents to be issued
to the State for the benefit of the 'company. So that, until
the State disposed of the lands, the title was in it, as trustee,
and not in the railroad company. Schulenberg v. Harriman,
12 Wall. 44, 59 ; Lake Superior Ship Canal &c. Co. v. Cunningham, 155 U. S. 372. See also McGregor &c. Railroad'v.
Brown, 39 Iowa, 655; Sioux City & St. Paul Railroad v.
Osceola County, 43 Iowa, 318, 321. In the case last named,
the Sioux City company was relieved from the payment of
taxes upon some of the lands patented to the'State for its
benefit, upon -the ground that the legal title was in the State,
and the lands for that reason were not taxable. The question
is altogether different from what it would be if patents for
these lands had been issued, or if the State had conveyed them
directly, to that company.
5. The company, also, contends that any calculation of the
quantity of lands that the railroad company was entitled to
receive, on account of constructed road, duly certified, must be
on the basis, that it was entitled to lands, in lieu of those
awarded to the Milwaukee company in the common place
limits of the two intersecting roads. In this interpretation of
the statute we cannot concur.
The rule is well settled that when lands are granted by acts
of Congress of the ,same date, or by the same act, to aid in the

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

365

Opinion of the Court.

construction of two railroads that must necessarily intersect, or
which are required to intersect, each grantee -the map of
definite location having been filed and accepted- takes, as of
the date of the grant, an equal undivided moiety .of the lands
within the conflicting place limits, without regard to the time
of the location of the respective lines. Sioux City &c. Railroad v. Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway, 117 U. S. 406, 408;
St. Paul & Sioux City Railroad v. Winona & St. Peter Railroad, 112 U. S. 720, 727; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway
v. Kansas Pacific Railway, 97 U. S. 491, 501; Cedar Rapids
&c. Railroadv. Herring,110 U. S.27; Grinnell v. Railroad
Co., 103 IT. S. 739. In Donahue v. Lake Superior Canal &c.,
155 U. S.386, 387, this court said: "The rule is that where
two lines of road are aided by land grants made by the same
act, and the lines of those roads cross or intersect, the lands
within the 'place' limits of both, at the crossing or intersection, do not pass to either company in preference to the other,
no matter which line may be first located or road built, but
pass in equal undivided moieties to each."
The grants for the Sioux City and Milwaukee roads were
by the same act. Of the granted sections in place limits common to both roads, each company, having filed its map of
definite location, took, as of the date of the grant, an equal
undivided moiety - no more. The equal undivided moiety
granted for one road was not granted, nor could it be used,
for the other road. Congress knew, when it passed the act of
1864, that there would be an overlapping of place limits at
the required point of intersection of the two roads. And the
Sioux City company when it accepted the benefit of the grant
knew that such must be the case. As the act did not provide
for a selection of lands for either road, on account of the undivided moiety of place lands granted for the other, we may
not assume that the right to such selection was intended to be
reserved. Lands lost to the 'Sioux City company in one of the
]nodes named in the act of Congress, and for which other lands
could be selected, were lands granted for that company, not
lands granted to another company for a different road., The
lands which the Sioux City company claims to have so lost-

OCTOBI"

TERM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

namely, the undivided moiety granted, and subsequently
awarded, to the Milwaukee company out of the common place
limits- were never granted- for the Sioux City road, but were
granted for the McGregor or Milwaukee company.
This question was examined in 1887 with great care by
Secretary Lamar. The claim was made before him by the
Sioux City and the Milwaukee companies that each was entitled to indemnity for the lands which it claimed to have lost
by reason of the grant for the other company of an equal undivided moiety within the conflicting place limits. The Sec7
retary said: "I am unable to conclude that such was the
intention of Congress in making the grant. To say that it was
would be to say in effect that, in so far as the ten-mile limits of
the two grants overlap, the purpose of the granting act was to
make what would amount to a double grant. Each company
got a moiety of the lands in odd-numbered sections within the
common granted limits. Now, should there be allowed to
each.company indemnity for the moiety lost by grant to the
other, a quantity of land equivalent to all the odd and evennumbered sections in said common granted limits would be
passed under the granting act. This, I think, could not be'
justified by any proper construction of the act, nor can i conceive it to have been intended by Congress. The grant was of
a moiety for each road within the common granted limits of
bgth roads. This accords with the view expressed by the Supreme Court in the case of St. Paul & Sioux Cty Railroadv.
Winona & St. Peter Railroad, 112 U. S.720. Either this is
true, or Congress by the same act twice granted the same
lands. To say that it did, or intended, to do, this, would be to
say that it acted unreasonably, or without a proper understanding of what it was doing. Now, since indemnity is,
allowed only for lands granted and lost from the grant, and
since in the common ten-mila limits of these two roads only a
moiety was granted, it follows that neither company has any
legal claim for indemnity o0i account of the moiety granted to
the other." 6 Land Dec. 54,:62.
6. In the light of these principles we come to the practical
question presented for determination, namely, whether the

SIOUX CITY &c. -RAILROAD v. UNITED. STATES.

367

Opinion of the Court.

Sioux City company, having failed to complete the road for
the benefit of which the grant was made, has received as much
of the public lands as it was entitled to receive under the act
of 1864? 'This is entirely a matter of figures.
As heretofore shown, the State patented or certified to the
railroad company 322,412.81 acres out of the 407,870.21 acres
patented by the United States. We have seen that of the
322,412.81 acres so transferred to the company, 41,687.52 acres
were taken from the Sioux City company and given to the
Milwaukee company by the decree of the Circuit Court, pursuant to the mandate of this court in Sioux City & St. Paul
Railroad v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 117
U. S.406. This, as has been stated, left the Sioux City company with title to 280,725.29 acres, which it has disposed of or
sold, and about which no question is made in this case by the
United States.
Was the company entitled toa larger quantity of lands on
account of the fifty miles of road certified by the governor of
Iowa to have been properly constructed?
We have said that the Sioux City company was only entitled
to the sections as surveyed and as they appeared on the public
records, whether they contained more or less than 640 acres
each. Upon examination of the certified list of lands, based
on the diagram originallyfurnishedby the railroadcompany
to the Secretary of the Interior and transmitted by the General
Land Office to the local land office on the 26th of August, 1867,
it is found that the actual area of the odd-numbered sections
within the place limits of the Sioux City road, excluding oddnumbered sections within the conflicting place limits of the
two roads, contained only 247,476.85 acres; and the actual
area within the conflicting place limits of the two roads,
according to the same diagram, was 70,705.29 acres. Of the
latter quantity one-half, or 35,352.64 acres, belonged to the
Milwaukee company as its equal undivided moiety of the lands
in the common place limits. Apparently, therefore, if this
diagram be taken as a basis of calculation, the railroad company could have earned, on account of the fifty miles of constructed road, only 247,476.85 acres outside of the conflictirti

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

place limits and 35,352.64 acres within such limits; in all,
282,829.49 acres, or 2104.21 acres more than the 280,725.29
acres actually received by it, and about which no question is
here made by the government.
But there are exhibits in the case made part of the agreed
statement of facts that lead us to a different result. In 1887
the Commissioner of the Land Office, having before him the
question of how much of the public lands the Sioux City company was entitled to receive, caused an accurate measurement
to be made of the area of the odd-numbered sections and parts
of sections lying within the grant made by the act of May 12,
1864, for the construction of the Sioux City road. The record
shows, if that measurement be regarded, that within the common place limits of the two roads there were only 69,825.99
acres, of which the Sioux City company was entitled to onehalf, or 34,912.99 acres, and that outside of the conflicting
limits, and within the place limits of the Sioux City road,
there were only 243,807.41 acres. So that, on the basis of the
measurement of 1887, the company could have earned for the
fifty miles of certified road only 278,720.40 acres, that is, less,
by 2004.89 acres, than it has actually received and holds or
has sold.
The result is, that if the diagram furnished by the railroad
company in 1867 be followed, the Sioux City company is entitled to 2104.22 acres in addition to what it has received;
whereas, if the measurement of 1887, made under the direction of the Land Office, be accepted, that company has received
2004.89 acres more than should in any case have been awarded
to it.
We are of opinion that the measurement of 1.887 should be
taken as the basis for determining the area of the odd-numbered sections within place limits. In the agreed statement
of facts reference is made to a list, certified from the General
Land Office, of the odd-numbered sections and parts of sections
lying within the conflicting place limits of the Sioux City and
Milwaukee roads, and it is agreed that that list is correct according to the limits laid down on the map of 1887, "and correctly shows the area of each of said tracts." In the agreed

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

369

Opinion of the Court.

statement of facts reference is also made to another list, certified from the General Land Office, and it is stated to be a correct list of the odd-numbered sections and parts of sections
within the place limits of the Sioux City road outside of the
conflicting limits, "and the areas thereof," as defined and
certified on the map of 1887. These lists were objected to by the, railroad company as4
immaterial and irrelevant. But, we do not perceive any good
reason why they are not competent as evidence - as much so
as the diagram of 1867 and the lists based upon it. Surely it
was competent for the land office, when determining whether
the Sioux City company was entitled to additional lands, to
ascertain, by careful remeasurement, the exact area of the oddnumbbred sections covered by the grant of 1864, and thus
determine whether the map furnished by the railroad company in 1867 was, in all respects, accurate. By examining
the maps of 1867 and 1887 it was easy to perceive in what
particulars they differed; and, by proof, to show which was
correct. But the defendant took no proof to discredit the
map of 1887, and rests this part of the case upon the general
proposition that, after the lapse of so many years, the court
should base its decree on the map of 1867, which was accepted
by the government and was not questioned until the measurement of 1887 was made by the General Land Office. This
view is, of course, entitled to great weight, and might be accepted, if the determination of this question of evidence and
the acceptance of the measurement of 1887 would affect the
rights of third parties to specific lands. The matter to be
ascertained is the number of acres in each one of certain sections, the exterior boundaries of which are not in dispute.
Now, it would seem that, as between.the United States and
the railroad company, and for the purpose of ascertaining the
quantity in acres of public lands which the company earned,
or could have earned, on account of the construction of the
fifty miles of road, the latest official measurement of the area
of the granted limits, not charged to have been fraudulently
made, may be accepted as the best, if not conclusive, evidence.
It is said that a contrary view was announced in United
VOL, CLix-24

370

3 OCTOBER TERM, 1895.,
Opinion of the Court.

States v. Hancock, 133 U. S. 193, 196. That was a suit to set
aside a patent based upon a decree confirming a claim to certain lands within specified boundaries. The court, following
previous decisions, held that "when a decree gives the boundaries of the tract to which the claim is confirmed, with precision, and has.become final by stipulationof the United States,
and the withdrawal of their appeal therefrom, it is conclusive,
not only on the question of title, but also as to the boundaries
which it specifies." That was a case in which the rights of
third parties were involved, and it is scarcely necessary to say
that nothing we have said is in conflict with the principle
settled in it.
Our conclusion, then, is that the Sioux City company, having failed to complete the entire road, for the construction of
which Congress made the grant in question, was not entitled
to the whole of the lands granted, but, at most, only to one
hundred odd-numbered sections - as those sections were surveyed, whatever their quantity -for each section of ten consecutive miles constructed and certifled by the governor of the
State; and, that, according to the measurement of 1887, which
is accepted as the basis of calculation, the railroad company
had, prior to the institution of this suit, received more lands,
on account of the fifty miles of constructed road, certified by
the governor, than it was entitled to receive. Under this
view, it is unnecessary to inquire whether the particular lands
here in dispute should not have been assigned to the company,
rather than other lands, containing a like number of acres, that
were, in fact, transferred-to it, and which cannot now be recovered by the United States, by reason of their having been
disposed of by the company. If the company has received as
much, in quantity, as should have been awarded to it, a court
of equity will not recognize its claim to more in whatever
shape the claim is presented.
It is proper to say in this connection that the United States
in its bill alleges that the excess of lands received by the company was 1288.13 acres. We have found the excess to be
2004.89 acres. The bill also states that the lands in' Dickinson and O'Brien Counties, here in dispute, aggregate 21,979.85

SIOUX CITY &c. RAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.

37I

Opinion of the Court.

acres, and so the decree below assumes. The amount appears
to be 21,692.18 acres, and it was so stated by Secretary Lamar.
6 Land Dec. 63. But these ' differences are immaterial on the
present appeal, for we, adjudge that although the lands in-dispute were patented to the State for the use and benefit of the
Sioux City company, the latter is not entitled to any of them,
whatever may be the aggregate quantity of acres. It is not
claimed by the company that any of these lAnds constitute a
part of those actually certified to by the State.
7. The last contention of the appellants is that the claim of
theUnited States ought not to prevail against the trustees in
the mortgages executed by the railroad company, and which
constitute the only security for bona fide holders of bonds
secured by those mortgages. The first of these mortgages
was executed August 1, 1871, before any lands were patented
to the State, and before the railroad company had commenced
the construction of its road; the second, on the 25th day of
February, 1884, long after the Iowa legislature -which had
authority under the act of 1864 to dispose of lands not earned
had declared the resumption by the State of the title to all
lands patented to the State under the act of Congress, and not
earned, and more than fifteen years after the railroad company accepted the act of the State that conferred upon it the
benefits of the grant.
In reference to this claim by the trustees in those mortgages - assuming that they properly represent, in this matter,
the holders of bonds - it is sufficient to say that the Secretary
of the Interior was without authority to issue any patents to
the State for the use and benefit of the railroad company,
except for the fifty miles of road, certified by the governor to
have been constructed in the manner required by the act of
Congress. The trustees, and all holders of bonds secured by
the mortgages, were bound to know the extent 6f the Secretary's authority under the act of Congress. The utmost that
the trustees could claim is that the mortgages covered one
hundred sections for each ten consecutive miles of road certified by the governor of the State to have been properly constructed. Lands to that extent have been received by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

company. The 85,45.7.40 acres of which the lands- in dispute
were part, and which remained with the State after transferring to the company 322,412.81 acres of the 407,870.21 acres
patented to the State for the use of the company, were not,
and could not legally have been, covered by the mortgages.
Upon the grounds stated in this opinion, we adjudge that
the decree below did not prejudice any right of the appellants,
or of either of them, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

THE NORTHERN

OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 47. Argued April 16, 17, 1895. -Decided

October 21, 1895.

Congress, in the grant made by the act of May 12, 1864, 13 Stat. 72, had in
view two railroads, one extending from Sioux City to the Minnesota
line, the other from South McGregor by a named route to a point of inter-

section with the Sioux City road; and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Company, as the successor in right of the McGregor Company,
is in no position to question the decree just affirmed in Sioux City &

St. Paul Railroad Company v. United States, establishing the title of the
United States as against the Sioux City Company, and is estopped by the

decree in Sioux City & St. PaulRailroad v. Chicago, 'Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway, 117 U. S. 406, from making any claim whatever to the lands in
controversy in this suit.
Neither of the railroad companies named in said act of May 12, 1864, could
get the benefit of the moiety of lands granted for the building of the

other, in the overlapping limits of the two roads, by reason of the failure
of the other to construct its road.

THlE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. W. If Norris for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for the United
States.
Mr. William Lawrence for homestead and preemption
claimants,

