CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.

WHITE v. VAN HORN.
ERROR. TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 261.

Submitted April 5, 1895. - Decided June 3, 1895.

It is competent to explain by proof declarations of a privy in. interest,
admitted in evidence without objection, although they might have been,
found inadmissible, if objected to.
An objection going to the effect, and not to the admissibility of evidence,
should be disregarded.
A request to instruct a verdict for the defendant should be disregarded
when the evidence is conflicting.
A request to charge may be disregarded when the court has already fully
instructed the jury on the point.
The court should refuse to charge upon a purely hypothetical statement of
facts, calculated to mislead the jury.
The law of Texas in regard to forgery considered.
An objection to one of a nunmber of charges is unavailable when the charge,
taken as a whole, fairly states the question which the jury is to decide by
preponderance of proof.
When the defendant in an action of ejectment in Texas sets up that his
title was founded on a warrantydeed, and has the warrantor sumnoned)
in to defend, and the plaintiff recovers judgment, the defendant inIy
have judngmet :.gmit st the wnni~ttor for the amount of the purclhj:a,
Anoney, with interest from the day of the sale.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Og the 2d of October, 1889, widow Martha Ann Van Horn,
Elizabeth Evans, and her husband, David B. Evans, all three
citizens of the State of Missouri, and Mary Ann Boling, and
*her husband, W. W. Boling, citizens of the State of Kentucky,
brought an action against Joseph L. White, a citizen of Hill
County, State of Texas. The action was one of ejectment to
recover a certain tract of land, situated in Hill County. The
plaintiffs claimed to be the owners of an undivided third each
of the land for which they sued.
The defendant excepted to the petition upon the ground
that it set out no cause of action, and then filed a general denial.
He next pleaded limitatiohs, under the law of Texas, of 1, 3,
and 5 years; he averred his purchase and possession of the
property in good faith, and alleged that he had put improvements thereon worth $1125, for the value of which improvements he prayed judgment in the event of his eviction. In
addition, he averred that he and George G. White, on the
20th day of May, 1882, purchased the property in controversy
under a warranty deed from W. R. Baker for $1230 cash, and
their note, due on the first day of December, 1882, for $2460,
bearing ten per cent interest from date until paid; that they
paid this note before maturity, with ifiterest amounting to the
sum of $2570; that one-hpmlf of the total sum of the purchase
money,'or $1900, was paid by him, and that Baker, as his
warrantor, was liable, in the event of his eviction, to refund
the same, with eight per cent interes,. from the date of the
respective payments. He further alleged that on the 6th day
of October, 1883, he bought from George G. White, for $3789,
the undivided half which had been acquired by the latter as
.above stated, and that George G. White also warranted the
title, and would therefore be obliged to repay him, if the
plaintiffs recovered, the amount of the purchase price, with
interest. The prayer was that Baker and White be called in
warranty to defend the suit, and that if it was decided that
the plaintiffs were the rightful owners of the property, there
might be a judgment over against Baker for the amount of
the price paid him, with interest at the rate of eight per cent
from the dates of the payments, and a like judgment against
White, with interest from the 6th of October, 1883.

WHITE v. VAN HORN.
Statement of the Case.

Baker, in response to the call in warranty, filed a plea to
the jurisdiction of the court, on the ground that he was not,
at the time of the service of the petition, an inhabitant of
the Northern District of Texas. Subsequently, the death of
Baker being suggested, his executors were made parties defendant to the call in warranty, and the same judgment was
prayed against them which had been asked against him. The
executors reiterated the plea to the jurisdiction filed by Baker,
and in addition, demurred on the ground (1) of no cause of
action ; (2) because the defenlant could not sue them on the
warranty until actually evicted; and (3) because a call in
warranty could not be engrafted on an action of ejectment,
the sole purpose of which was the settlement of the controversy between the parties plaintiff and defendant, in regard to
their title to the property. The executors -also insisted that,
even if they should be held liable, under the call in warranty,
they owed no interest from the date of the sale, because White
had been in the enjoyment of the property from the time of his
purchase. George G. White submitted his rights to the court
with consent that if the case should be decided in favor of
the plaintiffs, judgment should be entered against him for such
amount as the court might deem proper. On the 25th of
April, 1890, the plaintiffs filed their replication to the defendant's plea of limitations, in which they set out that they, the
plaintiffs, claimed the property in controversy as the heirs
at law of J. H. Chism, and that at the time of the taking of
possession of the land in controversy, by the defendant, and
those under whom he claimed, two of the plaintiffs, Mrs.
Boling and Mrs. Evans, were married women, and consequently the statute of limitations did not run against them.
The replication -contained the further averment: "Said plaintiffs further show that the defendants, on their claim of title
to the land in controversy, deraign their title through a forged
pretended deed of conveyance, to wit, a pretended deed. which
defendants claim is 'a transfer of the head-right certificate, by
-virtue of which the land in controversy was patented by the
State of. Texas to J. H. Chism, and, therefore, in law said
pleas of three and five years' limitations cannot prevail."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

The demurrer to the jurisdiction of the court to entertain
the call in warranty was overruled, and the case was tried by
a jury, resulting in a verdict for the plaintiffs for the whole
amount of the land claimed and $350 rent. There was also a
verdict in favor of the defendant for $750, as an allowance for
improvements, and against the estate of Baker, under the calls
in warranty, for $3690, with interest at eight per cent from
October 2, 1887, and against George W. White for the Sum of
$3789, with interest from October 6, 1883, at eight per cent.
After an ineffectual effort to obtain a new trial, the defendant,
Joseph L. White, brought the case by error here, making as
parties, defendants in error, the original plaintiffs, the executors
of,Baker, and George G. White.
The undisputed facts were as follows: The plaintiffs are the
sole legal heirs of James Harvey Chism, who served in the
army of Texas during her war with Mexico. In. reward for
his services there were two land certificates issued to him in
the name of "J. H. Chism." The first, known as "a bounty
certificate," numbered 4298, was certified on the 15th day of
September, 1838, and covered 1280 acres of land. The other
was "a head-right certificate," issued by the Board of Land
Commissioners of Harrisburg County, in the following form:
"THE

REPUBLIC OF TEXAS,
1"COUNTY OF HARRISBURG.

)

No. 990.
Class 2.
"This is to certify that J. H. Chism has appeared before us,
the Board of Land Commissioners for the county aforesaid, and
proved according to law that he arrived in this Republic subsequent to the declaration of -independence and previous to
August, 1836, and that he is a single man, and produced an
honorable discharge, is entitled to one-third of a league of land
to be surveyed after the 1st day of August, 1838.
"Given under our hands, at Houston, this 1st day of
November, 1838.
"J. G. HUTCHINSON, President.
' JOHN WOODRUFF," Assooiate

"Attest: THos. WM.

WARD,

Clerk."

Commissioner.

WHITE e. VAN I{OltN.
$tatement of the Case.

On the 31st day of October, 1838, J. H. Chism, by a deed
drawn in the county of Harrisburg, sold to R. B. Dobbins, for
the sum of $500, the bounty certificate for 1280 acres of land
first above mentioned. The clerk of the Board of Land Commissioners for Harrisburg County, in the performance of his
duty under the Texas law, made a return of the issue of the
head-right certificate, describing it as "a second class certificate, No. 990, issued in November, 1838, to J. H. Chism for
one-third of a league of land." In 1840, Texas created a
"Travelling Board," whose duty it was to inspect the records
of all the Boards of Land Commissioners, "and ascertain by
satisfactory testimony what certificates for lands had been
issued by the respective boards to legal claimants, and report
as soon thereafter as practicable to the Commissioner of the
General Layfd.Office such certificates as they find to be genlUine, setting forth in their reports the number and date of the
certificates, the quantity of thd land, and the name of the
person to whom itwas issued."- 1 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas,
385. Ii1 June, 1841, this Board made its report to the General
Land Office, and described the head-right certificate here
involved, as follows: "Second class certificate, No. 701, issued
November 1, 1838, for one-third of a league of land to J. I1.
Chisholm." On the 27th of October, 1852, the following document was recorded in Harris County, Texas - W-.R. Baker
being at that time the clerk of said county:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, J. H. Chisholm,
for the sum of $150 to me paid by E. M. Robinson, do hereby
sell, transfer, and convey to the said. Robinson, his heirs and
assigns forever, my head-right for one-third of a league of land,
No. , dated November, 1838, issued by the Board of Land
Commissioners for Harrisburg County, together with the land
upon which the same may be located, to have and to hold the
same to him, the said Robinson, his heirs and assigns forever,
and I agree to warrant and defend the said claim against all
claims whatsoever.
"Witness my hand and seal, at Houston, December 2, 1838.
J. H. CHIsHoW.
"Witnesses: GEORGE W. LIVELY.
" J. 11. SOUTIMAYD.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
"REPUBLIC OF TEXAS,

"COUNTY OF HARRISBURG.

"Before

me, Andrew Briscoe, Chief Justice of Harris-

burg County, came J. H. Chisholm, the grantor above, and
acknowledged to me that he signed and executed the foregoing deed for the uses and purposes therein contained; to
certify which I have hereunto set my hand and seal of the
county, at Houston, December 2, 1838."
On January 2, 1858, J. M. Steiner deposited in the General
Land Office of Texas the certificate No. 990, for one-third of
a league of land, issued, as above stated, to J. H. Chism, and
lands were taken up thereunder in Hill County, Texas, and
patent was issued therefor. On the 25th of July, 1888, a copy
of the paper which had been recorded in the county of Harrisburg was placed on record in Hill County.
The plaintiffs, as heirs of J. H. Chism, claimed the land
covered by the patent issued under this'head-right certificate.
Their case substantially depended upon testimony tending to
show that; after serving in the army of Texas, Chism returned
to Kentucky, and stated that he was entitled to certain lands
in Texas, and had with him papers so showing; that he subsequently went again to Texas for the purpose of looking after
his land claims, and returned to Kentucky about November,
1838; that on his second return he also stated that he had land
in Texas, and had sold some; and that he then had papers
indicating his ownership of land in that State. The testimony
of his sisters and others tended to identify one of the papers

which he had with him on this last occasion with the land
certificate No. 990. There was testimony to the effect that he
was a good penman, that he signed his name J. H. or J. Harvey Chism, and his name appeared as such on the army rolls
and other official documents of the Republic of Texas. Ie
died in 1839. After his death, in 1850 or 1851, his father
placed the papers relating to the claim of the son for Texas
lands in the hands of Augustin Moreman, and gave him
a power of attorney, in order that he might visit Texas and
perfect the claim. Moreman, with the papers in his possession,

WHITE v. VAN HORN.
Statement of the Case.

proceeded to Texas for the purpose of executing his agency.
On arriving there, he went to the land office and exhibited the
papers. The officers of the land office pronounced the claim
valid and in all respects regular, but declined to act upon
it because there was a defect in the power of attorney, it
having been acknowledged by a Kentucky official and not by
a commissioner of the State of Texas. In consequence of this
fact, Moreman was unable to obtain the patent for the land,
and left the papers with a Mr. Fergerson, in Austin, Texas,
and returned to Kentucky. Before a new power of attorney
could be executed the father of Chism died, and Moreman's
arrangements with him were thus terminated. Subsequently,
on the request of the mother of Chism, IMoreman wrote to Fergerson for the papers, and they were returned in an envelope.
Moreman handed over this envelope as he received it at the
post office, without examination, to Mrs. Chism. There was
also testimony tending to show that after this date the heirs of
Chism sent the papers thus received (which are not very accurately identified) to Texas for the purpose of obtaining the
land, and that the papers thus sent, whatever they were, were
burned by accident.
The deposition of Moreman was taken; annexed to it was.
a certified copy of the original certificate No. 990, issued to
JI. H. Chism. This was shown to him, and he was asked
whether the original, of which it was a copy, was among the
papers which were turned over to him in 1850 or 1851 by the
father of J. H. Chism, and in connection with which his power
of attorney was giyen. Mr. Moreman answered: "I have
examined the above copy, and should say that the original of
which it is a copy was among the papers turned over to me
by the father of J. H. Chism. The language seems familiar,
and I recognize some of the terms, as having an honorable
discharge, and being a single man. The original paper was
folded twice, and the folds were somewhat frayed with handling, looking like an old paper; the writing was remarkably
effeminate. I cannot say definitely whether the original paper
was returned to the father or mother of J. H. Chism or not;
the last time I ever saw them was in Austin, Texas, in 1850

OCTOBEIR TERAM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

or 1851, in the month of May." The witness then proceeded
to state the facts connected with his employment, his journey,
to Texas, his going to the land office, and his failure because
of the defect in his power of attorney.
The defendant's case was supported by the testimony of
Baker, who said that he bought the certificate as the agent
of one Robinson, and that at the time the transfer was drawn
the certificate was delivered to him by the seller. Describing
the seller, he said: "He represented that he had been serving
in the Army, and I have an indistinct memory that I called
his attention to a discrepancy or difference in the spelling of.
the name, and that the explanation was that some people
spelled it as it was pronounced, according to the sound." He
then testified that the original' transfer was lost, and that the
witnesses whose names purported to be affixed'to it and the
officer before whom it purported to have been acknowledged
were dead; and that Robinson, the principal for whom he
claimed to have acted in buying the certificate, lived in .the
State of New York, and was known to nobody in Texas, except himself and family. His testimony in regard to Robinsen was indefinite. He said that the man was alive some few
years before and was in New York, but gave no address by
which he might be found. He further testified that he had
sold this certificate, along with others, as the agent of Robinson, to J. De Cordova, and that De Cordova had resold it to
him. That, as the owner 6f this certificate, he had employed
a man by the name of Steiner to apply for and enter land
thereunder..
Mr. E. I. Graham for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Morgan H. Beach (with whom was Mr. . W. Gregory
on the brief), for defendant in error.
No appearance for warrantor.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE,

opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

WHITE v. VAN

HORN.

Opinion of the Court.

The assignments of error are addressed, first, to the alleged
illegal admission of evidence ; secondly, to the refusal of the
court to give certain charges; and, thirdly, to the charges
actually given.
1st. The defendant objected to the introduction of the deed
of sale made by J. H. Chism on October 31, 1838,'of his bounty
certificate, because it was res inter alioc and irrelevant., The
objection was untenable. The issue of forgery vel non of the
deed from which the title in controversy was deraigned. clearly
made the proof relevant. The evidence tended to show the
manner in which J. H. Chism signed his,,name at or about the
time it was contended that the transfer signed by J. H. Chisholm had been executed. It was also admissible as tending
to show how J. H. Chism then valued Texas land, and thus
to disprove the claim that he had sold a certificate entitling
him to 1400 acres at $150 at just about the same time he had
obtained $500 for a certificate for a less quantity. Irrespective of this, testimony had been elicited without objection to
the effect that J. H. Chism had declared, on his second return
to Kentucky, that he had sold land in Texas, and this deed
was competent to explain that statement. It is a matter of
no moment whether testimony as to these declarations of J. H.
Chism was admissible or not, since it was admitted without
objection, and it was competent to offer evidence to throw
light upon and explain them.
2d. The objection taken to the statement of the witness
Moreman, that "he should say" that the original, of which
the certificate produced was a copy, was among the papers
turned over to him by the father of J. H. Chism, went, obviously, to the effect and not to the admissibility of that statement. Besides, the objection separates the words "I should
say" from the whole context of the witness' testimony;
whereas the context makes it clear that those words, instead
of being the expression of a conjecture, were simply a form
of speech, for, after using them, the witness proceqded to furnish the basis for his statement by describing the original
document in such a way as to give emphasis to his identification of the copy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

3d. The court refused to instruct the jury, at defendant's
request, as follows: "The uncontroverted evidence in this
cause shows that the certificate by virtue of which the land in
controversy was. located came into the hands of W. R. Baker,
as agent of E. M. Robinson, as a purchaser, in December, 1838,
and that it was thereafter located on the land by Steiner as
the agent of Baker, who had acquired the title of Robinson
in the same, and if the person who sold the same to Robinson
through Baker, under whatever name, was, at the time of the
sale to Baker, the owner of the certificate, you will find a verdict for defendant; and in this connection you are instructed
that it is a presumption of fact that a person in possession of
a certificate is the owner in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, whether he have a written assignment. or not, and
it is shown by the evidence that the certificate in question
was in possession of a person who sold it to him for Robinson
recently after it was issued, it having been issued in November,
1838; if you should believe such person was not the same
to whom it was issued, yet, unless the evidence. shows that
the person to whom it issued had not sold it, you would be
authorized to find for the defendant."
This charge was rightly refused. It practically requested
the court to disregard the proof, and amounted to a request to
instruct a verdict for the defendant. The very issue in the
case was whether the certificate did or did not come into the
hands of Baker, as agent, in 1838. The reliance of the defendant was on the testimony of Baker, and the fact that the
name J. t. Chisholm and the name J. H1. Chism were idem
sonans. But Baker's testimony was directly contradicted by
that of Moreman, and it is impossible to reconcile the two. If
the certificate Was in Moreman's hands as testified to by him,
it could not have been in the hands of Baker, in 1838, as sworn
to by him. There were, besides Moreman's testimony, many
circumstances tending to refute Baker's statements. These
were the fact that the transfer from Robinson was not put on
record until 1852, when Baker was clerk, and therefore himelf made the record; the loss of the original; the fact that
the transfer was made in the name of Robinson', whose exist-

WHITE v. VAN HORN.
Opinion of the Court.

ence and whereabouts were so meagrely disclosed as to render
it impossible from the testimony to discover him; that, although the first transfer in 1838 purported to have been made
in the name of Baker as agent, there was a subsequent transfer
by Baker to De Cordova, and yet, a third transfer from De
Cordova back to Baker; that the patent for the land was not
obtained until 1858, many years after Baker claimed that he
was in possession of the certificate ; and, finally, that the transfer itself, when examined by the light of surrounding facts,
affords some ground for the claim that Baker could not have
had the certificate in his possession in 1838, when the transfer
was made.
The certificate contained six statements: First, its class;
second, the quantity of the land'for which it issued; third, its
number; fourth, the date of its issue; fifth, the name of the
person to whom it was issued; sixth, the county from. which
it was issued. The transfer, in describing the certificate, states
it as having been issued to J. H. Chism ; makes no mention of
day or number. It says, "No.-," and that the certificate
was "dated November, 1838," giving no day of the month,
and it is signed "J. H. Chisholm." The failure in the transfer to give either the number of the certificate or the day of
the month on which it was issued, as also the mention of the
name of J. H. Chism in its body, coupled with the signature
"J. H. Chisholm," were in themselves claimed to be, as they
undoubtedly were, circumstances tending to show that the
party who wrote the transfer could not have been in possession of the certificate.
It was contended that this inference was further strengthened by the pubfic records. Thus, the return to the General
Land Office by the county clerk gave the number 990, corresponding with that of the certificate itself, and gave the month
as November, 1838, without giving any day of the month.
The report of the Travelling Board described the certificate by
a wrong number, 701, instead of 990; it gave the date thereof
as November 1, 1838, and the name of the grantee as J. .
Chisholm. The fact is that the transfer seemed to have been
drawn with reference to these pu'blic records, and, in order not

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to conflict with either of them, it uses the name J. H. Chism
in the body and the name J. H. Chisholm in the signature,
and it omits the number of the certificate altogether, and
mentions no day of the month, the day being also omitted in
one of the records. Under this condition of the proof, the
court was obviously correct in not taking the question of fact
from the consideration of the jury.
4th. The court refused to charge as follows at the request of
the defendant:
"The certificate was issued to a person whose name was
spelled therein Chism.. The transfer in evidence shows that
the person who transferred the same spelled his- name Chisholm. Now, if the person who so transferred the certificate
was the same to whom it issued, it is not material in what
form he signed it, you will find for the defendant; and in
determining whether he was the same person you may consider the fact, if a fact, that the person who sold to Baker
was a soldier, the date of his certificate, the -whereabouts of
J. H. Chism about the time, and the evidence introduced by
plaintiffs that J. H. Chism was in Texas about the time of the
transfer."
This charge was also correctly refused. In some particulars
it assumed the existence of facts not proven by asking the
court to state to the jury that Chism was in Texas about
the time of the transfer, December 2, 1838, whilst there was
evidence that he returned to Kentucky in November, 1838.
Besides, we think the charge of the court, as :actually given to
the jury, furnished all that the defendant was entitled to on.
this point. It was as follows:
"The defendants have offered what purports to'be a transfer of the certificate granted J. H. :Chism to one E. M. Robinson, which transfer is signed J. H. Chisholm, and in order for
this transfer to convey title to said certificate the proof must
satisfy you that the person who made said transfer was the
same man to whom said certificate was issued, and unless it
does so satisfy you the defendant cannot defeat the plaintiffs'
recovery of two-thirds of the land sued for; and on this issue
as to the person who made the transfer being the same person

WHITE v. VAN HORN.
Opinion of the Court.;

to whom said certificate No. 990 issued the burden of proof is
on the defendant; and if the proof does not so satisfy you,
the plaintiffs are entitled to recover the whole land unless
defeated by the defendant's plea of five-year limitation, as to
Mrs. Van Horn's one4hird interest therein."
5th. The court refused to give, at defendant's request, the
following charge:
"It is shown by the evidence that the certificate has beeh
in the land office since 1857, and is now there, and if tie certificate or paper about which plaintiffs testify was burned in
Dallas or elsewhere, then the paper testified about by them is
not this certificate."
This charge was also correctly refused. It asked the court
to instruct upon a purely hypothetical statement of fact and
was calculated to confuse, and was, moreover, fully covered
by the charges actually given.
6th. The court refused to give the following requested charge:
"The transfer introduced by the defendant to the certificate
is not a forgery in law, whether signed by the person who
was the owner of said certificate acquired from the person to
whom it issued or by the person to. whom it issued, and you
are instructed that if in this case you should find for the plaintiffs, in any event you will find for the defendant one-third of
the land as against M. S. Van Horn, and for the other plaintiffs only two-thirds of the land."
This charge was correctly refused. There was no evidence
tending to show that the transfer was made by any person
claiming to have acquired the certificate from Chism; on the
contrary, the testimony of Baker and all the testimony in the
case on both sides presented the issue of whether Chism,
the person to whom the certificate had been issued, signed
the transfer. There was no proof in any. way to indicate that
Chism had transferred. to some one else his certificate, and
that this other person had signed J. H. Chisholm in the alleged
transfer to Baker. That portion of the charge which asked
that the jury be instructed that if the transfer was signed by
Chism, to whom the certificate issued, it was not a forgery,
was fully covered by the charge given.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

7th. The court gave the following charge, and exception
was
1 Iftaken
you thereto:
believe from the evidence that W. R. Baker falsely
made or caused or procured to be made falsely, or in any way
aided, assisted, advised, or encouraged the false making of the
transfer to E. M. Robinson, signed J. H. Chisholm, and purporting to convey the land certificate 990, issued to J. H.
Chism, with intent to make valuable thing or money thereby,
or with intent to set up a claim or title or to aid or assist any
one else in setting up a claim or title to the land in contr9versy, or in any way to injure, obtain the advantage of, or
prejudice the rights or interest of the true owner of the land,
then the said transfer is a forgery, and you will find for plaintiffs for the land in controversy."
It is claimed that this charge was erroneous, because it submitted issues not raised by the evidence, and was calculated to
impress the jury with the. belief that there was some proof of
such action on the part of Baker, and thus prejudice the
defendant's, case. But this objection takes it for granted that
there was nothing in the testimony indicating that Baker
made the false endorsement, if one was made. We have
already stated the tendency of the testimony on both sides, and
that the very nature of the direct, as well as the circumstantial,
evidence necessarily raised the question of forgery vel non, and
of Bakor's connection with the forgery, if there was any. Nor
is this charge amenable to the criticism that it. assumes the
fact that the transfer was false. It is true that the court used
the words "in any way aided, assisted, advised, or encouraged
the false making of the transfer to E. M. Robinson, signed J, H.
Chisholm." But it is manifest from the connection in which
these words were used, and from the entire charge given, that
the court left to the jury the question of whether the transfer
was forged or not, without expressing any opinion thereon.
Indeed, it was expressly charged that on the issue of the
forgery the burden of proof was on the plaintiffs.
8th. The following charge was also objected to:
"If you believe from the evidence that a man of the name
of J. I. Chisholm or of any other iame who was not the iden-

WHITE v. VAN HORN.
Opinion of the Court.

tical party to whom the certificate No. 990, issued to J. H.
Chism, did falsely make the transfer to E. M. Robinson, signed
J. H. Chisholm, with the intent to make money, or other
valuable thing thereby, or with intent to set up a claim or title,
or aid or assist any one else in setting up a claim or title to
the land in controversy, or in any way to injure, obtain the
advantage of, or prejudice the rights or interest of the true
owners of the land, or with any fraudulent intent whatever,
then said instrument you will find to be a forgery, and you
will bring a verdict for plaintiffs for the land in controversy.
If you believe from the evidence that J. H. Chisholm or any
other person not being the identical person to whom certificate
No. 990, in the name of J. H. Chism issued, did falsely counterfeit the original grantee in making the transfer to E. M.
Robinson, signed J. H. Chisholm, with the intent to make
money or other valuable thing thereby, or with the intent to
set uP a claim or title, or aid or assist any one else in setting
up a claim or title, to the land in controversy, or to cast a
cloud upon the title, or in any way injure, obtain the advantage of, or prejudice the rights of the true owner of the land,
or with any fraudulent intent whatever, then you will find said
instrument a forgery, and will find for plaintiffs for the land
in controversy."
This charge, it is said, is erroneous, (a) because it presents
an issue not raised by the evidence; and (b) because it excludes
the hypothesis that a person to whom J. H. Chism may have
transferred the certificate by delivery was the person who
signed the transfer "J.H. Chisholm;" and (c) because if such
person signed his own name "J. H. Chisholm," his signature
was not a forgery under the law then existing in Texas.
There was, as we have already said, no evidence tending to
show a transfer by J. H. Chism, the grantee, to another person, and an assignment by such person to Baker. The entire
proof on both sides was addressed to the question of whether
the certificate was in the possession of Chism at the time that
Baker claimed that it was delivered to him, and so remained
thereafter. The whole case turned upon this question, and the
issue of whether the transfer was a forgery or not in a large
VOL. CLIX-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

measure depended on the conclusions formed by the jury as to
this fact. But the claim that if the name of J. H. Chisholm
was signed by one bearing that name, the writing of this signature could not under any circumstances constitute a forgery,
is unsound. It is asserted by the plaintiff in error that the
law of Texas as to forgery prior to 1876 was as follows:
"He is guilty of forgery who, without lawful authority,
and with intent to injure and defraud, shall make a false
instrument in writing, purporting to be the act of another, in
such manner that the false instrument so made would (if the
same be true) have created, increased, diminished, discharged,
or defeated any pecuniary obligation, or would have transferred or in any manner have affected any property whatever."
Art. 2093, Paschal's Digest of Laws.
Clearly, if one whose name was J. H. Chisholm took a certificate issued to J. H. Chism, and, falsely personating J,. H.
Chism, signed his name as J. H. Chisholm, intending thereby
to counterfeit the signature of J. H. Chism, and, by reason of
the fact that the names wert idem sonans, to produce the
impression that the name signed was that Of J. H. Chism, this
act would have been a forgery under'this statute. The case
of Commonwealth v. Baldwin, 11 Gray, 197, cited to the con-

trary, sustains this view.
9th. The ninth assignment is Covered by what we have
already said.
10th. The court gave the following charge, which was
objected to:
"The defendants have offered what purports to be a transfer
of the certificate granted J. H. Chism to one E. M. Robinson,
which transfer is signed 'J. H. Chisholm,' and in order for
this tranfer to convey title to said certificate the proof must
satisfy you that the person who made said transfer was the
same man to. whom said certificate was issued, and unless it
does so satisfy you the defendant cannot defeat the plaintiffs'
recovery of two-thirds of thu lands sued for; and on this issue,
as to the person who made the said transfer being the same
person to whom said certificate No. 990 issued, the burden of
proof is on the defendant; and if the proof does not so

WHITE v. VA-N HORN.
Opinion of the Court.

satisfy you the plaintiffs are entitled to recover the whole land
unless defeated by the defendant's plea of five years' statutes
of limitation as to Mrs. Van Horn's one-third interest therein."
It is contended that the word "satisfy" exacted a greater
degree of proof than the law required, and we are referred to
cases in Texas which, it is claimed, hold that an instruction
unless the party on whom the burden of proof rests establishes
his ease by "satisfactory evidence," the jury must find for the
other side, exacts from the first party an undue degree of
proof. Whatever, abstractly speaking, may be the merits of
this objection, it is unavailable here. The charge objected to
was only one of a number, and, we think, taking all the instructions together, they fairly stated to the jury that their
conclusions were to depend on their belief as to the preponderance of proof.
11th. This assignment of error is addressed to the charge
of the court in regard to the controversy between White .and
his warrantors. This charge is thus set out in the record:
"The court instructed the jury that if they found for the
plaintiff for the whole of the land in controversy, they -would
find for the defendant White, against the executors of Baker,
the sum of $3960, with 8 per cent interest from October 2,
1887 (it being in evidence that that was the amount of the
purchase-money paid by White to Baker, and this suit having
been filed on the 2d day of October, 1889) ; and the court also
instructed the jury to find for the defendant White the value
of his improvements made in good faith, and that if the
amount exceeded the value of use and occupation of the
premises from the 2d day of October, 1887, they would find
the value of the use and occupation from the time said White
took possession, not to exceed the value of the improvements,
and deduct it from the value of the improvements."
It is contended that to allow the defendant interest only
from October 2, 1887, instead of from the date of the sale,
in 1882, was erroneous. The Texas statute limits the right
to recover, in an ejectment suit, for use and occupation, to a
period of two years prior to the commencement of the suit,
2 Sayles' Tex. Civ. St. art. 4809.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The court evidently had this statute in view, and considered
that as the plaintiffs' right to recover for use and occupation
was restricted to two years, the defendant's claim against the
warrantor for interest should be confined to the same period,
.upon the theory that as long as the possessor enjoyed the
fruits, he was not entitled to recover interest on the price.
This view, however, overlooked another provision of law,
which allows the plaintiff in ejectment to. recover for use and
occupation for a longer period than two years, prior to the
bringing of the action, where the defendant in ejectment sets
up a claim for improvements. In such a case the law allows
a claim for use and occupation beyond the period of two years,
and to the extent necessary to offset the claim for improvement. 2 Sayles' Tex. Civ. St. arts. 4810, 4815. Here the
defendant made a claim for improvements, and the claim for
use and occupation was allowed beyond two years, and to the
extent necessary to offset the improvements. As the claim for
use and occupation did not equal the claim for improvements,
the former must necessarily have extended to the full period of
defendant's occupancy. To limit the defendant's recovery of
interest against the Warrantor to the period of two years was,
therefore, to deprive him of interest on the price from the
day of the sale, although he was held accountable for use and
occupation from that date. He ought, therefore, to have been
allowed interest against the estate of Baker from the day of
the sale.
Error in this regard, however, in no way concerns the controversies between the plaintiffs and the defendant. The
judgment will therefore be
Afflrmed exceat in regard to the issues between the defendant
and the executors of Baker, defendants in the call in warranty; in this particular,the case is remanded with directions to grant, on application of defendant, a new trial;
in all other respects the judgment is afirmed.

