SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

cation suggested, there was no error in the charge actually
given. It is no ground for reversal that the court omitted
to give instructions, where they were not requested by the
defendant. It is sufficient that the court give no erroneous
instructions. Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1, 15;, Texas &
Pacific Railway v. Volk, 151 U. S. 73, 78.
Beyond this, however, any possible misapprehension upon
this point would be removed by the charge that the law says
that "if the propositions I have namdd to you make up the
crime, and the further proposition that brings the crime home
to this defendant are proven beyond a reasonable doubt in the
case, that your duty in the premises is imperative: it is to find
a verdict of guilty of murder against the defendant. If they
are not proven in that way, either one of them - that is, to
such a degree of certainty that they come under that legal
definition of proof beyond a reasonable doubt- then your
duty will be to acquit the defendant." As the court charged
the jury repeatedly that the crime and every element thereof
must be made out to their satisfaction beyond a reasonable
doubt, it is impossible that they could have been misled by
the omission of the qualification suggested.
The remaining assignments are either covered by those
already considered, or are so obviously frivolous that no discussion of them is necessary The judgment of the court
below is, therefore,
Aflirmed.

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 548. Submitted October 15, 1895, - Decided November 11, 1895.

Land, duly and properly entered for a homestead, under the homestead laws
of the United States, is not, from the time of entry, and pending proceedings before the land department, and until final disposition by that
department, so appropriated for special purpose, and so segregated from
the public domain as to be no longer lands of the United States within
the purview and meaning of section 2461 of the Revised Statutes of the

OC'POBtlR TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
United States; but, on the contrary, it continues to be the property of
the United States for five years following the entry, and until a patent is
issued.
Where a citizen of the United States has made an entry upon the public
lands of the United States under and in accordance with the homestead
laws of the United States, which entry is in all respects regular, he
may cut such timber as is necessary to clear the land for cultivation,
or to build him a house, outbuildings, and fences, and perhaps may exchange such timber for lumber to be devoted to the same purposes; but
he cannot sell the timber for money, except so far as it may have been
cut for the purpose of cultivation; and in case he exceeds his rights in
this respect, he may be held liable in a criminal prosecution under section
2461 or section 5388 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, or
either of said sections, for cutting and removing, after such homestead
entry, and while the same is in full force, the standing trees and timber
found and being on the land so entered as a homestead.
In holding that, as between the United States and a homestead settler, the
land is to be deemed the property of the former, at least so far as Is
necessary to protect it from waste, the court is not to be understood as
expressing an opinion whether, as between the settler and the State, it
may not be deemed to be the property of the settler, and therefore
subject to taxation.

SHIVER was triea upon an information filed in the District
Court for the Southern District of Alabama for cutting and
removing two hundred pine trees from a quarter section of
land in Monroe County, which he had entered as a homestead
on January 26, 1894. It appeared that the cutting began about
the first of April, and that all the standing timber, amounting to about five hundred trees, had been, either before or
after complaint was made against him, cut and removed from
the land; that the defendant and his family were living on
the land, and had erected a box house worth about one hundred
dollars; that the lumber was cut and hauled from the land by
defendant's procurement; that it had been cut all over the
land; that the land cleared amounted to about an acre; that
the house was not yet completed; that the timber was taken
to the mill of the Bear Creek Mill Company, of which defendant was an employ6; that defendant was not living on the
land when the cutting began, and that the trees would make
upwards of 150,000 feet of lumber; that they were not cut
for the purpose- of clearing the land for cultivation, and that

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

such timber was cut within four months after defendant had
made his homestead entry; that the trees yielded an aggregate of the sum of $126, while the improvements made
upon the land cost $229. The lumber put into the building
amounted to 9765 feet.
There was conflicting evidence as to the motives of the
defendant in cutting and selling the timber. He claimed that
the logs were exchanged for lumber and building material,
all of which were put into his improvement; the government
claiming that it was cut for the purpose of sale and profit.
The court instructed the jury that defendant had the right
to cut timber on his homestead suitable and sufficient to build
necessary and convenient houses, fences, etc., for a home, and
to have that timber sawed into suitable lumber to make such
improvements on his homestead; that he could have exchanged timber for lumber to make such improvements, but
only so much as was necessary, and that if he only did this,
and did it in good faith, he should be acquitted. On the contrary, that any cutting in excess of the number necessary to
make his improvements would be unlawful. That he had no
right to cut trees for the purpose of sale for profit, or to pay
debts or loans of money, or to pay his expenses, or to buy
supplies; in short, he had no right to cut them for sale for
any such purpose.
Defendant was convicted, and appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which certified to this court the following
questions:
1. Whether lands duly and properly entered for a homestead, under the homestead laws of the United States, are
from the time of entry, and pending proceedings before the
land department, and until final disposition by that department, so appropriated for special purpose, and so segregated from the public domain as to be no longer lands
of the United States within the purview and meaning of section 2461 of the Revised Statutes of the United States?
2. Where a citizen of the United States has made an entry
upon the public lands of the United States under and in accordance with the homestead laws of the United States, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
opinion of the Court.

entry is in all respects regular, can such citizen be held liable
in a criminal prosecution under section 2461 or section 5388 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States, or either of said
sections, for cutting and removing, after such homestead entry, and while the same is in full force, the standing trees and
timber found and being on the land so entered as a homestead ?

Mr. M. D. Wickerhan and Mr. J. W. $piith for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendant
in error.
MR. JusTicE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case turns upon the question as to what are "lands of
the United States" within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 2461,
providing for the bunishment of persons guilty of cutting timber upon such lands other than for the use of the navy. Obviously the question is not whether such lands are so far withdrawn from sale as to be no longer subject to appropriation
by any railroad or other person or corporation to which a land
grant has been made, but whether they are still so far the
property of the United States that the government may protect itself against an unlawful use of them. Indeed, this
court has settled by repeated decisions that the claim of a
homestead or prelimption entry made at any time before filing a map of definite location of a railway prevents the lands
covered by such claim from. passing to such railway uader its
land grant, even though such entry be subsequently abandoned. Kansas Pacific Railway v. Dunineyer, 113 U. S. 629;
Hastings & Dakota Railroad v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357; Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85; Sioux City &c. Land Co. v. Griffey,
143 U. S. 32. The same principle applies where lands have
been reserved for any purpose whatever. Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Pet. 498; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Newhall

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.

495

Opinion of the Court.

v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761; Kansas PaoijicRailroad v. Atchison
&c. Rvailroad, 112 U. S. 414.
While these cases indicate that lands once appropriated to a
certain purpose thereby cease to be available for another purpose, there is nothing in them to show that the United States
loses its title to such lands by the first appropriation, or that
they cease to be the property of the government. Upon the contrary, it was said by this court, as early as 1839, in Wilcox v.
Jackson, 1.3 Pet. 498, 516, that " with the exception of a few
cases, nothing but the patent passes a perfect and consummate
title." So, in Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187, 193, "There is
nothing in the essential nature of these acts" (entering upon
lands for the purpose of preemption) "to confer a vested'right,
or, indeed, any kind of claim to land, and it is necessary to
resort to the preemption law to make out any shadow of such
right." In this case, the following extract from an opinion of
Attorney General Bates was quoted with approval: "A mere
entry upon land, with continued occupancy and improvement
thereof, gives no vested interest in it. It may, however, give,
under our national land system, a privilege of predmption.
But this is only a privilege conferred on the settler to purchase
lands in preference to others. . . . His settlement protects
him from intrusion or purchase by others, but confers no right
against the government." A number of authorities were cited
to the same effect. It was held that it was within the power
of Congress to withdraw land which had been preempted
from entry or sale, though this miht defeat the imperfect
right of the settler. In the Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall.
77, the construction given to the preemption law in Frisbie v.
Wkitney was approved, the court observing, p. 88: "It is the
only construction which preserves a wise control in the government over the public lands and prevents a general spoliation of
them under the pretence of intended preeinption and settlement. The settler being under no obligation to continue his
settlement and acquire the title, would find the doctrine advanced by the defendant, if it could be maintained, that he
was possessed by his settlement of an interest beyond the
control of the government, a convenient protection for any

OCTOBER TERM 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

trespass and waste in the destruction of timber or removal of
ores, which he might think proper to commit during his occupation of the premises."
The right which is given to a person or corporation, by a
reservation of public lands in his favor, is intended to protect
him against the actions of third parties, as to whom his right
to thesame may be absolute. But, as to the government, his
right is only conditional and inchoate. By the homestead act,
Rev. Stat. § 2289, certain classes of persons therein specified
are entitled to enter a quarter section of land subject to preemption at a certain price, upon making an affidavit of facts,
(§ 2290,) before the register or receiver, including in such affidavit a statement that "his entry is made, for the purpose of
actual settlement and cultivation, and not either directly or
indirectly for the use and benefit of any other person." By the
act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, § 5, 26 Stat. 1095, 1098, this affidavit is now required to state that the settler " will faithfully
and honestly endeavor to comply with all the requirements of
law as to settlement, residence, and cultivation necessary to
acquire title to the land applied for; that he or she is not acting as the agent of any person, corporation, or syndicate in
making such entry, nor in collusion with any person, corporation, or syndicate to give them the benefit of the land entered,
or any part thereof, or the timber thereon." By § 2291, no
patent shall issue until the expiration of five years from the
date of the entry, the settler being required to prove by two
credible witnesses that he has resided upon or cultivated the
land for such ,term of five years immediately succeeding the
time of filing the affidavit, and that no part of such land has,
been alienated, except for certain public purposes. By § 2297,
if, before the expiration of the five years, the settler changes
his residence or abandons the land for more than six months
at any time, the lands so entered shall revert to the government; and by § 2301, the settler may, at any time before the
expiration of the five years, obtain a patent for the lands, by
paying the minimum. price therefor, and making proof of
settlement and cultivation, as provided by law, granting preeuption rights.

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.

S497

Opinion of the Court.

From this r~sum6 of the homestead act, it is evident, first,
that the land entered continues to be the property of the
United States for five years following the entry, and until a
patent is issued; second, that such property is subject to
divestituro, upon proof of the continued residence of the
settler upon the land for five years; third, that meantime
such settler has the right to treat the land as his own, so
far, and so far only, as is necessary to carry out the purposes
of the act. The object of this legislation is to preserve the
right of the actual settler, but not to open the door to manifest abuses of such right. Obviously the privilege of residing
on the land for five years would be ineffectual if he had not
also the right to build himself a house, outbuildings, and
fences, and to clear the land for cultivation, and to that extent the act limits and modifies the act of 1831, now embraced
in Rev. Stat. § 2461. It is equally clear that he is bound to
act in good faith to the government, and that he has no right
to pervert the law to dishonest purposes, or to make use of
the land for profit or speculation. The law contemplates the
possibility of his abandoning it, but he may not in the meantime ruin its value to others, who may wish to purchase or
enter it.
With respect to the standing timber, his privileges are analogous to those of a tenant for life or years. In this connection, it is said by Washburn in his work upon Real Property,
(1st ed.) vol. 1, p. 108: "In the United States, whether cutting of any kind of trees in any particular case is waste, seems
to depend upon the question whether the act is such as a prudent farmer would do with his own land, having regard to
the land as an inheritance, and whether doing it would dimin-.
ish the value of the land as an estate."
"Questions of this kind have frequently arisen in those
States where the lands are new and covered with forests, and
where they cannot be cultivated until cleared of the timber.
In such case, it seems to be) lawful for the tenant to clear the
land if it would be in conformity with good husbandry to do
so, the question depending upon the custom of farmers, the
situation of the country, and the value of the timber. . . .
VOL. CLJX-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Wood cut by a tenant in clearing the land belongs to him,
and he may sell it, though he cannot cut the wood for purposes of sale; it is waste if he does."
By analogy we think the settler upon a homestead may cut
such timber as is necessary to clear the land for cultivation,
or to build him a house, outbuildings, and fences, and, perhaps, as indicated in the charge of the court below, to exchange such timber for lumber to be devoted to the same
purposes; but not to sell the same for money, except so far
as the timber may have been cut for the purpose of cultivation. While, as was claimed in this case, such' money might
be used to build, enlarge, or finish a house, the toleration of
such practice would open the door to manifest abuses, and be
made an excuse for stripping the land of all its valuable timber. One man might be content with a house worth $100,
while another might, under the guise of using the proceeds
of the timber for improvements, erect a house worth several
conthousands. A reasonable construction of the statute -a
struction consonant both with the protection of the property
of the government in the land and of the rights of the settler
- we think restricts him to the use of the timber actually cut,
or to the lumber exchanged for such timber and used for his
improvements, and to such as is necessarily cut in clearing
the land for cultivation.
While this questionnever seems to have arisen in this court
before, in United States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591- a suit in
trover for the value of timber cut from an Indian reservation
was held that while the right of use and occupancy by
-it
the Indians was unlimited, their right to cut and sell timber,
except for actual use upon the premises, was restricted to
such as was cut for the purpose of clearing the land for agri•cultural purposes; that while they were at liberty to sell.the
timber so cut for the purpose of cultivation, they could not
cut it for the purpose of sale alone. In other words, if the
cutting of the timber was the principal, and not the incident,
then the cutting would be unlawful, and the timber when cut
became the absolute property of the United States. Their position was said to be analogous to that of a tenant for life, the

SHIVER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

government holding the title, with the rights of a remainderman.
In the courts of original jurisdiction, it has been uniformly
held that a similar rule applied to homestead entries. United
States v. -McEntee, 23 Internal Revenue Record, 368; United
States v. Nelson, 5 Sawyer, 68; The Timber Cases, 11 Fed. Rep.
81; United States v. Smith, 11 Fed. Rep. 487,493; UnitedStates
v. Stores, 14 Fed. Rep. 824; United States v. Yoder, 18 Fed.
Rep. 372; United States v. Williams, 18 Fed. Rep. 475; United
States v. Lane, 19 Fed. Rep. 910; United States v. Preyberg,
32 Fed. Rep. 195; United States v. Murphy, 32 Fed. Rep.
376. This general consensus of opinion isentitled to great
weight as authority.
While we hold in this case that, as between the United
States and the settler, the land is to be deemed the property
of the former, at least so far as is necessary to protect it from
waste, we do not wish to be understood as expressing an opinion whether, as between the settler and the State, it may not
be deemed the property of the settler, and, therefore, subject
to taxation. Carroll v. SqfJord, 3 How. 441; Wf(ithersoon v.
Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603;
Railway Co. v. AlacShane, 22 Wall. 444; Wisconsin Central
Railroadv. Price County, 133 U. S. 496.
As the land in question continued to be "the land of the
United States," within the meaning of section 2461,
The first question must be answered in the negative, and the
second in the ajfirmative.

