MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
Syllabus.

In United States v. Telephone Company, 8upra, it was de.
cided that where a patent for a grant of any kind issued by
the United States has been obtained by fraud, by mistake or
by accident, a suit by the United States against the patentee
is the proper remedy for relief, and that in this country, where
there is no kingly prerogative but where patents for land and
inventions are issued by the authority of the government, and

by officers appointed for that purpose who may have been
imposed upon by fraud or deceit, or may have erred as to
their power, or made mistakes in the instrument itself, the
appropriate remedy is by proceedings by the United States
against the patentee.
We cannot impute to Congress the intention of narrowing
the appellate jurisdiction of this court in a suit brought by
the United States as a sovereign in respect of alleged miscarriage in the exercise of one of its functions as such; deeply
concerning the public interests; and not falling within the
reason of the limitations of the act.
Motion denied.
MR. JUsTICE GRAY took no part in the consideration and
disposition of this motion.

MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 23. Argued January 25, 1895. - Decided November18, 1895.

The plaintiff below imported Into the port of New York in 1887 and 1888 a
quantity of pieces of glass, cut in shapes to order and with bevelled
edges, intended to be used in the manufacture of clocks. The collector
classified them as "articles of glass, cut, engraved," etc., subject to a
duty of.45 per cent ad valorem. The importer claimed that they were
dutiable as "parts of clocks," and as such subject to a duty of 30 per
cent ad valorem; paid the duty imposed under protest; and brought
this action to recover the excess. The trial court instructed the jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
that the burden was on the plaintiff to establish that the articles were
parts of clocks; that in determining that question it would not be necessary for the jury to say that they were exclusively used for that purpose; that the fact that an article chiefly used for one purpose had been
used by some for a purpose for which it was not originally intended
would not change its tariff nomenclature; that if the jury should find
that the articles were chiefly used as parts of clocks, that that would
determine their tariff classification, but on the other hand, that they
must be chiefly and principally used for that purpose; that if they are
articles with no distinguishing characteristic, just as applicable for use
In fancy boxes or in coach lamps as they are for clocks, then it would be
entirely proper to say that they have no distinguishing characteristics as
parts of clocks; that they might be used for one purpose just as well as
for, another; and if the juryshould find as to those articles, or any of
them, that they have several uses to which they are perfectly applicable,
then as to those articles the verdict should he for the defendant. Held,
that the instructions were manifestly correct, and that in giving the rule
of, chief use, the principles by which it was to be ascertained were fully
stated exactly in accordance with the law announced by this court in
Magone v. Heller, 150 U. S. 70.
THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by the
defendants in error, who were partners in business under
the name of P. Wiederer & Bros., against a former collector
of the port of New York, to. recover alleged overpayments
exacted as duties upon certain importations made in 1887 and
1888. Due protests were made against the duties charged by
the collector, and from his decision timely appeals were taken
to the Secretary of the-Treasury. The articles in question
were imported from Bremen and Hamburg, and consisted of
pieces of glass, square, oblong, or round, with ground or
bevelled edges, the invoices describing them as "glass unsilbert," giving their respective dimensions. All the packages
except four lots were also described in the invoices as "parts
of watches." The collector assessed the glass as dutiable as
"articles of glass, cut," under paragraph 135 of the tariff act
of March 3, 1883, c. 121, ยง 6, 22 Stat. 488, 496, which imposed
a duty of forty-five per centum ad valorem upon "articles of
glass, cut, engraved, painted, colored, printed, stained, silvered,
or gilt, not including plate glass silvered, or looking glass
plates." The importer claimed that they were dutiable either

MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
Statement of the Case.

as "parts of watches," under paragraph 494 of said act,
(p. 514,) which imposed a duty of twenty-five per centum ad
valorem upon "watches, watch-cases, watch-movements, parts
of watches, and watch materials, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act;" or as "parts of clocks," under
paragraph 414, (p. 511,) which laid a duty of thirty per centum
ad valorem upon "clocks and parts of clocks." On the trial
of the case, the claim that the glass was dutiable as "parts of
watches" was abandoned by the importers, who insisted that
they should have been assessed as "parts of clocks."
There was testimony tending to show that the glass had
been ordered from a factory in Germany, some for the
Ansonia Clock Company and some for the New Haven Clock
Company; that the pieces had been cut and manufactured to
sizes suitable for clocks; and that the edges had been ground
and bevelled so as to cause the glass to be ready for fitting
into the dials and frames of the clocks for which the glass had
been in advance prepared -in other words, that the glass
was a finished product, ready for use in clocks without any
further labor or preparation whatever. There was also evidence tending to show that the. particular importations in
question were made in consequence of a regular course of
business between the clock companies and the importer, by
which the latter had regularly, during a considerable period
of time, received from the clockmakers the description and
measurements of the glass required for fitting into the clocks,
and ordered them manufactured in accordance therewith.
There was also evidence tending to show that the glass of
which the pieces were made was French window glass of a
good quality, and that pieces of glass like those in question
were chiefly and generally used as parts of clocks. On behalf
of the collector, there was evidence tending to show that
pieces of glass like those imported were sometimes. used by
the manufacturers of hand mirrors, by carriage manufacturers,
by photographers, by perfumers, by makers of lamps, and for
other objects. The evidence tended to show not that the
exact size of glass covered by the invoices were used for the
purposes named, but that pieces of glass of the general form of

OCTOBER TERIM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

those imported were thus used when cut to the sizes required
for other purposes. There was conflict in the testimony as to
whether pieces made from window glass were ever used other
than for clocks; some of the witnesses saying that the glass
used for suoh,other purposes was plate glass and not window
glass, whilst others testified that both pieces made of plate
and window glass were used for the other purposes above
indicated. The court below, after instructing the jury that
the burden was upon the plaintiff to establish by a preponderance of evidence that the articles were parts of clocks, laid
down the following rule by which they were to determine
whether the glass was to be so considered:
"In determining this question, whether or not these articles
are parts of clocks, it will not be necessary for you to say that
they were exclusively used for that purpose. An article may
be chiefly used for a certain purpose and be diverted from its
principal use; somebody may put it to a purpose for which it
was not originally intended. That could not, in my judgment,
change its tariff nomenclature. The Supreme Court, in a case
which I think is somewhat similar upon the facts, although
relating to different sections of the statute, sustained a charge
to the jury 'that the use to which the articles were chiefly
adapted and for which they were used determined their character within the meaning of the statute.

.

.'

And so I

will say to you, as the law of the case, as I understand it,
that if you find that these articles were chiefly used as parts
of clocks, that would determine their tariff classification.
But it is entirely clear, upon the other hand, that they must
be chiefly and principally used for that purpose. If they are
articles, all, or one or more, as the case may be, which have
no distinguishing characteristic, which are just as applicable
for use in fancy boxes or in coach lamps as they are for clocks,
just as applicable to the one use as to the other, then it would
be entirely proper to say that they have no distinguishing
characteristics as parts of clocks. They might be used for
one purpose just as well as for another. And if you find as
to those articles, or any of them, that they have several uses
to which they are perfectly applicable, then as to thQse articles

your verdict should be for the defendant."

MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant excepted to so much of the charge as stated
that "the principal or chief use of the articles would determine
their tariff classification." He, moreover, excepted to the refusal of the court to give five separate charges by him presented. The first, fourth, and fifth of these charges substantially asked that the jury be instructed to find in favor of the
defendant, unless the proof showed that the pieces of glass in
controversy were used absolutely and exclusively for clocks,
and for no other purpose. The second and third requests
asked for an instruction in favor of the defendant, unless the
proof showed that the articles imported were used in trade
exclusively as parts of clocks or parts of watches, or were used
in trade and commerce solely as parts of clocks.
Verdict and judgment thereon for plaintiffs, to review which
this writ of error was brought.
Mr. A8sistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Edward ilartley,(with whom was Mr. Walter H. Coleman on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The instructions which were refused asked the court to rule
that exclusive use was the correct criterion to determine the
classification. The error of this contention seems obvious
from the most casual consideration. If exclusive use were
made the test, then an exception would destroy the rule; for
however general and universal the use of a particular article
might be, if exceptionally used for another purpose, such use
would destroy the effect of the general and common use, and
make the exception the controlling factor. It is urged that
if exclusive use is not made the criterion it will be impossible
to assess duties, because of the difficulty of ascertaining the
chief or general and common use; but it is manifest that this
argument of inconvenience is a mistaken one, and that, on the
contrary, it would be impossible to resort to use as a criterion

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of classification if exclusive use must be ascertained in so doing, for that which is generally and commonly done may be
known, but that which is so universally done as to be without
any exception is difficult, if not impossible, of ascertainment.
The strength of this reasoning has caused counsel, in the
discussion at bar, to admit that the correct standard is not exclusive use, which was presented in the first, fourth, and fifth
request to charge, but that sucj test is to be found in the exclusive commercial use which was embraced in the second and
third requests. The proposition involves a distinction without
a difference. How the line can be drawn between exclusive
use and exclusive commercial use, in trade or commerce, is impossible of statement. Indeed, this difficulty is likewise so
apparent that in defending the proposition of exclusive coAmercial use it is defined in the argument to be "known in commerce," but known in commerce is a matter of commercial
designation, not of commercial use. Thus it is impossible to
state the propositioA of exclusive use without being driven by
the reason of things to abandon it and seek refuge in the theory of exclusive dommercial use, or exclusively used in trade
or commerce. It is equally impossible to state this last con-.
tention without resolving it into a question of commercial designation. The decisions of this court abundantly support the
*refusal to give the charges asked. flartranft v. Langfeld,
125 U. S. 128 ; Roberton v. Edelhof, 132 U. S. 614 i Cadwalader v. Wanamaker, 149 U. S. 532; Walker v. Seeberger, 149
U. S. 541; Hartranft v. Meyer, 149 U. S. 544; Magore v.
Bleller, 150 U. S. 70; Sonn v. Magone, 159. U. S. 417. It is
urged that lVorthington v. Robbins, 139 U. S. 337, and Magone
v. teller (ub. sup.) are in conflict with the other cases above
quoted, and therefore such other cases by implication are overruled. The contention is without foundation., It proceeds
upon the hypothesis that this court overruled, in 139 U. S.,
Hartranft v. Langfeld and Robertson v. Edelhof, when, in
149 U. S., in Cadwaladerv. Wanamaker, Walker v. Seeberger,
and in, Hartranft v. Meyer, it affirmed those cases, and held
itself bound by the 4octrine of chief use which was there announced. So, also, it presupposes that this court, in -Magone

MAGONE v. WIEDERER.
Opialon of the Court.

v. Heller, in 150 U. S., reversed the doctrine established in a
line of carefully considered cases without even making reference to them. It is apparent that the matters decided in
Worthington v. Robbins and Yagone v. Ieller do not conflict
with the adjudications of this court, as to the chief or predominant use, which began with the case of Maillard v. Lawrence,
16 How. 251, 261, and has found fuller expression in the line
of cases above referred to.
Worthington v. Robbins involved the rate of duty on a certain class of enamel, which it was claimed by the importer was
dutiable as watch materials. The court found that the enamel
was a raw material, not necessarily material for a watch. at
all, and not susceptible of being used as such without undergoing a process of manufacture. It was upon this ground the
case was decided. Magone v. Heller involved the duty on aft
article invoiced as "manure salts" which the collector claimed
was dutiable as sulphate of potash at 20 per cent ad valorem,
and which the importer asserted was free of duty as a substance "expressly used for manure." The proof showed that
salts like those in question were used for making fertilizers,
that they were sometimes sold to farmers for fertilizing purposes, and that they were also used for making alum, nitrate of
potash, and bichromate of potash. In this state of proof the
defendant, collector, requested, under the theory of exclusive
use, a verdict in his favor, which the court refused, but on the
request of the plaintiff instructed a verdict in his behalf. We
held that the court rightly refused the instruction for the defendant, which was necessarily an adhesion to the settled doctrine that where use becomes the criterion, exclusive use was
not the proper test to apply. We held also that there ,was
error in instructing for the plaintiff, because the question of
whether there was chief or predominant use of the imported
article as a substance " expressly used for manure," should
have been left to the jury, and the case wa remanded for that
reason. In reviewing the contention we said: "If the only
common use of a substance is to be made into manure, or to
be itself spread upon the land as manure, the fact that occasionally or by way of experiment it is used for a different
VoL. CuIX-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

purpose will not take it out of the exception. But if it is
commonly, practically, and profitably used for a different
purpose, it cannot be considered as used expressly for manure,
even if in the majority of instances it is so used." It follows
that whilst Xlfagone v. Heller adhered to the settled rule of
chief use, a guide was there announced by which to discover
whether the facts established such chief use. Chief use in
itself is a vague and uncertain term. Magone v. Heller, therefore, held that chief use was to be ascertained by that which
was commonly, practically, and generally done, and was not
to be overthrown by an occasional excepti6n for practical or
experimental purposes. Thus, we repeat, Magone v. feller,
whilst enforcing and applying the rule of chief use, furnished
the instrument for determining and measuring its operation
and giving certainty to its application. It is.for this reason
that in the recent case of Sonn et al. v. Magone, 159 U. S. 417,
Magone v. Heller was cited as authority for and in elucidation
of the correct test by which use as a measure of classification
was to be controlled. The charge given by the court below,
and which was excepted to, was manifestly correct, for in giving the rule of chief use the principles by which chief use was
to be ascertained were fully stated exactly in accordance with
the law subsequently announced by this court in Magone v.
Heller.
Affl47md.

DEJONGE v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

ATATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 56. Argued November 1, 1895. - Decided November 18, 1895.

Papers, coated, colored and embossed to imitate leather, and papers coated
with flock, to imitate velvet, imported into the United States In 1888,
were subject, under Schedule M of the tariff act of March 3, 1883, c. 121,
to a duty of 25 per cent ad valorern, as "paper hangings . . . not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act," and not to a duty of 1C

