RITCHIE v. McIMULLEN.
Statement of the Case.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

JACKSON concur in

and MR.

JUSTICE

this.dissent.

RITCHIE v. McMULLEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 15. Argued November 10, 14, 1898. - Decided June 8, 1895.

In an actioji upon a foreign judgment, an answer admitting that "certain
attorneys entered, or undertook to enter, the appearance of the defendant" in the action in the foreign court; and alleging that the judgment
was entered without his knowledge, in his absence, and without any
hearing; but not alleging that the attorneys were not authorized to
enter his appearance in that action, or that he appeared and answered
under compulsion, or for any other purpose than to contest his personal
liability, is insufficient to show that the foreign court had no jurisdiction
of his person.
Averments, in an answer to an action upon a foreign judgment, that It was
"an irregular and void judgment," and "without any jurisdiction or
authority on the part of the court to enter such a judgment upon the
facts and upon the pleadings," are mere averments of legal conclusions,
and are insufficient to impeach the judgment, without specifying the
grounds upon which It is supposed to be irregular and void, or without
jurisdiction or authority.
To warrant the impeaching of a foreign judgment because procured by
fraud, fraud must be distinctly alleged and charged.
A judgment rendered by a court having jurisdiction of the cause and of the
patties, upon regular proceedings and due notice or appearance, and not
procured by fraud, in a foreign country, by the law of which, as in England and in Canada, a judgment of one of our own courts, under like circumstanees, is held conclusive of the merits, is conclusive, as between
the parties, in an action brought upon it in this country, as to all matters
pleaded and which might have been tried in the foreign court.

THIS was an action at law, brought September 21, 1888, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, by James B. McMullen, a citizen of the State of
Illinois, and George W. McMullen, a citizen of the Province
of Ontario in the Dominion of Canada, against Samuel J.
Ritchie, a citizen of the State of Ohio, upon a judgment for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

sum of $238,000, recovered by the plaintiffs against the defendant on February 26, 1888, in the Queen's Bench Division
of the High Court of Justice for the Province of Ontario.
The petition alleged that by a contract in writing, dated
January 13, 1886, the plaintiffs, being the owners of 210 first
mortgage bonds of the Central Ontario Railway, a corporation
of the Province of Ontario; for $1000 each, and of certain
coupons thereof, amounting to the sum of $71,250, agreed to
sell, and the defendant agreed to purchase, those bonds and
coupons for the price of $210,000 of the fully paid-up stock
of the Canadian Copper Company, a corporation of the State
of Ohio; that on the same day, in part performance of the
contract, the defendant accepted five bills of exchlinge for
$5000 each, drawn by one of the plaintiffs, payable to the
other plaintiff's order, at the Bank of Montreal at Picton
in the Province of Ontario, on July 1, 1886, with an indorsement thereon that the five bonds of the Central Ontario Railway attached to the bills were to be delivered to the defendant
upon his paying the acceptances; and it was agreed that the
payment by the defendant of those bills should be considered
as payment of a like sum upon the contract, and the delivery
by the plaintiff of the bonds attached to the bills should be
considered as a delivery of so many bonds under the contract.
The petition further alleged that before October 8, 1887,
all things necessary to entitle the plaintiff to the performance
of the contract had happened, and the plaintiffs were ready
to perform it on their part, and the defendant neglected- and
refused to perform it on his part; and that on that day the
plaintiff commenced an action in the Queen's Bench Division
of the High Court of Justice for Ontario, "a duly and lawfully constituted court of record, having jurisdiction over a11
civil and criminal matters in and for that part of the Dominion of Canada called the Province of Ontario," and caused a
writ of summons to be personally served upon the defendant
on November 8, 1887; and that on November 28, 1887, the
defendant "duly entered his appearance in said action in
said court ;" that that actionIwas brought upon the contract
aforesaid, and that the plaintiffs, in their statement of claim,

RITCHIE v. McMULLEN.
Statement of the Case.

"duly delivered to said defendant or his duly constituted
solicitors and attorneys, in accordance with the laws of said
Province of Ontario," prayed for specific performance of the
contract, or for damages for the breach thereof.
The petition further alleged that in that action, on November 28, 1887, the defendant, in accordance with those laws,
delivered to the plaintiffs his answer, denying the allegations
of the plaintiffs' claim; and averring that, before the making
of the contract aforesaid, the plaintiffs jointly and the defendant were each the owners of a large number of the bonds of
the Central Ontario Railway, and agreed, in order the better to
effect a sale of all the bonds, that the plaintiffs' bonds should
be assigned to the defendant, in order to enable him to deal
with them as the apparent owner, accounting to the plaintiffs
for their share of the proceeds; that the contract aforesaid
was executed in order to carry out that understanding, and
that, if it purported to be an absolute sale to him of the plaintiffs' bonds for a certain sum to be paid by him, did not
faithfully express the agreement between the parties, and
should be reformed; that it was no part of the agreement
that he should pay the plaintiffs any money in respect of
the assignment until he had sold the bonds and received the
proceeds; that the defendant's acceptances were given solely
for the plaintiffs' accommodation; and that the defendant
had not sold any of the bonds, although he had used his best
endeavors to do so.
The petition further alleged that on December 18, 1887,
issue was joined upon that answer; that on February 29, 1888,
that action came on for trial in said court, and judgment was
rendered that the plaintiffs recover of the defendant the sum
of $238,000, and costs; that the judgment was unreversed
and unsatisfied, in whole or in part; and that, by reason of
the premises, the defendant became indebted to the plaintiffs
in that sum, with interest, and, although payment had been
demanded, had not paid the same or any part thereof.
To this action on the judgment, the defendant filed an
answer, containing the following statements:
The defendant "admits that on January 13, 1886, he entered

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

into a contract in writing with the plaintiffs "-a copy of which
was made part of the answer, showing that it was a contract
of sale and purchase, as alleged in the petition, and that the
bonds and coupons were to be delivered, and the price paid, at
the Bank of Montreal at Picton. "And he denies that he
entered into any other contract in writing with them upon
any subject or touching any matter in contention in this
action.
"He admits that an action was commenced against him in
the Province of Ontario, Canada, for the general purpose
stated in the petition, and that service of a summons was in
form made upon him in Summit County, Ohio, and that certain attorneys entered, or undertook to enter, the appearance
of this defendant in said action.
"He admits that a formal, but an irregular and void judgment was entered up against him in said court on or about
the 29th day of February, 1888, which judgment was entered
without his knowledge and in his absence, and without any
hearing whatever.
"And this defendant denies each and every Other fact, statement and allegation in said petition.
"And for a further defence -this defendant alleges that the
said contract entered into between the parties was entered into
for the purposes stated in his answer in said original action in
the Provinc of Ontario, and for no other purpose; that the
contract was altogether an accommodation contract, made
between the parties with the full understanding and agreement
that it was never to be performed between them; that it was
made for the accommodation and convenience of the plaintiffs,
to enable them to make use of the bonds described in the petition, and to aid them in the raising of money thereon.
"And this defendant further alleges that the said plaintiffs
did not, at the time stated in the petition, nor at any other
time, ever undertake to or in fact perform said contract upon
their part, or any part thereof. They 'never at any time
demanded performance upon the part of this defendant of said
contract, unless the bringing of said action was a demand of
such performance. They never at any time tendered the bonds

RITCHIE v. McMULLEN.
Statement of the Case.

or coupons in the contract and in the petition mentioned to
this defendant, and they never delivered any of the said bonds
to this defendant, nor did they ever make delivery nor attempt
to make delivery of said bonds in accordance with the terms
of said written contract, the said plaintiffs well knowing at all
times what the real purpose of said contract was, and that the
same was not to be performed upon the part either of the
plaintiffs or of this defendant.
"This defendant says that he was not present at the time
that said pretended judgment was rendered ; but he states
the fact to be that there were no facts existing, or presented
to the court, which justified such judgment; that no bonds
nor coupons were brought into court for delivery to this
defendant, nor are any bonds or coupons upon deposit in the
office of the clerk of said court, or in any other depositary,
to be delivered to the defendant upon the performance of
said contract upon his part, nor is it in the power of the said
plaintiffs, or either of them, to make such delivery."
The defendant further alleges that, if he were compelled
to pay the judgment, he would be compelled to pay it without
any consideration whatever; that by the wrongful act of the
plaintiffs he was compelled to pay three bills of exchange of
$5000 each, which the plaintiffs had delivered to bona fide
purchasers; that he never received but ten of the bonds; that
the conditions of the contract were dependent conditions;
and that the plaintiffs had not performed their part of the
contract.
The defendant also "denies that any hearing occurred
before said court;" and "denies that there was any showing
made by the plaintiffs of their readiness or their ability to
perform their contract; but says that said judgment was
irregular and without evidence, without performance upon
the part of the plaintiffs, entered up against him in his
absence, without his knowledge, and without any jurisdiction
or authority on the part of the court to enter such a judgment upon the facts and upon the pleadings in said action."
The plaintiffs demurred to the answer, "because the same
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence." The

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and rendered judgment
for the plaintiffs for the sum sued for, with interest and costs.
41 Fed. Rep. 502. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
ir. Jeremiah -M. Wilson and Mr. Samuel Shellabarger
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel E Williamson for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The judgment of. the Canadian court is, beyond all doubt,
sufficient to support this action, unless it is successfully impeaohed. Testing the answer in this case by the rules laid
down in Hilton v. Guyot,. just decided, no adequate ground
for impeaching that judgment is shown.
Upon this record, the Queen's Bench Division of the High
Court of Justice of the Province of Ontario must be taken to
have been a competent court, so far as the subject-matter or
cause of action was concerned, to entertain jurisdiction of
the action brought before it by the plaintiffs against the
defendant. The petition in the present -case alleges that
the plaintiffs brought in that court, described as "a duly and
lawfully constituted court of record, having jurisdiction over
all civil matters" in and for the Province of Ontario, an
action upon a certain contract in writing between the parties.
The defendant, in his answer to this petition, expressly admits
tlhat "an action was commenced against him in the Province
of Ontario, Canada, for the general purpose stated in the petition." The competency of the Canadian court must therefore be deemed to be admitted, and, indeed, was hardly denied
at the bar.
Giving to the answer the construction, most favorable to
the defendant, of setting up two distinct and independeht defences, separated by the words, "And for a further defence,"
there is nothing in it to show that the Canadian court had not
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant. The first part of
the answer expressly admits that "certain attorneys entered,

RITCHIE. v. McMULLEN.
Opinion of the Court.

or undertook to enter, the appearance of this defendant in
said action." As it does not allege that the attorneys were not
authorized to enter the defendant's appearance in that action,
they must be taken to have been .authorized by him to do so.
Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 830; 1ill v.
-Mendenhall,21 Wall. 4:53; Molony v. Gibbons, 2 Camp. 502.
The second part of the answer describes the defence, now undertaken to be made upon the merits of the case, as the one
"stated in his answer in said original action in the Province
of Ontario," thus clearly showing that he had not only appeared, but answered in that action. It is nowhere alleged
that-he appeared or answered in that court under compulsion,
or for any purpose except to contest his personal liability.
He must therefore be taken to have voluntarily submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court.
The defendant, indeed, in the first part of his answer, alleges that the "judgment was entered without his knowledge
and in his absence, and without any hearing whatever;" and,
likewise, in the second part of his answer, "says that he was
not present at the time that said pretended judgment was
rendered," and "denies that any hearing occurred before said
court," and "says that said judgment was irregular and without evidence," and "entered up against him in his absence,
without his knowledge." But, as he had once submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the court, all these allegations and
denials are quite consistent with the position, taken by the
plaintiffs at the argument here, that the defendant, at the
time appointed for the hearing, failed to appear and made default, and therefore no hearing or evidence was necessary to
entitle the court to proceed to judgment.
The general avernients, in the first part of the answer, that'
the judgment was "an irregular and void judgment," and, in
the second part, that "said judgment was irregular," and,
"without any jurisdiction or authority on the part of the
court to enter such a judgment upon the facts and upon the
pleadings in said action," are but averments of legal conclusions, and wholly insufficient to impeach the judgment, without specifying the grounds upon which it is supposed to be
VOL. CLIX-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

irregular and void, or without jurisdiction or authority to enter
it. Oowan v. Braidwood, 1 Man. & Gr. 882; S. C. 2 Scott
N. R. 138.
To warrant the impeaching of a foreign judgment because
procured by fraud, fraud must be distinctly alleged and
charged. White v. Iall, 12 Ves. 321; Wallingford v. Mutual
Society, 5 App. Cas. 685, 697, 701; Ambler v. Choteau, 107
U. S. 589, 591. This answer does not even contain a general
charge that the judgment was procured by fraud, or any equivalent allegation. And the only matters specified, from which
fraud is sought to be inferred, are those already considered,
which have no tendency to prove it; and the knowledge which
the plaintiffs had of the real purpose of the contract, which is
referred to, not as a ground for charging fraud in procuring
the judgment, but only as incidental to and in explanation, of
the allegation that the plaintiffs never tendered, or delivered,
or attempted to deliver, any bonds to the defendant, in accordance with the written contract. To treat the loose and imperfect allegations of this answer as duly setting up a defence
of fraud would be inconsistent with all precedent, and would
ignore the duty of giving the other party notice of the defences
which he must be prepared to meet.
By the law of England, prevailing in Canada, a judgment
rendered by an American court under like circumstances would
be allowed full and conclusive effect. Scott v. Pilkington,
2 B. & S. 11; AbouloJf v. Oppenheimrner 10 Q. B. D. 295, 307;
Vadala v. Lawes, 25 Q. B. D. 310, 316; N ouvion v. Freeman,
15 App. Cas. 1, 10; Fowler v. Vail, 27 Upper Canada C. T.
417, and 4 Ontario App.. 267.
The defences set up in the answer to this action upon the
Canadian judgment reduce themselves to an attempt, without
any sufficient allegation of want of jurisdiction of the cause
or of the defendant, or of any fraud in procuring that judginent, or of any, other special ground for not allowing the
judgment full effect, but upon general allegations setting up
the same matters of defence which were pleaded and might
have been tried in the foreign court, to reopen and try anew
the whole merits of the original claim in an action upon the

RITCHIE v. McMULLEN.
Concurring Opinion: Fuller, C. J., Harlan, Brewer, JJ.

judgment. This, for the reasons stated in Hilton v. Guyot,
ante, 113, cannot be allowed.

Upon principle, therefore, as well as upon authority, comity
requires that the judgment sued on should beheld conclusive
of the matter adjudged.

Judgment aftirmed.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER concurring.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

and myself con-

cur in the judgment in this case, but not on all the grounds
stated in the opinion of the court. -Our views on the general
subject are indicated in the dissenting opinion in Hilton v.
Guyot, ante, 229.

M&

JUSTICE WHITE,

not having been a member of the court

when this case was argued, took no part in its decision.

