OCTOBERt TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

McDOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 52. Submitted October 15, 1895-.-Decided November 18, 1895.

There being a vacancy in the office of District Judge for the District of
South Carolina from January 1, 1894, to February 12, 1894, and the term
of that court for the Western District being fixed by law for the fifth
day of February, 1894, one of the Circuit Judges of the circuit designated and appointed a Judge of one of the District Courts in North
Carolina, within the same circuit, to hold and preside over that term.
Court was so held and adjourned from day to (lay. February 12 a commissioned Judge appeared. Plaintiff in error was tried upon an indict,
ment returned against him, found guilty and sentenced. Held,
(1) That it is within the power of Congress to provide that one District
Judge may temporarily discharge the duties of that office in another
district;
(2) That whether existing statutes authorized the appointment of the
North Carolina District Judge to act as District Judge in South
Carolina is immaterial; as,
(3) He must be held to have been a judge de facto, if not de jure,'and his
actions, as such, so far as they affect third persons, are not open
to question.
Where there is an office to be filled, and one acting under color of authority
fills the office and discharges its duties, his actions are those of an officer
de facto, and are bindling on the public.

case comes to this court on questions certified by the
Court of Appeals of the Fourth Circuit. The facts, as stated,
are that a vacancy existed in the office of District Judge of
the United States for the District of South Carolina, from
January 1, 1894, to February 12, 1894. The regular terms of
the District Court for the Western District were' fixed by law
to be held at Greenville on the first Monday' of February and
August, act of April 26, 1890, c. 165, 26 Stat. 71, and the first
Monday of February, 1894, fell on the fifth day of the month.
On January 30, 1894, the following order, made by Ton.
Charles H. Simonton, one of the Circuit Judges of the circuit, was duly filed in the clerk's oice:
THIS

McDOWELL v. UJNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"It appearing to me by the certificate of the clerk, under
the seal of the court, this day filed, that there is such an accumulation of business and urgency for the transaction thereof
in the District Court for the Western District of this State,
and that the public interests require the designation and appointment of a District Judge within this circuit to hold the
regular term of this court beginning on the first Monday of
February, 1894, at Greenville, South Carolina:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and on
motion of the United States attorney, I do hereby designate
and appoint the Honorable Augustus S. Seymour, judge of
the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of North Carolina, the same being in the fourth circuit,
to hold and preside over the said term of court, and to have
,and to exercise within the Western District of South Carolina the same powers that are vested in the Judge of the said
district."
In pursuance of this order, Judge Seymour held and presided over the regular term of the District Court for that distriot, from February 5 to February 12, on which day Hon.
William H. Brawley, appointed and duly commissioned as
District Judge, qualified and entered upon the discharge of
his official duties, and held and presided at the term from
that day until the conclusion of the proceedings in this case.
On February 16 an indictment was returned into the court
against A. F. McDowell, the plaintiff in error. Upon this
indictment McDowell was tried February 21 and 22, and a
verdict of guilty,returned. A motion for a new trial was
overruled February 23. Thereupon and before sentence, MeDowell made a motion in arrest of judgment, on the ground
that the indictment had been found, and the subsequent proceedings bad thereon, at what was an unlawful term of court,
and that such indictment and subsequent proceedings were
consequently void. This motion was overruled and sentence
pronounced upon the verdict. The making of the motion in
arrest and its disposition appear in the record in a bill of exceptions, which refers to the indictment as found by "the
grand jury empanelled at the special February term of said

OCTrOIER T'A'i~M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

court, at Greenville, at the district aforesaid," and the statement of the matter upon which the motion in arrest was
founded commences: "At the opening of the special February term, 1894, of said court, that being the term at which
said indictment was found," but the record nowhere discloses
the calling of any special term as such. Upon these facts
the Court of Appeals certified these questions:
"1. Whether plaintiff in error was indicted, convicted, and
sentenced at a lawful term of the District Court for the
District of South Carolina and the Western District thereof,
sitting at Greenville, as set forth in this certificate?
"2. Whether the question as to the validity of the indictment and proceedings against plaintiff in error was open to
consideration on the motion in arrest of judgment?"

Mr. J. Altheu8 Johnson for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.Assistant Attorney General Dickinson for defendants
inerror.
MR. JUsTIcE

BREWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The contentions of counsel for plaintiff in error are that the
power of a Circuit Judge or Justice to call one District Judge
from his own into another district does not extend to cases in
which there is a vacancy in the office of judge of the latter
district; that the order of the Circuit Judge designating and
appointing Judge Seymour to hold the February term, was
void;. that the term lapsed; that no special term having been
called, Judge Brawley was attempting to hold the District
Court at a time unauthorized by law, and that, therefore, all
proceedings before him were coram nonjudice and void.
This obviously presents a mere matter of statutory construction, for the power of Congress to provide that one District
Judge may temporarily discharge the duties of that office in
another district cannot be doubted. It involves no trespass
upon the executive power of appointment. There is no constitutional provision restricting the authority of a District
Judge to any particular territorial limits. District Courts

McDOWELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

are solely the creation of statute, and the place in which a
judge thereof may exercise jurisdiction is subject absolutely to
the control of Congress.
At first there was no authority for the temporary transfer of
one judge to another district. The Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 6, 1 Stat. 73, 76, simply provided that a
District Judge, if unable to attend at the day appointed for
the holding of any term, might, by his written order, continue
it to any designated time, and that in case of a vacancy all
matters pending in the court should be continued as of course
until the first regular term after the filling of the vacancy.
Since then there has been repeated legislation, each successive statute seemingly intended to make larger provision for
the regular and continued transaction of the business of the
District Court. Thus, in 1850, 9 Stat. 442, Rev. Stat. § 591,
an act was passed providing that when any District Judge
was prevented by any disability from holding any term, and
that fact was made to appear by the certificate of the clerk
under the seal of the court to the Circuit Judge, such judge
might, if in his judgment the public interests so required,
designate and appoint the judge of any other district in the
circuit to hold such term and to discharge- all the judicial
duties of the judge so disabled during such disability. This,
it will be noticed, applied only in case of disability on the part
of the regular District Judge. Two years thereafter, in an act
10 Stat. 5, carried into the Revised Statutes as § 592, like
authority was given to call in the judge of some other district
when, as shown by the certificate of the clerk, from the accumulation or urgency of business in any District Court, the
public interests so required. This statute contemplated the
doubling of the judicial force, and authorized both judges,
the regular and the appointed judge, to act separately in the
discharge of all duties. Finally, in 1871, an act was passed,
16 Stat. 494; Rev. Stat. § 596, which reads as follows:
"It shall be the duty of every Circuit Judge, whenever in his
judgment the public interest so requires, to designate and appoint, in the manner and with the powers provided in section
591, the District Judge of any judicial district within his circuit

OCTOBERI

TERM, 1895.

Opinion of the Court.

to hold a District or Circuit Court in the place or in aid of any
other District Judge within the same circuit; and it shall be
the duty of the District Judge, so designated and appointed,
to hold the District or Circuit [Court] as aforesaid, without any
other compensation than his regular salary as established by
law, except in the case provided in the next section."
This gives full power to the Circuit Judge to act without
,reference to any certificate from the clerk, whenever in his
judgment the public interests require. It is contended that
the words "in the place or in aid of" limit the power of designation and appointment to those cases in which there is an
existing District Judge. This construction, it is claimed, finds
support in section 602, Rev. Stat., which in substance reenacts
the latter part of section 6 of the judiciary act of 1789, to the
effect that in case of a vacancy in the office of District Judge
all matters pending before the court shall be continued, of
course, until the next stated term after the appointment and
qualification of his successor. While "in aid of" naturally
imply some existing judge to be aided, the words "in the place
of" do not necessarily carry the same implication. Commonwealth v. King, 8 Gray, 501. They may, with6ut doing violence to language, be construed to mean that the designated
judge is to take temporarily the place which is or has been
filled by a regular judge.
Section 602 throws little light on the question. It does not
purport to abolish the term. The existence of a term does not
depend on the fact that any business is transacted thereat, nor
does any general order of continuance of itself close the term.
A simple illustration will demonstrate this. Suppose at the
commencement of any regular term of this court a general
order should be entered continuing all matters to the succeeding term, no one would contend that such an order of itself
adjourned the term, or prevented the court from adjourning
from day to day until such time as it saw fit to order a final
adjournment. The officers attending after the continuance of
the cases and until the final order of adjournment would
unquestionably receive their per diems for attendance upon a
term of the court. The declaration that the process, etc.,

Mc)OWELL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be "continued, of course," means simply continued without any special order, and was obviously designed ,to prevent
that failure of right which in many cases might otherwise
result from the absence of a judge. It is familiar that process
is often made returnable at a term, and notices are given of
applications for orders at a term. In these and similar cases
rights are created which may depend for their continued existence upon some action of the court at the term. Clearly, the
statute does not destroy or even temporarily suspend the jurisdiction of the regular judge when appointed over matters
pending in his court.
But whatever doubts may exist whether the order of designation by the Circuit Judge was within his power, there is
another consideration which is decisive of this case. Judge
Seymour must be held to have been a judge de facto, if not a
judge de jure, and his actions as such, so far as they affect
third persons, are not open to question. Ball v. United States,
140 U. S. 118, 129; Norton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425;
Hunter's Adm'r v. Ferguson', Adm'r, 13 Kansas, 462. The
time and place of a regular term of the District Court were
fixed by law at Greenville, on the first Monday of February.
Judge Seymour was a judge of the United States District
Court, having all the powers attached to such office. le
appeared at the time and place fixed by law for the regular
term, and actually held that term. The Circuit, Judge had,
generally speaking, the power of designating the judge of
some other district to do the work of the District Judge in
this district. The order of designation was regular in form,
and there was nothing on its fface to suggest that there was
any vacancy in the office of District Judge for the District of
South Carolina. Any defect in the order, if defect there was,
is shown only by matters dehors the 'record. While this may
,not be conclusive, it strongly sustains the contention of the
government that Judge Seymour was, while holding that
term, at least a judge defacto. Whatever doubt there may be
as to the power of designation attaching in this particular
emergency, the fact is that Judge Seymour was acting by virtue of an appointment, regular on its face, and the rule is

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

well settled that where there is an office to be filled and
one acting under color of authority fills the office and discharges its duties, his actions are those of an officer de facto
and binding upon the public. Of course, if he was. judge de
,facto his orders for the continuance of the term from day to
day until February 12, when the regular judge took his place
upon the bench, were orders which cannot be questioned, and
the term ivas kept alive by such orders until Judge Brawley
arrived. The record shows that the indictment was not found
until after the latter was on the bench. Whether the grand
jury was in fact empanelled or'not before Judge Brawley took
his seat, does not appear from the record. While Rev. Stat.,
§ 817, provides that ordinarily jurors shall for this district be
drawn at a preceding, term, yet such provision does not conflict with the power granted in section 810 to all Circuit and
District Courts, as follows: "And either of the said courts
may in term order a grand jury to be summoned at such time,
and to serve such; time as it may direct, whenever, in its judgment, it may be proper to do so." Under this provision the
judge may at any term, regular or special, and at any time in
the term, summon a grand jury.
Indeed, we may assume that all the proceedings in respect
to this case were held before the regular judge of that court,
and that the only orders which Judge Seymour made bearing
upon this case were the daily orders of continuance of the court
and the keeping alive of the term from February 5 to February 12, and these were orders made by a de facto judge of
that court, and are, as we have stated, not open to chhllenge.
The fact that in the recital of the proceedings the term is
spoken of as a special term is immaterial in the face of the
statement that the regular term was opened on February 5
and continued from day to day, until after the proceedings
complained of had taken place. It follows from these considerations that the first question certified to- this court must be
answered in the affirmative. In view of this answer it is
unnecessary to consider the second question.
The case will, therefore, be sent back to the Court of Appeals
with an answer to the ftrst question,in the ajfirmative.

