OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

CAMPBELL v. CITY OF OLNEY.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF YOUNG COUNTY, STATE OF
TEXAS.

No. 266.

Submitted April 20, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Unless a federal right is involved, a state court's application of
the local laws will not be reviewed here. P. 354.
2. Where a property owner, complaining of a special sidewalk
assessment, had full opportunity, under the state laws, to be heard
before the assessment was made, and a reasonable time thereafter
to bring suit to set it aside, or to correct it or any proceeding
with reference to it, but failed to avail himself of these rights,
and did not draw in question the validity of the state laws, held,
that a contention that he was denied due process of law was not
even colorable. Id.
Writ of error dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of a county court, of Texas, (the

highest court to which the cause could be taken in that
State,) in favor of the City of Olney, in its action to collect a sidewalk assessment from the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. H. Carrigan for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William B. Jaynes for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Texas (Rev. Civ. Stats. 1911, c. 11, Arts.
1006-1017), empowered the City of Olney to lay sidewalks and to assess the cost against abutting property
and owners. The City ordered the construction of sidewalks in front of four lots owned by plaintiff in error.
An ordinance was passed making the cost of sidewalks a
lien against abutting property, and providing for 20 days'
notice to the owner, before charging such cost personally
against him or as a lien upon his property. Plaintiff in

CAMPBELL v. OLNEY.
352

Opinion of the Court.

error was given notice in compliance with the statute and
ordinance. He failed to appear or make objection to the
assessment.
The statute provides that any property owner against
whom or whose property such assessment has been made
may within 20 days bring suit in any court having jurisdiction to set aside or correct the same or any proceeding
with reference thereto, on account of any error or invalidity therein; but thereafter, he may not question the
validity of such proceedings or assessment. No suit was
brought by the plaintiff in error. The City issued its
assessment certificate, declaring the cost of the sidewalks,
$89.32, a charge against him and against the lots.
The statute further provides that if any such certificate
shall recite that the proceedings have been regularly had,
and that all prerequisites to the fixing of the assessment
lien and personal liability have been complied with, it
shall be prima facie evidence of the facts so recited. The
certificate contained these recitals. Plaintiff in error
failed to pay, and the City brought suit in justice court.
He answered in substance that the City had no ordinance
authorizing the assessment; that it had not complied with
the statute, and was therefore without authority to invoke it, and that its acts and conduct in making the
assessment constituted a taking of his property without
due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. He contended that there should have been a specific ordinance concerning this sidewalk and assessment.
The justice of the peace gave judgment in favor of
plaintiff in error. The City appealed to the county court.
At the trial, it offered the assessment certificate in evidence and rested. Plaintiff in error offered to prove that
no ordinance had been passed relative to the laying of
this particular sidewalk; that he received the notice to
appear, and went to the meeting place of the city council, and that the council had adjourned. He did not offer
51826"

23--28

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

to prove any fact excusing his failure to appear before
adjournment, or that he was denied a hearing. The
county court found for the City. Its order denying a motion for a new trial recites that it is the highest appellate
court to which the cause can be taken in the State of
Texas because the amount involved is less than $100.
The county judge allowed a writ of error bringing the
case here.
The judgment of that court necessarily determines that
the state laws were complied with. Unless a federal right
is involved, the state court's application of local laws will
not be reviewed here. Hallinger v. Davis, 146 U. S. 314,
319; Peters v. Broward,222 U. S. 483, 492; Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226, 234; Wade v. Travis
County, 174 U. S. 499, 508; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.
650, 654; Bardon v. Land & River Improvement Co., 157
U. S. 327, 331; Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 32-33.
Plaintiff in error had opportunity to be heard before the
city council and was allowed a reasonable time after the
assessment to bring suit to set it aside or to correct it or
any proceeding with reference thereto. He failed to avail
himself of the rights so given him by state laws. Their
validity was not drawn in question. His claim that he
was denied due process of law is not even colorable. Valley Farms Co. v. County of Westchester, 261 U. S. 155;
Withnell v. Ruecking Construction Co., 249 U. S. 63, 69;
Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310, 321, et seq.; French v.
Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324, 334, 344, and
cases cited. There is no federal question in the case.
The writ of erroris dismissed.

