AMER. FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
200

Syllabus.

make the duty of the officer anything other than a purely
ministerial one. If the law direct him to perform an act in
regard to which no discretion is committed to him, and
which, upon the facts existing, he is bound to perform,
then that act is ministerial, although depending upon a
statufe which requires, in some degree, a construction of
its language by the officer." See also Work v. United
States ex rel. Mosier, 261 U. S.352.
The decree of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia is
Affirmed.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON,
COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS, AND SIMPLEX

ELECTRIC HEATING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 291.

Argued April 19, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Under § 9 of the Trade Mark Act, which provides that an applicant for registration of a trade-mark, if dissatisfied with the
decision of the Commissioner of Patents, may appeal to the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, on complying with the
conditions required in case of an appeal from the decision of the
Commissioner by an applicant for a patent, and that "the same
rules of practice and procedure shall govern in every stage of
such proceedings, as far as the same may be applicable," a party
whose application for registration of trade-mark has been rejected
by the Commissioner and the Court of Appeals, has the remedy
by bill in equity granted to unsuccessful applicants for patent
by Rev. Stats., § 4915. P. 212.
2. Held, that the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois had jurisdiction of this suit, against the Commissioner of
Patents and an intervening party, to determine the plaintiff's
right to have a trade-mark registered.
Reversed.
51826*-23-----14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing a
bill for registration of trade-mark, for lack of jurisdiction.

Mr. George L. Wilkinson, with whom Mr. Henry M.
Huxley was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Lovett submitted the case without brief or argument, on behalf of the Commissioner of Patents, appellee.
Mr. Nathan Heard for Simplex Electric Heating Coinpany, appellee.
MR.

CHIEF

JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a direct appeal under § 238 of the Judicial
Code from a decree of the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois dismissing a
bill in equity. The District Judge certifies that the motion to dismiss the bill was sustained solely for lack of
jurisdiction.
The bill was filed by the appellant, the American Steel
Foundries, against the Commissioner of Patents to secure
an adjudication that the appellant is entitled to have its
trade-mark "Simplex" registered and authorizing the
Commissioner of Patents to register the same. The
Commissioner appeared as defendant and by stipulation
the Simplex Electric Heating Company was allowed to
intervene as the real party in interest. The bill averred
that the American Steel Foundries had duly filed an application in the Patent Office for the registration, that
the Examiner of Trade Marks had refused the application, that the Commissioner of Patents had affirmed this
refusal, and that, on appeal, the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia had affirmed the action of the Commissioner, that a petition for certiorari had lieen filed in
this Court and granted, and that thereafter the cause

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
209

211

Opinion of the Court.

was dismissed by this Court for lack of jurisdiction, on
the ground that the decree of the Court of Appeals was
not a final one.
The appellant, then filed this bill under § 9 of the Trade
Mark Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, 33 Stat. 724, and
§ 4915, Rev. Stats. The intervener based its motion
to dismiss on the lack of jurisdiction " over the subject
matter or alleged cause of action," and the motion was
granted without opinion.
Section 9 of the Trade Mark Act reads as follows:
"Sec. 9. That if an applicant for registration of a
trade-mark, or a party to an interference as to a trademark, or a party who has filed opposition to the registration of a trade-mark, or party to an application for the
cancellation of the registration of a trade-mark, is dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner of Patents, he may appeal to the court of appeals of the District
of Columbia, on complying with the conditions required
in case of an appeal from the decision of the Commissioner by an applicant for a patent; or a party to an interference as to an invention, and the same rules of practice
and procedure shall govern in every stage of such proceedings, as far as the same may be applicable."
Section 4915 of the Revised Statutes reads as follows:
"Sec. 4915. [Patents obtainable by bill in equity.]
Whenever a patent on application is refused, either by
the Commissioner of Patents or by the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia upon appeal from the Commissioner, the applicant may have remedy by bill in
equity; and the court having cognizance thereof, on
notice to adverse parties and other due proceedings had,
may adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according
to law, to receive a patent for his invention, as specified
in his claim, or for any part thereof, as the facts in the
case may appear. And such adjudication, if it be in
favor of the right of the applicant, shall authorize the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

. 262 U. S.

Commissioner to issue such patent on the applicant filing
in the Patent-Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise complying with the requirements of law. In all
cases, where there is no opposing party, a copy of the bill
shall be served on the Commissioner; and all the expenses
of the proceeding shall be paid by the applicant, whether
the final decision is in his favor or not."
The question in this case is whether the closing words
of § 9 "and the same rules of practice and procedure
shall govern in every stage of such proceedings, as far as
the same may be applicable ", are broad enough in their
scope to include the "remedy by bill in equity" granted
to unsuccessful applicants for a patent in § 4915.
In Gandy v. Marble, 122 U. S. 432, an unsuccessful
applicant for a patent who had carried his application
by appeal to the Supreme Court of the District, which
was dismissed on its merits January 30, 1880, on May
3, 1883, filed a bill in equity in the District Supreme
Court under § 4915 against the Commissioner of Patents.
That court dismissed the bill on the ground that the applicant had failed to prosecute his application within
two years after the dismissal of his appeal from the Commissioner by the Supreme Court of the District, basing
it on § 4894 of the Revised Statutes, reading as follows:
"Sec. 4894. All applications for patents shall be completed and prepared for examination within two years
after the filing of the application, and in default thereof.
or upon failure of the applicant to prosecute the same
within two years after any action therein, of which notice
shall have been given to the applicant, they shall be regarded as abandoned by the parties thereto, unless it be
shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Patents
that such delay was unavoidable."
This section applies to proceedings in the Patent Office
and before the Commissioner, and it was pressed upon
this Court that it could not apply to such an independent

AMER. FOUNDRIES v. ROBERTSON.
209

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding as the bill in equity provided for in § 4915.
But this Court held that § 4894 did apply. Mr. Justice
Blatchford, speaking for the Court, admitted (p. 439),
following Butterworth v. Hoe, 112 U. S. 50, 61, that the
proceeding by bill in equity, under § 4915 "intends a suit
according to the ordinary course of equity practice and
procedure, and is not a technical appeal from the Patent
Office, nor confined to the case as made in the record of
that office, but is prepared and heard upon all competent
evidence adduced and upon the whole merits," but continued, "yet the proceeding is, in fact and necessarily, a
part of the application for the patent." He summed up
the conclusion of the Court as follows (p. 440):
"The presumption of abandonment, under § 4894, unless it is shown that the delay in prosecuting the application for two years and more after the last prior action,
of which notice was given to the applicant, was unavoidable, exists as fully in regard to that branch of the application involved in the remedy by bill in equity as in regard to any other part of the application, whether so
much of it as is strictly within the Patent Office, or so
much of it as consists of an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia under § 4911. The decision
of the court on a bill in equity becomes, equally with the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on a direct appeal under § 4911, the decision of the
Patent Office, and is to govern the action of the Commissioner. It is, therefore, clearly a branch of the application for the patent, and to be governed by the rule as to
laches and delay declared by § 4894 to be attendant upon
the application."
This view of the intimate relation of the bill in equity
allowed in § 4915 to the application for a patent and the
practice and procedure provided in due course thereof is
of much assistance in giving proper scope to the words of
§ 9 of the Trade Mark Act. After making provision for

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

an appeal to the District Court of Appeals from a simple
refusal of registration, and from decisions of the Patent
Office in three different kinds of adversary proceedings
therein in respect of such registration, on complying with
the conditions required in case of an appeal from refusal
of a patent or a decision in a patent interference proceeding, the words are " and the same rules of practice and
procedure shall govern in every stage of such proceedings,
as far as the same may be applicable." If the bill in
equity of § 4915 is only a part of the proceeding for an
application for a patent as held in Gandy v. Marble, it is
no straining of the language to make these words include
a bill in equity for the registration of a trade-mark. This
Court has taken exactly this view in Atkins & Co. v.
Moore, 212 U. S. 285. In that case it was held that a decision of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia affirming the decision of the Commissioner of Patents
refusing registration of a trade-mark on an appeal under
§ 9 of the Trade Mark Act was not a final judgment of
the Court of Appeals which could be appealed to this
Court, and in the argument to show that it was not, Chief
Justice Fuller, who spoke for the Court, said (p. 291):
"Under § 4914 of the Revised Statutes no opinion or
decision of the Court of Appeals on appeal from the Commissioner precludes 'any person interested from the right
to contest the validity of such patent in any court wherein
the same may be called in question,' and by § 4915 a remedy by bill in equity is given where a patent is refused.
and we regard these provisions as applicable in trademark cases under § 9 of the Act of February 20, 1905."
This language is quoted with approval in the opinion
of this Court in Baldwin Co. v. Howard Co., 256 U. S.35,
in which it was held that there could be no review in this
Court, by appeal or certiorari, of a decision of the District
Court of Appeals in respect to the registration of a trademark under § 9 of the Trade Mark Act.

CURTIS CO. v. UNITED STATES.
209

Syllabus.

It is pressed upon us, however, that this language in
Atkins & Co. v. Moore and in Baldwin Co. v. Howard
Company, was not necessary to the conclusion in those
cases and is to be regarded as obiter dictum. It was used
in arguendo and was the unanimous expression of the
Court in both cases. It may be that the conclusion that
the decision of the Court of Appeals was not final and
appealable to this Court could have been reached without
this argument; but, however this may be, the construction put by the Court on § 9 is most persuasive and follows so clearly from the decision in Gandy v. Marble,
that we find no reason to question its correctness.
An argument has been made to us against giving such
an effect to § 9 based on the intrinsic differences between
the nature of the patent right, and that in a trade-mark.
We do not regard such differences as important in interpreting § 9 when it is obvious from that section and the
whole of the Trade Mark Act that Congress intended to
produce a parallelism in the mode of securing these two
kinds of government monopoly from the Patent Office.
The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
case is remanded for further proceedings.
CURTIS, COLLINS & HOLBROOK COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
(And Twenty-three Other Cases.)
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 341, and Nos. 342-364. Argued April 9, 10, 1923.-Decided
May 21, 1923.
1. Where stockholders of a corporation, imposing no
than that the paper titles should be passed on
attorney, entrusted another stockholder, who was
dent and active manager of the company, with

safeguard other
by a reputable
also vice presithe business of

