PRENDERGAST v. N. Y. TEL. CO.
Syllabus.

Paragraph (b) pf § 6 which gives to the Commission
the power, on complaint after investigation by the Secretary of Agriculture, and after a hearing, to exclude from
all contract markets any person violating any of the provisions of the act or attempting to manipulate the market
price of any grain in violation of the provisions of § 5 of
the act or of any of the rules or regulations made in pursuance to its requirements, is attacked as invalid because
a jury trial is not afforded. The plaintiffs do not aver that
they are committing acts which. will subject them to such
exclusion, or that charges have been made and -proceedings have been begun or are about to be begun against
them by the Secretary of Agriculture. Until they are
-thus in danger of suffering prejudice from the operation
of the paragraph, they can not invoke our decision as to
its validity.
For the reasons given the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

dissent.

PRENDERGAST ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, ET AL. v. NEW YORK TELEPHONE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 542. Argued February 21, 1923.--Decided April 16, 1923.
1. The fact that a public service commission, seven months after it
had been temporarily enjoined - from enforcing rates fixed by it
provisionally for a public service corporation, made final orders
fixing rates yielding a much higher return, does not, without more,
establish that the former rates were confiscatory when they were
made, and does not, therefore, constitute a sufficient basis for dismissing, on motion, an appeal from the temporary injunction. P. 46.

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

2. The District Court, constituted of three judges, has jurisdiction,
under Jud. Code, § 266, to enjoin the enforcement of rates ordered by a public commission, upon the ground that the order is
unconstitutional. P. 47. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell,
261 U. S. 290.
3. A bill to enjoin enforcement of rates, as confiscatory, properly
alleges the ultimate facts upon which the claim of. confiscation is
based, omitting mere statements of evidence. Equity Rule 25,
par. 3. P. 47.
4. In the matter of fixing telephone rates, the Public Service Commission of New York is vested with the final legislative authority of the
State, review ly the state courts by certiorari being purely judicial.
Laws N. Y. 1920, c. 925, §§ 1304, 1305, pp. 437, 438. P. 48.
5." Under tte New York Public Service Commission Law, an application to the Commission for a rehearing is allowed, but not required,
does not excuse compliance with the Commission's order or its
enforcement, except as the Commission may direct, and is addressed
entirely to the discretion of the Commission; and any change that
may be made upon rehearing does not affect the enforcement of
any right arising from the original order. Held, that a telephone
company, complaining that rates fixed by the Commission were
confiscatory, need not apply to it for a rehearing before resorting
to the federal court for an injunction, and that failure so to apply
was manifestly no ground for denying a temporary injunction,
when the Commission by its answer insisted that the orders in
question were correct. P. 48.
6. For like reasons, it was not necessary that the complaining company should first have exercised the privilege granted by one of the
orders, of applying to the Commission for a modification of a
classification affecting the rates. P. 49.
7. The fact that rates prescribed are temporary, to be effective only
until the final determination by the Commission, does not prevent
resort to the Court to restrain their enforcement pending the continuance and completion of the rate-making process. P. 49.
8. To sustain an application for an order temporarily restraining enforcement of rates challenged as confiscatory, the plaintiff is not
obliged to offer in evidence testimony taken by the Commission
which fixed the rates. P. 50.
9. A temporary injunction should be sustained on appeal when not
contrary to equity or the result of improvident exercise of judicial
discretion, and especially when the balance of injury as between
the parties favors its issue. P. 50.

PRENDERGAST v. N. Y. TEL. CO.
43

Opinion of the Court.

10. The evidence in this case was sufficient without a practical test
of the rates involved. P. 51.

Affirmed.

APPE. under Jud. Code, § 266, from an order of the
District Court temporarily restraining enforcement of
orders of the New York Public Service Commission prescribing maximum telephone rates.
Mr. Simon Fleischmann and Mr. Wilber W. Chambers,
with whom Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General of the
State of New York, Mr. Ledyard P. Hale and Mr. Martin
Clark were on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Charles T. Russell
and Mr. Nathaniel T. Guernsey were on the brief, for
appellee.
Mr. George P. Nicholson, Mr. M. Maldwin Fertig and
Mr. Harry Hertzoff, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf of the City of New York, as amic curiae.
Ml. JusTIcE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal, under § 266 of the Judicial Code,
from an order of the District Court enjoining pendente
lite the enforcement of orders of the Public Service Commission of New York prescribing maximum rates for the
exchange service of the Telephone Company.
The Commission, having entered upon an investigation
as to the rates charged by the Company for telephone
service within the State, on March 3, 1922, after a large
amount of evidence had been taken, but before the hearings had been completed, made the two orders in question. One of these reduced temporarily, pending final
determination, the maximum rates to be charged by the
Company after April 1, for exchange telephone service
in the City of New York. The other made a like reduc-

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

tion in the maximum rates for such service in other municipalities within the State, which were divided into
groups, with basic area rates in each; with a further
provision that either the Company or any municipality
affected might apply for modification of the classifications on or before April 15. The Company on March
29 filed its bill in the District Court against the Commission, its counsel and the Attorney General of the State,
for the purpose of enjoining the enforcement of these
orders, upon the ground that they were confiscatory and
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. An application for an interlocutory injunction was heard by three
judges; and the court as thus constituted on June 12
granted an interlocutory order enjoining the defendants
from enforcing the orders of the Commission pending the
final hearing and until the further order of the court;
the Company being required to give bond for $6,000,000
to secure the repayment to its subscribers of all excess
charges paid pending the suit in the event the injunction
should thereafter be dissolved. From this interlocutory
order the defendants have appealed directly to this Court.
Since the argument on the appeal the Company has
submitted a motion to dismiss the appeal or affirm the
order of the court, upon the ground that on January 25,
1923, the Commission made final orders in the pending
investigation establishing a schedule of telephone rates
for the State which will yield the Company a much higher
annual return than the temporary rates whose enforcement was enjoined. This, it is insisted, shows that the
injunction was properly granted.' The fact that the
'The motion, which is supported by affidavits, alleges that the
annual return which will be afforded by the rates established by the
final orders of the Commission will exceed by not less than $2,000,000
the revenue afforded by the rates which were in effect before the
Commission prescribed the temporary rates in question, and by
about $5,000,000 the revenue which would have been afforded by
such temporary rates.

PRENDERGAST v. N. Y. TEL. CO.
43

Opinion of the Court.

Commission has, more than seven months after the injunction was granted, made orders allowing higher rateswhose correctness may yet be questioned in appropriate
proceedings for review-upon evidence not before us,
does not establish that the injunction was rightly
granted under the conditions which then existed. See
Cumberland Telephone Co. v. Louisiana Commission
(D. C.), 283 Fed. 215, 218. Hence the motion is
denied.
The appellants urge, in substance, as grounds of error:
That the special court of three judges had no jurisdiction
to grant the injunction; that the bill contained insufficient
averments of fact, as distinguished from mere conclusions; that it was prematurely filed; and that the injunction was granted upon insufficient evidence.
We conclude:
1. The specially constituted court of three judges had
jurisdiction under § 266 of the Judicial Code to hear and
determine the application for the injunction upon tle
ground of the unconstitutionality of the orders of the
Commission. Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell, 261
U. S. 290.
2. The defendants answered the bill on the merits without questioning in any way the sufficiency or form of its
averments. See Campbell v. United States, 224 U. S. 99,
106. The bill specifically alleged that the cost of the
Company's property in the State devoted to the rendition
of intrastate telephone service, the cost of its reproduction, and its fair and reasonable value exceeded the sums
of .$247,000,000, $373,000,000 and $323,000,000, respectively; and that the rates prescribed by the Commission
would prevent it from earning more than 2.56% per annum upon the cost of such property and 1.96% upon its
fair and reasonable value, and would not afford it a fair
return upon such value. In short, it aptly stated the
ultimate facts upon which the Company asked relief,

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

omitting any merQ statements of evidence. 25th Equity
Rule, par. 3.
3. Upon the making by the Commission of the orders
in question the proceedings had reached the judicial stage
entitling the Company to resort to the court for relief.
Bacon v. Rutland Railroad, 232 U. S. 134, 137; distinguishing Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210,
229, in which an appeal had not been taken to the highest
tribunal vested with the final legislative authority of the
State. Here the Commission is vested with the final legislative authority of the State in the rate-making process;
the authority exercised by the state courts upon a review
by certiorari (People v. Wilcox, 194 N. Y. 383), being
purely judicial and having no legislative character. Laws,
New York, 1920, c. 925, §§ 1304, 1305, pp. 437, 438.
It was not necessary that the Company should apply
to the Commission for a rehearing before resorting to the
court. While under the Public Service Commission Law
any person interested in an order of the Commission has
the right to apply for a rehearing, the Commission is not
required to grant such rehearing unless in its judgment
sufficient reason therefor appear; the application for the
rehearing does not excuse compliance with the order or
its enforcement except as the Commission may direct;
and any change made in the original order upon the rehearing does not affect the enforcement of any right arising from the original order (§ 22). As the law does not
require an application for a rehearing to be made and its
granting is entirely within the discretion of the Commission, we see no reason for requiring it to be made as a
condition precedent to the bringing of a suit to enjoin the
enforcement of the order. See, by' analogy, Hollis v.
Kutz, 255 U. S. 452, 454; Re Arkansas Rate Cases (C. C.),
187 Fed. 290, 306; Atlantic Coast Line v. InterstateCommission (Com. Ct.), 194 Fed. 449, 452; Baltimore Railroad v. Railroad Commission (C. C.), 196 Fed. 690, 693,

PRENDERGAST v. N. Y. TEL. CO.
43

Opinion of the Court.

699; and Chicago Railways v. Illinois Commission (D.
C.), 277 Fed. 970, 974. In Palermo Water Co. v. Railroad Commission (D. C.), 227 Fed. 708, the statute
specifically provided that no cause of action should accrue
in any court out of any order of the Commission unless
an application for a rehearing had been made. Here the
Commission did not suggest in its answer that it perceived
any ground upon which it would have granted a rehearing, if an application had been made, but, on the contrary,
maintained the correctness of its orders in all respects.
Manifestly under such circumstances the injunction
should not have been denied merely because application
had not been made to the Commission for a rehearing.
And for like reasons, it was not necessary that the Company should have exercised the privilege granted by one
of the orders of applying to the Commission for modification of the classification.
Nor did the fact that the orders of the Commission
merely prescribed temporary rates to be effective until
its final determination, deprive the Company of its right
to relief at the hands of the court. The orders required
the new reduced rates to be put into effect on a given
date. They were final legislative acts as to the period
during which they should remain in effect pending the
final determination; and if the rates prescribed were 'confiscatory the Company would be deprived of a reasonable
return upon its property during such period, without
remedy, unless their enforcement should -be enjoined.
Upon a showing that such reduced rates were confiscatory
the Company was entitled to have their enforcement enjoined pending the continuance and completion of the
rate-making process. CumberlandTelephone Co. v. Louisiana Commission, supra. And see, by analogy, Oklahoma Natural Gas Co. v. Russell, supra; and Love v.
Atchison Railway (C. C. A.), 185 Fed. 321, 326 (affirming
51826-28------

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

174 Fed. 59, ind 177 Fed. 493). If the Commission, however, had fixed an early date for the final hearing this
might have been taken into consideration by the court as
an element affecting the exercise of its discretion in the
matter of granting an interlocutory injunction. Cumberland Telephone Co. v. Louisiana Commission, supra, p.
217. But in the present case the Commission was still
continuing indefinitely its general investigation and had
not fixed any date for the final hearing.
4. The application for the injunction was heard by the
District Court upon the pleadings and affidavits relating
to the cost and value of the Company's property, its revenue and expenses. It was not necessary that the Company offer in evidence the voluminous testimony that had
been taken by the Commission on the legislative question
prior to making the orders in question. The bill did not
challenge the orders of the Commission on the ground
that it had acted arbitrarily, without any evidence. See
Louisville Railroad v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 299, 308. The
sole issue presented was whether or not the orders were
confiscatory; which was to be determined by the court
upon the evidence submitted to it. Either party might,
of course, show, by competent testimony, any fact
brought out before the Commission which might throw
light upon this issue; and the defendants cannot now
rightly complain that the Company did not introduce
evidence which they themselves do not appear to have
regarded as material.
The District Court, after consideration and analysis of
the evidence, concluded that the value of the Company's
property upon which it was entitled to a return could not
be reduced much below $300,000,000, and that the rates
prescribed could not possibly yield a fair return upon such
valuation. It is well settled that the granting of a temporary injunction, pending final hearing, is within the
sound discretion of the trial court; and that, upon appeal,

COMMERCIAL TRUST CO. v. MILLER.
43

51

Syllabus.

an order granting such an injunction will not 1e disturbed
unless contrary to some rule of equity, or the result of
improvident exercise of judicial discretion. Meccano,
Ltd. v. John Wanamaket', 253 U. S. 136, 141; Love v.
Atchison Railway, supra, p. 331; and cases there cited.
Especially will the granting of the temporary writ be upheld, when the balance of injury as between the parties
favors its issue. Amarillo v. Southwestern Telephone
Co. (C. C. A.), 253 Fed. 638, 640. Here the Commission
had prescribed temporary rates which were found to be
confiscatory, which were to continue in effect pending the
final determination of the Commission after its investigation had been completed; and no date had been fixed for
the completion of this investigation or the final hearing.
The Company meanwhile could only be protected from
loss by injunction; while,, on the other hand, its subscribers were protected by the bond which was required
for the return of the excess charges collected if the injunction should be thereafter dissolved. There was no
necessity in the particular situation presented for any
test period of the new rates.
And finding nothing in the record which justifies us in
concluding that the District Court improvidently exercised its judicial discretion in granting the interlocutory
injunction, its order is
Affirmed.

COMMERCIAL TRUST COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 575.

Argued April 13, 1923.-Decided April 23, 1923.

1. A proceeding for the seizure of enemy-held property, brought by
the Alien Property Custodian as delegate of the President, under

