258

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

business with all the unnecessary and disastrous consequences its enforcement would entail if the act was unconstitutional. Hill v. Wallace should, in fact, be classed
with Lipke v. Lederer, supra, as a penalty in the form of
a tax. Certainly we have no such case here.
This conclusion renders it unnecessary for us to consider whether § 252 of the Revenue Act of 1921, in connection with § 3226, Rev. Stats., as amended by the same
Revenue Act of 1921, barred complainant's right to pay
the tax and sue to recover it back at the time of filing
his bill, as held by the District Court. It is certain that
by the amendments to § 252 and § 3226, Rev. Stats., by
the Act of March 4, 1923, c. 276, 42 Stat. 1504, the complainant is given the right now to pay the tax, and sue to
recover it back, and in such a suit to raise the questions
as to the value of the stock and the amount of the resulting tax and also as to the bar of time against the assessment which he attempted to raise in the bill.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and the case is remanded to the District Court with directions to dissolve the temporary injunction and to dismiss
the bill.
Reversed.
DHARANDAS TULSIDAS ET AL. v. INSULAR COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 77. Submitted May 2, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.
1. A decision of the duly constituted immigration authorities holding
an applicant not of a status entitling him to admission, should not
be rejected in habeas corpus unless resulting from manifest abuse
of power and discretion. P. 263.
2. The right of an alien applicant to be admitted, under the Immigration Act of 1917, as a merchant, does not depend on his pre-

TULSIDAS v. INSULAR COLLECTOR.
258

259

Opinion of the Court.

senting a certificate of his status, issued under § 6 of the Act of
May 6, 1882, c. 126, 22 Stat. 58, 60, as amended by § 6 of the Act
of July 5, 1884, c. 220, 23 Stat. 115, 116. P. 263.
3. To be admissible as a merchant, under the Immigration Act of
1917, an alien must be actually a merchant,-an owner of a business,-not merely a salesman, manager or other employee; and his
status as merchant must exist at the time of his application for
admission. P. 264.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands, which discharged a writ of habeas
corpus sued out by the petitioners in a court of first instance, to test the legality of their detention, by the respondent, as inadmissible aliens.

Mr. Adam C. Carson,, Mr. Hartford Beaumont and
Mr. W. Davis Conrad for petitioners.
Mr. Grant T. Trent, Mr. Logan N. Rock and Mr. F. G.
Munson for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petition in habeas corpus in which petitioners pray to
be delivered from the custody of the Insular Collector of
Customs, by whom they aver that they are detained for
deportation from Manila, at which place they are entitled to land and remain, under the Immigration Act of
February 5, 1917, c. 29, 39 Stat. 874, being merchants.'
'"

That the following classes of aliens shall be excluded from

admission into the United States:

.

.

.

unless otherwise pro-

vided for by existing treaties, persons who are natives of islands
not possessed by the United States adjacent to the Continent of Asia,
or who are natives of any country, province, or dependency
situate on the Continent of Asia

.

.

.

,

and no alien now in any

way excluded from, or prevented from entering, the United States
shall be admitted to the United States. The provisions next foregoing, however, shall not apply to persons of the following status or

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Petitioners arrived at Manila, September 26, 1919, and
were taken before a Board of Special Inquiry formed by
the Insular Collector of Customs, constituted of three
officers of the Bureau of Customs, duly designated and
qualified to serve on such Board at the port of Manila
in accordance with law, to determine whether petitioners
should be allowed to land, or should be deported.
The right of petitioners to land was considered by the
Board separately and decided separately, but for convenience we have considered their applications and the
proceedings thereon as joint, and, therefore, it is only
necessary, in representation of the applications and the
proceedings, to say that the Board after consideration
of the applications and the testimony given in support
thereof, decided as to Tulsidas that it appeared that he
had no business in India, and none in the Philippines,
that his passport showed that he was only a salesman,
and that it was clear that he was "not a merchant within
the meaning of the Immigration Law, and, therefore, not
an exempt and entitled to landing." He was refused
landing.
The Board also refused landing to Lekhraj and Sukhrani, deciding that they were salesmen, not industrial
partners as they claimed to be, of Wassiamall Assomall
& Co., but salesmen in that store. The Board further
decided that they had no business of their own and that
industrial partners were not merchants within the meaning of the Immigration Law.
From the decisions of the Board, petitioners prosecuted appeals to the Insular Collector of Customs and
it appearing to him, as he said, that the decisions of the
occupations:

.

.

.

merchants,

,

but such persons . . .

who fail to maintain in the United States a status or occupation
placing them within the excepted classes shall be deemed to be
in the United States contrary to law, and shall be subject to deportation as provided in section nineteen of this Act." [§ 3.]

TULSIDAS v. INSULAR COLLECTOR.
258

261

Opinion of the Court.

Board were "reasonable and proper" in that petitioners
being natives of India, failed to show that they belonged
to any exempted classes under the provisions of § 3 of
the Immigration Act of February 5, 1917, he refused
them landing, and ordered that they be "returned to
their port of embarkation in accordance with law."
It will be observed, therefore, that the officers on whom
was imposed the duty of administering the Immigration
Law and passing upon the right of an alien applicant to
admission into the United States, decided that the petitioners were of the class excluded from admission, and
refused them landing.
In question of the legality of that ruling, proceedings
were instituted in the Court of First Instance by a petition for habeas corpus. To the petition, the Attorney

General of the Islands, as representative of the Insular
Collector of Customs, and in his official capacity, opposed
the decision rendered by the Board of Special Inquiry
and the Insular Collector of Customs, and denied the
allegations of the petition "except as same may be admitted in, or appear to be true from, the proceedings of
the immigration officials in this case."
The Court of First Instance reversed the rulings of
the immigration officials and "definitely ordered that the
petitioners be placed at liberty."
The court assigned especial probative force" to the
partnership agreement introduced in the case, "the
genuineness of which" the court said was not questioned,
according to which the court further said, "the petitioners were admitted as industrial partners of said partnership, the first having a right to fifteen per cent of the
profits, the second ten per cent, and the third five per
cent." And the court was of the view that " industrial
partners" were as much merchants as " capitalist partners."
The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands to which
the case was appealed, revoked the granting of the writ

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

of habeas corpus, and ordered and decreed that the judgment of the Department of Customs ordering deportation of petitioners be affirmed.
The court based its decision on two grounds: (1)
Granting that appellees (petitioners) are merchants, they
did not present as proof of the fact the certificate issued
under § 6 of the Act of Congress of May 6, 1882, c. 126,
22 Stat. 58, 60, as amended by § 6 of the Act of July 5,
1884, c. 220, 23 Stat. 115, 116, which, it is provided,
shall be the sole evidence permissible to establish the
exemption of an alien from the prohibition of the Immigration Law. (2) The court considered that, independently of the requirement, appellees (petitioners) had
failed to show that they were merchants in the country from which they had come, and that was necessary
because the law did "not contemplate that aliens who
claim to belong to an exempted class, or aliens otherwise
prohibited from entering the United States, shall be permitted to enter the territory of the United States to become merchants." And the court construed the partnership agreement as creating a condition or status after
landing in Mairilal and concluded that, "There is absolutely nothing in the record which shows that the depart'The partnership agreement recites that it is made the " nineteenth
day of September" 1919, between certain parties who are named
"to be known as the capitalist partners, parties of the first part"
and the petitioners and other parties, "to be known as industrial
partners, parties of the second part,
"Witnesseth: That said parties have agreed, and by these presents do agree, to associate themselves as co-partners for the purpose of carrying on the business of buying and selling goods, wares,
merchandise and commodities and such commission business as may
appertain to the same, in the Philippine Islands to the faithful performance of which they mutually bind and engage themselves each
to the other, his executors and administrators:
" 1. That the principal place of business and domicile of this copartnership shall be Manila; or at such other place as the business

TULSIDAS v. INSULAR COLLECTOR.
258

263

Opinion of the Court

ment of customs abused its power, authority or discretion in the slightest degree."
The conclusion has pertinent signification, for counsel
admit that "under the express provisions of the statute,
the decision of a Board of Special Inquiry, such as that
now under consideration, is final, when affirmed on administrative appeal", and only to be reviewed upon
habeas corpus when the administrative officers have manifestly abused the power and discretion conferred upon
them.
It would seem, therefore, as if something more is necessary to justify review than the basis of a dispute. The
law is in administration of a policy which, while it confers a privilege, is concerned to preserve it from abuse
and, therefore, has appointed officers to determine the
conditions of it, and speedily determine them, and on
practical considerations, not to subject them to litigious
controversies, and disputable, if not finical, distinctions.
Keeping in mind the admonition of this, we pass to the
consideration of the rulings of the officials and the courts.
In the ruling of the Supreme Court that a "Section-Six
certificate," as the court and counsel call it, is the prescribed evidence for admission under the Immigration
Law, we. do not concur, but in the ruling of the court
that an applicant for admission as a merchant must be
such at the time of his application, we do concur.
now conducted at said location may hereinafter be transferred by
mutual consent, and this contract shall relate to this particular store
and business only.
"2. That the business of this co-partnership shall be conducted
under the firm name of 'Wassiamall Assomall & Co.'
"3. That the direction, control and management of this partnership is vested solely and exclusively in the parties of the first
part, who are hereby granted full power and authority to appoint
such manager or managers from the industrial partners as they
may deem necessary or proper for the management of the store above
mentioned."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The law defines the classes of aliens which shall be excluded from admission to the United States, but provides
that the exclusion shall not apply to persons having the
"status or occupations" of "merchants."
This means,
necessarily, having the "status" at the time admission
is sought, not a status to come, or to be established. If
the latter, what indulgence of time is to be given for its
attainment, and how is detriment to the policy of the
law while the status is attaining to be prevented, and
how terminate the indulgence and the detriment, and
execute the law? There can be no'answer to those questions consistent with the denial that the status of merchant must exist at the time of application for admission.
The petitioners testified, and upon considering the testimony, we encounter some anomalies-anomalies that
strain belief in its truth--certainly repel from acceptance,
pretensions which are based upon the confusion of established distinctions between occupations. We have seen,
the assertion is that petitioners are industrial partners,
and as such Lekhraj testified he was absent from Manila
over three years but was an industrial partner in the store
of Wassiamall Assomall & Co., during that time-he
"only took a rest." Sukhrani put his absence at sixteen
months. At the time of his testimony, he said he was
a salesman" but was to become manager.
May we not wonder, in some disbelief, how a salesman
or manager, whether his compensation be a salary or a
percentage of profits, could have been indulged in absences of such duration?
The confounding of occupations--that of salesman or
manager with that of merchant-cannot be accepted. A
merchant is the owner of the business; a salesman or manager, a servant of it; and especially so under the Immigration Law. The policy of the law must be kept in mind.
It is careful to distinguish between the status of a mer-

TULSIDAS v. INSULAR COLLECTOR.
258

265

Opinion of the Court.

chant and those below that status. A merchant is fixed
in it and made constant to it by his financial interest, a
salesman or manager is but an employee, however else
he may be denominated; and may withdraw from his
employment at any moment of time and become a competitor in the ranks of labor, using the word in the sense
the law implies. So particular is the law in regard to its
distinctions and policy that if a merchant descends from
his status he shall be "deemed to be in the United States
contrary to law, and shall be subject to deportation."
And induced, no doubt, by such consideration as well
as the distinction in occupations, the Insular officials adjudged that petitioners were not merchants, so adjudged
from their knowledge of the conditions obtaining in the
Philippines, so adjudged from contact with petitioners,
and in estimate of their pretensions. And, necessarily,
we should not view the spoken word, nor even the partnership agreement produced in support of the spoken
word, separate from that contact and that estimate. And
in accepting the adjudication, we do not share the alarm
of counsel that it will, result in admitting only petty
tradesmen, in excluding" the managing partners and directors of great mercantile enterprises. We think rather
it will leave the administration of the law where the law
intends it should be left; to the attention of officers made
alert to attempts at evasion of it and instructed by experience of the fabrications which will be made to accomplish evasion.
Counsel themselves seem conscious of the exaggeration
which made managers and industrial partners of petitioners in a great enterprise, made especially such of a boy
nineteen years of age. As to him (Tulsidas), counsel say,
though asserting his right to admission, that "there is
substantial ground for a contention " that "the writ
[habeas corpus] should not issue because of the lack of
sufficient affirmative evidence in the record in support

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

of his claim that he is a merchant, and as such entitled
to admission to American territory." And further, "as
a newcomer to the islands, something more than his own
uncorroborated statements as to his status in the country
from which he came might fairly and reasonably have

been required of him."
We concur with counsel as to Tulsidas and extend the
requirement to the other petitioners and hold that instead,
as counsel urge, of the Insular officers being obliged to seek
confirmation or denial of petitioners' testimony, they, the
petitioners, should have produced something more than
their own statements of their status as merchants. It
was for them to establish their exemption from the prohibition of the law, for them to satisfy the Insular officials charged with the administration of the law. If they
left their exemption in doubt and dispute, they cannot
complain of a decision against it.
Judgment affirmed.
STEVENS v. ARNOLD ET AL., EXECUTORS AND
TRUSTEES OF NIRDLINGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 200.

Argued May 2, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. A suit under 4 N. J. Comp. Stat. p. 5399, to determine title to
land, must be dismissed, according to the interpretation of the
highest New Jersey court, if the plaintiff fail to show title in himself, even though the defendant set up an independent title, and
although the statute provides for a decree conclusively settling the
rights of all the parties. P. 268.
2. Dismissal of the bill, in such case, estops the plaintiff from asserting against the same defendant, in a second suit, any ground of
title existing at the time of the first suit, especially one that was
then waived. P. 268.
3. Such dismissal does not establish the title set up by the defendant; but he may reassert it, by counterclaim, in a second suit

