FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 649
643

Syllabus.

Some minor objections are urged. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta serves, directly, only the Sixth
Reserve District, which includes Georgia. It is contended that the decree should be reversed because the
District Court refused to allow the intervention as plaintiffs of banks located outside of that district; because that
court refused to admit evidence of the activities engaged
in by other federal reserve banks in other districts under
the approval of the Federal Reserve Board; and because
the court admitted certain joint answers to interrogatories
propounded under Equity Rule 58. We cannot say that
the trial court abused the discretion vested in it, or erred,
in so ruling.
Affirmed.
FARMERS AND MERCHANTS BANK OF MONROE,
NORTH CAROLINA, ET AL. v. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.

No. 823. Argued April 30, May 1, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. Many state banks, in satisfying checks drawn upon them by their
depositors and sent through other banks for collection, were
accustomed to remit by draft on their reserves elsewhere and to
make a small charge, called exchange, deducted from the remittance. The Federal Reserve Board, and the federal reserve banks,
being forbidden to pay exchange charges, but believing it their
duty to accept checks on any bank for collection and to make par
clearance and collection of checks universal throughout the United
States, adopted the practice of causing checks drawn on state banks
which refused par clearance to be presented to such banks at the
counter for payment in cash. To protect North Carolina banks
from serious loss of income which would ensue from this practice,
both through reduction of exchange charges and through transference of income-producing assets to their vaults, the legislature of
that State enacted, (Pub. Laws 1921, c. 20) that any check drawn

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

upon a local bank (other than checks in payment of obligations to
the federal or state governments,) unless specified to the contrary
on its face by the maker, should be payable, at the option of the
drawee, in exchange drawn on the drawee's reserve deposits, when
such check was presented by or through any federal reserve bank,
postoffice, or express company, or their agents, and, further, that
state banks might charge a fee, within specified limits, on remittances covering checks. Held:
(a) That the North Carolina Act does not violate the provision of
the Federal Constitution, Art. I, § 10, cl. 1, which prohibits a
State from making anything except gold and silver coin a tender
.inpayment of debts. P. 659.
(b) That it does not deprive the respondent Federal Reserve Bank,
without due process of law, of its right to engage in the business
of collecting checks payable on presentation within its district,
(which it claims it may make a source of revenue), nor of its
liberty of contract, by compelling it to accept payment in drafts,
good or bad, and so driving it from that branch of business. The
statute is not to be construed as authorizing payment in bad
drafts, and is an exercise of police power not offensive to the due
process clause. P. 660.
(c) That it does not deprive the Federal Reserve Bank of equal
protection of the laws, by obliging it to accept payment in drafts,
.while leaving other banks free to demand cash; since it was reasonable classification for the legislature to limit the regulation to
the particular, existing condition sought to be remedied. P. 661.
(d) That it does not conflict with duties imposed by Congress on the
Federal Reserve Board and the federal reserve banks. P. 662.
2. Neither § 13, nor any other provision of the Federal Reserve Act,
imposes on reserve banks any obligation to receive for collection
checks for which it is impossible to obtain payment except by incurring serious expense, as by presenting them by special messenger
at a distant place. P. 662.
3. In declaring that reserve banks may receive checks on non-member banks "payable on presentation", the Federal Reserve Act,
§ 13, as amended, would seem to imply that the checks must be
payable in cash, or in such funds as are deemed by the reserve bank
an equivalent. P. 663.
4. The federal reserve legislation does not impose on the Federal
Reserve Board or the federal reserve banks a duty to establish
in the United States a universal system of par clearance and collection of checks. P. 664.

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 651
649

Opinion of the Court.

5. The contention that Congress imposed this duty is irreconcilable
with the provision of the Hardwick Amendment to § 13 (Act of
June 21, 1917, c. 32, § 4, 40 Stat. 232) allowing members and affiliated non-members to make a limited charge (except to federal reserve banks) for "payment of checks and . . . remission therefor

by exchange or otherwise." P. 666.
6. The Iardwick Amendment in no way interferes with the right of
a depositor in a non-affiliated state bank to agree with his bank
that his checks in certain cases (unless otherwise indicated on their
face) should be payable, at its option, by exchange. P. 667.
183 N. Car. 546, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Supreme Court of North

Carolina reversing .a decree which perpetually enjoined
the respondent Federal Reserve Bank from refusing to accept payment of checks on petitioner banks in exchange
drafts, as permitted by a North Carolina statute, and from
returning, as dishonored, checks for which payment had
been tendered only in that way.
Mr. Alexander W. Smith and Mr. John J. Parker, with
whom Mr. Gillam Craig was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. John W. Davis and Mr. Henry W. Anderson, with
whom Mr. M. G. Wallace, Mr. H. G. Connor, Jr., and
Mr. C. W. Tillett, Jr., were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Legislature of North Carolina provided by § 2 of
c. 20, Public Laws of 1921, entitled "An Act to promote
the solvency of state banks ":
"That in order to prevent accumulation of unnecessary
amounts of currency in the vaults of the banks and trust
companies chartered by this State, all checks drawn on
said banks and trust companies shall, unless specified on
the face thereof to the contrary by the maker or makers
thereof, be payable at the option of the drawee bank, in
exchange drawn on the reserve deposits of said drawee

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

bank when any such check is presented by or through any
Federal Reserve Bank, postoffice, or express company, or
any respective agents thereof."
Section 1 authorizes banking institutions chartered by
the State to charge a fee not in excess of one-eighth of one
per cent. on remittances covering checks, the minimum
fee on any remittance therefor to be ten cents. Section
4 exempts from the operation of §§ 1 and 2 all checks
drawn in payment of obligations to the federal or the
state government. Whether this statute conflicts with
§ 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (December 23, 1913, c. 6,
38 Stat. 251, 263; as amended Septenber 7, 1916, c. 461,
39 Stat. 752; June 21, 1917, c. 32, § 4, 40 Stat. 232, 234)
or otherwise with the Federal Constitution is the question
for decision.
The legislation arose out of the effort, of the Federal
Reserve Board to introduce in the.United States universal
par clearance and collection of checks through federal
reserve banks. See American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 256 U. S. 350. The Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond serves the Fifth Federal Reserve District which includes North Carolina. Upon the
enactment of this statute the bank gave notice that it
considered the legislation void under the Federal Constitution; that, when presenting checks to North Carolina
state banks for payment over the counter, it would refuse
to accept exchange drafts on reserve deposits as required
by § 2; and that it would return as dishonored checks for
which only exchange drafts had been tendered in payment. Some checks were returned thus dishonored; and
to enjoin suchlaction, this suit was brought in a court of
the State by the Farmers and Merchants Bank of Monroe
and eleven other state banks. Two hundred and seventyone more joined later as plaintiffs. So far as appears,
none of them was a member of the federal reserve system
or was affiliated with it. The trial court granted a per-

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 653
649

Opinion of the Court.

'petual injunction. The Supreme Court of the State reversed the decree, 183 N. Car. 546; and the case is here
on writ of certiorari, 261 U. S. 610. Defendant admits
that, if the North Carolina statute is constitutional, plaintiffs are entitled to an injunction.
To understand the occasion for the statute, its operation and its effect, the applicable banking practice must
be considered.1 Par clearance does not mean that the
payee of a check who deposits it with his bank for collection will be credited in his account with the face of the
check if it is collected. His bank may, despite par clearance, make a charge to him for its service in collecting the
check from the drawee bank. It may make such a charge
although both it and the drawee bank are members of
the federal reserve system; and some third bank which
aids in the process of collection may likewise make a
charge for the service it renders. Such a collection charge
may be made not only to member banks by member
banks, national or state, but it may be made to member
banks also by the federal reserve banks for the services
which the latter render. The collection charge is expressly provided for in § 16 of the Federal Reserve Act
(38 Stat. 268) which declares that:
"The Federal Reserve Board shall, by rule, fix the
charges to be collected by the member banks from its
patrons whose checks are cleared through the Federal reserve bank and the charge which may be imposed for the
service of clearing or collection rendered by the Federal
reserve bank."
1

See Annual Reports of the Federal Reserve Board, 1914, pp. 19,

20, 174; 1915, pp. 14-17; 1916, pp. 9-12; Regulation I, Series of
1916, p. 169; 1917, pp. 23, 24; Regulation J, Series of 1917, pp.
181-183; 1918, pp. 74-77; 204-206; 810, 811, 817, 821; 1919, pp.
40-44; 222-228; 1920, pp. 63-69; 1921, 68-73; 228-230; Letter from
the Governor of the Federal Reserve Board of January 26, 1920,
Senate Document No. 184, 66th Cong., 2d sess.; also " Par Clearance
of Checks," by C. T. Murchison, 1 No. Car. Law Review 133.

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Par clearance refers to a wholly different matter. It
deals not with charges for collection, but with charges incident to paying. It deals with exchange. Formerly,
checks, except where paid at the banking house over the
counter, were customarily paid either through a clearing
house or by remitting, to the bank in which they had been
deposited for collection, a draft on the drawee's deposit
in some reserve city. For the service rendered by the
drawee bank in so remitting funds available for use at the
place of the deposit of the check, it was formerly a common practice to make a small charge, called exchange,
and to deduct the amount from the remittance. This
charge of the drawee bank the Federal Reserve Board
planned to eliminate and, in so doing, to concentrate in
the twelve federal reserve banks the clearance of checks
and the accumulation of the reserve balances used for that
purpose. The Board began by efforts to induce the banks
to adopt par clearance voluntarily.2 The attempt was not
successful. The Board then concluded to apply compulsion. Every national bank is necessarily a member of the
federal reserve system; and every state bank with the
requisite qualifications may become such. Over members
the Board has large powers, as well as influence. The
first step in the campaign of compulsion was taken in the
summer of 1916, when the Board issued a regulation requiring every drawee bank which is a member of the federal reserve system to pay without deduction, all checks
upon it presented through the mail by the federal reserve
bank of the district. The operation of this requirement
was at first limited in scope by the fact that the original
act (§ 13) authorized the reserve banks to collect only
those checks which were drawn on member banks and
which were deposited by a member bank or another reserve
'See Report, Federal Reserve Board, 1915, pp. 14-17; ibid, 1916,
pp. 9-11.

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 655
Opinion of the Court.

649

bank or the United States. Few of the many state banks
had then elected to become members. In September,
1916, § 13 was amended so as to authorize a reserve bank
to receive for collection from any member (including
other reserve banks) also checks drawn upon non-member
banks within its district. Thereby, the Federal Reserve
Board was enabled to extend par clearance to a large proportion of all checks issued in the United States. But the
regulation (J) then issued expressly provided that the
federal reserve banks would receive from member banks,
at par, only checks on those of the non-member banks
whose checks could be collected by the federal reserve
bank at par. It was recognized that non-members were
left free to refuse assent to par clearance. By December
15, 1916, only 37 of the state banks within the United
States, numbering about 20,000, had become members of
the system; and only 8,065 of the state banks had assented
to par clearance.
Reserve banks could not, under the then law, make
collections for non-members. It was believed that if
Congress would grant federal reserve banks permission to
make collection also for non-members, the Board could
offer to all banks inducements adequate to secure their
consent to par clearance. A further amendment to § 13
was thereupon secured by Act of June 21, 1917, c. 32, § 4,
40 Stat. 232, 234, which provided, among other things,
that federal reserve banks:
"Solely for the purposes of exchange or of collection,
may receive from any nonmember bank . . . deposits
of

.

.

checks

.

.

.

payable upon presentation

: Provided, Such nonmember bank . . . maintains with the Federal reserve bank of its district a balance sufficient to offset the items in transit held for its
account by the Federal reserve bank."
To this provision, which embodied the legislation proposed by the Federal Reserve Board, there was added,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Cohirt.

262 U. S.

while in the Senate, another proviso, relating to the exchange charge, now known in a modified form as the
Hardwick Amendment, which declares:
"That nothing in this or any other section of this Act
shall be construed as prohibiting a member or nonmember bank from making reasonable charges, to be determined and regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, but
in no case to exceed 10 cents per $100 or fraction thereof,
based on the total of checks and drafts presented at any
one time, for collection or payment of checks and drafts
and remission therefor by exchange or otherwise; but no
such charges shall be made against the Federal reserve
banks."
Thus a federal reserve bank was authorized to receive
for collection checks from non-members who maintained
with it the prescribed balance; and strenuous efforts were
then made to induce all state banks to so arrange. But
the law did not compel state banks to do this. Many
refused; and they continued to insist on making exchange
charges. On March 21, 1918, the Attorney General, 31
Ops. Atty. Gen. 245, 251, advised the President:
"The Federal reserve act, however, does not command
or compel these State banks to forego any right they
may have under the State laws to make charges in connection with the payment of checks drawn upon them.
The act merely offers the clearing and collection facilities
of the Federal reserve bahks upon specified conditions.
If the State banks refuse to comply with the conditions
by insisting upon making charges against the Federal reserve banks, the result will simply be, so far as the Federal Reserve Act is concerned, that since the Federal reserve banks can not pay these charges they can not clear
or collect checks on banks demanding such payment
from them."
The Federal Reserve Board and the federal reserve
banks were thus advised that they were prohibited from

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 657
Opinion of the Court.

649

paying an exchange charge to any bank. But they believed that it was their duty to accept for collection any
check on any bank; and that Congress had imposed upon
them the duty of making par clearance and collection of
checks universal in the United States. So they undertook to bring about acquiescence of the remaining state
banks to the system of par clearance.' Some of the nonassenting state banks made stubborn resistance.' To
overcome it the reserve banks held themselves out as
prepared to collect at par also checks on the state banks
which did not assent to par clearance. This they did by
publishing a list of all banks from whom they undertook
to collect at par, regardless of whether such banks had
agreed to remit at par or not. This resulted in drawing to the federal reserve banks for collection the large
volume of checks which theretofore had come to the
drawee bank by mail from many sources and which had
been paid by remittances drawn on the bank's balance in
some reserve city. If a state bank persisted in refusal
to remit at par, the reserve banks caused these checks to
be presented, at the drawee bank, for payment in cash
over the counter. The practice adopted by the reserve
banks would, if pursued, necessarily subject country
banks to serious loss of income. It would deprive them
of their income from exchange charges; and it would re'North Carolina was placed on the par list on November 15, 1920.
There were on January 1, 1921, in the United States, 30,523 banks,
state and national. Of these 1,755 state banks had refused to enter
the par list. About 250 of the banks so refusing were in North
Carolina. During the year 1921 the number which refused to consent to par clearance increased to 2,353. Annual Report of Federal
Reserve Board, 1921, p. 71.
'See American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta, supra; Brookings State Bank v. Federal Reserve Bank of
San Francisco, 277 Fed. 430; 281 Fed. 222; Farmers' & Merchants'
Bank of Catlettsburg, Ky. v. Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland,
286 Fed. 610.
51826'-23--42

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

duce their income-producing assets by compelling them
to keep in their vaults in cash a much larger part of their
resources than theretofore. That such loss must result
was admitted. That it might render the banks insolvent
was clear. But the federal reserve banks insisted that
no alternative was left open to them, since they had to
collect the checks and were forbidden to pay exchange
charges. The state banks denied that the federal reserve
banks were obliged to accept these checks for collection;
and insisted that federal reserve banks should refrain
from accepting for collection checks on banks which did
not assent to par clearance.
It was to protect its state banks from this threatened
loss, which might disable them, that the legislature of
North Carolina enacted the statute here in question.' It
made no attempt to compel the federal reserve bank to
pay an exchange charge. It made no attempt to compel
a depositor to accept something other than cash in payment of a check drawn by him. It merely provided that,
unless the drawer indicated by a notation on the face of
the check that he required payment in cash, the drawee
bank was at liberty to pay the check by exchange drawn
on its reserve deposits. Thus the statute merely sought
to remove (when the drawer acquiesced) the absolute requirement of the common law that a check presented at
the bank's counter must be paid in cash. It gave the
drawee bank the option to pay by exchange only in certain cases; namely, when the check was "presented by
or through any Federal Reserve Bank, postoffice, or ex5Statutes similar in purpose were enacted in Alabama, Florida,
Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Dakota and Tennessee. See
Annual Report of Federal Reserve Board, 1921, p. 70; Alabama,
Gen. & Loc. Acts, 1920,-No. 35; Florida, Laws, 1921, c. 8532; Georgia,
Laws, 1920, p. 107; Louisiana, Acts, 1920, No. 23; Mississippi, Laws,
1920, c. 183; South Dakota, Laws, 1921, c. 31; Tennessee, Pub. Acts,

1921, c. 37.

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
649

659

Opinion of the Court.

press company, or any respective agents thereof." The
option was so limited, because the only. purpose of the
statute was to relieve state banks from the pressure which,
by reason of the common-law requirement, federal reserve banks were in a position to exert and thus compel
submission to par clearance. It was expected that depositors would co~perate with their banks and refrain
from making the prescribed notation; and that when
the reserve banks were no longer in a position to exert
pressure by demanding payment in cash, they would
cease to solicit, or to receive, for collection checks on
non-assenting state banks. Thus, these would be enabled
to earn exchange charges as theretofore. Such was the
occasion for the statute and its purpose. Whether this
legislative modification of the common-law rule which
requires payment in cash violates the Federal Constitution is the question for decision. That it does is asserted
on five grounds.
First. It is contended that in authorizing payment of
checks by draft on reserve deposits § 2 violates the provision of Article I, § 10, cl. 1, of the Federal Constitution,
which prohibits a State from making anything except
gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts. This
claim is clearly unfounded. The debt of the bank is
solely to the depositor. The statute does not authorize
the bank to discharge its obligation to its depositor by an
exchange draft. It merely .provides that, unless the depositor in drawing the check specifies on its face to the
contrary, he shall be deemed to have assented to payment
by such a draft. There is nothing in the Federal Constitution which prohibits a depositor from consenting,
when he draws a check, that payment may be made by
a draft. And, as the statute is prospective in its operation, Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S.489; Abilene National
Bank v. Dolley, 228 U. S.1, 5, there is no constitutional
obstacle to a State's providing that, in the absence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

dissent, consent shall be presumed. Laws which subsist.
at the time and place of the making of a contract, and
where it is to be performed, enter into and form a part of
it, as fully as if they had been expressly referred to or
incorporated in its terms. This principle embraces alike
those laws which affect its construction and those which
affect its enforcement or discharge. See Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 231; Von Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall.
535, 550. If, therefore, the provision of § 2 authorizing
payment by exchange draft is otherwise valid, it is binding upon the drawer of the check. Since it binds the
drawer, it binds the payee and every subsequent holder,
whether he be a citizen of North Carolina or of some
other State, and wherever the transfer of the check was
made. Brabston v. Gibson, 9 How. 263. For the holder
of a check has, in the absence of acceptance by the drawee
bank, no independent right to require payment under the
general law. Bank of The Republic v. Millard, 10 Wall.
152. He takes it subject to the construction and with
rights conferred by the laws of North Carolina, the place
of the bank's contract and of performance. Pierce v.
Indseth, 106 U. S. 546. Compare Rouquette v. Overmann, L. R. 10 Q. B. 525.
Second. It is contended that § 2 violates the due
process clause. The argument is that defendant is a
federal corporation authorized to engage in the business
of collecting checks payable upon presentation within the
district, a business common to all banking institutions;
that the right to engage in this branch of the business is
a valuable property right; that while defendant has, in
the past, not made any charge for such collections, it has
the right to do so, and could make this branch of its business an important source of revenue; that to compel defendant to accept in payment of checks exchange drafts
on reserve deposits, whether good or bad, deprives it of
liberty of contract, and in effect of an important branch

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK.
649

661

Opinion of the Court.

of its business, since that of collecting checks cannot be
conducted under such limitations. To this argument
the answer is clear. The purpose of the statute, as its
title declares, was to promote the solvency, of state banks.
We should, in the absence of controlling decision of the
highest court of the State to the contrary, construe the
statute not as authorizing payment in a "bad" draft,
but as authorizing payment in such exchange drafts only
as had customarily been used in remitting for checks.
So construed the statute is merely an exercise of the
police power, by which the banking business is regulated
for the purpose of protecting the public, and promoting
the general welfare. Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219
U. S. 104, 575. The regulation here attempted is not so
extreme as inherently to deny rights protected by the
due process clause. Compare Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549, 567, 568;
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 162.
If the regulation exceeds the State's power to protect the
public, it must be because some other provision of the
Federal Constitution is violated by the means adopted or
by the manner in which they are applied.
Third. It is contended that the statute is obnoxious to
the equal protection clause. The argument is that the
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond is obliged to accept
payment in exchange drafts, whereas other banks with
whom it might conceivably compete may demand cash,
except in those cases where they present the check through
an express company or the postoffice. It is well settled
that the legislature of a State may (in the absence of
other controlling provisions) direct its police regulations
against what it deems an existing evil, without covering
the whole field of possible abuses. Lindsley v. Natural
Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 81; Missouri Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 205. If the legislature finds
that a particular instrument of trade war is being used

662

6OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

against a policy which it deems wise to adopt, it may
direct its legislation specifically and solely against that
instrument. Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota,supra,
p. 160. If it finds that the instrument is used only under
certain conditions, or by a particular class of concerns, it
may limit its prohibition to the conditions and the concerns which it concludes alone menace what it deenis the
public welfare. The facts recited above disclose ample
ground for the classification made by the legislature.
Hence, there was no denial of equal protection of the law.
There remains to consider whether § 2 exceeds the State's
power, because Congress has imposed specifically upon
federal reserve banks duties, the performance of which
§ 2 obstructs; and that in this way, it conflicts with the
Federal Reserve Act. This is the ground on which the
invalidity of the North Carolina act has been most
strongly assailed.
Fourth. One contention is that § 2 conflicts with the
Federal Reserve Act because it prevents the federal reserve banks from collecting checks of such state banks as
do not acquiesce in the plan for par clearance. The
argument rests on the assumption that the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond is obliged to receive for collection
any check upon any North Carolina state bank, if such
check is payable upon presentation; and is obliged to
collect the same at par without allowing deductions for
exchange or other charge. But neither § 13, nor any
other provision of the Federal Reserve Act, imposes upon
reserve banks any obligation to receive checks for collection. The act merely confers authority to do so. The
class of cases to which such authority applies was enlarged
from time to time by Congress. But in each amendment,
as in § 13, the words used were "may receive "--words
of authorization merely. It is true that in statutes the
word "may" is sometimes construed as "shall". But
that is where the context, or the subject-matter, compels

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 663
649

Opinion of the Court.

such construction. Supervisors v. United States, 4 Wall.
435. Here it does not. This statute appears to have
been drawn with great care. Throughout the act the distinction is clearly made between what the Board and the
reserve banks "shall" do and what they "may" do.'
Moreover, even if it could be held that the reserve
banks are ordinarily obliged to collect checks for authorized depositors, it is clear that they are not required to
do so where the drawee has refused to remit except upon
allowance of exchange charges which reserve banks are
not permitted to pay. There is surely nothing in the act
to indicate that reserve banks must undertake the collection of checks in cases where it is impossible to obtain
payment except by incurring serious expense; as, in presenting checks by special messenger at a distant point.
Furthermore, the checks which the act declares reserve
banks may receive for collection are limited to those
"payable on presentation." The expression would seem
to imply that the checks must be payable either in cash
or in such funds as are deemed by the reserve bank to be
'In the original Federal Reserve Act (38 Stat. 251) "may" is
used in §§ 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24,
25, 26, 28. "Shall" is used in those sections and also in §§ 1, 6, 7,
20, 23, 27, 29. Thus: Sec. 2: "The Secretary . .
shall designate . . . cities to be known as Federal reserve cities, and shall
divide the continental United States . . . into districts.
The districts . . . may be readjusted. . . . Such districts shall
be known as Federal reserve districts and may be designated by
number "; Sec. 3: "Each Federal reserve bank shall establish branch
banks within the Federal reserve district in which it is located and
may do so in the district of any Federal reserve bank which may
have been suspended "; Sec. 5: "outstanding capital stock shall be
increased
.
. as member banks increase their capital stock
• .
and may be decreased as member banks reduce their capital
stock
.
"; Sec. 13: " . . . may receive . . . deposits
may discount . . . shall at no time exceed"; See. 16:
"Every Federal reserve bank shall maintain reserves . .
"Every Federal reserve bank shall receive on deposit."

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

an equivalent. A check payable at the option of the
drawee by a draft on distant reserves would seem not to
be within the limited class of checks referred to in the act.
The argument for the Federal Reserve Bank is not helped
by reference to the incidental power conferred by § 4.
It is only "such incidental powers as shall be necessary
to carry on the business of banking within the limitations
prescribed by this [the Federal Reserve] Act" which
are granted. No duty or right of the federal reserve
bank to collect checks is obstructed by the North Carolina statute which merely gives to the drawee bank the
right to pay in the customary exchange draft, where its
depositor hds, by the form used in drawing the check,
consented that this be done.
Fifth. The further contention is made that § 2 conflicts
with the Federal Reserve Act because it interferes with
the duty of the Federal Reserve Board to establish in the
United States a universal system of par clearance and
collection of checks. Congress did not in terms confer
upon the Federal Reserve Board or the federal reserve
banks a duty to establish universal par clearance and collection of checks; and there is nothing in the original act
or in any amendment from which such duty to compel its
adoption may be inferred. The only sections which in
any way deal either with clearance or collection are 13
and 16. In neither section is there any suggestion that
the Reserve Board and the reserve banks shall become an
agency for universal clearance. On the contrary § 16
strictly limits the scope of their clearance functions. It
provides that the Federal Reserve Board: "may at its
discretion exercise the functions of a clearing house for
such Federal reserve banks

.

.

.

and may also re-

quire each such bank to exercise the functions of a clearing house for its member banks."
There is no reference whatever to "par" in § 13, either
as originally enacted or as amended from time to time.

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 665
649

Opinion of the Court.

There is a reference to "par" in § 16; and it is so clear
and explicit as to preclude a contention that it has any
application to non-member banks; or to the ordinary
process of check collection here involved. Section 16 (38
Stat. p. 268) declares:
"Every Federal reserve bank shall receive on deposit
at par from member banks or from Federal reserve banks
checks and drafts drawn upon any of its depositors, and
when remitted by a Federal reserve bank, checks and
drafts drawn by any depositor in any other Federal reserve bank or member bank upon funds to the credit of
said depositor in said reserve bank or member bank.
Nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting
a member bank from charging its actual expense incurred
in collecting and remitting funds, or for exchange sold to
its patrons."
The depositors in a federal reserve bank are the United
States, other federal reserve banks, and member banks.
It is checks on these depositors which are to be received
by the federal reserve banks. These checks from these
depositors the federal reserve banks must receive. And
when received they must be taken at par. There is no
mention of non-member banks in this section. When, in
1916, § 13 was amended to permit federal reserve banks
to receive from member banks solely for collection other
checks payable upon presentation within the district;and when, in 1917, § 13 was again amended to permit such
receipt solely for collection also from certain non-member
banks-§ 16 was left in this respect unchanged. In other
respects § 16 was amended both by the Act of 1916 and
by the Act of 1917. The natural explanation of the omission to amend the provision in § 16 concerning clearance
is that the section has no application to non-member
banks,--even if affiliated.
Moreover, the contention that Congress has imposed
upon the Board the duty of establishing universal par

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

clearance and collection of checks through the federal
reserve banks is irreconcilable with the specific provision
of the Hardwick Amendment which declares that even a
member or an affiliated non-member may make a limited
charge (except to federal reserve banks) for "payment
of checks and .
remission therefor by exchange or
otherwise," The right to make a charge for payment of
checks, thus regained by member and preserved to affiliated non-member banks, shows that it was not intended,
or expected, that the federal reserve banks would become
the universal agency for clearance of checks. For, since
against these the final clause prohibited the making of
any charge, then if the reserve banks were to become the
universal agency for clearance, there would be no opportunity for any bank to make as against any bank a charge
for the " payment of checks." The purpose of Congress
in amending § 13 by the Act of 1917 was to enable the
Board to offer to non-member banks the use of its facilities which it was hoped would prove a sufficient inducement to them to forego exchange charges; but to preserve in non-member banks the right to reject such offer; '
and to protect the interests of member and affiliated nonmember banks (in competition with the non-affiliated
state banks) by allowing also those connected with the
federal system to make a reasonable exchange charge to
others than the reserve banks. The power of the Federal
Reserve Board to establish par clearance was, thus, limited by the unrestricted right of unaffiliated non-member
banks to make a charge for exchange and the restricted
'The governor of the Federal Reserve Board stated in his letter to
the Senate, January 26, 1920, Sen. Doc. 184, 66th Cong., 2d sess., p. 6:
"That a relatively small number of non-member banks should not
want to become members of the clearing system, or should not want
to remit at par is, of course, their own concern, and the Federal
Reserve Board and the Federal reserve banks have not and will not
dispute their right to decline to do so."

FARMERS BANK v. FED. RESERVE BANK. 667
649

Dissent.

right of members and affiliated non-members to make the
charge therefor fixed as reasonable by the Federal Reserve Board. No bank could make such a charge against
the federal reserve banks--because these were prohibited
from paying any such charge. Member and non-member
affiliated banks, because they were such, performed the
service for the federal reserve banks without charge. Unaffiliated non-member banks were under no obligation to
do so. Thus construed, full effect may be given to all
clauses in the Hardwick Amendment as enacted. It in
no way interferes with the right of a depositor in a nonaffiliated state bank to agree with his bank that the checks
which he might draw should (unless otherwise indicated
on their face) be payable, at the option of the drawee,
in exchange in certain cases.
The North Carolina statute here in question does not
obstruct the performance of any duty imposed upon the
Federal Reserve Board and the federal reserve banks.
Nor does it interfere with the exercise of any power conferred upon either. It is therefore consistent with the
Federal Reserve Act and with the Federal Constitution.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

LAND dissent.

and MR.

JUSTICE SUTHER-

