700

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

effect the petitioner at the time it made the shipment
expressly ordered delivery to be made to the consignee
bank in care of the commission company, and caused
the agent of the receiving carrier to so direct on the waybill. We think it must be held that, under these circumstances, delivery to the commission company was
delivery to the consignee bank.
This being so, the provisions of the Carmack Amendment have no application.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals is affirmed.
RINDGE COMPANY ET AL. v. COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL, SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT, DIVISION ONE, OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 237.

Argued April 26, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.

1. Whether a use for which private property is taken is public
or private is a judicial question the determination of which is influenced by local conditions; and this Court, while enforcing the
Fourteenth Amendment, should keep in view the diversity of such
conditions, and regard with great respect the judgments of state
courts upon what should be deemed public uses. P. 705.
2. It is not essential that the entire community, or even a con-siderable portion, should directly enjoy an improvement in order
to constitute a public use. P. 706.
3. A taking of land for a highway extension is a taking for a
public use, even though the extension lie wholly within the tract
of a single landowner, and terminate at his boundaries and connect with no public road save at its beginning, if it be susceptible
of present use not only by those gaining access from the highway
but by persons living on or adjacent to the tract with access by
private ways, and of future use by those living beyond its terminus,
through future road construction. P. 706.
4. A highway may be legally laid out extending to a state or county
line even though there be at the time no connecting highway in

RINDGE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
700

Opinion of the Court.

the adjoining State or county, in reasonable anticipation of future
connections and future public use. P. 707.
5. Public use of a road is not limited to its use as a mere business
necessity or ordinary convenience, but includes its use as a
scenic highway, for the public enjoyment, recreation and health.

P. 707.
6. The necessity for appropriating private property for a public
use is a legislative question which may be determined by a munic-

ipality to which the legislature has delegated the power; and the
Fourteenth Amendment does not entitle the owner to a hearing
before the determination is made. P. 708.
53 Cal. App. 166, affirmed.

ERROR to judgments of the District Court of Appeal
of California which affirmed judgments condemning private lands as county highways.
Mr. Edward Stafford and Mr. Nathan Newby, with
whom Mr. TV. H. Anderson, Mr. J. A. Anderson and
Mr. Grant Jackson were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. Paul Vallee, with whom Mr. A. J. Hill was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This record includes two cases which were tried together
in the state courts and have been heard together here.
The writs of error are brought to review judgments of
the District Court of Appeal affirming judgments of the
Superior Court of Los Angeles County, California, condemning lands of the plaintiffs in error for use by the
County as public highways; which they insist have deprived them of their property without due process of law
and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.1
'After these judgments of affirmance petitions to have the cases
heard and determined by the Supreme Court of California were
denied by that court.

702

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The two fundamental questions involved are whether
the uses for which these lands have been taken are public
uses authorized by law; and whether the taking was
necessary to such uses.
Section 1241 of the California Code of Civil Procedure
includes "highways" among the "public uses" for which
the right of eminent domain may be exercised. Section
1241, as amended in 1913, provides that before property
can be taken it must appear that the use to which it is to
be applied is one authorized by law and that the taking
is necessary to such use; provided, inter alia, that when
the legislative body of a county has, by resolution adopted
by vote of two-thirds of its members, found and determined that the public interest and necessity require the
construction by the county of any proposed public improvement located within its limits and that designated
property is necessary therefor, such resolution shall be
"conclusive evidence" of the public necessity for such
improvement, that such property is necessary therefor,
and that such improvement is located in the manner most
compatible with the greatest public good and the least
private injury. Stats. 1913, p. 549.
The plaintiffs in error are the owners of a large tract of
land lying on the shore of the Pacific Ocean, known as
the Malibu Ranch, extending in an easterly and westerly
direction about twenty-two miles and varying in width
from one-half mile to one and one-half miles. It lies at
the base of a high and rugged mountain range which parallels the shore at a distance of from three to four miles,
its northern line extending along the slope and foothills
of this mountain range, and is traversed by many ridges
and intervening canyons leading from the mountains
toward the shore. It lies about ten miles west of Santa
Monica, one of the principal cities of Los Angeles County,
situated on the coast to the southwest of the City of Los
Angeles, and is mainly in Los Angeles County, but extends

RINDGE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
700

Opinion of the Court.

about a mile and a half into Ventura County, the adjoining county on the west. It is traversed lengthwise by a
private road of the ranch owners which was formerly used
by farmers and settlers living north of the ranch on the
slope of the mountains and west of the ranch in Ventura
County, but which has been for several years closed by
the ranch owners to the public.2
In 1916 and 1917 the Board of Supervisors, the legislative body of Los Angeles County, without notice to the
ranch owners, adopted, by the required vote, two resolutions declaring that the public interest and necessity required the construction of the two highways now in controversy "for public highway purposes" and that it was
necessary for such "public uses" that the lands included
therein be acquired by the county; and directing that
condemnation proceedings be instituted for such purposes. One of these proposed highways, which is known
in the record as the "main road," commences at the eastern boundary of the ranch, where it connects with and
forms a continuation of a much traveled public county
highway running along the shore of the ocean from Santa
Monica, and extends lengthwise through the ranch in a
westerly direction to the Ventura County line, where it
terminates within the boundaries of the ranch. The
other is a branch from this main road, extending to the
northern boundary of the ranch, where it terminates.
There are no connecting public roads either at the western
termination of the main road or the northern termination
of the branch road.
These condemnation proceedings were thereupon instituted in the Superior Court of the County. They were
'There has been much litigation between the ranch owners and the
county and federal authorities
across this ranch, in which,
owners have been successful.
Rindge (D. C.), 208 Fed. 611,

as to the public use of roads and ways
prior to these proceedings, the ranch
In this litigation are United States v.
and People v. Rindge, 174 Cal. 743.

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

vigorously resisted by the ranch owners, who denied the
County's right of condemnation. Certain special defenses which they interposed, alleging that the main road
would furnish no way of necessity or convenience for
public use or travel, were stricken out by the court. Upon
a preliminary trial as to.the right of condemnation, the
trial judge, after the resolutions of the Board had been
introduced in evidence by the County, ruled that while
they were not conclusive evidence of the matters specified
in the proviso to § 1241 of the Code, they were prima
facie evidence thereof. And the ranch owners then,
without objection or limitation, introduced a large mass
of evidence in support of all of their defenses, including
the matters which had been alleged in the special defenses that had been stricken out; and a large mass of
rebuttal evidence was then introduced by the County:
the testimony on both sides relating to all the matters
which had been or now are in issue in the cases.
The trial judge reviewed the evidence, and, manifestly
without reference to any presumption arising under his
ruling as to the prima facie evidence furnished by the
resolutions, decided all the questions submitted in favor
of the County: and made specific findings that the public
interest and necessity required the acquisition of these
public highways; that the use to which they were to be
applied was authorized by law; that they would afford
accommodation to the traveling public; and that they
were located as required. Thereafter, the amount of
landowners' compensation and damages having been determined by a jury-as to which no question is madejudgments condemning these lands for public highways
were entered.
On appeals taken by the ranch owners the District
Court of Appeal held that the taking of the property for
these highways was for a public use; that the proviso to
§ 1241 of the Code was not obnoxious to any provision of

RINDGE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
700

Opinion of the Court.

the State or Federal Constitutions, and under it the resolutions were conclusive evidence of the matters specified;
that in any event the ranch owners had not been prejudiced by the rulings of the trial court as to the effect of
this proviso as they had been permitted to introduce full
and complete evidence on these subjects; and that they
had not been prejudiced by the striking out of their
special defenses not only because the resolutions were
conclusive evidence that the taking was necessary, but
also because every material issue tendered by these special defenses was otherwise raised by the pleadings and
they had been permitted to offer evidence touching every
matter contained therein; and it thereupon sustained the
findings of the trial court and affirmed the judgments of
condemnation. Los Angeles County v. Rindge Co., 53
Cal. App. 166.
The ranch owners urge here, in substance: That the
use for which their property was taken was not a public
use authorized by law, and their special defenses raising
this question as to the main road were erroneously
stricken out; that their property was taken without any
public necessity, and, the proviso to § 1241 of the Code
purporting to make the resolutions conclusive evidence
thereof being in violation of the state constitution and
of the Fourteenth Amendment and constituting neither
conclusive nor prima facie evidence, the burden of disproving this public necessity was erroneously cast upon
them; and that in consequence the judgments of con:
demnation deprived them of their property in violation
of the due process and equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
1. Authorized public use. The nature of a use,
whether public or private, is ultimately a judicial question. However, the determination of this question is
influenced by local conditions; and this Court, while
enforcing the Fourteenth Amendment, should keep in
51820.-23-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

view the diversity of such conditions and regard with
great respect the judgments of state courts upon what
should be deemed public uses in any State. Fallbrook
Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 158, 160;
Hairston v. Danville Railway, 208 U. S. 598, 606, 607.
That a taking of property for a highway is a taking for
public use has been universally recognized, from time
immemorial. The California Code specifically declares
" highways" to be "public uses" for which the right of
eminent domain may be exercised. Here, the Board of
Supervisors, familiar with local conditions, has declared
these highways to be for public uses; and the local and
appellate state courts have likewise held them to be for
public uses authorized by law.
The ranch owners concede that a genuine highway, in
fact adapted as a way of convenience or necessity for public use and travel, is a public use. Their real contention
is that these particular roads, while called highways, are
" highways" in name merely, that is, that they are shams
under the name of public improvements, which cannot,
in fact, furnish ways of convenience or necessity to the
traveling public. This argument is based upon the fact
that they extend through the ranch alone, the main road
terminating within its boundaries, and connect with no
other public roads at their western and northern ends.
These roads will, however, be open to the general public
to such extent as it can and may use them. The people
to the eastward in Santa Monica, Los Angeles and other
cities will have access to them and to the people living
on the ranch through the connecting road from Santa
Monica. The people living on the ranch will have egress
over them. The people living north of the terminus of
the crossroad, who now have no adequate outlet, will have
access to it through private roads and ways and may then
travel over these two roads to Los Angeles and other
cities for marketing produce and other purposes; and the

RINDGE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
700

Opinion of the Court.

people in these cities will have reciprocal access to them
for purposes of trade and otherwise. It is not essential
that the entire community, nor even any considerable
portion, should directly enjoy or participate in any improvement in order to constitute a public use. Fallbrook
Irrigation District v. Bradley, supra, p. 161. In like
manner, if Ventura County should hereafter extend the
main road to the western end of the ranch the people living beyond it, who now have no practical outlet, would
be furnished a similar means of egress, with reciprocal ingress to them by the people living in the cities to the
east. A highway can be legally laid out terminating at
a state line even though there be no connecting highway
in the adjoining State and no definite official action has
been taken to establish such connecting highway; otherwise great embarrassment and difficulty would be experienced in establishing highways across state lines. Rice
v. Rindge, 53 N. H. 530, 531. So, as to county highways.
Public road systems, it is manifest, must frequently be
constructed in instalments, especially where adjoining
counties are involved. In determining whether the taking of property is necessary for public use not only the
present demands of the public, but those which may be
fairly anticipated in the future, may be considered. Central Pacific Railway v. Feldman, 152 Cal. 303, 309.
But aside from these considerations, these roads, especially the main road, through its connection with the
public road coming along the shore from Santa Monica,
will afford a highway for persons desiring to travel along
the shore to the county line, with a view of the ocean on
the one side, and of the mountain range on the other,
constituting, as stated by the trial judge, a scenic highway of great beauty. Public uses are not limited, in
the modern view, to matters of mere business necessity
and ordinary convenience, but may extend to matters of
public health, recreation and enjoyment. Thus, the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

demnation of lands for public parks is now universally
recognized as a taking for public use. Shoemaker v.
United States, 147 U. S. 282, 297. A road need not be
for a purpose of business to create a public exigency;
air, exercise and recreation are important to the general
health and welfare; pleasure travel may be accommodated as well as business travel; and highways may be
condemned to places of pleasing natural scenery. Higginson v. Nahant, 11 Allen (Mass.) 530, 536. The Riverside Drive in New York is as essentially a highway for
public use as Broadway; the Speedway in this city, as
Pennsylvania Avenue. And manifestly, in these days of
general public travel in motor cars for health and recreation, such a highway as this, extending for more than
twenty miles along the shores of the Pacific at the base
of a range of mountains, must be regarded as a public use.
For these reasons we conclude that these highways will,
as found by the trial judge, afford accommodation to the
traveling public, and that the taking of land for them is
a taking for a public use authorized by the laws of California.
The ranch owners were not prejudiced by the action of
the trial court in striking out their special defenses in this
behalf, since, under the general issues, they were entitled,
as held by the District Court of Appeal, and were in fact
permitted, to introduce all their evidence bearing upon
this question.
2. Public necessity for the taking. We necessarily accept, as a matter of state law, the holding of the District
Court of Appeal that the proviso to § 1241 of the Code
made the resolutions of the Board of Supervisors conclusive evidence as to the necessity of taking these particular
highways and the other matters therein specified. So
construed it was held by that court not to be objectionable to any provision of the State or Federal Constitutions. By this we are controlled so far as the provisions

RINDGE CO. v. LOS ANGELES.
Opinion of the Court.

700

of the state constitution are concerned. Fallbrook Irrigation Districtv. Bradley, supra, p. 155; Georgia Railway
v. Decatur, ante, 432. And so construed this statute is
not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, either
because it fails to provide for a hearing by the landowners
before such resolution is adopted, or otherwise. The
necessity for appropriating private property for public
use is not a judicial question. This power resides in the
legislature, and may either be exercised by the legislature
or delegated by it to public officers. "Where the intended use is public, the necessity and expediency of the
taking may be determined by such agency and in such
mode as the State may designate. They are legislative
questions, no matter who may be charged with their decision, and a hearing thereon is not essential to due
process in the sense of the Fourteenth Amendment."
Bragg v. Weaver, 251 U. S.57, 58. "That the necessity
and expediency of taking property for public use is a
legislative and not a judicial question is not open to discussion.

.

.

Neither is it any longer open to ques-

.

tion in this Court that the legislature may confer upon a
municipality the authority to determine such necessity
for itself.

.

.

.

The question is purely political, does

not require a hearing, and is not the subject of judicial
inquiry." Joslin Mfg. Co. v. Providence,ante, 668. And,
clearly, the fact that the resolutions are made conclusive
evidence by the statute only when adopted by a twothirds vote, and as applied to an improvement lying
within the county, does not constitute an unjust or unreasonable classification.
And since the resolutions were conclusive evidence as
to the necessity for the taking of these public highways,
the ranch owners were not prejudiced by the ruling of
the trial judge which treated them as prima facie evidence merely and allowed them full opportunity to introduce their evidence upon the subject. A litigant can

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

be heard to question the validity of a statute only when
and in so far as it is applied to his disadvantage. DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 289.
We therefore conclude that the property of the ranch
owners has been taken for highways constituting a public
use authorized by law, and upon a public necessity for the
taking duly established, and that they have not been
deprived of their property in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. The judgments of the District Court of
Appeal are accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

MILHEIM ET AL. v. MOFFAT TUNNEL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.

No. 791.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted February 20, 1923.Decided June 11, 1923.

1. A federal question which requires analysis and exposition for its
decision is not frivolous and withstands a motion to dismiss the
writ of error. P. 716.
2. But a motion to affirm should be granted if the questions on which
decision depends are so wanting in substance as not to need further argument. Rule 6, § 5. P. 717.
3. Determination of the judicial question whether a use is public or
private is influenced by local conditions; and this Court, while
enforcing the Fourteenth Amendment, should keep in view the
diversity of such conditions and regard with great respect the
judgments of the courts and the declaration of the legislature of a
State as to what should be deemed a public use in the State.
P. 717.
4. The construction and maintenance of a tunnel for railroad, telegraph and telephone lines, for the transmission of electric power,
and the transportation of water and automobiles and other vehicles

