OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

ceases on a transfer of the control and possession which
takes place by legal proceedings and in pursuance of the
rights of others, even though such transfer may bring the
property into the ownership or control of one properly
subject to subpoena duces tecum. These conclusions follow from the principles announced by this Court in the
Matter of Harris, 221 U. S. 274, 279, and Johnson v.
United*States, 228 U. S. 457.
In considering the correctness of Judge Mack's orders,
it is wholly immaterial what stipulation had been entered
into betweeh the Receiver and the bankrupts in regard to
the use to be made pending the receivership of the books
and papers or what sanction Judge Hand's action had
given the stipulations. With the appointment of the
Trustee both the title and the right to possession of such
books and papers passed to him and Judge Mack's orders
properly confirmed this result. The Receiver, the bankrupts and their attorney must yield possession and title
to the Trustee. Neither can accompany the delivery he
is bound by law to make with any effective conditions
restricting use of the books, papers or other property of
the bankrupts' estate as evidence against them.
The application is denied.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK EX REL.
CLYDE v. GILCHRIST, PRESIDENT, ET AL., AS
MEMBERS OF THE STATE TAX COMMISSION
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 318. Argued April 17, 1923.--Decided April 30, 1923.
1. Upon error to a state court, when a statute is alleged to impair
the obligation of a contract, this Court must decide for itself
whether there was a contract and what it was. P. 96.

CLYDE v. GILCHRIST.
94

Opinion of the Court.

2. But where the contract claimed is one of tax exemption, involv-"
ing the taxing system of the State, this Court will be slow to depart from a judgment of the state courts denying it, if no real
oppression or manifest wrong result. P. 97.
3. The New York Mortgage Recording Tax Law, Art. XI, § 251, in
providing that payment of the taxes therein provided on recording of mortgages should exempt them and the debts and obligations thereby secured from other taxation; and Art. XV of the
Tax Law, as amended by c. 802, N. Y. Laws, 1911, in providing
that, upon payment on other secured debts of a tax of /2 of 1%
of their face value, and certification by the Comptroller, they
should be exempt from all taxation, with specified exceptions,were not intended to establish contracts with those paying such
taxes exempting them from taxation of their income from such
debts and mortgages. Pp. 97, 99.
197 App. Div. 913; 232 N. Y. 550, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York (affirmed by the Court of Appeals) confirming, in
a statutory proceeding, an assessment under the state
income tax law.

Mr. Arthur E. Goddard for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General of the State of
New York, Mr. Francis W. Cullen, Mr. James S. Y. Ivins
and Mr. C. T. Dawes, for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a statutory proceeding to recover the amount
of taxes for 1919 paid under duress and protest. As the
first step the relator, the plaintiff in error, filed an application for a revision of the tax with the Comptroller of
the State. His determination presented the issue in a
few words. The relator held bonds secured by mortgages upon which latter the mortgage recording tax under Article XI of the Tax Law had been paid. She also
held secured debts upon which a tax had been paid under
Article XV of the Tax Law as amended by c. 802 of the

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Laws of 1911. An additional assessment was made under the Income Tax Law of 1919, c. 627, on account of
the relator's income from these bonds and debts. The
relator seems to have contended that if the Income Tax
Law imposed the additional assessment it was unconstitutional as impairing the objigation of contracts made
by the statutes laying the taxes first mentioned. The
Comptroller held that the additional assessment was correct and that no payment was unlawfully exacted. His
determination was confirmed by the Appellate Division
of the Supreme Court, and the order of the Appellate
Division was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. No
opinion was delivered by either Court. The case was
brought here by writ of error and the defendant in error
moved to dismiss on the ground that it does not appear
that the judgment below necessarily decided a question
that can be brought here in this way. Cuyahoga River
Power Co. v. Northern Realty Co., 244 U. S. 300, 304
The position of the relator is that where the ground
of judgment does not appear this Court will not assume
that the Court below proceeded upon ground clearly untenable, and that therefore if the only one that seems
plausible opens a constitutional question raised upon the
record, this Court will proceed to deal with it. Adams
v. Russell, 229 U. S. 353, 358. The only ground suggested by the defendant in error as local is that the decision of the Appellate Division at least is shown to have
gone upon the construction of the exempting statutes by
an opinion rendered at the same time as the present
judgment, to the effect that the exemption of mortgages
by the Mortgage Recording Tax Law, if a contract, did
not extend to the interest upon the debt. New York ex
rel. Central Union Trust Co. v. Wendell, 197 App. Div.
131. To this the relator rightly replies that when a statute is alleged to impair the obligation of a contract this
Court must decide for itself whether there was a contract

CLYDE v. GILCHRIST.
Opinion of the Court.

'94

and what it was. Detroit United Ry. v. Michigan, 242
U. S. 238, 249. Columbia Water Power Co. v. Columbia
Electric Street Railway, Light & Power Co., 172 U. S.
475, 487. The relator in her petition to the Supreme
Court failed to call attention in terms to the provision
of the Constitution relied upon. Harding v. Illinois, 196
U. S. 78, 88. But she set forth that the exemptions
claimed were granted by the statutes under which the
earlier taxes were fixed, that they were secured for a
valuable consideration, the payment of those taxes, and
that the subsequent tax upon the income of the bonds
and securities violated the provisions of the Constitution
of the United States. We shall assume in her favor that
Article I, § 10, was sufficiently indicated as the clause
upon which she relied.
Nevertheless we are not satisfied that the relator is
entitled to prevail. It is apparent that the New York
Courts held that there was no contract of the kind that
is alleged. It would be extravagant to suppose that they
upheld a law admitted to impair the obligation of an admitted contract. The opinion of the Supreme Court
shows clearly enough the general nature of the defense
sustained. The relator contends and must contend that
this is so. While it is true that we are not bound by the
construction of the New York statutes by the New York
Courts in deciding the constitutional question, yet when
we are dealing with a matter of local policy, like a system
of taxation, we should be slow to depart from their judgment, if there was no real oppression or manifest wrong
in the result. Troy Union R. R. Co. v. Mealy, 254 U. S.
47, 50.
The Mortgage Recording Tax Law, Article XI, § 251,
provides that all mortgages of real property situated
within the State that are, taxed by that article and the
debts and obligations that they secure shall be exempt
51826-23--7

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.-

from other taxation by the state and local subdivisions.
The caution that should be used before interpreting such
declarations of legislative policy as promises, even when
they manifestly tend and are expected to induce voluntary action, is illustrated in Wisconsin & Michigan Ry.
Co. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, 386. Troy Union R. R. Co.
v. Mealy, 254 U. S. 47, 50. But the Appellate Division,
in the case that we have cited, while having this caution
in mind, preferred to assume without deciding that there
was a contract of exemption, but held that it did not extend to this income tax. The Court recognized that for
many purposes a tax upon the interest received from a
mortgage debt is a tax upon the mortgage; but for the
purpose of construing the words of a statute it rightly
recognized that a distinction might be taken. That a distinction was intended, or rather that the Legislature had
in mind only a tax upon the principal debt or obligation, it deduced from a nice consideration of the words of
the statute, which led it to the conclusion that" the dominant idea in the mind of the Legislature was to render
mortgagees independent of the action, capricious or otherwise, of local tax officials." Considering that only the
principal of mortgages was taxed when the law was passed
and that in those days no one thought of an income tax;
that any contract of exemption must be shown to have
been indisputably within the intention of the Legislature;
that it is difficult to believe that the Legislature meant to
barter away all its powers to meet future exigencies for
the mere payment of a mortgage recording tax; and that
a tax upon the individual measured by net income might
be regarded as one step removed from a tax on the capital
from which the income was derived, Peck & Co. v. Lowe,
247 U. S. 165, 175; it held that there was no promise that
the present tax should not be imposed. With regard to
the mortgages the conclusion does not seem to us very
difficult to reach. The State did not need to offer a bar-

CLYDE v. GILCHRIST.
94

Opinion of the Court.

gain to induce mortgagees to record their deeds. Federal
Land Bank of New Orleans v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374.
. The provision as to the tax on secured debts other than
the foregoing is to the effect that any person may send
them or a description of them to the Comptroller and
may pay a tax of one-half of one per centum on the face
value and that thereupon the Comptroller by indorsement
or receipt shall certify that they are exempt from taxation and that thereafter they shall be exempt from all
taxation in the State or local divisions of the State with
certain specified exceptions. Laws of 1911, c. 802, § 331.
This is an alternative to a tax, at such rate as may be
fixed, on the fair market value of the security. § 336.
There is an argument that it relates only to the year for
which payment is made, and, although for reasons indicated in Wisconsin & Michigan Ry. Co. v. Powers, supra,
consideration seems to be of little importance except as
bearing on interpretation, that the payment of an alternative tax is consideration for exemption from nothing except its alternative. On the other hand the provision for
an indorsement upon the security hardly is reconcilable
with less than a permanent exemption; it is said that so
the law generally has been understood; and the ground
taken by the Appellate Division in the case that we have
cited indicates that they were not prepared to deny that
the exemption even of mortgages looked beyond the year.
In the absence of further opinion it seems fair to assume
that the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals
decided against the exemption for the reasons stated in
New York ex rel. Central Union Trust Co. v. Wendell,
197 App. Div. 131, of which we have given a summary.
As we said at the outset we ought to be slow to depart
from the judgment of the Courts of the State in a case
like this and we accept their conclusion also with regard
to secured debts. We are not prepared to say that the
judgment was wrong and therefore it is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

