226

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

WAGNER ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING
PANY v. LYNDON ET AL.

262 U. S.

COM-

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 738.

Motion to dismiss submitted April 30, 1923.-Decided
May 21, 1923.

1. Where the District Court dismissed a bill on the ground that the
constitutional questions relied on were too unsubstantial to confer
jurisdiction, without passing on defendant's further objection that
the bill sought to enjoin proceedings *n a state court contrary to
Jud. Code, § 265, the only appeal allowed by law was to this Court
under Jud. Code, § 238, on the ground that the sole issues involved
were those involving the application or construction of the Con-.
stitution or the jurisdiction of the District Court. P. 230.
2. The Act of September 14, 1922, c. 305, 42 Stat. 837, providing that,
if a case is taken, by appeal or writ of error, to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, which should have been taken to this Court, the appeal
or writ of error shall not for that reason be dismissed, but shall
be transferred to the proper court and there be disposed of as if the
appeal or writ of error had been properly taken, was applicable
to a case in which the Circuit Court of Appeals had rendered a
final decree of affirmance before the date of the act, but which
remained pending before that court on a petition for rehearing.
P. 230.
3. When a case from the District Court which should have been
brought here directly was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and then, by appeal from its decision, to this Court, and here
submitted for decision on the merits, by a motion to dismiss or
affirm and accompanying briefs, held, that it was not necessary to
remand it to the Circuit Court of Appeals for transfer under the
Act of September 14, 1922, supra, but that it might be treated as
though it had been so transferred. P. 231.
4. The proposition that, in a collateral attack upon the validity of
a judgment of a state court, a federal court can examine the
evidence to see whether a direction by the court to a jury to find
a verdict was justified by the evidence, is frivolous. P. 231.

WAGNER CO. v. LYNDON.
226

Counsel for Parties.

5. The deprivation of a right of trial by jury in a state court does
not deny the parties due process of law under the Federal Constitution. P. 232.
6. When the state constitution provides that a court shall consist
of four judges and that a majority thereof shall constitute a
quorum, and review by four judges is given, and an opinion is rendered by three of them, constituting the quorum, the mere fact
that the fourth did not hear the oral argument but wrote the opinion
on the printed arguments, is at most an irregularity which does not
affect the validity of the judgment. P. 232.
7. Where the state constitution provided for a court in two divisions,
and a case was disposed of by one of those divisions, and the losing
party's motion to transfer the case to the court in bane, because
a federal question was involved and it was therefore under the
state constitution entitled to a hearing by the full court, was denied,
and the propriety of the decision in the state court was questioned
in the federal court on this ground, held, that the question of the
right to the transfer was one of state law upon which the federal
courts were bound to accept the decision of the state court. P. 232.
8. When the history of the case and the conduct of the appellant left
no doubt that the litigation and successive appeals were prosecuted
solely for delay and the case was dismissed by this Court for lack
of jurisdiction because the grounds of appeal were frivolous, the
appellee was awarded $1,500 as damages for delay, and costs, as
upon an affirmance of the decree of the District Court. Rev. Stats.,
§§ 1010, 1012. P. 232.
Appeal to review 282 Fed. 219, dismissed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decision of the District Court which dismissed
the bill in a suit to hold a sheriff as trustee of money paid
under an execution issued on a judgment of a state court,
and to enjoin him from paying it to the judgment creditor,
Lyndon, and the latter from receiving it.

Mr. CharlesA. Houts, Mr. Albert Blair and Mr. Thomas
J. Cole for appellant.
Mr. Lawrence C. Kingsland, Mr. John D. Rippey and
Mr. Clarence T. Case for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFr delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a motion to dismiss or affirm by the appellees
in an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth Circuit.
The record discloses the following:
On May 10, 1917, the appellee Lamar Lyndon brought
suit in the Circuit Court of the City of St. Louis, Missouri, against the appellant, the Wagner Electric Manufacturing Company, to recover royalties on a patent
owned by Lyndon alleged to be due under a contract
between the parties. A trial before a jury was had, in
which evidence was introduced by both sides, and at the
close of all the evidence, the court directed a verdict for
the plaintiff, and judgment followed for $12,029.50. The
Wagner Company appealed from this judgment to the
Supreme Court of Missouri, where it was duly assigned
for hearing in Division No. 1 of that court under a provision of the constitution of Missouri that the Supreme
Court shall consist of seven judges and shall be divided
into two divisions, one to consist of four judges known
as Division No. 1, a majority thereof to constitute a
quorum and its judgments as to causes and matters before it to have the force and effect of law. On January
21st, the appeal was argued before three of the judges of
Division No. 1, and printed arguments were filed by
both parties. Judgment was subsequently rendered by
the four judges, the opinion being written and filed, with
the concurrence of the other three judges, by Judge
Woodson of the Division. Judge Woodson had not heard
the oral argument. The Wagner Company filed a motion for rehearing and a motion to transfer the cause to
the court in banc, which were denied.
The Wagner Company then applied to this Court for
a writ of certiorari to review the judgment of the Mis-

WAGNER CO. v. LYNDON.
226

Opinion of the Court.

souri Supreme Court, which was denied in April, 1921.
Wagner Electric Mfg. Co. v. Lyndon, 256 U. S. 690.
Thereafter on a mandate from the Supreme Court of
Missouri, the State Circuit Court issued execution against
the Wagner Company on the judgment. The sheriff
made a levy on the real property of the Wagner Company, which filed a bill in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, against Lyndon and the sheriff, seeking an injunction against their
proceeding with the execution. Application for a preliminary injunction on this bill was denied by the District Court. The Wagner Company then paid the judgment and costs amounting to $15,015.29 to the sheriff,
and at once brought the present bill in the United States
District Court against Lyndon and the sheriff seeking to
hold the sheriff as trustee in his custody of the fund, and
to enjoin him from paying the money to Lyndon, and
Lyndon from receiving it. The jurisdiction was asserted
on the ground that the case was one arising under the
Constitution of the United States. The District Court
heard the case and dismissed the bill. The Wagner Company then appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed the decree of the District Court.
The grounds urged in behalf of the relief sought in the
District Court, the Circuit Court of Appeals and this
Court were, first, that the action of the Circuit Court of
St. Louis in directing a verdict for plaintiff without evidence to warrant such action, deprived the defendant,
the Wagner Company, of its property without due process
of law and denied it the equal protection of the laws;
second, that the action of Division No. 1 of the Missouri
Supreme Court in hearing the case on appeal with three
judges and allowing a fourth, who did not hear the oral
argument, to take part in the decision and write the
opinion, and the refusal of Division No. 1 of the Supreme
Court of Missouri to transfer the cause to be heard by

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

the Supreme Court in banc, as required by the law of
Missouri when a federal question is involved, deprived
the Wagner Company of its property without due process
of law and denied it the equal protection of the laws.
Defendant Lyndon moved to dismiss the complaint because the court was without jurisdiction, there being no
substantial federal question and because the bill sought
an injunction to stay proceedings in a state court contrary
to § 265 of the Judicial Code. The District Court dismissed the bill on the first ground. No other questions
were presented to the District Court. The only appeal
from its decision allowed by law was, therefore, to this
Court under § 238, on the ground that the sole issues involved were those involving the application or construction of the Constitution or the jurisdiction of the District Court. American Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277-281; Huguley Mfg. Co. v. Galeton
Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290, 295; Union & Planters'Bank
v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73; Vicksburg v. Vicksburg
Waterworks Co., 202 U. S. 453, 458; Carolina Glass Co.
v. South Carolina,240 U. S. 305, 318; Raton Water Works
Co. v. City of Raton, 249 U. S. 552, 553. Such a case
could not be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals and,
except for legislation enacted by Congress September 14,
1922, it would have been the duty of that court to dismiss
it for want of jurisdiction. Except for that legislation, it
would now be our duty to reverse the decree of that court
with direction to dismiss the appeal. The Assessors v.
Osbornes, 9 Wall. 567, 575; Mansfield, C. & L. M. Ry. Co.
v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 388-389; Blacklock v. Small, 127
U. S. 96, 105; Union & Planters'Bank v. Memphis, 189
U. S. 71, 73; Carolina Glass Co. v. South Carolina, 240
U. S. 305, 318; The Carlo Poma, 255 U. S. 219, 220-221.
The legislation of September 14, 1922, referred to (42
Stat. 837, c. 305), provides that if an appeal or writ of
error has been or shall be taken to, or issued out of any

WAGNER CO. v. LYNDON.
226

Opinion of the Court.

circuit court of appeals in a case wherein such appeal or
writ of error should have been taken to, or issued out of,
the Supreme Court, such appeal or writ of error shall not
for such reason be dismissed, but shall be transferred to
the proper court, where it shall be disposed of as if the
appeal or writ of error had been properly'taken.
The decree of affirmance in the Circuit Court of Appeals was entered on July 7, 1922, but a petition for rehearing was filed and that petition was not denied until
September 18, 1922, or four days after the passage of the
foregoing act. Before the decree of affirmance became
finally the act of the Circuit Court of Appeals, this law
came into force, and, however that, may be, it is in force
now to govern us in the direction which we, in reversing
the decree of affirmance, should give to that court. That
direction should be to transfer the case to this Court to
which it should have been brought by direct appeal from
the District Court under § 238 of the Judicial Code.
The case is here on an appeal allowed by a judge of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The case has been submitted
to us on the motion to dismiss or affirm which is a hearing
on the merits. All parties have filed briefs. Is it necessary for us to go through the idle form of remanding it to
the Circuit Court of Appeals to enable that court to transfer it back to us for a second consideration? Certainly
such unnecessary consumption of time and labor is not in
the spirit of the Act of September 14, 1922. Having the
case here, and having heard it on the merits, we think we
may properly consider that done which ought to have
been done, treat the case as here by appeal from the District Court, and dispose of it, as we would do if the Circuit Court of Appeals had formally transferred it to us.
The only grounds urged by the appellant for a reversal
of the decree dismissing the bill of complaint are frivolous
and without merit. The first involves the proposition
that in a collateral attack upon the validity of a judgment

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

in a state court, a federal court can examine the evidence
to see whether a direction by the court to a jury to find a
verdict was justified by the evidence. This would be to
make such an attack serve the purpose of a writ of error.
More than this, even if it were held that the direction deprived the defendant of the right of trial by jury (a holding shown to be erroneous by Treat ManifacturingCo. v.
Standard Steel & Iron Co., 157 U. S. 674), still the deprivation of a right of trial by jury in a state court does
not deny the parties due process of law under the Federal
Constitution. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Missouri
v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 31; Twining v. New Jersey, 211
U. S. 78, 110, 111; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v.
Bombolis, 241 U. S. 211, 217. The second ground is
equally unsubstantial. The machinery for review of the
judgments of courts of first instance is wholly within the
control of the state legislature-Missouri v. Lewis, 101
U. S. 22, 30-and when the review by four judges is given,
and an opinion is rendered by three of them, constituting
the quorum, the mere fact that the fourth did not hear
the oral argument but' wrote the opinion on the printed
arguments is at most an irregularity which does not in the
slightest degree affect the validity of the judgment. The
contention that Wagner was entitled under the Missouri
constitution to have the cause heard before a full court
because a federal question was involved, is wholly without merit, because the question of the right to transfer
was a question of Missouri law upon which we are bound
to accept the decision of the Missouri courts. Missouri
v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22.
We are asked by counsel for appellees to impose a
penalty on the appellant for delay. The history of the
case and the conduct of the Wagner Company leave no
doubt that the litigation in the federal jurisdiction and
the successive appeals have been prosecuted solely for
delay. Have we power to impose damages in this case?

WAGNER CO. v. LYNDON.
226

Opinion of the Court.

Section 1010 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows:
"Sec. 1010. Where, upon a writ of error, judgment is
affirmed in the Supreme Court or a circuit court, the court
shall adjudge to the respondents in error just damages
for his delay, and single or double costs, at its discretion."
Section 1012 has the effect to make § 1010 applicable
to appeals in equity. The second paragraph of the 23rd
Rule of this Court provides that:
"In all cases where a writ of error shall delay the proceedings on the judgment of the inferior court, and shall
appear to have been sued out merely for delay, damages
at a rate not exceeding 10 per cent., in addition to interest,
shall be awarded upon the amount of the judgment."
The third paragraph is:
"The same rule shall be applied to decrees for the payment of money in cases in equity, unless otherwise ordered
by this court."
An objection to allowing damages in the present case
suggesting itself is that the decree appealed from was not
a money judgment. It is true that this whole litigation
in the federal jurisdiction has been initiated and carried
on solely to secure the delay of the payment of a money
judgment in the state court, but that is hardly within the
exact terms of the 23rd Rule. Sections 1010 and 1012,
Rev. Stats., are, however, not so restrictive and they give
this Court power to impose just damages upon the affirmance of any judgment or decree, for delay. Gibbs v.
Diekma, 131 U. S. Appendix clxxxvi.
The case should be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction
because the grounds of appeal are frivolous. In a dismissal on this ground a penalty may be imposed just as
if upon an affirmance. Deming v. Carlisle Packing Co.,
226 U. S. 102, 109.
.We think that damages of $1,500 for delay are not excessive in this case. We, therefore, direct the dismissal

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

of the appeal with damages of $1,500 and the taxation
of costs as upon an affirmance of the decree of the District Court.
Dismissed.

GRAHAM, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS FORMER COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, ET AL. v.
DU PONT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 846.

Argued April 30, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. Under § 3224, Rev. Stats., federal taxing officers who, in the
course of general jurisdiction over the subject-matter, have made
an assessment and claim that it is valid, cannot be enjoined from
collecting the tax upon the ground that the assessment is illegal.
P. 254.
2. One who would contest the validity of a federal tax upon the
ground that the assessment and the right to distrain were barred
by a statutory time limitation, should pay the tax and sue to recover it, and not seek relief by a suit to enjoin the Collector from
distraining for the tax. P. 255.
3. Under § 252 of the Revenue Act of 1918, reenacted in the Revenue Act of 1921, a taxpayer whose return of income was due
March 15, 1916, and against whom an additional assessment was
made December 31, 1919, could pay the amount of the assessment,
make his claim therefor, and, if that were rejected, have at least
until March 15, 1921, within which to sue to recover back the
payment. P. 256.
4. A taxpayer cannot, by delaying payment of an assessment until
his right to sue to recover it back is barred by limitations, make a
case so extraordinary and entirely exceptional as to render Rev.
Stats., § 3224, inapplicable to his suit to enjoin collection by distraint. P. 256. Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557; Hill v. Wallace,
id. 44, and other cases distinguished.
5. A taxpayer, whose income return for the year 1915 was filed
before March 15, 1916, and who was assessed additionally, December 31, 1919, and, on March 8, 1920, filed a claim for abatement

