OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

The enforcement by the State of the provision of the
act imposing upon the City the specified annual payments for such diversion of water does not violate the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The regulation of municipalities is a matter peculiarly
within the domain of the State. In Trenton v. New
Jersey, decided this day, ante, 182, it is held that the
imposition of the license fee specified in this act is not
a taking of property of that city in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The reasons supporting that conclusion apply here. The City cannot invoke t he protection of the Fourteenth Amendment against the State.'
Considering the former opinions of this Court, there is no
substantial federal question in the case.
The writ of error is dismissed.

BEGG ET AL., RECEIVERS OF MANHATTAN &
QUEENS TRACTION -CORPORATION, v. CITY
OF NEW YORK ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 5.

Argued April 13, 16, 1923.-Decided May 7, 1923.

When an application is made to the District Court in a pending
suit, for a summary injunction to protect the exercise of the court's
jurisdiction in that suit and prevent interference with property
of which it has custody therein, the jurisdiction of the summary
proceeding depends upon, and takes its character from, the
jurisdiction of the main cause; and, when this is based on diverse
citizenship only, the summary jurisdiction rests wholly on that
basis also, even though federal questions are set up in the application as ground for the summary relief; and, consequently, a

decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon review of the sumCf. Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 310; Mason v. Missouri,
179 U. S. 328, 335.

BEGG v. NEW YORK CITY.
196

Opinion of the Court.

mary proceeding, has the same finality, under Jud. Code, ยง 128,
as its decree in the main cause would 'have, and is not reviewable
here by appeal. P. 198.
Appeal to review 266 Fed. 625, dismissed.

APPFAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
reversing a decree of the District Court, which granted
a summary injunction upon application of receivers in
a pending equity suit.
Mr. Lindley M. Garrison,with whom Mr. Watson B.
Robinson, Mr. Robert S. Sloan, Mr. Arthur J. Egan, Mr.
Charles A. Boston and Mr. Charles A. Frueaufl were on
the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Vincent Victory, with whom Mr. John P. O'Brien
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SASFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On the threshold of the hearing the appellees moved to
dismiss this appeal, upon the ground that jurisdiction depends entirely upon diversity of citizenship and the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is therefore final.
The appellants were appointed receivers of the Manhattan & Queens Traction Corporation in a suit in equity
brought against it in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of New York by a judgment
creditor, for the administration of its assets. The jurisdiction depended entirely upon diversity of citizenship
of the parties. The receivers, after taking possession of
the Corporation's railway in the City of New York, which
had been partly completed, filed a petition in this equity
cause, alleging that the City, through its Board of Estimate and Apportionment, was threatening to adopt a
resolution declaring a forfeiture of the franchise contract
of the Corporation and of the completed portion of the
railway, for failure to complete the railway within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

prescribed time. This, it was averred, would deprive
the Corporation of its property in violation of the Fifth
and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the
United States and Article I of the Constitution of New
York, and cause irreparable injury to the Corporation, its
creditors, and the property in the custody of the receivers.
Upon this petition the court granted the receivers ex
parte a temporary injunction and an order to show cause
why it should not be continued during the receivership;
and thereafter, upon a summary hearing, the temporary
injunction was made permanent and the City and the
Board were enjoined until further order of the court from
passing a resolution forfeiting or affecting the franchise
contract of the Corporation or declaring its railway and
property in the hands of the receivers to be the property
of the City or otherwise interfering therewith in any
manner. Upon appeal by the City and the Board, the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the order of the District Court granting this injunction. Gas & Electric
Securities Co. v. Traction Corporation,266 Fed. 625, 641.
And the receivers haveappealed to this Court.
Section 128 of the Judicial Code provides that, with
certain exceptions not here involved, "the judgments
and decrees of the circuit courts of appeals shall be final
in all cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being
.
citizens of different States." This
refers to the jurisdiction of the federal court of first
instance: and if the jurisdiction of the District Court depended entirely upon diversity of citizenship the appeal
must be dismissed. Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S.
561, 568.
It is well settled- that jurisdiction of a petition in intervention asserting a claim upon the property or fund
being administered by the court is determined by the
jurisdiction originally invoked in the main cause, by

BEGG v. NEW YORK CITY.
196

Opinion of the Court.

virtue of which the intervening petition is entertained;
and hence that if the jurisdiction in the main cause is
such that a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals would
be final in respect thereto it is likewise final in respect to
the intervening petition. St. Louis Railroad v. Wabash
Railroad, 217 U. S. 247, 250; Rouse v. Letcher, 156 U. S.
47, 49; Gregory v. Van Ee, 160 U. S. 643, 645; Rouse v.
Hornsby, 161 U. S. 588, 591; Pope v. Louisville Railway,
173 U. S. 573, 577; Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 104; Shulthis v. McDougal, supra,
at p. 568. And this is true even although the intervening petition discloses an independent ground of federal
jurisdiction; the jurisdiction by virtue of which it is entertained as an intervention .being ascribed entirely to
that which is invoked and exercised in the main cause.
Rouse v. Letcher, supra, at pp. 49 and 50; Gregory v.
Van Ee, supra, at p. 646. Manifestly the reason of the
foregoing rule in reference to an affirmative petition of
intervention, as set forth in the cases cited, ipplies with
equal or greater force to a petition filed in a cause to
protect the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court itself
and prevent interference with property in its custody;
which necessarily depends upon that jurisdiction and
partakes directly of its character. This is recognized in
Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, supra, at p.
104, in which the distinction is pointed out between petitions filed in the main cause, taking their jurisdiction
from it alone, and plenary suits of an ancillary character
in which federal jurisdiction is invoked, not merely as
ancillary to that in the main suit, but also upon independent grounds.
In the present case the jurisdiction of the District Court
to entertain the summary proceedings against the City
and the Board was dependent entirely upon the jurisdiction in the main cause and cannot be ascribed to the
federal constitutional grounds upon which the claim for

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

relief was partly predicated, which in no wise enlarged
the summary jurisdiction of the court, and could only
have been relied upon as independent grounds of federal
jurisdiction in a plenary suit.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
as to the petition of the receivers has the same finality
as would a decree in the main cause; jurisdiction of the
one as of the other depending entirely upon the diversity
of citizenship in the main cause.
The appellees' motion is accordingly granted, and the
appeal
Dismissed.

WORK, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, JOHNSON, GOVERNOR OF THE CHICKASAW NATION, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES EX REL. McALESTER-EDWARDS COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 258.

Argued April 12, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. The Act of February 8, 1918, c. 12, 40 Stat. 433, was enacted
for the chief purpose of selling, after appraisal, the coal and
asphalt deposits in segregated mineral land of the Choctaws and
Chickasaws, subject to existing leases, and not for the appraisal
and disposition of the surface, this having been provided for
by the Act of February 19, 1912, c. 46, 37 Stat. 67. P. 206.
2. Section 4 of the Act of February 8, 1918, supra, in providing that
any lessee shall have the preferential right, upon certain conditions, to purchase "at the appraised value" any and all of the
surface lying within his lease and heretofore reserved by order of
the Secretary of the Interior, does not contemplate a new appraisement of the surface but refers to the value as previously
ascertained by appraisement under the Act of February 19, 1912,
supra. P. 207.
3. The lessee's right in such case is given by the Act of 1918 without
qualification, and is not left to the legal discretion of the Secretary of the Interior in the construction of the act. P. 208.

