432

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus

262 U. S.

GEORGIA RAILWAY & POWER COMPANY ET AL.
v. TOWN OF DECATUR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.

No. 463. Argued April 24, 25, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
1. A judgment of a State Supreme Court which does not terminate
the litigation between the parties in such manner that, should
there be an affirmance here, the court below would have nothing
to do but to execute the judgment it had rendered, is not a final
judgment for the purpose of review in this Court, even though it
be regarded by the state court as settling the law of the case.
P. 436.
2. Upon review of a judgment of a State Supreme Court, its decision upholding the power of a municipality of the State, under
the local constitution and laws, to enter into a rate contract with
a street railway company is controlling upon this Court. P. 437.
3. But in deciding constitutional questions presented, this Court will
determine for itself whether there is, in fact, a contract, and, if
so, the extent of its binding obligations, but will lean to an agreement with the state court. P. 438.
4. A street railway company cannot avoid the obligation to abide
by maximum rates fixed by a valid contract with a town, by showing that they have become confiscatory. P. 43&
5. A state statute extending the corporate limits of a town and
construed by the State Supreme Court as having the effect of rendering applicable to the added territory maximum street railway
rates fixed by an earlier contract between the town and the street
railway company, impairs the obligation of the contract by adding
to its burdens. P. 439.
6. In the absence of any showing that the classification is in fact
unreasonable and arbitrary, a statute which empowers a commission to revise the rates of street railway companies as they may
be fixed by future contracts with municipalities, but not those fixed
by contracts existing when the statute passed, cannot be said to
violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
as applied to a company whose contract is thus excepted and prescribes a maximum rate which the company claims to be inadequate. P. 439.
7. An order of a state commission requiring a street railroad company to continue issuance of transfers and to provide additional

GEORGIA RY. CO. v. DECATUR.
432

Opinion of the Court.

seating capacity and trailer cars, upheld against constitutional
objection, in view of obligations imposed by a contract between
the company and a municipality and the powers of the commission.
P. 439.
153 Ga. 329, reversed; certiorari denied.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgia
affirming a decree for the Town of Decatur, in its suit
to enjoin the plaintiffs in error from increasing the fare on
a street car line in violation of a contract.

Mr. Walter T. Colquitt, with whom Mr. Luther Z. Rosser and Mr. J. Prince Webster were on the briefs, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. Howell Green and Mr. Frank Harwell for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The defendant in error, plaintiff below, brought suit
against the Power and Electric Companies, defendants
below, to enjoin them from increasing the rate of fare on
a line of street railway between Decatur and the City of
Atlanta. Hackman and others intervened, asserting that
they resided near Atlanta and used certain car lines of
defendant going to and from Atlanta, upon which a sevencent fare was exacted; and that the contract, hereinafter
referred to, giving residents of Decatur a lower rate of
fare, constituted an illegal discrimination against them
and against the localities where they lived. They did
not allege that the seven-cent fare was unreasonable; nor
did they seek any change in that rate; but merely joined
with defendants in praying that the contract be held void
and of no effect.
The Electric Company was the owner and the Power
Company the lessee of the lines involved. About the
year 1902 the Electric Company owned three lines be51826°-2----28

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

tween Atlanta and Decatur. Desiring to abandon the
most northerly of these lines, the company began to tear
it up. Thereupon suit was brought for an injunction.
The controversy was adjusted by an agreement between
the company and the Town of Decatur, by which the company was allowed to remove its line and an ordinance was
enacted, carrying the agreement into effect. This ordinance, which was formally accepted, bound the company
"to never charge more than five cents for one fare upon
its main Decatur line

.

.

.

for one passenger, and one

trip upon its regular cars from the terminus of said line
in the City of Atlanta to the terminus of the same in the
Town of Decatur, or from the terminus of said line in
the Town of Decatur to the terminus of the same in the
City of Atlanta

.

.

." and "to grant one transfer

ticket upon the payment of one full fare for the purpose
of giving one continuous ride from any point within the
Town of Decatur

.

.

.

to any point within the City

of Atlanta, on any of its lines in said city, and vice versa."
In pursuance of this agreement the company tore up,
removed and abandoned the northerly line and has never
since restored it.
The company maintained a five-cent fare until October,
1920, at which time it gave notice that the fare would be
increased to seven cents. Prior thereto an application of
the company to the Railroad Commission of Georgia for
permission to make this increase had been denied, on the
ground that, because of the contract, the commission was
without jurisdiction. The company then sought by mandamus to compel the commission to assume jurisdiction of
the question; but the application was denied by the trial
court, whose ruling was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State, in so far as it related to the line covered
by the contract. The present suit against the defendants
was predicated upon the foregoing facts. The contentions
of the defendants were that the execution of the con-

GEORGIA RY. CO. v. DECATUR.
432

Opinion of the Court.

tract was beyond the powers of the town; that permission
to remove and abandon the northerly line furnished no
consideration for it; that it constituted an attempt to fix
fares outside the corporate limits of the town; that since
it was entered into, these limits had been twice extended
so as to include a portion of the main line, outside the
corporate limits when tfie contract was entered into; and
that the contract could not be applied to this additional
territory without impairing its obligation, in violation of
the Constitution of the United States. They further contended that, in any event, the five-cent fare should be limited to passengers entering cars at the termini of the line
in Atlanta and Decatur and not to those entering at intermediate points; and that, because of changed conditions
since the contract was made, the five-cent fare was confiscatory. Upon an application made by the defendants,
after the disposition of the mandamus proceeding, the
Railroad Commission had fixed a seven-cent fare on lines
not covered by the contract and required the defendants
to furnish, during rush hour periods, additional seating
capacity, and, on the main Decatur and College Park
routes, to operate trailers during such rush hours. The
commission had also ordered that no change should be
made in the existing rules and practices of the company
as to transfers.
The trial court made an interlocutory order, granting a
preliminary injunction, which was affirmed on writ of
error by the State Supreme Court. 152 Ga. 143. Thereafter, the case having been remanded, defendants were
allowed to amend their answer and crossbill in several
particulars. A general demurrer to these amended pleadings was sustained in part; and a jury, impaneled to try
the remaining issues, found for the plaintiff by direction
of the court, upon which a final decree was entered. A
second writ of error from the State Supreme Court followed. That court held that its judgment upon the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

writ of error became the law of the case and was res
judicata and therefore precluded a further review and
the decree of the trial court was affirmed. 153 Ga. 329.
Deprivation of rights under the Federal Constitution was
duly and properly asserted. The case is here on writ of
error. From motives of caution defendants also filed a
petition praying the issuance of a writ of certiorari, consideration of which was postponed to await the hearing on
the writ of error.
Preliminarily, defendant in error insists that the decision of the State Supreme Court on the first writ of error
affirming the interlocutory order of the trial court, was a
final adjudication from which a writ of error from this
Court might have been sued out, and, hence, that we are
precluded frorU considering the present writ of error. Rio
Grande Western Ry. Co. v. Stringham, 239 U. S. 44, is
cited and relied upon; but that case furnishes no support
to the contention. There the trial court had adjudged
the title to a piece of land to be in the defendant. Upon
appeal the State Supreme Court reversed this judgment
and remanded the case with directions to enter judgment
awarding plaintiff title to a right of way over the land.
The trial court followed this direction. Plaintiff again
appealed, insisting, as it had done before, that it had title
in fee simple; but the appellate court declined to consider
the question, holding that the former decision concluded
the court as well as the parties. This Court held that as
the judgment on the first appeal disposed of the whole
case on the merits and directed that judgment should be
entered, it left nothing to the judicial discretion of the
trial court and was therefore final. Here the first writ of
error was not from a final judgment, but from an interlocutory order granting a temporary injunction. That it
did not finally dispose of the case is clear, since the trial
court thereafter allowed amendments, ruled on a demurrer, impaneled a jury, directed a verdict and entered a

GEORGIA RY. CO. v. DECATUR.
432

Opinion of the Court.

final decree; and it was upon this decree that the second
writ of error was brought. We are not unmindful of the
ruling of the appellate court to the effect that the issues
were, in fact, disposed of on the first writ of error and its
powers brought to an end; but whatever may be the view
of that court in respect of its own power to again consider
the issues, the judgment now under review is the only one
this Court can consider as final, for the purpose of exercising its appellate jurisdiction. Great Western Telegraph
Co. v. Burnham, 162 U. S. 339, 343; United States v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 191 U. S. 84, 93; Chesapeake
& Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 207, 214; Zeckendorf v. Steinfeld, 225 U. S. 445, 454. While prior decisions
on the subject of what constitutes a final judgment are
not entirely harmonious, the rule is established that in
order to give this Court appellate jurisdiction the judgment or decree "must terminate the litigation between
the parties on the merits of the case, so that if there
should be an affirmance here, the court below would have
nothing to do but to execute the judgment or decree it
had already rendered." Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106
U. S. 3, and cases cited.
We hold, therefore, that the writ of error was properly
brought and come to a consideration of the substantive
matters presented.
1. The principal question, and the one to which the
briefs and arguments are mainly directed, is, whether the
agreement between the plaintiff and the Electric Company was within the powers of the town and is now valid
and subsisting. This contract has been before the Supreme Court of Georgia in the course of the litigation on
three distinct occasions: 149 Ga. 1; 152 Ga. 143, and
(the instant case) 153 Ga. 329. That court, in carefully
considered and well reasoned opinions, sustained the authority of the municipality and upheld the contract as
valid and subsisting. Defendants contend that the au-

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

thority to fix rates devolved by the state constitution
upon the General Assembly, and, therefore, that the Town
of Decatur was without power to enter into a contract
on that subject. When the contract was made the General Assembly had never exercised this authority and the
State Supreme Court held thiat there was nothing in the
constitution of the State which precluded the municipality
from contracting as to fares; and that, while the matter
was one falling within the police power, whose exercise
could not be abridged by contract, it was competent for
the municipality to enter into such a contract where the
State had not exercised and was not seeking to exercise
its police power over the subject, and that this contract
would remain effective until there should be conflicting
legislative action. See Milwaukee Electric Ry. Co. v.
Wisconsin R. R. Comm., 238 U. S. 174, 183. This conclusion, involving, as it does, a construction of the state
constitution and laws and powers of state municipalities,
is controlling upon this Court, as it has decided many
times. See, for example: Old Colony Trust Co. v.
Omaha, 230 U. S. 100, 116; Claiborne County v. Brooks,
111 U. S. 400, 410; Richmond v. Smith, 15 Wall. 429, 438.
On the other hand, in deciding the constitutional questions presented, this Court will determine for itself
whether there is, in fact, a contract and, if so, the extent
of its binding obligations, but will lean to an agreement
with the state court. Tampa Water Works Co. v. Tampa,
199 U. S. 241, 242-243, and cases cited; Freeport Water
Co. v. Freeport City, 180 U. S. 587, 595; Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 386; Milwaukee Electric Ry. Co. v. Wisconsin R. R. Commission,
supra. And considering the question in this light we see
no reason to differ with that court in its view of the
validity and binding quality of the contract. The contract being valid we are not concerned with the question
whether the stipulated rates are confiscatory. Southern

GEORGIA RY. CO. v. DECATUR.
432

Opinion of the Court.

Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255 U. S. 539, 542; Paducah v. PaducahRy. Co., 261 U. S. 267.
2. Treating the contract as valid, it is insisted that its
obligation is impaired by the statutory extension of the
limits of the town and the action of the court in holding
the five-cent fare applicable in the added territory. While
the statute does not refer to the contract or in terms make
the rates applicable in the annexed territory, the necessary result of the decision of the state courts is to give it
that effect, and in that way the statute, in the respect
complained of, does substantially impair the obligation
of the contract by adding to its burdens. Detroit United
Railway v. Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, 247-248; Columbia
Railway, Gas & Electric Co. v. South Carolina, 261
U. S. 236.
3. The state statute of August 23, 1907, Civil Code,
§ 2662, extends the power of the Railroad Commission to
street railroad companies, but contains a proviso to the
effect that it shall not be construed "to impair any valid,
subsisting contract now in existence between any municipality and any such company." It is insisted that this
proviso brings about an arbitrary classification, in violation of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, because it subjects future contracts to the
power of the Commission while exempting existing contracts therefrom. But it is not shown that the classification in fact is unreasonable and arbitrary and, under the
decisions of this Court, we cannot say that it is obnoxious
to the constitutional provision. Arkansas Natural Gas
Co. v. Arkansas Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 379, and
cases cited.
4. We cannot agree with the contention of defendants
that the order of the commission, directing that no change
be made in the matter of the issuance of free transfers is
open to constitutional objection. The order of the com-

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

mission went no further than to direct a continuance of a
practice which, so far as the record discloses, was not beyond the terms of the contract providing specifically for
such transfers.
Neither are we able to say that the order of the commission, directing the defendants to provide additional
seating capacity on some of its lines and trailers upon the
line covered by the contract, was beyond its ordinary
power to require adequate service. There is nothing in
the contract with which the order conflicts, and such
service naturally would seem to be implied, in the absence
of a provision to the contrary.
5. Other contentions advanced by defendants we find
so clearly lacking in merit that we dismiss them without
special consideration.
It results from the foregoing that the judgment below,
in so far as it makes applicable the contract rates within
the annexed territory cannot be sustained. The contract
rates apply only to the Town of Decatur, as it existed
when the contract was made. To apply them to additional territory is to impose a burden upon defendants
outside the contract. We find no other error; but, upon
the ground stated under paragraph 2, the decree of the
State Supreme Court is reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
Writ of certioraridenied.

