EX PARTE FULLER.
Counsel for Parties.
EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF FULLER ET AL.,
INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COPARTNERS UNDER
THE NAME OF E. M. FULLER & COMPANY, PETITIONERS.
APPLICATION FOR A STAY OF ORDERS OF DISTRICT COURT
PENDING APPEAL.

No. -.

Motion for stay submitted April 27, 1923.--Decided April

30, 1923.
One who becomes a bankrupt has no right, under the Fourth and
Fifth Amendments to the Constitution, to resist delivery of his
books and papers to the trustee in bankruptcy or affix conditions
as to their use, upon the ground that they may be used to incriminate him. P. 93.
Application denied.

THIs was an application, made here to stay, pending
appeal, two orders of the District Court requiring a receiver in bankruptcy and the bankrupts and their attorneys to turn over certain books and papers to the trustee
in bankruptcy.
Mr. William J. Fallon, Mr. Eugene F. McGee and
Mr. Arthur Garfield Hays, for petitioners, in support of
the motion.
Mr. FrancisL. Kohlman, for the trustee in bankruptcy,
in opposition to the motion.
Mr. William M. Chadbourne, Mr. Cyrus F. Smythe
and Mr. C. R. Ward, for the Creditors' Committee of
E. M. Fuller & Company, in opposition to the motion.
Mr. Joab H. Banton, District Attorney for New York
County, Mr. John Caldwell Myers and Mr. Hugo Wintner, by leave of court, filed a memorandum in opposition
to the motion, as amici curice.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUsTnc
Court.

262 U. S.

TAFT delivered the opinion of the

On June 26, 1922, a petition in involuntary bankruptcy
was filed against Fuller and McGee, individually and as
partners, in the name of E. M. Fuller & Company, in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Thereafter Strasbourger was appointed Receiver and at
once demanded of the bankrupts the books of accounts,
records, documents, both of themselves individually and
of the firm. The bankrupts claimed that the books would
tend to incriminate them and refused to turn them over
unless the Receiver agreed that they were to be used in
connection with the civil administration of bankrupts'
estate only. A stipulation of this kind was made between
the Receiver and the attorneys for the bankruits, with
the further specific agreement that the books and records
would not be turned over to any district attorney or used
before any grand or petit jury. The district attorney,
County of New York, then attempted to bring the books
and records into the state court by serving a subpoena
upon the Receiver. Judge Augustus Hand, at the petition of the bankrupts, enjoined the Receiver from turning the books over.
On April 6, 1923, the attorneys for the bankrupts demanded of the Receiver that he return the books and
papers to them because his receivership had terminated
by the appointment of a trustee in bankruptcy. The Referee in bankruptcy directed the Receiver to turn the
books and papers over to the Trustee without condition
or restriction. On review, this order was affirmed by
Circuit Judge Mack sitting in bankruptcy. April 21st
last, all the books and papers were then delivered over to
the Trustee except certain books and papers which had
ibeen redelivered by the Receiver to the attorneys for the
bankrupts on their receipts which were turned over to

EX PARTE FULLER.
91

Opinion of the Court.

the Trustee. The bankrupts objected to turning over the
books and papers thus receipted for by their attorneys to
the Trustee. Thereupon on April 24, 1923, Judge Mack
made a second order directing the attorneys for the bankrupts and the bankrupts to turn over these records and
papers so withheld by them to the Trustee. On April
21st, the District Attorney of New York County had subpcenaect the Trustee to produce the books and papers of
the bankrupts he then had in his custody and on the 24th
of April offered them in evidence in the Court of General
Sessions of New York as evidence against E. M. Fuller
under an indictment arising out of the business of the
bankrupts. On the 25th of April Judge Mack granted an
application for a stay pending proceedings for appeal to
this Court and an application for a stay here; and Judge
Nott presiding in the state court adjourned the trial there
until April 30th.
Proceedings for appeal to this Court have now been begun under the authority of Perlman v. United States, 247
U. S. 7, and the application for a stay of Judge Mack's
two orders has now been made.
A man who becomes a bankrupt or who is brought into
a bankruptcy court has no right to delay the legal transfer of the possession and title of any of his property to
the officers appointed by law for its custody or for its disposition, on the ground that the transfer of such property
will carry with it incriminating evidence against him.
His property and its possession pass from him by operation and due proceedings of law, and when control and
possession have passed from him, he has no constitutional
right to prevent its use for any legitimate purpose. His
privilege secured to him by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution is that of refusing himself to
produce, as incriminating evidence against him, anything
which he owns or has in his possession and control, but
his privilege in respect to What was his and in his custody

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

ceases on a transfer of the control and possession which
takes place by legal proceedings and in pursuance of the
rights of others, even though such transfer may bring the
property into the ownership or control of one properly
subject to subpoena duces tecum. These conclusions follow from the principles announced by this Court in the
Matter of Harris, 221 U. S. 274, 279, and Johnson v.
United*States, 228 U. S. 457.
In considering the correctness of Judge Mack's orders,
it is wholly immaterial what stipulation had been entered
into betweeh the Receiver and the bankrupts in regard to
the use to be made pending the receivership of the books
and papers or what sanction Judge Hand's action had
given the stipulations. With the appointment of the
Trustee both the title and the right to possession of such
books and papers passed to him and Judge Mack's orders
properly confirmed this result. The Receiver, the bankrupts and their attorney must yield possession and title
to the Trustee. Neither can accompany the delivery he
is bound by law to make with any effective conditions
restricting use of the books, papers or other property of
the bankrupts' estate as evidence against them.
The application is denied.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK EX REL.
CLYDE v. GILCHRIST, PRESIDENT, ET AL., AS
MEMBERS OF THE STATE TAX COMMISSION
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 318. Argued April 17, 1923.--Decided April 30, 1923.
1. Upon error to a state court, when a statute is alleged to impair
the obligation of a contract, this Court must decide for itself
whether there was a contract and what it was. P. 96.

