OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. LUSKEY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 371.

Argued April 10, 1923.-Decided April 16, 1923.

The additional pay provided by the Act of March 3, 1915, c. 83, 38
Stat. 928, for enlisted men in the Navy and Marine Corps "while
lawfully detailed for duty involving actual flying in air craft," goes
to the person so detailed irrespective of the number of flights
made by him. P. 64.
56 Ct. Clms. 411, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims award-

ing a sum as extra pay to a machinist's mate in the Navy.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The findings of fact of the Court of Claims are in substance, these: (1) Luskey was a machinist's mate in the
Navy. He was by proper authority detailed for duty involving actual flying in aircraft, September 15, 1915, and
continued in that duty until after February 1, 1917. He
made actual flights, one of which was in September, 1916,
and two others in December, 1916, and was at all times
capable of flying if so ordered. (2) He received the sum
of $329.00, being 50% additional pay allowed him by the
Act of March 3, 1915, c. 83, 38 Stat. 928, for duty involving actual flying for the entire period from July 1, 1916, to
January 31, 1917, a period of seven months. At a later
period the amount was deducted from his pay. He was
paid a certain amount for the month of December, 1916.

UNITED STATES v. LUSKEY.
62

Opinion of the Court.

If entitled to additional pay for aviation duty for the
entire period, July 1, 1916, to January 31, 1917, less pay
received for December, 1916, he would receive $279.95.
Upon the facts found, 'the court concluded "as matter of law" that he was entitled to recover, and "adjudged and ordered that" he "recover of and from the
United States the sum of two hundred and seventy-nine
dollars and ninety-five cents ($279.95)."
The United States, by this appeal, disputes the conclusion and judgment. Its contention is that "to entitle an
officer designated to such service to the extra compensation" he must "be actually engaged in flying, and that,
when an unreasonable time elapses during which he makes
no actual flight, he is not entitled to extra pay for such
period." Expressing its contention in other words, it, in
effect, is that it is not the detail but the flying, not the
possibility of a risk but the actual risk, that vests the right
to the additional pay.
To sustain the contention, emphasis is put upon, and
insistence made of, the words of the act (38 Stat. 939)
that compensation is awarded to the officer "while lawfully detailed for duty involving actual flying in air
craft."
To the contention, and rejecting it, the court replied,
after quoting the statute: ' "The word 'involving,' used
in the statute may be inept, but its meaning in the connection in which it is used is plain and not to be mistaken,
and that is, that the pay is not made dependent upon the
number of flights while on such duty, but is made dependent on the detail to such duty. When, therefore, the
plaintiff was lawfully detailed to duty involving flying in
enlisted men of the Navy or Marine Corps, while
detailed for duty involving actual flying in air craft, shall receive the
pay, and the permanent additions thereto, including allowances, of
their rating and service or rank and service, as the case may be,
plus fifty per centum increase thereof."
"Hereafter

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

aircraft he must be regarded and treated as entitled to the
consequences of such detail and to the pay provided for
such duty."
We concur in the conclusion and judgment. The meaning of the statute "is plain." If Congress had intended
to provide a detail to intermittent duty with intermittent
pay Congress would have specifically so provided, not left
repulsion to it the advantage of ambiguity. If it intended to regard" the possibility of a risk or the actual
risk" in flying as determination of compensation or as a
factor in compensation, as the United States urges, care
would have been taken, not, we will say, against its abuse,
but against its use putting the officer's life in peril many
times a day. If that were reasonable in expectation, the
other contention is condemned, that is, that the officer is
entitled to compensation only when he engages in flights
and for reasonable intervals between them. The contention gives no animation to prepare for the duty and its
hazards.
Congress naturally supposed that there would be no
detail to aircraft duty unless there was requirement or
use for it, and when either ceased, the detail would be
revoked, but if made and not revoked, its duration constituted a service for which the officer must keep prepared and to which, therefore, the compensation was by
the statute assigned.
Judgment affirmed.

