PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Syllabus.

Clearly, this Court could not undertake such determinations. To make equitable distribution would be a
task of such complexity and difficulty that even an interstate public service commission with broad powers, perfected administrative machinery, ample resources, practical experience and no other duties, might fail to perform
it satisfactorily. As this Court would be powerless to
frame a decree and provide machinery by means of which
such equitable distribution of the available supply could
be effected, it should, according to settled practice, refuse
to entertain the suits. Compare Marble Co. v. Ripley,
10 Wall. 339, 358; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Marshall,
136 U. S. 393, 406; Giles v. Harris,189 U. S. 475, 487, 488.

COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

Nos. 15 and 16, Original.

Decree entered June 11, 1923.

Decree, declaring c. 71, Laws of West Virginia of 1919, unconstitu-

tional; enjoining that State and her officials from enforcing it;
apportioning costs; and fixing the pay of the' commissioner who
took and reported the evidence.
circumstances, West Virginia companies be justified in supplying the
Kentucky demand while leaving that of its West Virginia customers
unsatisfied? Should distributing companies in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Kentucky and Indiana be permitted to extend their mains or add
new customers after West Virginia had recognized the insufficiency
of the supply to satisfy the needs of consumers within the State?
And what shall be deemed the existing demand of a State? Is
existing demand to be limited to customers already connected? And
does it mean the amount theretofore taken by such customers or that
which they may wish to take through existing appliances?

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Decree.

262 U. S.

These suits having been heretofore submitted on the
pleadings and the evidence, and the Court being now
fully advised in the premises,
It is considered, ordered and decreed as follows:
1. That the Act passed by the Legislature of the defendant State February 10, 1919, which is set forth in the
bills of complaint in these suits and known as Chapter 71
of the West Virginia Acts of 1919, is a void and inoperative enactment because it contravenes the limitations
which the Constitution of the United States places upon
state action in respect of commerce among the several
States;
2. That the defendant State, and her several officers,
agents and servants, are hereby severally enjoined from
enforcing, or attempting to enforce, that Act;
3. That the aggregate costs in these suits be apportioned among and paid by the parties thereto as follows:
The State of West Virginia one-half; the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania one-fourth and the State of Ohio onefourth;
4. That Levi Cooke, Esquire, the commissioner by
whom the evidence in these suits was taken and reported
to this Court, shall receive and be paid the sum of six
thousand dollars in full compensation for the services
rendered and the expenses incurred by him in that connection, and that this sum be taxed as part of the aggregate costs in' the two suits and be paid by the parties in
the proportions just named;
5. That the Clerk of this Court transmit to the Chief
Magistrates of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and
the States of Ohio and West Virginia copies of this decree
duly authenticated under the seal of this Court.

