390

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

selves competitors, the subscribers went forth to deal with
widely separated and unorganized customers necessarily
ignorant of the true conditions. Obviously they were not
bona fide competitors; their claim in that regard is at war
with common experience and hardly compatible with fair
dealing.
We are not called upon to say just when or how far
competitors may reveal to each other the details of their
affairs. In the absence of a purpose to monopolize or the
compulsion that results from contract or agreement, the
individual certainly may exercise great freedom; but concerted action through combination presents a wholly different problem and is forbidden when the necessary tendency is to destroy the kind of competition to which the
public has long looked for protection. The situation here
questioned is wholly unlike an exchange where dealers
assemble and buy and sell openly; and the ordinary practice of reporting statistics to collectors stops far short of
the practice which defendants adopted. Their manifest
purpose was to defeat the Sherman Act without subjecting themselves to its penalties.
The challenged plan is unlawful and an injunction
should go against it as prayed by the original bill. The
cause will be remanded to the court below with instructions to issue such an injunction and promptly to take
any further action necessary to carry this opinion into
effect.
Reversed.
MEYER v. STATE OF NEBRASKA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 325. Argued February 23, 1923.-Decided June 4, 1923.
A state law forbidding, under penalty, the teaching in any private,
denominational, parochial or public school, of any modem language,
other than English, to any child who has not attained and success-

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

fully passed the eighth grade, invades the liberty guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment and exceeds the power of the State.

P. 399.
So held where the statute was applied in punishment of an instructor
who taught reading in German, to a child of ten years, in a
parochial school.
107 Neb. 657, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska

affirming a conviction for infraction of a statute against
teaching of foreign languages to young children in schools.
Mr. Charles E. Sandall, with whom Mr. I. L. Albert,
Mr. Arthur G. Wray and Mr. August Wagner were on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
The right to choose and pursue a given legitimate vocation is within the rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The vocation of the plaintiff is teaching-a legitimate
vocation-and in teaching, as he did, a certain subject in a
language other than English, he encroached upon the
rights of no other person. Ritchie v. People, 155 Ill. 98;
Ex parte Harrison,212 Mo. 88; Butchers' 'Union Co. v.
Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Hooper v. California,
155 U. S. 662; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S. 589; Cully
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 1 Hughes, 539; Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 578; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113; Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U. S. 548; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678. Berea College v. Kentucky, 211
U. S. 45, dissenting opinion, p. 67.
Imparting knowledge in a foreign language is not inherently immoral or inimical to the public welfare, and
not a legitimate subject for prohibitory legislation. In
fact, an examination of the statute will show that the
legislature did not regard the teaching of a pupil in some
language other than English as vicious or inimical to the
public welfare. It applies only to schools, leaving teach-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

262 U. S.

ers and others at liberty to teach privately. State v.
Redmon, 134 Wis. 89; People v. Weiner, 271 Ill. 74.
When the legislature by clear implication finds that the
practice or pursuit against which the act is leveled does
not of itself injuriously affect the public, a measure designed to prohibit it is unconstitutional. It being clear,
therefore, both upon reason and legislative finding, that
the prohibited acts are not harmful, this measure, insofar
as it imposes upon teachers, both lay and clerical, penalties of fine and imprisonment for the giving of instruction
in languages, is violative of their constitutional right to
engage in the practice of their chosen profession or calling. Coal Co. v. People, 17 Ill. 66; Adams v. Tanner, 244
U. S. 590.
The statute, as construed by the Supreme Court of
Nebraska, is prohibitive, not regulatory of a legitimate
vocation.
The statute in question is not a legitimate exercise of
the police power. The exercise of the police power can
be justified only when it adds, in a substantial way, to the
security of the fundamental rights.
The relation to the common good of a law fixing a
minimum of education is readily perceived, but how one
fixing a maximum-limiting the field of human knowledge--can serve the public welfare or add substantially
to the security of life, liberty or the pursuit of happiness
is inconceivable. State v. Redmon, supra; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Wyeth v. Cambridge Board of
Health, 200 Mass. 474; State v. Sperry, 94 Neb. 785.
One claim put forward is, that the statute forwards
the work of Americanization. But in our desire for the
Americanization of our foreign born population we should
not overlook the fact that the spirit of America is liberty
and toleration-the disposition to allow each person to
live his own life in his own way, unhampered by unreasonable and arbitrary restrictions.

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The law, as construed by the Supreme Court of Nebraska, operates to deny the plaintiff in error the equal
protection of the law.
The law is directed against the teaching in or of a foreign language in public, private, denominational and
parochial schools. It leaves those engaged in giving private lessons in such languages free to pursue their vocations. Nebraska DistrictEvangelical Synod v. McKelvie,
104 Neb. 93; Bailey v. People, 190 Ill. 28; Dunahoo v.
Huber, 185 Ia. 753; State v. Sloane, 49 N. J. L. 356;
State v. Ramsey, 48 Minn. 236; Lincoln v. Lincoln Gas
Co., 182 Fed. 926; Haynes v. Lapeer Circuit Judge, 201
Mich. 138; Smith v. Board of Examiners, 85 N. J. L. 46.
Mr. Mason Wheeler and Mr. 0. S. Spillman, with
whom Mr. Clarence A. Davis, Attorney General of the
State of Nebraska, and Mr. Hugh La Master were on the
brief, for defendant in error.
The federal constitutional question was injected into
the case as an afterthought and too late to permit its review by this Court.
The statute was a legitimate exercise of the police
power of the State.
The statute forbids the teaching of foreign languages to
children of tender years before such children are grounded
in the English tongue. It does not forbid the use of foreign languages by persons of maturity or prevent the
study of foreign languages by persons who have passed
the eighth grade. It does not in any way interfere with
bona fide religious instruction or with any legitimate religion.
The object of the legislation, as is pointed out in Nebraska District of Evangelical Synod v. McKelvie, 104
Neb. 93, and in the second case, 187 N. W. 927, and in the
decision below, and by the Ohio Supreme Court in Pohl
v. State, 102 Oh. St. 474, and by the Iowa Supreme Court
in Bartels v. State, 191 Ia. 1060, was to create an enlight-

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

262 U. S.

ened American citizenship in sympathy with the principles and ideals of this country, and to prevent children
reared in America from being trained and educated in
foreign languages and foreign ideals before they have had
an opportunity to learn the English language and observe
American ideals. It is a well known fact that the language first learned by a child remains his mother tongue
and the language of his heart. The purpose of the statute
is to insure that the English language shall be the mother
tongue and the language of the heart of the children
reared in this country who will eventually become the
citizens of this country.
These foreign language statutes are no more difficult
to sustain under the police power of the State than the
Bank Guarantee Act, the Workmen's Compensation Acts,
the Female Labor Laws, and Tenement Housing legislation.
Taking the test laid down as to the legitimate exercise
of the police power by Freund (ยง 143): A danger exists;
of sufficient magnitude; concerning the public; the proposed measure tends to remove it; the restraint is a requirement in proportion to the danger; it is possible to
secure the object sought without impairing essential rights
and principles. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Muller v.
Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Second Employers' Liability Cases,
223 U. S. 1; Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S.
400; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135. If it is within the
police power of the State to regulate wages, to legislate
respecting housing conditions in crowded cities, to prohibit dark rooms in tenement houses, to compel landlords
to place windows in their tenements which will enable
their tenants to enjoy the sunshine, it is within the police
power of the State to compel every resident of Nebraska
so to educate his children that the sunshine of American
ideals will permeate the life of the future citizens of this
Republic.

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The recognized general necessity for legislation similar
to the Nebraska foreign language act is shown by the fact
that twenty-one States besides Nebraska have enacted
similar foreign language laws.
In no State has this foreign language legislation been
successfully attacked. Three attempts only have been
made, in Ohio, Iowa and Nebraska. In every adjudicated
case the legislation has been upheld and sustained as
against all constitutional objections.
The police power itself is an attribute of sovereignty.
It exists without any reservation in the Constitution. It
is founded on the right of the State to protect its citizens,
to provide for their welfare and progress and to insure the
good of society. It corresponds to the right of self preservation in the individual. Its application varies with the
exigencies of the situation and with the progress of mankind. It is the foundation of our social system and upon
it depends the security of social order, the life and health
of the citizen, the comfort of existence in a thickly populated community, the enjoyment of private and social life,
and the beneficial use of property. It extends to the protection of life, health, comfort and welfare of persons, protection of property, and to the welfare of the State itself.
All natural persons within the jurisdiction hold their
property and pursue their various callings subject to the
police power. It is inherent in the various States of the
Union, as well as in the Federal Government. To the extent that property or business is devoted to public use or
is affected with a public interest it is subject to regulation by the police power. It extends to regulation of education as the very existence of our government, as well
as its progress and development, depends upon the intelligence of our citizenry. McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S.
539; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. .412; Holden v. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11;
Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Murphy v. California,

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

225 U. S. 623; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425; Second
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1; Noble State
Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; s. c., 219 U. S. 575; Arizona Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400; Gilbert v.
Minnesota, 254 U. S. 325; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332;
Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; State v. Sperry, 94 Neb.
785; Matter of Gregory, 219 U. S. 216; Rast v. Van
Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342; Pitney v. Washington, 240 U. S. 387; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369.
The statute does not unlawfully interfere with the defendant's occupation as a teacher. Mugler v. Kansas,
123 U. S. 623; Wenham v. State, 65 Neb. 395; Muller v.
Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27;
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549.
The statute does not deny defendant the equal protection of the law. Nebraska Districtof EvangelicalSynod v.
McKelvie, 187 N. W. 927; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373;
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61;
Johnston v. Kennecott Copper Co., 248 Fed. 407; Halter
v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34; Quong Wong v. Kirkendall,
223 U. S. 59; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Pitney v.
Washington, 240 U. S. 387; Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S.
369; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Lower Vein
Coal Co. v. IndustrialBoard, 255 U. S. 144.
Mr. William D. Guthrie and Mr. Bernard Hershkopf,
by leave of court, filed a brief as amici curice.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error was tried and convicted in the District
Court for Hamilton County, Nebraska, under an information which charged that on May 25, 1920, while an instructor in Zion Parochial School, he unlawfully taught
the subject of reading in the German language to Raymond Parpart, a child of ten years, who had not attained

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Opinion of the Court.

and successfully passed the eighth grade. The information is based upon "An act relating to the teaching of
foreign languages in the State of Nebraska," approved
April 9, 1919, which follows [Laws 1919, c. 249.]:
"Section- 1. No person, individually or as a teacher,
shall, in any private, denominational, parochial or public
school, teach any subject to any person in any language
other than the English language.
"See. 2. Languages, other than the English language,
may be taught as languages only after a pupil shall
have attained and successfully passed the eighth grade as
evidenced by a certificate of graduation issued by the
county superintendent of the county in which the child
resides.
"Sec. 3. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less
than twenty-five dollars ($25), nor more than one hundred dollars ($100) or be confined in the county jail for
any period not exceeding thirty days for each offense.
"Sec. 4. Whereas, an emergency exists, this act shall
be in force from and after its passage and approval."
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment
of conviction. 107 Neb. 657. It declared the offense
charged and established was "the direct and intentional
teaching of- the German language as a distinct subject
to a child who had not passed the eighth grade," in the
parochial school maintained by Zion Evangelical Lutheran
Congregation, a collection of Biblical stories being used
therefor. And it held that the statute forbidding this
did not conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, but was
a valid exercise of the police power. The following excerpts from the opinion sufficiently indicate the reasons
advanced to support the conclusion.
"The salutary purpose of the statute is clear. The
legislature had seen the baneful effects of permitting for-

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

eigners, who had taken residence in this country, to rear
and educate their children in the language of their native
land. The result of that condition was found to be
inimical to our own safety. To allow the children of
foreigners, who had emigrated here, to be taught from
early childhood the language of the country of their parents was to rear them with that language as their mother
tongue. It was to educate them so that they must always
think in that language, and, as a consequence, naturally
inculcate in them the ideas and sentiments foreign to the
best interests of this country. The statute, therefore,
was intended not only to require that the education of all
children be conducted in the English language, but that,
until they had grown into that language and until it had
become a part of them, they should not in the schools be
taught any other language. The obvious purpose of this
statute was that the English language should be and become the mother tongue of all children reared in this state.
The enactment of such a statute comes reasonably within
the police power of the state. Pohl v. State, 132 N. E.
(Ohio) 20; State v. Barter8, 181 N. W. (Ia.) 508.
"It is suggested that the law is an unwarranted restriction, in that it applies to all citizens of the state and
arbitrarily interferes with the rights of citizens who are
not of foreign ancestry, and prevents them, without reason,
from having their children taught foreign languages in
school. That argument is not well taken, for it assumes
that every citizen finds himself restrained by the statute.
The hours which a child is able to devote to study in the
confinement of school axe limited. It must have ample
time for exercise or play. Its daily capacity for learning
is comparatively small. A selection of subjects for its
education, therefore, from among the many that might
be taught, is obviously necessary. The legislature no
doubt had in mind the practical operation of the law.
The law affects few citizens, except those of foreign line-

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Opinion of the Court.

age. Other citizens, in their selection of studies, except
perhaps in rare instances, have never deemed it of importance to teach their children foreign languages before
such children have reached the eighth grade. In the legislative mind, the salutary effect of the statute no doubt
outweighed the restriction upon the citizens generally,
which, it appears, was a restriction of no real consequence."
The problem for our determination is whether the statute as construed and applied unreasonably infringes the
liberty guaranteed to the plaintiff in error by the Fourteenth Amendment. "No State shall . . . deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law."
While this Court has not attempted to define with exactness the liberty thus guaranteed, the term has received
much consideration and some of the included things have
been definitely stated. Without doubt, it denotes not
merely freedom from bodily restraint but also the right
of the individual to contract, to engage in any of the
common occupations of life, to acquire useful knowledge,
to marry, establish a home and bring up children, to
worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience, and generally to enjoy those privileges long recognized at common law as essential to the orderly pursuit
of happiness by free men. Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111
U. S.746; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.356; Minnesota
v. Barber, 136 U. S.313; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S.
578; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S.45; Twining v. New
Jersey, 211 U. S.78; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R.
Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S.549; Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.
33; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U. S.590; New York Life Ins.
Co. v. Dodge, 246 U. S.357; Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S.
312; Adkins v. Children'sHospital, 261 U. S.525; Wyeth
v. Cambridge Board of Health, 200 Mass. 474. The established doctrine is that this liberty may not be inter-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

fered with, under the guise of protecting the public interest, by legislative action which is arbitrary or without
reasonable relation to some purpose within the competency of the State to effect. Determination by the legislature of what constitutes proper exercise of police power
is not final or conclusive but is subject to supervision by
the courts. Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137.
The American people have always regarded education
and acquisition of knowledge as matters of supreme importance which should be diligently promoted. The Ordinance of 1787 declares, "Religion, morality, and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall
forever be encouraged." Corresponding to the right of
control, it is the natural duty of the parent to give his
children education suitable to their station in life; and
nearly all the States, including Nebraska, enforce this
obligation by compulsory laws.
Practically, education of the young is only possible in
schools conducted by especially qualified persons who devote themselves thereto. The calling always has been
regarded as useful and honorable, essential, indeed, to the
public welfare. Mere knowledge of the German language
cannot reasonably be regarded as harmful. Heretofore it
has been commonly looked upon as helpful and desirable.
Plaintiff in error taught this language in school as part
of his occupation. His right thus to teach and the right
of parents to engage him so to instruct their children, we
think, are within the liberty of the Amendment.
The challenged statute forbids the teaching in school
of any subject except in English; also the teaching of any
other language until the pupil has attained and successfully passed the eighth grade, which is not usually accomplished before the age of twelve. The Supreme Court of
the State has held that "the so-called ancient or dead
languages" are not "within the spirit or the purpose of

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Opinion of the Court.

the act." Nebraska District of Evangelical Lutheran
Synod v. McKelvie, 187 N. W. 927. Latin, Greek, Hebrew
are not proscribed; but German, French, Spanish, Italian
and every other alien speech are within the ban. Evidently the legislature has attempted materially to interfere with the calling of modern language teachers, with
the opportunities of pupils to acquire knowledge, and
with the power of parents to control the education of
their own.
It is said the purpose of the legislation was to promote
civic development by inhibiting training and education
of the immature in foreign tongues and ideals before they
could learn English and acquire American ideals; and
"that the English language should be and become the
mother tongue of all children reared in this State." It
is also affirmed that the foreign born population is very
large, that certain communities commonly use foreign
words, follow foreign leaders, move in a foreign atmosphere, and that the children are thereby hindered from
becoming citizens of the most useful type and the public
safety is imperiled.
That the State may do much, go very far, indeed, in
order to improve the quality of its citizens, physically,
mentally and morally, is clear; but the individual has
certain fundamental rights which must be respected. The
protection of the Constitution extends to all, to those who
speak other languages as well as to those born with
English on the tongue. Perhaps it would be highly advantageous if all had ready understanding of our ordinary
speech, but this cannot be coerced by methods which conflict with the Constitution-a desirable end cannot be
promoted by prohibited means.
For the welfare of his Ideal Commonwealth, Plato suggested a law which should provide: "That the wives of
our guardians are to be common, and their children are
to be common, and no parent is to know his own child,
51826*-23-.-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

nor any child his parent....
The proper officers will
take the offspring of the good parents to the pen or fold,
and there they will deposit them with certain nurses who
dwell in a separate quarter; but the offspring of the inferior, or of the better when they chance to be deformed,
will be put away in some mysterious, unknown place, as
they should be." In order to submerge the individual
and develop ideal citizens, Sparta assembled the males at.
seven into barracks and intrusted their subsequent education and training to official guardians. Although such
measures have been deliberately approved by men of
great genius, their ideas touching the relation between
individual and State were wholly different from those
upon which our institutions rest; and it hardly will be
affirmed that any legislature could impose such restrictions upon the people of a State without doing violence
to both letter and spirit of the Constitution.
The desire of the legislature to foster a homogeneous
people with American ideals prepared readily to understand current discussions of civic matters is easy to appreciate. Unfortunate experiences during the late war and
aversion toward every characteristic of truculent adversaries were certainly enough to quicken that aspiration.
But the means adopted, we think, exceed the limitations
upon the power of the State and conflict with rights assured" to plaintiff in error. The interference is plain
enough and no adequate reason therefor in time of peace
and domestic tranquility has been shown.
The power of the State to compel attendance at some
school and to make reasonable regulations for all schools,
including a requirement that they shall give instructions
in English, is not questioned. Nor has challenge been'
made of the State's power to prescribe a curriculum for,
institutions which it supports. Those matters are not
within the present controversy. Our concern is with the
prohibition approved by the Supreme Court. Adams v.

MEYER v. NEBRASKA.
390

Opinion of the Court.

Tanner, supra, p. 594, pointed out that mere abuse incident to an occupation ordinarily useful is not enough to
justify its abolition, although regulation may be entirely
proper. No emergency has arisen which renders knowledge by a child of some language other than English so
clearly harmful as to justify its inhibition with the consequent infringement of rights long freely enjoyed. We
are constrained to conclude that the statute as applied is
arbitrary- and without reasonable relation to any end
within the competency of the State.
As the statute undertakes to interfere only with teaching which involves a modern language, leaving complete
freedom as to other matters, there seems no adequate
foundation for the suggestion that the purpose was to
protect the child's health by limiting his mental activities.
It is well known that proficiency in a foreign language
seldom comes to one not instructed at an early age, and
experience shows that this is not injurious to the health,
morals or understanding of the ordinary child.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
[See the separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, con-

curred in by MR.
at p. 412, infra.]

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND,

in the next case,

