66

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

262 U. S.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS. v. 'EDWARDS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
SECOND DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 710.

Argued April 10, 11, 1923.-Decided April 23, 1923.

1. A sale of goods made in this country to a commission merchant for a
foreign consignee, for the sole purpose of export, and consummated
only when the goods, addressed to the foreign consignee, are delivered by the vendor to the exporting carrier, is a step in their exportation and, under Const., Art. I, § 9, cannot be taxed by the
United States, even though the law under which the tax is imposed
is a general one, not aimed specially at exports. P. 67.
2. Goods were started in exportation when so delivered to the carrier, notwithstanding the fact that the bill of lading was not issued
until later, and, notwithstanding the possibility that the commission
merchant, holding the title, might change his mind and divert them
from their foreign destination. P. 69.
285 Fed. 784, reversed.

a judgment of the District Court dismissing
the complaint in an action to recover money exacted by
the Government as a tax on a sale of goods.
ERROR to

Mr. Frank Davis, Jr., with whom Mr. Franklin Grady
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. P. C. Alexander was on the brief, for defendant in error.
From the history of the Export Clause in the Constitution, it will appear that the framers had in mind a tax
levied directly and deliberately upon the act of exportation. They were not considering the application of general taxing laws, which might fall in individual cases upon
merchandise, which might thereafter be exported.
The tax levied by § 600 of the Revenue Act of 1917 is
an excise levied upon the business of selling the particular

SPALDING & BROS. v. EDWARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

66

articles named in the statute and is measured by the price
for which the article is sold. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co.,
260 U. S.245.
The constitutional provision has been often interpreted
by the courts. The most recent cases clearly negative the
plaintiff's contention. Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418;
Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 504; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517; Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona, 249 U. S. 472; Peck
& Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165; Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S.
372; American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459. The
cases which held taxes unconstitutional all clearly disclosed direct burdens upon some process or instrumentality of exportation. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.
419; Almy v. California,24"How. 169; Fairbankv. United
States, 181 U. S. 283; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S.
1; Thames & Mersey Ins. Co. v. United States, 237
U. S. 19.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit to recover the amount of taxes collected
by duress under color of the War Revenue Act of October 3, 1917, c. 63, § 600 (f), 40 Stat. 300, 316. The
plaintiff, a corporation, manufacturer of the goods in
question, says that the tax was laid on articles exported
from a State, (New York,) in violation of Article I,
§ 9, of the Constitution of the United States. Upon demurrer the complaint was dismissed by the District Court
on the merits.
baseball bats, . . . balls
The tax is" upon all . .
sold by the manufacturer, producer, or
of all kinds .

importer" and was levied on three occasions admitted to
be similar, so that the statement of one transaction will
be enough. Delgado & Cia, a firm in the city of La
Guaira, Venezuela, ordered Scholtz & Co., commission

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

merchants in New York, to buy for their account and
risk a certain number of baseballs and baseball bats, &c.,
D&C
S

La Guaira
at an agreed price and to mark the packages
# 36

to indicate the purchasers and their place. Scholtz &
Co. thereupon sent to the plaintiff in writing, dated December 10, 1918, this: "Export order from Scholtz &
Co., Shipping and Commission Merchants . . . Please
per steamer ......
ship on or before the ..............
Rush. . . . Errors in weight often entail
heavy fines in Foreign Customs Houses, therefore be
careful when weighing and marking Goods, as we shall
hold you responsible for any fines caused through your
errors. Cases or crates must be made to fit Goods as duty
is paid by Gross weight. Shipping mark and number
to be put on packages. [As above, with statement of
the goods wanted.] Please send Memo. Invoice at once
so we can apply for license and clear at Custom House."
Scholtz & Co. instructed the plaintiff to deliver the packages so marked to the Atlantic & Caribbean Steam Navigation Co., an exporting carrier in New York. The plaintiff marked and delivered the goods as directed and was
given a receipt by the carrier which it sent to Scholtz
& Co. and which was exchanged by them for an export
bill of lading in their name, dated February 10, 1919.
The goods were transported and delivered in due time to
Delgado & Cia. Scholtz &. Co. paid the plaintiff on
February 1 and were paid their commission by Delgado
& Cia. in ninety days from date of shipment. The transaction from start to finish was understood and intended
by the plaintiff and Scholtz & Co. to be for the purpose
of exporting the goods to Delgado & Cia. in Venezuela.
The question is whether the sale was a step in exportation, assuming as appears to be the fact, that the title

SPALDING & BROS. v. EDWARDS.
66

Opinion of the Court.

passed at the moment when the goods were delivered into
the carrier's hands.
The fact that the law under which the tax was imposed
was a general law touching all sales of the class, and not
aimed specially at exports, would not help the defendant
if in this case the tax was" laid on articles exported from
any State "' because that is forbidden in terms by the
Constitution. Article I, § 9. United States v. Hvoslef,
237 U. S. 1, 18. Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245
U. S. 292. Articles in course of transportation cannot be
taxed. William E. Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165, 173.
So we return to the question that we have stated. To
answer it with regard to any transaction we have to
fix a point at which, in view of the purpose of the Constitution, the export must be said to begin. As elsewhere
in the law there will be other points very near to it on
the other side, so that if the necessity of fixing one definitely is not remembered any determination may seem
arbitrary. In this case, for instance, while the goods were
in process of manufacture they were none the less subject
to taxation if they were intended for export and made
with specific reference to foreign wants. Cornell v.
Coyne, 192 U. S. 418. Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co.,
260 U. S. 245. On the other hand no one would doubt
that they were exempt after they had been loaded upon
the vessel for Venezuela and the bill of lading issued.
It seems to us that the facts recited are closer to the latter
than to the former side, and that the export had begun.
The very act that passed the title and that would have
incurred the tax had the transaction been domestic, committed the goods to the carrier that was to take them
across the sea, for the purpose of export and with the
direction to the foreign port upon the goods. The expected and accomplished effect of the act was to start
them for that port. The fact that further acts were to
be done before the goods would get to sea does not matter

'70

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

so long as they were only the regular steps to the contemplated result. Getting the bill of lading stands no
differently from putting the goods on board ship.
Neither does it matter that the title was in Scholtz & Co.
and that theoretically they might change their mind and
retain the bats and balls for their own use. There was
not the slightest probability of any such change and it
did not occur. The purchase by Scholtz & Co. was solely
for the purpose of Delgado & Cia. and for their account
and risk. Theoretical possibilities may be left out of
account. In Railroad Commission of Louisiana v. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S. 336, the consignees might
have retained the goods at New Orleans instead of shipping them abroad. The fact that they came to New Orleans by rail from another place in the State made no difference. The same principle was applied in Texas &
New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111,
123. The overt act of delivering the goods to the carrier
marks the point of distinction between this case and Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418. To put it at any later point
would fail to give to exports the liberal protection that
hitherto they have received; of which an example may be
seen in Thames & Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. United
States, 237 U. S. 19.
Judgment reversed.
ST. LOUIS

SOUTHWESTERN

RAILWAY COM-

PANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 184.

Argued March 6, 7, 1923.-Decided April 23, 1923.

1. Under the Act of March 4, 1913, c. 143, 37 Stat. 797, authorizing
the Postmaster General to pay additional compensation, not exceeding five per cent., for transportation of mail on railroads on
and after July 1, 1913, for the remainder of the contract terms,

