668

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

JOSLIN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. CITY OF
PROVIDENCE ET AL.
SCITUATE LIGHT & POWER COMPANY v. CITY
OF PROVIDENCE ET AL.
JOSLIN v. CITY OF PROVIDENCE ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF RHODE

ISLAND.
Nos. 219, 220, 221.

Argued April 19, 20, 1923.-Decided June 11,
1923.

1. A State, in authorizing the appropriation of waters under its
primary control by a city, may require the city to furnish necessary water to other municipalities within the drainage area at
fair wholesale rates, without requiring them to bear a proportionate
part of the cost of acquiring the water supply and of constructing and maintaining the works. P. 673.
2. Section 18, c. 1278, Pub. Laws of Rhode Island, 1915, authorizing
the City of Providence to furnish water to incorporated water companies, for use within the drainage areas where there is no public
water supply, merely gives the city an opportunity to dispose of
'water, which for the time it may not need, for compensation, as an
incident to the main purposes of the legislation. P. 674.
3. This provision is separable from other provisions of the act involved in this case, and its constitutionality should not be decided
in the absence of any attempt to carry it out. P. 675.
4. Injury to a business carried on upon lands taken for public use
does not constitute an element of just compensation, in the absence of a statute allowing it. P. 675.
5. A statute providing for the taking of land for public use does not
deny the equal protection of the laws by granting the owner of any
business on the land established prior to the passage Qf the act the
right to recover for injury thereto, while withholding such compensation from those whose businesses have been established since.
P. 675.
6. A statute for the taking of lands for public use does not deny the
equal protection of the laws by extending to mill owners the privilege of recovering the cost of moving their machinery to a new loca-

JOSLIN CO. v. PROVIDENCE.
668

Counsel for Parties.

tion within defined geographical limits and not extending it to those
desirous of moving to locations not within those limits. P. 676.
7. A statute providing for the taking of lands for public use by a city
does not deprive the city taxpayers of property without due process
of law by making the city liable to property owners for consequential damages, within the limits of equity and justice, in addition to
the just compensation required by the Constitution. P. 676.
8. The taking of property for public use by a State or one of its
municipalities need not be accompanied or preceded by payment;
the requirement of just compensation is satisfied when the public
faith and credit are pledged to a reasonably prompt ascertainment
and payment, and there is adequate provision for enforcing the
pledge. P. 677.
9. This requirement being met, a city, after passing of title and before offer or payment of compensation, may be authorized to make
dispositions by lease or otherwise, and to remove buildings and improvements, in ways incidental to the administration of the statute
under which the property was taken. P. 678.
10. The legislature, without allowing the property owner opportunity
for hearing and decision by an impartial tribunal, may constitutionally empower a city to decide ex parte what property, within
a definitely restricted area, is necessary to be taken for the city's
authorized public use. P. 678.
44 R. I. 31, affirmed.

to decrees of the Superior Court of Rhode
Island dismissing' bills brought to enjoin the City of
Providence and the members of the Water Supply Board
from taking possession of, or interfering with, property
of the plaintiffs, under an act of the legislature authorizing the city to obtain a water supply. The decrees were
entered after constitutional questions raised had been
certified to the State Supreme Court and its decision certified, with return of the record, to the court below.
ERROR

Mr. Robert H. McCarter, with whom Mr. Francis I.
McCanna, Mr. Alfred G. Chaffee and Mr. James Harris

were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Albert A. Baker, with whom Mr. Elmer S. Chace

was on the brief, for defendants in error.

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

262 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are suits in equity-brought by the several plaintiffs in error in the Superior Court of Rhode Island, to
enjoin the defendants in error from taking possession of
or interfering with their property. The proceedings complained of, were taken under an act of the state legislature, purporting to authorize the City of Providence to
obtain a supply of pure water. Public Laws, c. 1278, approved April 21, 1915. The Water Supply Board, whose
inembers are made parties defendant, is directed by the
act to investigate and determine whether a part of the
north branch of the Pawtuxet River and the tributary
watershed would be the most available and desirable
source of water supply for the City of Providence and for
any territories now supplied, or hereafter supplied under
the provisions of the act, by means of the waterworks of
said city. The board, if it approve the source, is to make
a plan, locating storage reservoirs and an aqueduct to
carry water therefrom to the city waterworks. § 3.
Thereupon the board is authorized to purchase for and
in the name of the city such lands and interests and
water rights as may be necessary, when the city council
shall have made provision for the necessary funds. § 4.
The city is authorized to acquire by condemnation any
lands and interests included within a definitely limited
area, which the city council shall deem necessary for the
purposes stated in the act. § 5.
The city is further authorized by condemnation to
acquire the waters or any part thereof, included within
the area, and any water or flowage rights or privileges
appurtenant thereto. § 6.
The owner of any mill upon land taken, may surrender
the machinery therein to the city within six months after
the taking, whereupon the city shall become liable to pay
its fair value at the time of delivery as part of the dam-

JOSLIN CO. v. PROVIDENCE.
668

Opinion of the Court.

ages for such taking; or such special damages as may be
suffered as a result of a compulsory removal before the
expiration of a reasonable time. If the machinery be not
surrendered, the reasonable cost of removing it to a new
location within the New England States and setting it up
is to be paid by the city as part of the damages. § 12.
The city is also required to pay the fair market value
of furniture and building equipment, contained in any
building belonging to the town of Scituate, which may be
surrendered (§ 11); the cost of additional police protection in any town or city in consequence of carrying on
construction work (§ 14); damages for decrease in value
of lands not taken but contiguous to lands which are taken
(§ 15), and limited damages in certain cases for loss of
employment due to the taking of the manufacturing
establishment in which claimant is employed (§ 17).
The owner of any business, on lands within certain
localities, established prior to the passage of the act, is
given the right to recover for injury thereto. § 16.
Certain municipalities and districts within the drainage areas described, when necessary are allowed to take
and receive water from the city waterworks for domestic
and municipal purposes upon payment therefor at fair
wholesale rates or charges, which, in case of disagreement,
are to be determined by arbitration. The city is also
authorized, under specified limitations, to furnish water
to any incorporated water company, for use in any territory included within the drainage areas where there is no
public water supply. § 18.
In case any lands purchased or condemned are not required for waterworks purposes, but are held to protect
and preserve the waters from pollution, the city is authorized to lease them under specified restrictions. § 21.
Whenever the city council shall resolve to condemn any
property it is required to have filed, in the office of the
clerk of the town or city where any of the lands lie, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

statement giving a description of the property taken.
Thereupon the title shall vest in the city in fee simple,
except where a less estate is specified. The city is authorized to take possession, but not to do so without the consent of the owner, until after the expiration of a year
from the date of filing such statement. Payment for the
property taken is to be made forthwith if the city and
the owner agree upon the price. If not, the owner is
authorized within one year after notice of the taking, or,
if not notified, within two years from the date of filing
the statement, to have an assessment of damages by a
jury, or at his option, by a commission, upon petition to
the Superior Court. Upon the entry of judgment the
owner may have execution issued against the city. § 23.
Buildings or improvements on lands actually taken
may be sold, disposed of or removed when necessary to
prevent obstruction to the work. § 25.
The city is given power to borrow all money necessary
to secure such water supply, including lands, etc., either
by purchase or condemnation and to issue bonds and
notes therefor. § 26.
The plaintiff in error in No. 219 has a number of cotton
mills and other property interests within the area sought
to be condemned, and is a taxpayer in the City of Providence. The plaintiff in error in- No. 220 has, within the
same area, water powers and privileges and numerous
parcels of land upon which are power plants, transmission
lines, fixtures and machinery, used in the business of generating and distributing electricity for light, heat and
power. Plaintiff in error in No. 221 has a residence and
numerous buildings and improvements, together with
water rights and privileges connected therewith, situated
in the same area, and is a taxpayer in the City of
Providence.
The Water Supply Board, acting under this statute,
prepared a description and plat of the lands proposed to

JOSLIN CO. v. PROVIDENCE.
668

673

Opinion of the Court.

be taken, which was submitted to the city council for
action. The council adopted a resolution asserting a
taking of lands and interests within the defined area, including property of the plaintiffs in error, the title so
taken, so far as material here, being in fee simple.
Plaintiffs in error having challenged the constitutionality of the act, the Superior Court certified the three cases
to the State Supreme Court for a determination of the
questions, in accordance with the provisions of a state
statute. General Laws, c. 298, § 1. The Supreme Court
decided that the statute was not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States; and thereupon the record,
with its decision certified thereon, was sent back to the
Superior Court for further proceedings. The last named
court dismissed the bills and from its decree the case
comes here on writ of error.
The legislation is assailed as contravening the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution.
First. It is contended that the statute imposes a burden upon the taxpayers of the City of Providence by
authorizing an expenditure, which in part is for the benefit of other municipalities or of companies outside the
city, that are either not required to contribute to sucii
expenditure or whose contributions do not constitute
just compensation. The basis of this complaint, in so
far as it relates to other municipalities and districts, is
that they are given the right to take water upon payment
of fair wholesale rates therefor, and that these rates need
bear no relation to the additional cost incident to the
contingency of their coming in.
That the taxpayers of one municipality may not be
taxed arbitrarily for the benefit of another may be
assumed; but that is not the case here presented. The
communities to be supplied are those within the drainage
area of the waters authorized to be taken. These waters
51826°-23-43

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

are under the primary control of the State and in allowing the City of Providence to appropriate them, it was
entirely just and proper for the legislature to safeguard
the necessities of other communities who might be dependent thereon, and to that end to impose upon the City
of Providence such reasonable conditions as might be
necessary and appropriate. Municipalities are political
subdivisions of the State and are subject to the will of
the legislature, Trenton v. New Jersey, ante, 182, and
may be compelled not only to recognize their legal .obligations but to discharge obligations of an equitable and
moral nature as well. Guthrie National Bank v. Guthrie,
173 U. S. 528, 537. The requirement here in question is
one well within the rule. Specifically, it is objected that
the act does not require these other communities to bear
a proportionate part of the cost of acquisition, construction and maintenance. The special facts which led the
legislature to direct payment at wholesale rates, instead
of upon the basis of sharing in the cost of the enterprise,
or of some other, we need not consider. It may have
been, as suggested, that there were inherent difficulties
in the way of making such an apportionment. But it is
enough to say that the method selected is one within the
scope of legislative discretion and not obnoxious to the
Federal Constitution. See County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 703-704; Williams v. Eggleston, 170
U. S. 304; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 106.
The legislature is not precluded from putting a burden
upon one municipality because it may result in an incidental benefit to another. County of Mobile v. Kimball,
supra, at pp. 703-704. Moreover, we cannot assume
that the fair wholesale rates to be paid by these outside
communities will be less than just compensation for what
they get.
The provision in respect of furnishing water to water
companies within the area defined is not compulsory, but

JOSLIN CO. v. PROVIDENCE.
668

Opinion of the Court.

permissive, and leaves the city free to fix terms and conditions. It simply gives the city an opportunity to dispose of water, which for the time being it may not need,
for compensation; something that is purely incidental
to the main purposes of the legislation. No constitutional objection to it is now perceived. Kaukauna Water
Power Co. v. Green Bay & Mississippi Canal Co., 142
U. S. 254, 273; United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater
Power Co., 229 U. S. 53, 72, 73; Rochester v. Briggs, 50
N. Y. 553, 563. In any event, it is a separable provision
and it will be time enough to consider the question of its
constitutionality when some attempt is made to carry
it into effect.
Second. The act, it is asserted, denies the equal protection of the laws, among other things, by permitting the
owner of a business established prior to the passage of
the act to recover for injury thereto while withholding
such compensation from one whose business has been
established since; and by allowing a mill owner to recover the cost of removing his machinery to a new location within the New England States, while denying a
similar right to one desiring to move to a location elsewhere. It is further asserted by plaintiffs in error, in their
capacity as taxpayers, that the effect of allowing these
and other consequential damages is to deprive them of
their property without due process of law.
Injury to a business carried on upon lands taken for
public use, it is generally held, does not constitute an
element of just compensation (Cox v. Philadelphia,etc.,
R. R. Co., 215 Pa. St. 506; 2 Lewis on Eminent Domain,
3d ed., § 727), in the absence of a statute expressly allowing it. Whiting v. Commonwealth, 196 Mass. 468;
Oakland v. Pacific Coast Lumber Co., 171 Cal. 392, 398.
This statute therefore does not deny a right; it grants
one, and limits it to a business already established. We
cannot say that such a classification is unreasonable or

676

OCTOBER TRM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

arbitrary--and certainly, it is not clearly so. The lawmaking body legislated with reference to an existing
situation. One who came after the enactment and established a business did so with notice that the extra-constitutional compensation provided for would not apply to
him. In the difference between an owner who had established a business without notice that his property would
be required for public use and one who proceeds in the
face of such notice, the legislature evidently found a sufficient and proper basis for classification, and we are not
prepared to say that its conclusion was so palpably arbitrary as to fall within the prohibitions of the Fourteenth
Amendment. See Arkansas Natural Gas Co. v. Arkansas
Railroad Commission, 261 U. S. 379, and cases cited.
If the geographical limitation upon the liability to pay
for the removal of machinery, could be said to bring about
a classification, the principles just discussed would control; but, in fact, there is no classification. The right is
extended to all mill owners, who choose to avail themselves of it, to recover the cost of removal within the
defined territory. Ordinarily, the cost of removing personal property from land taken is not a proper element
of damage unless made so by express statute (2 Lewis on
Eminent Domain, 3d ed., § 728); and it was not an unconstitutional exercise of power for the legislature, in
creating the right, to define its extent. Other provisions
of the statute alleged to be discriminatory cannot be differentiated in principle from those just discussed.
In respect of the contention that the statute extends
the right to recover compensation so as to include these
and other forms of consequential damages and thus deprives plaintiffs in error, as taxpayers of the city, of their
property without due process of law, we need say no more
than that, while the legislature was powerless to diminish
the constitutional measure of just compensation, we are
aware of no rule which stands in the way of an extension

JOSLIN CO. v. PROVIDENCE.
668

Opinion of the Court.

of it, within the limits of equity and justice, so as to include rights otherwise excluded. As stated by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in Earle v. Commonwealth,
180 Mass. 579, 583, speaking through Mr. Justice Holmes,
who was then a member of that court: "Very likely the
.

.

.

rights were of a kind that might have been dam-

aged if not destroyed without the constitutional necessity
of compensation. But some latitude is allowed to the
Legislature. It is not forbidden to be just in some cases
where it is not required to be by the letter of paramount
law."
Third. We next consider the contention that the act
permits the taking of property and grants the power to
lease, sell or dispose of it without an offer to pay compensation therefor or a determination of it in advance.
It has long been settled that the taking of property for
public use by a State or one of its municipalities need not
be accompanied or preceded by payment, but that the re,quirement of just compensation is satisfied when the public faith and credit are pledged to a reasonably prompt
ascertainment and payment, and there is adequate provision for enforcing the pledge. Sweet v. Rechel, 159
U. S. 380, 400, 404, 407; Williams v. Parker, 188 U. S.
491, 502-503; Crozier v. Krupp, 224 U. S. 290, 306; Bragg
v. Weaver, 251 U. S. 57, 62; Hays v. Port of Seattle, 251
U. S. 233, 238; Adirondack Ry. Co. v. New York, 176
U. S. 335, 349. Under the provisions of § 23 of the statute,
if the owner and the city agree upon the amount, payment is to be made forthwith. If they do not agree, the
owner at any time within a year after notice of the taking,
or, if not notified, at any time within two years after the
public filing of the statement thereof, may proceed in the
Superior Court by petition to have the compensation
assessed by a jury, or, at his option, by a commission.
For a year in the meantime, he may not be deprived of
possession without his consent. As an additional guar-

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

anty that the judgment obtained will be paid-and paid
promptly-the owner under the statute may have execution issued against the city. These provisions adequately
fulfill the requirement in respect of the ascertainment and
payment of just compensation, within the principles
established by the decisions of this Court last above cited.
Nor is there anything in the complaint that the city,
after taking but before payment, is authorized to lease,
sell or dispose of any lands taken and held to protect the
purity of the water supply, and to remove buildings or
improvements which interfere with the progress of the
work. That these are simply incidents in the administration of the statute and in the management of property,
title to which has passed to the city, which are of no concern to plaintiffs in error and which in no manner affect
the validity of the act, is too clear to require anything
beyond statement. See Sweet v. Rechel, supra, pp. 404,
407.
Fourth. Finally, the validity of the act is challenged
as denying due process of law, on the ground that the,
question of the necessity for taking the property has not
been determined by the legislature itself, but is relegated
to the city to decide ex parte, without appeal or opportunity for hearing and decision by an impartial tribunal.
That the necessity and expediency of taking property for
public use is a legislative and not a judicial question is not
open to discussion. Adirondack Ry. Co. v. New York,
supra, at p. 349; Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S.
282, 298; United States v. Gettysburg Electric Ry. Co.,
160 U. S. 668, 685; Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403,
406. Neither is it any longer open to question in this
court that the legislature may confer upon a municipality
the authority to determine such necessity for itself.
Bragg v. Weaver, supra, at p. 58; Sears v. Akron, 246
U. S. 242, 251.
The question is purely political, does not require a
hearing, and is not the subject of judicial inquiry. The

BLUEFIELD CO. v. PUB. SERV. COMM.
668

679

Syllabus.

legislature here, while investing the city with the authority to determine it, in each instance, has carefully circumscribed the power by limiting its exercise within a definitely restricted area. The city may take less than this
area, but cannot take more.
The decree of the state court is
Affirmed.
BLUEFIELD WATER WORKS & IMPROVEMENT
COMPANY v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
OF THE STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 256. Argued January 22, 1923.--Decided June 11, 1923.
1. A judgment of the highest court of a State which upholds an
order of a state commission fixing the" rates of a public utility
company over the objection that the rates are confiscatory and the
order hence violative of the Fourteenth Amendment, is reviewable
here, on the constitutional question, by writ of error. P. 683.
2. In estimating the value of the property of a public utility corporation, as a basis for rate regulation, evidence of present reproduction costs, less depreciation, must be given consideration. P.
689. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public Service Commission, ante, 276.
3. A public utility corporation, challenging as confiscatory rates
imposed by a state commission, is entitled, under the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, to the independent judgment
of the court as to both law and facts. Id.
4. Rates which are not sufficient to yield a reasonable return on the
value of the property used, at the time it is being used to render
the service of the utility to the public, are unjust, unreasonable and
confiscatory; and their enforcement deprives the public utility company of its property, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
P. 690.
5. A public utility is entitled to such rates as will permit it to earn
a return on the value of the property it employs for the convenience of the public equal to that generally being made at the
same time, and in the same region of the Country, on investments

