318

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

curiam opinion. In the latter, jurisdiction was upheld in
the absence of a statute concerning solicitation. But in
both cases the only constitutional objection asserted was
violation of the due process clause. See Reynolds v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., 224 Mass. 379; 228 Mass.
584. Since we hold that the Minnesota statute as construed and applied violates the commerce clause, we have
no occasion to consider whether it also violates the Fourteenth Amendment.'
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY ET AL. v. STATE OF TENNESSEE ET AL.
UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. STATE OF TENNESSEE ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

Nos. 396 and 429. Argued April 11, 12, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.
1. Section 22 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, in declaring that nothing in the act shall prevent the carriage of property
free, or at reduced rates, for the United States, state or municipal
governments, does not in effect deny to the Interstate Commerce
Commission power to prohibit such reduced rates when they result
5 Compare Green v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co., 205
U. S. 530; Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S.
264; Rosenberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S. 516;
Bank of America v. Whitney Central National Bank, 261 U. S. 171.
Also Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S.
602; PennsylvaniaLumbermen's Mutual Fire Insurance Co. v. Meyer,
197 U. S. 407; Old Wayne Mutual Life Association v. McDonough,
204 U. S. 8; Commercial Mutual Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U. S.
245; Pennsylvania Fire Insurance Co. v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., 243 U. S. 93.

NASHVILLE RY. v. TENNESSEE.
318

Counsel for Parties.

in unjust discrimination or in undue prejudice to interstate commerce. P. 320.
2. The object of this section was to settle beyond doubt that the
preferential treatment of certain classes of shippers and travelers in
matters therein recited is not necessarily prohibited; it limits or
defines the requirement of equality imposed in other sections of the
act, and so preserves the right theretofore enjoyed by the carrier
of granting preferential treatment to particular classes, in certain
cases, and in this sense only is permissive; but it confers no right
upon any shipper or traveler, nor any new right upon the carrier. P. 323.
3. The State of Tennessee authorized increases of intrastate freight
rates to correspond with a level of interstate rates authorized by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, but excluded rates on stone
and gravel when for use in building public highways and consigned
to federal, state, county and municipal authorities. The Interstate
Commerce Commission, on complaint of a carrier, found that the
exception produced illegal discrimination against interstate commerce and undue prejudice to persons and localities engaged in such
commerce and ordered increase of the rates.
Held: (a) That the findings are conclusive, the evidence on which the
Commission acted not having been introduced in this suit. P. 324.
(b) That the order was valid. Id.
284 Fed. 371, reversed.
APPEALS from a decree of the District Court declaring
void, and enjoining the enforcement of, an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission. The State of Tennessee and its Railroad and Public Utilities Commission
brought the suit against the United States, to have the
order set aside. The Interstate Commerce Commission
and three carriers affected intervened as defendants.

Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, for the United States.
Mr. J. CarterFort, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrellwas on
the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. William H. Swiggart, Jr., with whom Mr. Frank M.
Thompson, Attorney General of the State of Tennessee,
was on the brief, for appellees.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Mr. FitzgeraldHall, with whom Mr. John Bell Keeble
and Mr. Charles N. Burch were on the brief, for appellant
carriers.
*MR. JUSTIE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 22 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as
amended by Act of March 2, 1889, c. 382, § 9, 25 Stat.
855, 862, provides, among other things,
" That nothing in this act shall prevent the carriage,
storage, or handling of property free or at reduced rates
for the United States, State, or municipal governments,
or for charitable purposes, or to or from fairs and exposi"
tions for exhibition thereat,
Whether this section should be construed as denying to
the Interstate Commerce Commission power to prohibit
such reduced rates, even where they result in unjust discrimination or in undue prejudice to interstate commerce
is the main question for decision.
On July 29, 1920, the Interstate Commerce Commission
authorized a general increase, throughout southern territory, of 25 per cent. in interstate freight rates. Ex parte
74, Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220. Thereafter,
the Railroad and Public Utilities Commission of Tennessee authorized, for that State, a like increase of intrastate
rates. But the following articles (among others) were
excluded from this increase: Carload shipments of stone
and gravel when for use in building public highways and
consigned to federal, state, county and municipal authorities or their bona fide agents. To remove the exception,
carriers applied to fhe Interstate Commerce Commission,
claiming that the exception produced illegal discrimination against interstate commerce and an undue prejudice
I

The first line of § 22 as originally enacted, 24 Stat. 379, 387, read,

"That nothing in this act shall apply to the carriage," etc.

NASH1VILLE RY. v. TENNESSEE.
Opinion of the Court.

318

to persons and localities engaged in such commerce. The
Commission found such discrimination; and ordered that
the intrastate rates on these ;commodities, also, be increased to the level of the interstate rates. Tennessee
Rates and Charges, 63 I. C. C. 160, 172. On October 21,
1921, the State of Tennessee and its commission brought,
in the federal court for the Middle District of Tennessee,
this suit against the United States to have the order set
aside. The Interstate Commerce Commission, the Nash.,
ville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway and two other
interstate carriers, intervened as defendants. The case
was heard by three judges under the Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219. A final decree was entered,
declaring the order void, and enjoining its. enforcement.
284 Fed. 371. The case is here on two appeals. No. 396
is that of the carriers; No. 429, that of the United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission.
RailroadCommission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, had been decided
by this Court before entry of the judgment appealed
from. But the District Court considered that case inapplicable; and held that, by reason of § 22, the Interstate
Commerce Commission is "without jurisdiction to forbid
the railroads from carrying freight for the public at a less
price than it charges individuals for the same carriage of
the same freight;" that the section "excludes this particular traffic from the rate structure which the Commission is authorized to erect and control, in still other words,
there is freedom of discrimination."
The argument is, in substance, this: An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission increasing intrastate rates
to the level of interstate rates, must rest upon a finding
of illegal preference resulting from the relation of intrastate to interstate rates. Preference to governmental
-shippers is expressly permitted by § 22 of the act. Hence,
a grant of such preference cannot be held to be unjust or
51826°-23-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

unreasonable under §§ 2 and 3. There was no finding
that these lower intrastate rates resulted in failure of
the intrastate traffic to yield its proper share of the earnings of the carriers. Consequently, the order of the Commission is void.- The argument is, in our opinion,
unsound.
Every rate which gives preference or advantage to certain persons, commodities, localities or traffic is discriminatory. For such preference prevents absolute equality
of treatment among all shippers or all travelers. But
discrimination is not necessarily unlawful. The Act to
Regulate Commerce prohibits (by §§ 2 and 3) only that
discrimination which is unreasonable, undue, or unjust.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197, 219, 220; Manufacturers Ry. Co.
v. United States, 246 U. S. 457, 481. Whether a preference or discrimination is undue, unreasonable or unjust
is ordinarily left to the Commission for decision; and the
determination is to be made, as a question of fact, on the
matters proved in the particular case. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 170. The Commission may conclude that the
preference given is not unreasonable, undue or unjust,
since it does not, in fact, result in any prejudice or disadvantage to any other person, locality, commodity or
class of traffic. On the other hand, preferential treatment
of a class, ordinarily harmless, may become undue, because, under the special circumstances, it results in prejudice, or disadvantage to some other person, commodity,
or locality, or to interstate commerce.
'The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission was declared
void "to the extent that the rates therein ordered to be established
. apply to such transportation, for the United States, State or
Municipal governments, of stone and gravel, the title to which has
passed to the government or is vested in it at the point of the origin
of its transportation."

NASHVILLE RY. v. TENNESSEE.
318

Opinion of the Court.

Section 22 must in this matter, as in others, be read

in connection with the rest of the act, and be interpreted
with due regard to its manifest purpose. Robinson v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 506, 511." Congress did not intend, by this provision concerning reduced
rates and free transportation, to create an instrument,
by which the carrier was authorized, in its discretion, to
subject interstate commerce to undue prejudice, or by
which the State was empowered to compel the carriers
so to do. The object of the section was to settle, beyond
doubt, that the preferential treatment of certain classes
of shippers and travelers, in the matters therein recited
is not necessarily prohibited. And in this respect its
provisions are illustrative, not exclusive. It limits, or
defines, the requirement of equality in treatment which
is imposed in other sections of the act. By so doing, it
preserves the right of the carrier theretofore enjoyed of
granting, in its discretion, preferential treatment to particular classes in certain cases. Only in this sense can
it be said that the section is permissive. It confers no
right upon any shipper or traveler. Nor does it confer
any new right upon the carrier.
The grant of a lower rate on road material to a government, engaged in highway construction, may benefit the
government without subjecting to prejudice any person,
locality or class of traffic. But a lower rate may result
in giving to a single quarry within the State all of the
governmental business, so that competing quarries and
localities within or without the State, or interstate traffic,
would be prejudiced. That such undue discrimination
does, and will, result from the order of the Tennessee
commission was expressly found by the Interstate Coin'See also Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204
U. S. 426, 446; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. PuritanCoal Mining Co.,
237 U. S. 121, 129, 130; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Mulberry Hill
Coal Co., 238 U. S. 275, 282.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

merce Commission.

262 U. S.

Its findings are necessarily conclu-

sive, since the evidence on which it acted was not introduced in this suit. Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v.
United States, 257 U. S. 114.
There is nothing in Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263, 278; Lake
Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S.
684, or Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Towers, 245 U. S. 6,
inconsistent with the views expressed above. The decisions made by the Interstate Commerce Commissioh are
in substantial harmony with them.'

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD took no part in the consideration
or decision of these cases.
'Section 22 has been construed by the Commission as conferring
upon carriers such permission to furnish transportation at reduced
rates or free, in certain cases; as not conferring upon any shipper
or traveler a right to such transportation; and, ordinarily, as not
conferring upon the Commission power to establish such exceptions
to the normal rates and fares. Sprigg v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co., 8 I. C. C. 443; Field v. Southern Ry. Co., 13 I. C. C. 298;
Metropolitan Paving Brick Co. v. Ann Arbor R. R. Co., 17 I. C. C.
197, 204; Eschner v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 18 I. C. C. 60, 63;
Dairymen's Supply Co. v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co., 28 I. C. C. 406;
United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 28 I. C. C. 518, 524.
See also C. B. Havens & Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co.,
20 I. C. C. 156. Compare Cator v. Southern Pacific Co., 6 I. C. C.
113; Commutation Rate Case, 21 1. C. C. 428, 437; United States
v. Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co., 40 I. C. C. 405. Conference rulings provide, as to some reduced rates under § 22, that they must
be filed and posted with the Commission; and as to others that they
need not be. See Conference Rulings, Issued Nov. 1, 1917, Nos. 33,

36, 208e, 218, 244, 311, 452.

