266

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

of his claim that he is a merchant, and as such entitled
to admission to American territory." And further, "as
a newcomer to the islands, something more than his own
uncorroborated statements as to his status in the country
from which he came might fairly and reasonably have

been required of him."
We concur with counsel as to Tulsidas and extend the
requirement to the other petitioners and hold that instead,
as counsel urge, of the Insular officers being obliged to seek
confirmation or denial of petitioners' testimony, they, the
petitioners, should have produced something more than
their own statements of their status as merchants. It
was for them to establish their exemption from the prohibition of the law, for them to satisfy the Insular officials charged with the administration of the law. If they
left their exemption in doubt and dispute, they cannot
complain of a decision against it.
Judgment affirmed.
STEVENS v. ARNOLD ET AL., EXECUTORS AND
TRUSTEES OF NIRDLINGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 200.

Argued May 2, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. A suit under 4 N. J. Comp. Stat. p. 5399, to determine title to
land, must be dismissed, according to the interpretation of the
highest New Jersey court, if the plaintiff fail to show title in himself, even though the defendant set up an independent title, and
although the statute provides for a decree conclusively settling the
rights of all the parties. P. 268.
2. Dismissal of the bill, in such case, estops the plaintiff from asserting against the same defendant, in a second suit, any ground of
title existing at the time of the first suit, especially one that was
then waived. P. 268.
3. Such dismissal does not establish the title set up by the defendant; but he may reassert it, by counterclaim, in a second suit

STEVENS v. ARNOLD.
266

Opinion of the Court.

brought by the plaintiff, and, in so doing, does not waive the benefit of the former decree as an adjudication against the plaintiff's
title. P. 269.
4. In New Jersey, a grant by. the State of land flowed by the tide
revokes the license to riparian owners to wharf out or otherwise
encroach upon the tract granted, but it does not prevent them from
gaining title by accretion, even though the grant be described by
metes and bounds. P. 269.
5. Lands formed by accretions of the sea upon a convex shore,
held bounded, not by lines spreading fan-wise from riparian boundaries but by a city street extending through the accreted tract as
shown on a plan adopted before the accretions took place. P. 270.
273 Fed. 1022, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a decree of the District Court against the present petitioner, in a suit brought by respondents' decedent
to quiet title to a parcel of land.
Mr. Harvey F. Carr for petitioner.
Mr. Robert H. McCarter, with whom Mr. George A.
Bourgeois and Mr. Harry R. Coulomb were on the brief,
for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill to quiet title to land in Atlantic City,
New Jersey, brought primarily at least under a statute of
that State. 4 Compiled Stat. p. 5399. (P. L. 1870, p. 20.)
The suit was begun by Samuel F. Nirdlinger and now is
maintained by his executors and trustees (the respondents). He owned a parcel lying to the East of New
Hampshire Avenue, which runs north and south, and to
the north of Oriental Avenue which crosses the other avenue at right angles. The defendant owns an adjoining
parcel on the other side of New Hampshire Avenue and
the land in controversy is a triangular tract having its
apex in the southwestern corner of the complainants' lot

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

and spreading South of Oriental Avenue and East of New
Hampshire Avenue to the sea. It has been formed by
accretion in recent years. The defendant claims title by
a former adjudication and by a riparian grant from the
State. The District Court entered a decree for Nirdlinger
after an elaborate discussion, 262 Fed. 591, and its opinion
was adopted and the decree affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 273 Fed. 1022.
The former adjudication relied upon by the defendant
was in a suit in the State Court brought against him
under the same statute for the same purpose as the present one, by Nirdlinger and the Dewey Land Company
from which Nirdlinger afterwards purchased a part of his
land. The statute allows a person in peaceable possession
of lands, claiming to own the same, whose title is disputed, to bring a suit in chancery against any person
claiming an interest, calling upon him to set forth his

title. After the issues are tried the decree is to settle the
rights of all parties and to be conclusive. The complainants in the chancery suit alleged possession and claimed
ownership, at first by accretion but by amendment by
virtue of two deeds only. The defendant, as here, set up
his riparian grant and a claim by accretion. The Chancellor held that the grant from the State could not be
impeached collaterally and dismissed the bill. The
Court of Errors and Appeals held this to be error but
affirmed the decree on the ground that the complainants
showed no title; that the deeds did not give the right
claimed and that "all claim by accretion is waived."
Dewey Land Co. v. Stevens, 83 N. J. Eq. 314, 316; ibid.
656. It would have been intelligible if the Court had
held that the complainants' statement of title was immaterial and that it was enough that they showed possession
and a claim of ownership. But it being established that,
notwithstanding the claim, if the title disclosed is defective the bill must be dismissed, we think that until the

STEVENS v. ARNOLD.
"266

269

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Errors and Appeals decides otherwise it must be
assumed that the decree is conclusive between the parties
that at that time the complainants did not own the land.
We cannot imagine that the statute contemplated a series
of suits based on coexisting titles produced one after another, and especially when the one now relied upon was
waived in the earlier case. We assume that the usual rule
applies, and that if the claim to own must be justified, all
justifications then existing are in issue. It follows that
the plaintiffs' bill must be dismissed.
But plainly the claim of the defendant was not established in the former suit. That appears from the nature
of the decree, from the opinion of the Court of Errors and
Appeals, and from the admitted fact that it subsequently
refused to amend its remittitur so as to establish the defendant's right. See also Dewey Land Co. v. Stevens,
85 N. J. Eq. 374. Therefore the defendant took a proper
step and did not waive the benefit of the former decree
when in the present case he made a counterclaim and
asked that his rights be adjudicated to be paramount.
Upon this matter the discussion of the District Court was
adequate and convincing, so that the unsatisfactory result
will be that neither party can get a declaration of title
and the complainants will be left to stand upon their possession alone.
The first ground of the defendant's claim is a grant
from the State to the defendant's predecessors in title
of land flowed by tidewater at the date of the deed,
June 28, 1900, which included the strip in controversy.
There seems to be no doubt from the decision of the
Court of Errors and Appeals that this grant put an end
to the right of the complainants to build wharves or
otherwise to encroach upon the granted land, that being
regarded as merely a license, revoked by the grant. The
defendant contends that the effect was greater still, and
relies upon a statement in the decision referred to, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 1. S.

"if the land was formerly fast land, [as this was said to
have been] and the title was lost by erosion, it became
the property of the State, not merely as long as it remained under water, but, if the State made a riparian
grant, absolutely." This form of statement remained
unchanged notwithstanding the criticism in a concurring
opinion by White, J., 83 N. J. Eq. 656. But we agree
with the District Court that it means no more than we
have stated, and is shown to mean no more not only by
the authority cited but by the following words in the
opinion: "The title lost by erosion was then lost forever, unless it was regained by accretion, and the right
of accretion was the compensation of the former owner
for his loss." We presume from this language that in
New Jersey as elsewhere by the common law the right of
accretion is not like the permissive right to use land
still under water, but is a right as against the State as
well as its grantees, when as here the grantees have not
filled in the land. In some countries that inherit the
Ker & Co. v.
Roman law the rule may be different.
Couden, 223 U. S. 268. We conclude that the conveyance by the State did not give the defendant a title to
land added by accretion to the complainants' premises,
and that it does not matter that this conveyance was by
metes and bounds. The boundaries however indicated
were good until changed by the gradual work of the
ocean and then were modified in accordance with what
we believe to be the common law. Banks v. Ogden,
2 Wall. 57.
The defendant's other contention is that as the former
seashore was convex the dividing lines should spread outward like a fan, and not continue the north and south
divisions indicated by the extension of New Hampshire
Avenue to the present or recent high-water mark. Without going into the details elaborated by the District
Court we agree that since a plan was made in 1852

HART v. KEITH EXCHANGE.
266

Statement of the Case.

showing New Hampshire Avenue as extending farther
south even than at present the existing street system was
adopted and recognized New Hampshire Avenue as the
dividing line as well for accretions as for the fixed land.
The result is that both the bill and the cross bill must
be dismissed.
Decree reversed.
Bill and cross bill dismissed.
HART v. B. F. KEITH VAUDEVILLE EXCHANGE
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 763.

Argued May 2, 3, 1923.-Decided May 21, 1923.

1. A bill in the District Court setting up a claim of federal right
should not be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction because the claim is
wanting in merit, if it be not wholly frivolous. P. 273.
2. Plaintiff, by a bill brought before the decision of this Court in
Federal Base Ball Club v. National League, 259 U. S. 200, sought
an injunction and damages, under the Anti-Trust Act of 1890,
against an alleged conspiracy of theatre owners and of corporations
engaged, like himself, in the business of getting contracts for vaudeville actors to perform throughout the United States, and of acting
as their manager and personal representative, alleging that the
business involved contracts not only for travel of performers from
State to State and from abroad, but also for transportation of vaudeville acts, including performers, scenery, music, costumes, etc., resulting in a constant stream of commerce from State to State, in
which, he claimed, the apparatus transported was not a mere
incident, but sometimes more important than the performers. Held,
that the claim that the case came within the Anti-Trust Act was not
frivolous, and that the bill should not have been dismissed by the
District Court for want of jurisdiction. P. 274.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
for want of jurisdiction, a bill for an injunction and damages, brought under the Anti-Trust Act..

