COMMERCIAL TRUST CO. v. MILLER.
43

51

Syllabus.

an order granting such an injunction will not 1e disturbed
unless contrary to some rule of equity, or the result of
improvident exercise of judicial discretion. Meccano,
Ltd. v. John Wanamaket', 253 U. S. 136, 141; Love v.
Atchison Railway, supra, p. 331; and cases there cited.
Especially will the granting of the temporary writ be upheld, when the balance of injury as between the parties
favors its issue. Amarillo v. Southwestern Telephone
Co. (C. C. A.), 253 Fed. 638, 640. Here the Commission
had prescribed temporary rates which were found to be
confiscatory, which were to continue in effect pending the
final determination of the Commission after its investigation had been completed; and no date had been fixed for
the completion of this investigation or the final hearing.
The Company meanwhile could only be protected from
loss by injunction; while,, on the other hand, its subscribers were protected by the bond which was required
for the return of the excess charges collected if the injunction should be thereafter dissolved. There was no
necessity in the particular situation presented for any
test period of the new rates.
And finding nothing in the record which justifies us in
concluding that the District Court improvidently exercised its judicial discretion in granting the interlocutory
injunction, its order is
Affirmed.

COMMERCIAL TRUST COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY v. MILLER, AS ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 575.

Argued April 13, 1923.-Decided April 23, 1923.

1. A proceeding for the seizure of enemy-held property, brought by
the Alien Property Custodian as delegate of the President, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

the Trading with the Enemy Act, is a purely possessory one, in
which the custodian's determination that the property is so held is
conclusive. P. 55. Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554;
Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S. 239.
2. This is a constitutional exercise of the war power. Id.
3. Where securities and moneys were held by a trustee in trust for
the joint account of a neutral and an alien enemy, to be delivered
and paid to either upon his sole demand, or to the survivor, the
Alien Property Custodian, proceeding under the Trading with the
Enemy Act, was entitled to a decree requiring the trustee forthwith
to transfer and deliver them all to him. P. 54.
4. How long this act should remain in force in view of the consequences of the War, is a legislative, not a judicial, question; it was
not terminated by the cessation of hostilities, by the joint resolution declaring the state of war as between Germany and the United
States at an end, or by the President's proclamation of peace.
P. 57.
281 Fed. 804, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a judgment of the District Court which
required the appellant to convey, transfer, assign, deliver,
and pay to the Alien Property Custodian money and property held by it as a trustee.

Mr. Selden Bacon for appellant.
Mr. James A. Fowler, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck was on the
brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit under the Trading with the Enemy Act
of October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411, and the amendment of November 4, 1918, c. 201, 40 Stat. 1020. It was
commenced by Francis P. Garvan, as Alien Property Custodian. He ceasing to be such, Thomas W. Miller was
appointed his successor, and substituted as petitioner.

COMMERCIAL TRUST CO. v. MILLER.
51

53

Opinion of the Court.

Section 7 of the act provides that "If the President
shall so require any money or other property
held .

for the benefit of an enemy ", without

.

license "which
determine

. .

the President after investigation shall
is so held, shall be conveyed, trans-

ferred, assigned, delivered, or paic[ over to the Alien Property Custodian."
The act has received exposition in Central Union Trust
Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554; and Stoehr v. Wallace, 255
U. S. 239, and what it authorizes, and the' conditions of
the exercise of its authorization determined.
Whatever problems the act presents those cases resolve.
They decide that the President's power may, under ยง 51
of the act, be delegated to and be exercised by the Custodian, and that the determidation of thp Custodian is conclusive whether right or wrong. And it may be exercised
by forcible seizure of the property or by suit and, if by
suit, the suit is purely possessory and must be yielded to;
the right of any claimant being postponed to subsequent
assertion. And it was decided that the Custodian acquires
by suit "nothing but the preliminary custody such as
would have been gained by seizure. It attaches the property to make sure that it is forthcoming if finally condemned and does no more." In other words, and in comprehensive description, the act may be denbminated an
exercise of governmental power in the emergency of war
and its procedure is accommodated to and made adequate
to its purpose, but securing, as well, the assertion of opposing or countervailing rights "by a suit in 'equity unembarrassed by the precedent executive determination ",
and if the claimant "prevails" the property "is to be
forthwith returned to him."
I By ยง 5 the President is in terms authorized to exercise "any" of
his powers "through such officer or officers as he shall direct." By
ยง 6 he is authorized to appoint and "prescribe the duties of" the
officer to be known as the Alien Property Custodian.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

These are the determining generalities, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals, applying them, affirmed the decree of
the District Court, adjudging, ordering and decreeing that
the Commercial Trust Company of New Jersey "do
forthwith convey, transfer, assign, deliver and pay to
Thomas W. Miller, as Alien Property Custodian, all of
the money and other property held by it under a certain
trust agreement entered into on January 30, 1913 ", between the Company and Frederick Wesche and Helene J.
v. Schierholz. A list of the moneys and other property
was attached to the decree.
It was recited in the trust agi-eement that the property,
which consisted of bonds, was held "for the joint account
of said Frederick Wesche and Helene J. v. Schierholz, and
to collect the interest to become due and payable on said
bonds" for their joint account, and to deliver the bonds
from time to time as requested, to either "or to the survivor of them, it being understood that the said bonds
and the said interest money to be collected thereon are
to be held and collected and delivered or paid over to
either the said Frederick Wesche or to the said Helene J.
v. Schierholz, or to the survivor of them."
In addition to the above, the following may be quoted
from the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals:
"The Trust Company, in compliance with the provisions of the act, made a report in December, 1917, that
it held stocks, bonds, and mortgages, securities and money,
of the value of about $600,000, in trust, as to both principal and interest, for the joint account of Frederick
Wesche, of Paris, France, and Helene J. von Schierholz,
of Plaue, Germany, to be delivered and paid to either
upon his or her sole demand, or to the survivor.
"Upon investigation the Alien Property Custodian
determined that Wesche was a neutral and von Schierholz
an alien enemy not holding a license from the President,
and demanded surrender of the securities. Because the

COMMERCIAL TRUST CO. v. MILLER.
51

55

Opinion of the Court.

neutral had power upon his sole order to withdraw the
whole property, the Trust Company thought the Alien
Property Custodian had no right to it and accordingly declined to yield possession. Because the alien enemy had
like power upon her sole order to withdraw the whole
property and acquire its possession, the Alien Property
Custodian thought he had a right to it and accordingly
demanded it. The question is, which was right?"
. The court answered, the Custodian by
virtue of his
power under the act and the efficacy of its exercise. This
appeal disputes the answer, and the contention is that the
power was not exercised as required because the Custodian
had not made an investigation which justified in any way
"any determination that [the property] was all [italics
counsel's] enemy property,; or seizure of all [italics counsel's] the property as such." In support of the contention, it is urged, that no investigation was made of any
interest in the property other than that of Mrs. Schierholz-ndne of Wesche, or none determined beyond what
was shown by the report of and letter of the Commercial
Trust Company. And there is also a contention that
Wesche was not an enemy, and that he was given no opportunity of review, and the act, as to him, was" unconstitutional and without due process of law" and that, consequently, surrender of the property by appellant (Trust
Company) under such circumstances to the Custodian,
would have afforded it no defense to the claim of Wesche
for such part of the property as belonged to him. The
appellant accordingly did not transfer or deliver the property as so demanded, and still retains it under supersedeas
bond.
The contentions are precluded by the cases which we
have cited. As there decided, the act was of peremptory
quality and effect. The suit was tantamount to physical
seizure-gave preliminary custody such as seizure gives,
and was intended to be not "less immediately effective
than a taking with the strong hand."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U.S.

It is manifest, therefore, that the defenses upon which
the contentions are based were not available to either
claimant of the property. And besides, under the act, it
is to be remembered, the Custodian sueceeds to all the
rights in the property to which the enemy is entitled as
completely as if by conveyance, transfer or assignment,
and the Trust Company in the present case held the bonds
for the joint account of Wesche and Mrs. Schierholz to be
paid over to either of them. She had the power, therefore, to demand the bonds and receive them and to this
power the Custodian determined he succeeded, and, therefore, exercised it. What interest Wesche had or has does
not require decision, nor can the Trust Company urge it,
the act requiring submission to the determination of the
Custodian.
The case, therefore, has no complexity and we do not
think it is necessary to trace through the elaborate argument of counsel by which he attempts to sustain the contention of the Trust Company. Its foundation is, as said
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, that the Trust Company
"claims the right to have property interests judicially
determined by a court of equity before a right to the possession of the property can be asserted by the Alien Property Custodian." The claim is precluded, we have seen,
by Central Union Trust Co. v. Garvan,and Stoehr v. Wallace, supra. Those cases decide, as we have also seen, that
the suit is of as peremptory character as "seizure in pais"
and is the dictate and provision for the emergency of war,
not to be defeated or delayed by defenses, its only condition, therefore, being the determination by the Alien
Property Custodian that it was enemy property. It was
recognized that there is implication in the act that mistakes may be made, but the act assumes "that the
transfer will take place whether right or wrong." In
other words, it is the view of the opinions that the act provides for an exercise of government, but also provides, as

COMMERCIAL TRUST CO. v. MILLER.
51

57

Opinion of the Court.

we have said, redress for mistakes in its exercise by the
claimant of the property filing a claim under ยง 9, which,
if not yielded to, may be enforced by suit.
The next contention of the Trust Company is that the
act being a provision for the emergency of war, it ceased
with the cessation of war, ceased with the joint resolution
of Congress declaring the state of war between Germany
and the United States at an end, and its approval by the
President, July 2, 1921, and the Proclamation of Peace
by the President August 25,1921. The contention, however, encounters in opposition the view that the powerwhich declared the necessity is the power to declare its
cessation, and what the cessation requires. The power is
legislative. A court cannot estimate the effects of a great
war and pronounce their tdrmination at a particular moment of time, and that its consequences are so far swallowed up that legislation addressed to its emergency had
ceased to have purpose or operation with the cessation of
the conflicts in the field. Many problems would yet remain for consideration and solution, and such was the
judgment of Congress, for it reserved from its legislation
the Trading with the Enemy Act and amendments
thereto, and provided that all property subject to that act
shall be retained by the United States "until such time
as the Imperial German Government

.

.

.

shall have

made suitable provision for the satisfaction of
all claims." See Kahn v. Anderson, 255 U. S.1, and
Vincenti v. United States (C. C. A., 272 Fed. 114, and

256 U. S. 700).

Affirmed.

