544

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S

the plaintiff in error whose classification as public is at
the best doubtful. It is not too much to say that the
ruling in Wilson v. New went to the border line, although
it concerned an interstate common carrier in the presence
of a nation-wide emergency and the possibility of great
disaster. Certainly there is nothing to justify extending

the drastic regulation sustained in that exceptional case
to the one before us.
We think the Industrial Court Act, in so far as it permits the fixing of wages in plaintiff in error's packing
house, is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment and
deprives it of its property and liberty of contract without due process of law.
The judgment of the court below must be
Reversed.
KENTUCKY FINANCE CORPORATION v. PARAMOUNT AUTO EXCHANGE CORPORATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 17. Argued October 5, 1922.--Decided June 11, 1923.
1. A corporation which goes into a State other than that of its creation for the lawful purpose of repossessing itself, by a permissible
action in her courts, of specific personal property unlawfully taken
out of its possession elsewhere and fraudulently carried into that
State, is a person within the jurisdiction of that State, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, for all the purposes of
that undertaking, and entitled to the equal protection of the laws.
P. 549.
2. As applied.to such a case, a statute under which the foreign corporation, not domesticated or doing business in the State, or having property there other than that so sought to be recovered, may
be compelled, as a condition to the maintenance of its action, to
send its officer, with its papers and books bearing on the matter
in controversy, from its domicile to the State where the action is
brought, in order to submit to an adversary examination before
answer, but which does not subject non-resident individuals to such

KENTUCKY CO. v. PARAMOUNT EXCH. 545
544

Opinion of the Court.

examination, except when served with notice and subpoena within
the State, and then only in the county where service is had, and
which limits such examinations, in the case of residents of the
State, individual or corporate, to the county of their residence, violates the Equal Protection Clause. Id.
171 Wis. 586, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, sustaining two orders, one for examination of the
plaintiff before answer, and the second striking out its
complaint and dismissing its action for failure to comply
with the first.
Mr. Albert K. Stebbins, with whom Mr. Jackson B.
Kemper was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Walter H. Bender for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The plaintiff in error, a Kentucky corporation, brought
an action of replevin in a state court at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, against the defendant in error, a Wisconsin corporation, to recover an automobile,-the right of recovery
asserted in the complaint being put on the ground that
the plaintiff was the owner and entitled to the possession
of the automobile, that one Allen had unlawfully taken it
from the plaintiff's possession at Louisville, Kentucky,
had fraudulently removed it to Milwaukee and had there
wrongfully delivered it to the defendant and that the defendant was unjustly withholding it from the plaintiff
under some groundless claim derived from Allen. The
defendant appeared and obtained from the'court an order
requiring the plaintiff's secretary, who resided at Louisville and was in the plaintiff's service there, to appear in
Milwaukee at a fixed time before a designated court commissioner, to bring with him all papers, files and records
of the plaintiff which were under his control and relevant
51826-23----5

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

to the controversy, and then and there to submit to an
examination by the defendant. The order was sought
and granted on the ground that the examination would
better enable the defendant to plead to the complaint,
which as yet it had not done. The plaintiff was not engaged in any business in Wisconsin, nor had it complied
with the law of that State prescribing conditions on which
it might do so. It had no property in the State other
than the automobile and it had gone into the State only
for the purpose of instituting and prosecuting the action
to repossess itself of that vehicle. Its secretary was not
within the State; nor did it have any representative there
other than the attorneys who were prosecuting the action
in its behalf. For itself and its secretary it consented that
such an examination as was sought might be had at
Louisville at any time, and before any officer, the court
might designate, but it objected to any order requiring
that the examination be had in Milwaukee. The objection was overruled and the court put in the order a direction that the defendant tender to the plaintiff for its
secretary the railroad fare from the southern boundary of
Wisconsin to Milwaukee and return, being $4.74, and one
day's witness fee, being $1.50. The tender was made and
declined and the secretary, with the plaintiff's approval,
refused to comply with the order. Because of this the
court, on the defendant's motion and over the plaintiff's
objection, made a further order striking the plaintiff's
complaint from the files and dismissing its cause of action
with costs. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State
both orders were sustained over the plaintiff's contention
that they and the statute under which they were made
violate the due process and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment. 171 Wis. 586. To obtain a
review of the judgment of the Supreme Court the case
was brought here on writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial Code.

KENTUCKY CO. v. PARAMOUNT EXCH. 547
544

Opinion of the Court.

The statutory provisions whose validity is questioned
are parts of a procedural measure, embodied in the 1917
edition 1 of the Wisconsin Statutes, abrogating prior
modes of obtaining a discovery under oath and providing
for an adversary examination of a "party, his or its assignor, officer, agent, or employe, or of the person who was
such officer, agent, or employe, at the time of the occurrence" involved,-the examination to be had at any time
after the case is begun and to take the form of a deposition "upon oral interrogatories" and be transmitted to
the court like other depositions. The provisions in question are subdivision 7 of § 4096 and subdivision 2 of
§ 4097, which read as follows:
"In case a foreign corporation is a party, the examination of its president, secretary, other principal officer,
assignor or agent or employe, or the person who was such,
or either of them, at the time of the occurrence of the
facts made the subject of the examination, may be had
under the provisions of this section in any county of this
state. The court may also, upon motion and such terms
as may be just, fix a time and place in this state for such
examination of any of said persons. Such persons so
sought to be examined as aforesaid shall attend at such
time and place and submit to the examination, and then
and there have with him all papers, books, files, records,
things, and matters in the possession of such person by
reason of his relation to such corporation, relevant to the
controversy. Such person sought to be examined as aforesaid shall attend at such time and place and submit to the
examination, and, if required, attend for the purpose of
reading and signing such deposition, without service of
subpoena."
'After the proceedings in the Milwaukee court some changes were
made in this procedural measure, but the changes do not affect the
orders in question.

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

"If any officer, agent, or employe, or any person who
was such officer, agent or employe of a foreign corporation, at the time of the occurrence of the facts made the
subject of the examination, be lawfully required to
appear and testify, as provided in this chapter,' either
within or without the state, shall neglect or refuse so to
do; or, if such person, when lawfully required, shall refuse
and neglect to have with him any papers, books, files, records, things, and matters in the possession of such party
relevant to the controversy, such party may be punished
as for a contempt and in the discretion of the court, the
pleading of such foreign corporation stricken out, and
judgment given against it as upon default or failure of
proof."
When the order for the examination was made other
parts of the statute, applicable to all suitors other than
foreign corporations, provided, notably subdivisions 3
and 6 of § 4096, that where the party against whom the
examination was sought was a resident of the State the
examination could be had only in the county of his residence, and where the party was a non-resident the exam-.
ination could be had in the State only if he could be personally served therein with notice and subpoena and
then only in the county where such service was had. In
George v. Bode, 170 Wis. 411, the Supreme Court of the
State held that an *examination within the State could
not be ordered against a party, other than a foreign corporation, residing outside and on whom personal service
could not be had therein, the court saying in that connection: "The examination may be taken in this State if
he can be personally served with notice and subpoena;
the inevitable inference is that it is only if he can be so
served that he can be so examined. If the provisions of
sub. 3 meant that the court might fix a time and place
for his examination within this State regardless of the
personal service of notice and subpoena, then the pro-

KENTUCKY CO. v. PARAMOUNT EXCH. 549
544

Opinion of the Court.

visions of sub. 6 regarding nonresidents would be wholly
unnecessary. These considerations move us to construe
the statute as not empowering the court to order the examination of a nonresident to take place within this
State when he cannot be personally served with notice
and subpoena."
By subdivision 7 of § 4096, before quoted, an exception
was made as to foreign corporations whereby examinations within the State might be ordered and compelled
against them regardless of their non-residence and of any
inability to obtain service on them in the State. Thus
they were subjected to a rule much more onerous than
that applicable to non-resident individuals in like situations and also more onerous than that applicable to resident suitors, whether individuals or corporations. The
Supreme Court justified this difference in legislative
treatment and also the order for an examination in this
case on the ground that they amounted to no more than
a reasonable exercise of the authority of the State over a
non-resident corporation coming voluntarily into the
State to seek a remedy in her courts against a resident
defendant.
We take a different view of the matter. According to
the sworn complaint, to the allegations of which due regard must be had, the automobile belonged to the plaintiff. It had been unlawfully taken from the plaintiff's
possession in Kentucky and put in the defendant's possession in Wisconsin. It did not get into the latter State
through any act of the plaintiff; nor did the acts by which
it got there make it any the less the plaintiff's property.
Only by going into that State and there instituting an
action of replevin against the wrongful pQssessor could
the plaintiff repossess itself of its property. Unless it
took that course its property would be lost. The state
court whose aid it invoked was one whose jurisdiction
was general and adequate for the purpose. In the cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

curnstances, the right to bring the action was plain. See
Charter Oak Life Insurance Co. v. Sawyer, 44 Wis. 387;
Chicago Title & Trust Co. v. Bashford, 120 Wis. 281;
Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S. 197. To 'have
denied that right would in effect have deprived the plaintiff of its property and have been an intolerable injustice.
That the plaintiff owed its corporate existence to Kentucky did not enable Wisconsin to treat its plight with
indiffereftice. It was a "person" within the meaning of
both the due process clause and the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Santa Clara
County v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 118 U. S. 394, 396;
Covington & Lexington Turnpike Co. v. Sandford, 164
1U. S. 578, 592; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 522; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Vbsburg, 238 U. S. 56.
The latter clause declares that no State shall "deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws ", meaning, of course, the protection of laws
applying equally to all in the same situation. The words
"within its jurisdiction" are comprehensive, but we have
no need for attempting a full definition of them here. It
is enough to say that, when the plaintiff went into Wisconsin, as it did, for the obviously lawful purpose of repossessing itself, by a permissible action in her courts, of
specific personal property unlawfully taken out of its
possession elsewhere and fraudulently carried into that
State, it was in our opinion, within her jurisdiction for
all the purposes of that undertaking. See Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Blake v. McClung, 172
U. S. 239. And we think there is no tenable ground for
regarding it as any less entitled to the equal protection
of the laws in that State than an individual would have
been in the same circumstances; for, as was held in Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154,
"a State has no more power to deny to corporations the
equal protection of the law than it has to individual
citizens."

KENTUCKY CO. v. PARAMOUNT EXCH.
544

BRANDEis and HOLMES,

551

JJ., dissenting.

No doubt a corporation of one State seeking relief in
the courts of another must conform to the prevailing
modes of proceeding in those courts and submit to reasonable rules respecting the payment of costs or giving
security therefor and the like (see Canadian Northern
Ry. Co. v. Eggen, 252 U. S. 553, 561); but it cannot be
subjected, merely because it is such a corporation, to
onerous requirements having no reasonable support in
that fact and not laid on other suitors in like situations.
Here the statute authorized the imposition, and there was
imposed, on the plaintiff a highly burdensome requirement because of its corporate origin,-a requirement
which under the statute could not be laid on an individual suitor in the same situation. The discrimination was
essentially arbitrary. There could be no reason for requiring a corporate resident of Louisville to send its secretary, papers, files and books to Milwaukee for the purposes of an adversary examination that would not apply equally to an individual resident of Louisville in a like
case. The discrimination is further illustrated by the
provision that as to all residents of Wisconsin, individual
and corporate, the examination should be had in the
county of their residence, no matter what its distance
from the place of suit.
We hold that the statute as it was applied in this case
was invalid, and the orders made under it were erroneous,
as denying to the plaintiff the equal protection of the
laws. This conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider
the contention made under the due process clause.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JusTicn- BRANDEIS, dissenting, with whom MR.
JusncE HOLMES concurs.
To sustain the contention that the statute violates the
due process clause, it would be necessary to hold that under no conceivable circumstances could the trial court

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS and HOLMES,

JJ., dissenting.

262 U.S.

have reasonably required the non-resident plaintiff who
invoked its process to submit within the State to examination as a witness and to an inspection of relevant books
and papers. If the order for examination was legal it
was proper to dismiss the suit in case the order was disobeyed. That there may be cases in which oral examination of a plaintiff in the presence of defendant and
by counsel familiar with the matter in issue is essential
to an adequate presentation of the facts cannot be
doubted. If so, it is within the power of a State to require that a plaintiff shall submit to such preliminary
examination somewhere. Whether this was a case requiring such examination could be determined properly only
upon hearing the parties; and for such hearing opportunity was given by the judge of the trial court. If
this was a case in which oral examination and inspection
of the documents was essential to an adequate presentation of the matter in controversy, it was necessary, in order to secure it, that either the plaintiff's secretary should
go to Milwaukee for examination, or that defendant and
counsel should go to Louisville. Whether, under such
circumstances, the plaintiff should in fairness be required
to come to the place where it instituted suit or the defendants be obliged to go with counsel to the plaintiff's
place of residence, was, likewise, a matter which could
properly be determined only upon hearing the parties;
and this opportunity was given by the judge of the trial
court. It cannot be that the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment deprives a State of the power
to authorize its courts to so mould their process as to
secure, in this way, the adequate presentation of a case.
To sustain the contention that the statute denies to
plaintiff equal protection of the laws would seem to require the Court to overrule Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.
239, 260, 261, and. many other cases. The plaintiff, a
foreign corporation not doing business within the State

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
544

Syllabus.

of Wisconsin, was not a person "within its jurisdiction."
Moreover, the statutory provision complained of put nonresidents substantially upon an equality with residents.
Compare Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167. No
question of interstate commerce is involved. In my opinion the equal protection clause does not prevent Wisconsin from moulding, in the case of foreign corporations,
the details of its judicial procedure to accord with the requirements of justice.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

Nos. 15 and 16," Original. Argued December 8, 9, 1921; restored to
docket for reargument January 9, 1922; reargued February 28,
March 1, 1922; restored to docket for reargument November 13,
1922; reargued April 20, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. A justiciable controversy between States, in the sense of the Judiciary Article, is presented when the plaintiff State, relying on
the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, seeks to enjoin the
defendant State from consummating a purpose, evinced by her
statutory enactment, and about to be carried out by her officials,
of withdrawing natural gas from an established current of commerce moving from her territory into that of the plaintiff, when
such withdrawal is likely to be productive of great injury to the
interests of the plaintiff as the proprietor of public institutions
and schools in which the gas is largely used, and to private consumers, including most of the inhabitants of many urban communities and a substantial part of the population of the plaintiff
State, whose health, comfort and welfare are seriously jeopardized
by the threatened withdrawal of the gas from the interstate
stream. P. 591.
2. Suits by Pennsylvania and Ohio to enjoin West Virginia from
enforcing an act of her legislature (c. 71, Acts 1919,) intended,
through regulation of pipe line companies, to compel the retention

