CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BOARD OF TRADE OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO

ET AL. v. OLSEN, UNITED STATES ATTORNEY
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 701. Argued February 26, 1923.-Decided April 1"6, 1923.
1. The decision of this Court in Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, holding that local dealings on boards of trade in grain for future delivery, could not constitutionally be brought under federal control
by means of the taxing power, as was attempted by the Future
Trading Act, is not an authority against the Grain Futures Act
of September 21, 1922, c. 369, 42 Stat. 998, which is an exercise
of the power to regulate interstate commerce. P. 31.
2. The flow of grain shipped into the Chicago market from other
States, stored temporarily or held on cars, sold on the Chicago
Board of Trade, and reshipped in large part to other States and
foreign countries, is interstate commerce subject to regulation by
Congress. P. 33.
3. The fact that such grain is shipped under through bills of lading
from western to eastern States giving shippers the right to remove
the grain at Chicago for temporary purposes of storing, inspecting, weighing, grading, or mixing, and of changing ownership,
consignee or destination, and then of continuing the shipment
under the same contract at the same rate, while it does not prevent
the local taxing of the grain while in Chicago, does not take it out
of interstate commerce so as to deprive Congress of the power of
regulation over it. P. 33. StaffoTd v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495.
51826°-23-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

4. Neither does the fact that grain so shipped is temporarily stored
in Chicago in warehouses and mixed with other grain, so that the
owner receives other grain when presenting his rceipt for continuing the shipment. P. 33. Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Halanan,
257 U. S. 265.
5. Sales on the exchange of the Chicago Board of Trade are indispensable to the continuity of this flow of grain in interstate commerce. P. 36.
6. Congress having reasonably found that sales of grain for future
delivery (most of which transactions do not result in actual delivery
but are settled by off-setting with like contracts), are susceptible to
speculation, manipulation and control, affecting cash prices and consignments of grain in such wise as to cause a direct burden on and
interference with interstate commerce therein, rendering regulation
imperative for the protection of such commerce and the national
public interest therein,--had power to provide in the Grain Futures
Act, supra, for placing grain boards of trade under federal supervision and regulation as " contract markets," as a condition to dealing by their members in contracts for future delivery. P. 36.
7. The provision of the act requiring each board, so designated, to
adopt a rule permitting the admission, as members, of authorized
representatives of co6perative associations of producers engaged in
the cash grain business, who comply, and agree to comply, with
the rules of the board applicable to other members, and forbidding
any rule to prevent the return of the commissions earned by such
a representative, less expenses, for division among the members of
his association on a prQ rata patronage basis,-does not take the
property of the members of the Chicago Board of Trade without
due process of law. P. 40.
8. The Chicago Board of Trade is engaged in a business affected by
a public national interest, and subject to national regulation as
such. P. 40.
9. And Congress, therefore, may reasonably limit the rules governing
its conduct to prevent abuses and secure freedom from undue discrimination in its operations, even if, incidentally, the value of memberships is decreased. P. 41.
10. The constitutionality of provisions of the above act forbidding
use of the mails or interstate means of communication, to offer or
accept sales for future delivery, except through members of boards
of trade, is not here involved, since the plaintiffs are not affected
by them, and, under § 10, invalidity of part of the act is not to
affect the validity of the remainder. P. 42.

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.
1

3

Statement of the Case.

11. Section 9 of the act, declaring it to be a misdemeanor for a member of a board of trade, designated as a "contract market," to fail
to evidence any contract mentioned in § 4 by a written record
as therein required, is constitutional. P. 42.
12. The constitutionality of the part of § 9 providing punishment for
delivering through the mails, or interstate means of communication,
false or misleading crop or market reports, is not involved in this
case. P. 42.
13. Neither is the constitutionality of paragraph (b) of § 6, giving
the commission power to exclude from "contract markets" persons violating the act or attempting to manipulate the price of
grain, in violation of § 5, or of any rule or regulation made in
pursuance of its requirements. P. 43.
Affirmed.

This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court
for Northern Illinois, dismissing a bill in equity. The
appeal is under § 238 of the Judicial Code (as amended
Act January 28, 1915, c. 22, 38 Stat. 803, 804), the case
being one in which the constitutionality of the Grain
Futues Act (enacted by Congress September 21, 1922,
c. 369, 42 Stat. 998), is drawn in question.
The bill was brought by the Board of Trade of the City
of Chicago, and a number of its members representing
each class of traders on the exchange of the Board, to
enjoin the United States District Attorney at Chicago,
the Secretary of Agriculture, and the United States Postmaster at Chicago from taking steps to enforce the provisions of the act against them on the ground that it violates their rights under the Federal Constitution.
The purpose of the act is expressed in its title to be for
the prevention of obstruct-ions and burdens upon interstate commerce in grain by regulating transactions on
grain future exchanges and for other purposes. Its
second section, par. (a), is one of definitions. Its definition of interstate commerce, in the sense of the act, is as
follows: "The words 'interstate commerce' shall be
construed to mean commerce between any State, Terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

tory, or possession, or the District of Columbia, and any
place outside thereof; or between points within the same
State, Territory, or possession, or the District of Columbia, but through any place outside thereof, or within any
Territory or possession, or the District of Columbia."
Paragraph (b) contains the following addition to the
foregoing definition:
"(b) For the purposes of this Act (but not in any wise
limiting the foregoing definition of interstate commerce)
a transaction in respect to any article shall be considered
to be in interstate commerce if such article is part of that
current of commerce usual in the grain trade whereby
grain and grain products and by-products thereof are
sent from one State with the expectation that they will end
their transit, after purchase, in another, including, in addition to cases within the above general description, all cases
where purchase or sale is either for shipment to another
State, or for manufacture within the State and the shipment outside the State of the products resulting from
such manufacture. Articles normally in such current of
commerce shall not be considered out of such commerce
through resort being had to any means or device intended
to remove transactions in respect thereto from the provisions of this Act. For the purpose of this paragraph
the word 'State' includes Territory, the District of Columbia, possession of the United States, and foreign
nation."
Section 3 is in the nature of a recital and finding as
follows:
"Sec. 3. Transactions in grain involving the sale
thereof for future delivery as commonly conducted on
boards of trade and known as 'futures' are affected with
a national public interest; that such transactions are
carried on in large volume by the public generally and by
persons engaged in the business of buying and selling
grain and the products and by-products thereof in inter-

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

5

1 Statement of the Case.

state commerce; that the prices involved in such transactions are generally quoted and disseminated throughout
the United States and in foreign countries as a basis for
determining the prices to the producer and the consumer
of grain and the products and by-products thereof and
to facilitate the movements thereof in interstate commerce; that such transactions are utilized by shippers,
dealers, millers, and others engaged in handling grain and
the products and by-products thereof in interstate commerce as a means of hedging themselves against possible
loss through fluctuations in price; that the transactions
and prices of grain on such boards of trade are susceptible
to speculation, manipulation, and control, and sudden or
unreasonable fluctuations in the prices thereof frequently
occur as a result of such speculation, manipulation, or
control, which are detrimental to the producer or the consumer and the persons handling grain and products and
by-products thereof in interstate commerce, and that
such fluctuations in prices are an obstruction to and a
burden upon interstate commerce in grain and the products and by-products thereof and render regulation imperative for the protection of such commerce and the
national public interest therein."
The act in §4 forbids all persons to use mails or interstate telephone, telegraphic, wireless or other communication, in offering or accepting sales of grain for future
delivery or to disseminate prices or quotations thereof,
excepting the man who holds the grain he is offering
for sale, and the owner or renter of land on which the
grain offered for sale is to be grown; and excepting also
members of boards of trade located at a terminal market
on which cash sales occur in sufficient volume and under such conditions as to reflect the general value of grain
and its different grades, and which have been designated
by the Secretary of Agriculture as "contract markets."
The act puts these boards of trade under the supervision
of the Secretary of Agriculture and imposes conditions

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

precedent and subsequent on his power to designate or
continue them as "contract markets."
The conditions are:
(a) The keeping of a record with prescribed details
of every transaction of cash and future sales of grain of
the Board or its member in permanent form for three
years, open to inspection of representatives of the Departments of Agriculture and of Justice.
(b) The prevention of the dissemination by the Board
or any member of misleading prices.
(c) The prevention of manipulation of prices or the
cornering of grain by the dealers or operators on the
Board.
(d) The adoption of a rule permitting the admission as
members of authorized representatives of lawfully formed
co6perative associations of producers having adequate responsibility engaged in the cash grain business, complying with and agreeing to comply with, the rules of the
Board applicable to other members, provided that no rule
shall prevent the return to its members on a pro rata
patronage basis the money collected by such association
in the business, less expenses.
The Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce and the Attorney General are made a commission
to hear and determine, after due notice, whether any
board of trade has failed or is failing by rule to do the
things required above, and, if found in default, to suspend its functions as a contract market for a period not
to exceed six months, or to revoke its designation as such,
with an appeal on the record to the Circuit Court of
Appeals within the circuit where the board is situate.
Such Commission, too, is to hear appeals from the Secretary's action in refusing to designate any board of trade
as a contract market.
There is a further provision for excluding from all contract markets and trading privileges any person violating

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

7

Statement of the Case.
the provisions of the act or the regulations in pursuance
thereof.
Section 9 declares anyone trading in futures in violation
of § 4 or sending intentionally or carelessly, false or misleading quotations or information as to the prices of
grain, guilty of a misdemeanor.
The bill of the plaintiffs describes the organization
of the Chicago Board of Trade as a corporation under a
special act of the Legislature of Illinois, passed in 1859,
with a membership- of 1600 and a board of eighteen directors, of whom one is president. It avers that the Board
does no business in selling or buying grain, but only furnishes an exchange and offices where such business can
be done by its members; that it does not deliver any market quotation through interstate means, but it does cause
to be collected the first price and each change of price
on its exchange in cash and future sales during the regular hours in the exchange hall and delivers them to certain telegraph companies, who pay the Board for this information.
The bill further avers that it is sustained only by the
initiation fees and dues of its members, the former being
$25,000, for each member, and the latter being in the
form of annual assessments, that it has from these sources
accumulated funds with which to provide a large building and offices for the exchange, from some of which
it receives rental and so has property worth two millions
of dollars or more; that its existence depends on keeping
its memberships valuable; that it does this by requiring
character and financial responsibility as qualifications for
its membership and by a requirement that a member
shall charge for every sale a fixed minimum commission
to a non-member principal, and a less minimum to a
member who shall be his principal; that corporations are
not permitted to be members, but that when two of the
stockholders and officers are members, the corporation

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

is permitted as a member to make contracts on the exchange. The bill further avers that if the Board were required to admit representatives of co6perative associations of producers with the privilege of dividing with
their members the proceeds of commissions less expenses,
it would greatly impair the value of its memberships to
other members.
The bill further avers that the members of its exchange
engage only in three kinds of trading. (1) Many act as
commission merchants and receive from producers and
country grain dealers grain in cars and boats consigned to
them which as agents they sell for immediate delivery and
account to their principals for the proceeds of such sales
less their commissions and other expenses, and many
members as principals or agents purchase and sell grain
in Chicago which is in cars or elevators for immediate
delivery, and all of these transactions are known as "cash
trades."
(2) Many members send out in the afternoons whenever market conditions are favorable, telegrams or letters
to country grain dealers offering to buy grain, or to millers and other non-residents of Chicago, probable buyers,
offering to sell grain at released prices and to be shipped
within a certain time on condition that these offers be
accepted before regular market hours the next morning.
These are known as "cash sales for deferred shipment ",
or as " sales to arrive."
(3) Many of the members engage either as principals
or agents in making on the exchange contracts with other
members for the purchase and sale of grain for future delivery by which the seller agrees to deliver in Chicago the
grain covered by the contract upon any day of the named
month that he shall select. More than 75 per cent. of the
volume of all trading in the exchange is for future delivery and under the rules it must be done in the exchange
hall and between regular fixed hours; that both buyers

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

9

Statement of the Case.

and sellers in all such contracts are personally present
when the contracts are made.
The bill further avers that all contracts for future delivery are under the rules of the Board fulfilled only by
delivery of warehouse receipts for the grain issued by
twelve warehouses in Chicago, selected by the Board and
having a capacity of 13 million bushels and licensed by
the State of Illinois to do a public warehouse business;
that the grain is mixed with other grain so that the receipt holder never gets the grain deposited when the receipt was issued; that while a rule of the exchange makes
grain in railroad cars deliverable in future cars the last
three days of the month, the transaction is-not fully completed till the grain in those cars is deposited in a regular
warehouse and receipt issued; that in the trading for
future delivery more than three-quarters of the many
millions of bushels contracted to be delivered are settled
for without delivery by offsetting purchases; that a large
part of the future trading is done by grain merchants,
millers and others only for the purpose of insuring themselves against price fluctuations in respect of like grain
owned by them and held for sale, shipment or manufacture and is settled by offsetting.
The bill further avers that another large part of future
trading is done by speculators, so-called, who make a
study of market conditions affecting prices, and try to
profit by their judgment as to future prices; that few of
such speculators have capital enough to make large single
purchases in any way affecting the market; that sixsevenths of all the trading in futures in the country take
place in Chicago; that no corners have been .run on the
exchange for fifteen years, due to the enforcement of
rules against them by the Board and "perhaps to the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act;" that manipulation has never
been successfully resorted to to depress prices; that the
selling of futures has no such effect; that the law of sup-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

ply and demand regulates prices and prevents violent
fluctuations, and that before hedging was made possible
by this future trading the cost of the middleman between
producer and consumer was much greater.
The defendants filed an answer admitting much of the
bill but specifically denying the averments included in the
last foregoing paragraph.
The plaintiffs submitted a large number of affidavits in
support of a motion for a temporary injunction. These
contained opinions of many professors of political economy in the colleges of the country to the effect that trading in futures in the long run did not depress prices, but
stabilized them.
The court denied the motion for a temporary injunction and of its own motion dismissed the bill for want of
equity.
The conclusions of Congress expressed in the recital of
§ 3 as to the detriment to interstate commerce from constantly recurring manipulation of sales for future delivery
were reached after many years of investigation. and examination of witnesses, including the advocates of regulation and those opposed, and men intimately advised in
respect to the grain markets of the country.
The Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry
reported to the Senate as follows:
"Every member of a grain exchange who testified before this committee acknowledged that there is at times
excessive speculation and undesirable speculation in the
futures market. Furthermore, it was brought out that a
few big traders at times influence prices--manipulate the
market-by the great volume of their operations. Also,
it was shown that a continually fluctuating, and not a
stable, market is the desire of speculators. Such a market
is against the interests of the producer; he must have
stable prices in order to market his crops to best advantage.
A market without wide and frequent price fluctuations

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

11

Statement of the Case.

would greatly benefit the producer. The reason for this
is that rapidly fluctuating prices can not be fully reflected
in the prices paid at country stations, so an additional
margin must be allowed when buying in the country."
Sen. Rep. No. 212, 67th Cong., 1st sess.
Witnesses testified before the Committee that a calculation based on commissions showed the total bushels of
grain sold for future delivery on the Chicago Board of
Trade in a year reach nearly twenty billions and that the
amount of grain actually delivered under such contracts
is not one per cent. of this. Objectors to future trading
insisted at first that future trading put in the hands of
desperate speculators an easy opportunity to corner the
market and to promote great and rapid fluctuations in
value and was wholly vicious and should be forbidden.
Further investigation and consideration have satisfied
many that the law of supply and demand operated on
futures as on cash sales and that futures are very useful
in certain respects; notably in offering a means by which
through "hedging," owners of grain can, to some extent,
protect themselves against the danger of losses by fluctuation.
The Government did not, in this hearing and argument,
maintain that by manipulation the operators can permanently depress the prices of grain but cited the actual
quotations from time to time, some as late as the
summer of 1922, showing violent fluctuations through
"deals" of large operators engaged in manipulating the
futures market at intervals since 1900, before which corners were ever recurring but since which they have been
infrequent. Much evidence was adduced before congressional committees that the sales of futures on the Chicago
Board dominated the prices of wheat in this country and
the world. The injurious effect of these recurring fluctuations in such futures upon the consignment of grain by
owners and producers was asserted by witnesses. Mr.

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

Herbert Hoover, whose experience as Food Administrator
gave his opinion weight, said to the House Committee on
Agriculture (Future Trading Hearings-66th Cong. 3d
sess., p. 909-910):
"The second form of manipulation and the one that I
feel does at times take place, is the making of a drive on
the price by either the sale or the purchase of such quantities as will affect the price by the volume of material
coming to the market at that particular time. I would
regard those transactions as an attempt to dislocate the
normal flow of the law of supply and demand, and any
attempt of any individual to dislocate a free market must
be against public interest. I feel it is also against the interest of the individual producer, because a drive on the
market that depresses the price must find a considerable
number of farmers who, through the fall in price and
their outstanding obligations, are compelled to liquidate,
and they have been done an injury. Incidentally, the
commodity has been brought into the markiet, and an
acceleration to depression has been created."
Mr. Julius H. Barnes, the head of the United States
Grain Corporation during the War, and of widest experience in the grain markets of the world, at the same hearing, after explaining that future dealing stabilizes prices
and helps legitimate hedging and that a drive on prices
worked its own cure in the long run, as did the distinguished economists whose affidavits were exhibited in this
case, said (pp. 839-840):
"But it is also true that even though such a price depression must be temporary in character it may, during
its period of effectiveness, do substantial injustice by
forcing the liquidation of grain held on margins, or by
the price tendency thus displayed frightening owners
otherwise confident of the ultimate value of their goods."
The Federal Trade Commission in its report on wheat
prices to the President, December 13, 1920, said, p. 8:

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

13

Statement of the Case.
"Prices of wheat futures, the decline in which has been
especially the subject of criticism, are susceptible of manipulation. Wide fluctuations in prices and large discounts of. the future price below the cash price have prevailed. This has made it unsatisfactory for 'hedging,'
and hedging sales may also appear to be manipulative,
because, if they are large, they may cause sharp depressions. Wheat futures are not functioning well, even according to the standards of their advocates."
Mr. Julius H. Barnes, in his evidence before the Federal
Trade Commission, in October, 1922, describes the effect
upon interstate commerce of a "deal" in May, 1922,
wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade, when the price of
futures rose rapidly. Large operators collected cash
wheat all over the country and headed it for Chicago for
delivery at the attractive prices. This took wheat away
from all the other wheat centers of the country where it
normally would have remained for consumption and accumulated an almost unsalable quantity in Chicago,
greatly disturbing the normal and useful flow of wheat in
its ordinary and proper distribution and precipitating a
crash in prices.1
'-In response to Senate Resolution 133 the Federal Trade Commission prepared to make a report by conducting in October, 1922,
an inquiry into the market manipulation of grain. Mr. Julius H.
Barnes was a witness, and in the course of his examination said (pp.
74-76):
"Now, in May, 1922, we had the same spectacular gyrations in
prices, starting earlier in the month and falling into a complete collapse in price. Why?
" COMMISSIONER MURDOCK: In the middle of the month this time?
"MR. BARNES: Yes, starting early in the month, rising to a peak
and then falling to an early collapse. Without knowing the facts,
because these things are detected by commission merchants, it seems
quite clear that there were two or three large lines of wheat bought in
Chicago for delivery in May, 1922; that at least one of those, on
popular report,* was a man who could easily pay for five million
bushels of wheat; that he intended to take the wheat as a merchant;

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

262 U. S.

It was charged before the congressional committees
that the limitation of deliveries under contracts for futuxes to warehouse receipts of twelve regular warehouses
aggregating but thirteen million bushels capacity, with
the privilege of a tender of grain in cars on the last three
days of the delivery month and a power in the board of
directors to enlarge the privilege in case of an emergency,
casts another element of speculative doubt into the prices

of futures and puts too much control in the board of directors. In view of the fact that the total capacity of
Chicago for storing grain in public and private warehouses is forty-five millions, it is urged that this rule of
the futures market is sinister and dangerous in affecting
the prices of a market that are world-wide in their influence by such a narrow limitation of deliveries subject to
that he was going to pay cash for it and not squeeze somebody to
make a settlement. He expected to get delivery of that, did not buy
it in anticipation that it could not be delivered, and therefore he
could force a settlement, and he was going to act as a merchant on
the belief that wheat was worth more in the world's markets
than the prices then ruling in Chicago; but on top of that there developed that two or three other men, who were evidently clear speculators, not acting with that conception, had also lines of wheat, and
the aggregate of those made a shortage in Chicago exceeding the stock
of wheat in Chicago or naturally tributary thereto.
"The result of that was that as this situation developed, the buyer,
miller or exporter began to get afraid about the Chicago market,
that he might have to buy his hedges in higher, and began to buy in
those hedges and the market advanced under that kind of apprehensive buying, the buying of legitimate merchants who were frightened
to leave their hedges in that month any longer. That helped make
the peak, plus perhaps some buying by interested people who wanted
to see the price marked up, and those large cash interests in Chicago
began to collect all over the country wheat and head it to Chicago
for delivery at these attractive prices, which by this time had reached
a relation in respect to all of the markets which attracted wheat from
every direction to Chicago.
"The result of that was that by the end of the month there was
accumulated in Chicago a stock of ten or twelve million bushels of

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

15

Statement of the Case.

arbitrary and uncertain change at the discretion of the
Board, and that it is a factor in frightening shippers and

lawful hedgers in making opportunity for speculative
manipulation and burdening the flow of grain in normal
2
interstate channels.
wheat, which was beyond the normal absorbing capacity of the consumption trade that rests on Chicago, and that wheat had been lifted
by the incentive of these apprehensively made prices from centers
where it should have remained for the consumption which normally
overtakes it from those centers--Omaha, Kansas City, Minneapolis,
all these other points. So that the country stocks which should normally supply mills west of Chicago or south of Chicago were lifted
out of their natural place and directed to Chicago by these apprehensively made prices, and there was collected in Chicago an almost
unsalable quantity of wheat which could only press in one direction,
could not go back.
" COMMIssIONER MImuocK: So that we had a price collapse by
that ?"
See also letter of J. H. Barnes to Chicago Board of Trade, p. 69,
Grain Futures Hearings before Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, U. S. Senate, 67th Cong., 2d sess., on H. R. 11843, containing
the following:
"Present conditions lay an economic burden on distribution cost
by drawing wheat to Chicago out of its accustomed channels and
from points of supply needed shortly for actual consumption elsewhere. These evil effects are solely from apprehension of a forced
settlement at artificial prices on hedges properly used as insurance
against price level fluctuations."
'Evidence of Julius H. Barnes before Federal Trade Commission
in October, 1922 (p. 77), on inquiry in response to Senate Res.
No. 133:
"MR. BARNES: In the demonstration for several years that the
chief abuses of the trade were deliberate manipulation and congestion, the deliberate forcing of settlement by artificial prices, the trade
step by step tried to make it more difficult for anyone to obtain
that control of the market. They made No. 1, 2, 3 wheat, and on all
vayieties deliverable. That was not sufficient, as demonstrated in
Chicago two years ago to the Market Committee of 1917. I suggested to them that the trade ought to seriously consider a widening
of the contract basis once more, so as to make wheat at Omaha and
Kansas City and Minneapolis, at points of accumulation on the normal

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

Mr. Henry S. Robbins for appellants.
I. This case should be reversed with directions for a
decree for appellants upon the authority of Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44.
The new act (§ 3) presents no reasons that were not
before this Court on the former hearing. The provisions
of the law, which are material here, are the same. The
reasons of Congress for their enactment are the same, and
in both cases are brought to the attention of this Court.
flow. So that there was not any substantial injustice done a buyer;
deliverable at a freight cost difference and a small penalty, so that it
would not be abused, and I stand to-day for that as being the one
real constructive thing left for the Chicago market to-day, if Chicago
is to be the liquid grain future trading market of America, as it
should be, if there is a natural advantage in concentrating all the
trading of the country in one market, so that you can send an order
through and get one hundred thousand or five hundred thousand
bushels in a minute, to answer a cable from abroad or a milling order,
because the volume of trade there is liquid all the time, and I believe
that is in the public interest.
"If it is to do that, then Chicago ought to widen this wedge
against these shippers, and it can be done by taking into contract
delivery the wheats in these other markets. The effect last May
would have been that that wheat would have been delivered, but the
wheat itself would have physically been in Omaha and Kansas City
and available for milling in June and July, when it was needed, and
it would not have been in Chicago to press direct on the east and the
world's market and cause a further decline in price.
"MR. WATKINS:

Mr. Barnes, what you would include for delivery

at Chicago markets you would include for delivery at Seaboard markets, would you not?
"MR. BARNES:

No, I would not, because as I say, on the natural

flow, a buyer in Chicago for actual delivery of wheat must in the
normal process of trade move that wheat east. His consumption
both for export and milling is east of Chicago. Therefore, for him
to take delivery west of Chicago at a freight difference and a small
penalty is no substantial injustice; but to force him to take wheat
at the Seaboard at the transportation cost when maybe he is buying
in Chicago to supply a mill in Omaha, might be a very substantial
injustice."

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

17

Argument for Appellants.

If there is a distinction broad enough to escape the effect
of the former decision, it must lie in the fact that the
reasons of Congress are now recited in the act, while in
the former case this Court had them from the records
of Congress. Such a distinction must rest either on the
ground that the recitals in a statute of the reasons of Congress for passing it become conclusive upon the Court,
when it is passing upon the constitutionality of the act,
or that this Court can fully appraise the reasons of Congress only when they are incorporated into the act.
We do not stop to consider whether the technical doctrine of estoppel is here applicable; nor whether the
doctrine of stare decisis is applicable to constitutional
questions, because in any event Hill v. Wallace must, so
far as applicable, control the decision of this case, unless
this Court shall conclude-what we may not assumethat it made a mistake in that case, and should now recede from that decision.
II. Future trading on the exchanges does not impose
a burden upon interstate commerce. The contrary of
this proposition constitutes the key of the arch upon
which this law rests. Without it the act c~early falls
within the decision in Hill v. Wallace.
The recitals of § 3 are not conlclusive of this question.
When the existence of constitutional power depends
on a certain fact or condition, this Court must for itself
determine whether that fact or condition really exists.
Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 110; Hairston v. Danville &
Western Ry. Co., 208 U. S. 598, 606; Hill v. Wallace,
supra; Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20.
How then is the existence of this essential fact or condition to be asertained-by the usual legal method of
allegation and proof, or by such knowledge as this Court
is presumed to have?
If the former, then upon this record such obstacle or
burden to interstate commerce does not exist; for the bill
51826°-23-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

so alleges, and the case is here upon a demurrer to the
bill sustained for want of equity.
But as after all this is a question of economic or trade
law, which must be resolved more as a matter of expert
opinion than by direct proof, it would seem to be a question which this Court could decide upon its own present
knowledge of the subject, supplemented by such resort to
the writings of trained minds as it shall find necessary.
Starting with the proposition that the price fluctuations
under consideration are such as are created in sales for
future delivery on an exchange, which "are not in and of
themselves interstate commerce," such prejudicial effect,
if any, as these fluctuations may have upon this future
trading-which is purely intrastate commerce-or those
participating in it, must be put to one side.
Our inquiry is to be confined to the effect of these future
price fluctuations on such cash sales-including sales "of
cash grain for deferred shipment or delivery "-as are
interstate commerce.
We should here start with a clear conception that the
prices in these future sales do not fix or determine the
prices in cash sales in either intrastate or interstate commerce. The cash price and the future price in the same
market will never---:or at least only by a rare chance-be
the same, except in the delivery month of the future contract when further trading for delivery in that month
usually ceases except for the closing of existing contracts.
The cost of carrying the grain from the present time to
the future delivery date constitutes one normal element of
difference between the "cash" price and the price in the
futures. So when the future sales contemplate delivery
in a month of the next crop year the cash and future
prices have no fixed relation to each other because dependent upon different supply conditions.
True, the cash prices will not continue below the level
determined by a deduction from the future price equal

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

19

Argument, for Appellants.

to the normal cost of carrying the actual grain until the

delivery month; for whenever cash wheat thus falls speculators quickly take advantage of it by buying the cash
and selling the future. But the cash price may be, and
frequently is, relatively higher than the future price because of some urgent immediate demand of millers or
.exporters or other reason.
So too, there is nothing to compel those who make
interstate sales or purchases of grain, to accept as their
price the future price or any fixed departure from it.
Two persons engage in a cash transaction in grain only
when both minds agree upon what the price should be,
and this occurs only when each is satisfied to join in a
trade at that price. It is, in other words, a price voluntarily arrived at. What is true of an individual sale is
equally true of all the sales which go to make up interstate
commerce.
Doubtless the quotations of prices in future trading
constitute a part, and often an important part, of the
information upon which the minds of seller and buyer
act in agreeing upon their price. But the shipper of
grain across state lines will be more influenced by the
prices of "cash " grain in his accessible markets, which
are seldom actually, and often not relatively, the same as
the future prices.
We must first ascertain the test or standard by which to
determine whether these price fluctuations in intrastate
commerce are a burden upon interstate commerce. Nothing may be regarded as a burden upon commerce, which
does not prejudicially affect those engaged in it or the
public generally. If this country exported all the grains
that it raises, it might be said that whatever tends to
raise the price is beneficial rather than hurtful, and only
such conduct or influencep as tended to depress prices
should be regarded as a burden upon commerce. But
this country consumes the major part of its own grains,

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

and this Court has determined in United States v. Patten,
226 U. S. 525, that a conspiracy of persons to run a
"corner" and thereby increase prices is so harmful to
the public as to be within the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.
Hence, what the law contemplates is the free and unrestricted play of the natural law of supply and demand.
Only such conduct or influences, therefore, as cause prices.
in interstate commerce to be other than such as would
result from this natural law, are to be here considered in
ascertaining what are burdens upon that commerce.
This burden may arise, either because such prices are
raised above, or depressed below, the normal price. The
former could result-if at all--only from the excessive
buying of speculators who aim to " corner" the markets
and thereby force short sellers to settle at a price above the
natural price. But "corners" in the grain market are " a
thing of the past."
The question is thus reduced to, whether the fluctuations in this future trading are such as to abnormally
depress the price of "cash" grain in interstate commerce
to the prejudice of the producers.
The bill avers and the evidence in the Christie Case,
198 U. S. 236, showed that the grain buyers' profit in
moving grain from the farmers to the foreign marketwhich formerly was from five to eight cents a bushel-had
been reduced to not exceeding two cents a bushel by the
opportunity afforded by future trading to the grain dealers
to insure themselves against price fluctuations by the
making of "hedging" contracts.
Theories respecting speculative trading in grain, which
in the past have been deemed by legislators to be economic
truths and been made the basis of restrictive legislation,
are now conceded to be economic fallacies. No thoughtful
person now contends that on qconomic grounds public injury results from speculation in grain, or that all future
trading on the grain exchanges should be suppressed.

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

21

Argument for Appellants.

All that the proponents of this legislation now claim

is that " sudden or unreasonable fluctuations in prices" in
future trading "frequently occur as the result of specula-

tion, manipulation or control," and that a depression of
prices which results therefrom is " detrimental to the producers or consumers," and hence is a burden upon interstate commerce.
The short-seller's only motive is to profit by correctly
forecasting the price, at which grain will sell at a future
day. He is ever conscious that there are others at hand,
who are actuated by a like motive to profit by buying,
when the market price is such as to promise profit.
Before one can sell he must find some other member of
the exchange who, or whose customer, takes a directly
opposite view of the probable future price; the quantity
bought equals the quantity sold. It is these conflicting
views of many traders, which make the market. Thus
future trading but expresses the attempts of all participants therein to profit by correctly forecasting the future
price. Each is acting under the highest incentive to be
right, because of the severe loss that will result from
being wrong. They all know that the ultimate factor
is the law of supply and demand, as affected by the market conditions when the delivery time arrives. Their
sole aim is to correctly appraise the effect of such conditions upon the operation of that law.
The claim asserted in § 3 of the Grain Futures Act,
that sudden or unreasonable fluctuations in prices frequently occur as the result of speculation, manipulation
or control, in future trading, and constitute a burden
upon interstate commerce, is negatived by the writings
of economists and by the affidavits of twenty or more
professors of political economy in our leading universities, which form part of this record.
Concurrence of view in the minds of those, who are
best qualified to know, clearly establishes (1) that future

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

trading has not produced sudden or unreasonable fluctuations in prices; (2) that such fluctuations do not frequently occur as the result of speculation, manipulation
or control; and (3) that such fluctuations as do occur in
future trading are not detrimental to the producers or
consumers, or a burden upon interstate commerce. Furthermore, there was nothing in the hearings before the
committees of Congress preceding the passage of this
and the former act to justify these recitals in § 3 of
the act.
Whatever is intrastate in character must, in order to be
a burden upon interstate commerce, (1) directly touch
or affect such commerce, and (2) affect it in a substantially injurious way. In other words, it must be a direct
and onerous burden upon such commerce. Passenger
Cases, 7 How. 402; Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S.
578; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Hooper v.
California, 155 U. S. 648; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How.
71; Blumenstock Bros. v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S.
436; Brodnax v. Missouri, 219 U. S. 285; Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U. S. 365; Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618.
Does this intrastate future trading thus burden interstate commerce? Considered in its entirety, no one
claims that it does. All concede that future trading is
distinctly helpful to commerce.
All that is claimed by the proponents of this legislation is, that the prices made in this future trading at times
prejudicially depress prices in interstate transactions in
grain. It has already been shown that this is a false
premise.
But assuming it to be a true one, can it be said that such
intrastate prices so directly and materially affect interstate prices as to constitute a burden on interstate commerce? As W~e have already seen, interstate traders in
grain are not obliged to accept, nor do in fact accept,
these intrastate prices as the prices in their interstate

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

23

Argument for Appellants.

transactions. They constitute but a part of the information upon which such traders act in agreeing upon their
prices. If Congress may justify interference with this
purely intrastate trading 'upon the theory of protecting
the normal play of the law of supply and demand as respects grain, 'it may upon the same grounds regulate the
numerous exchanges where stocks, eggs, butter and other
produce are dealt in, and whose prices are quoted in the
daily press. Thus is presented the question, whether
purely intrastate trading becomes subject to the commerce power of Congress merely because it frequently
indirectly affects prices in interstate commerce. But
there can be no distinction between intrastate prices and
anything else of an intrastate' character, which affects
interstate prices. In other words, the question here is,
whether every intrastate employment, business, or condition is within the commerce power of Congress, if it in
any way affects prices in interstate commerce.
If so, then this Court was wrong in adjudging unconstitutional the first Child Labor Law. If the protection
of prices in interstate commerce is to be held to justify the
exercise of the interstate commerce power, that power will
be enlarged far beyond any present conceptions of it.
Wages of labor employed in manufacture and other elements of manufacture materially affect the prices of such
manufactured products as subsequently enter into interstate commerce. Is the commerce power broad enough to
regulate labor employed in, and other features of; manufacture? This Court in United States v. Knight Co.,
156 U. S. 1, 17, stated that combinations which raise or
lower prices or wages in domestic enterprise only indirectly affect interstate commerce. See also Railroad Co.
v. Richmond, 19 Wall. 584.
We do not here contend that Congress may not treat
as' an obstruction to commerce persons who combine for
the purpose of directly fixing or affecting prices in interstate commerce (as in the Addyston Pipe Case, 17.5 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

211; the Swift Case, 196 U. S. 375, and the Patten Case,
226 U. S. 525), but only that acts which may directly
influence prices in intrastate trading in grain for future
delivery can only indirectly affect, if at all, the interstate
buying and selling of grain for immediate delivery; and
that such acts are, therefore, beyond the commerce power
of Congress.
III. The present act is not one to remove an alleged
burden upon interstate commerce.
If the condition or subject-matter be partly of an interstate and partly of an intrastate character the commerce power will be judicially confined to that which is
interstate. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82.
The only qualification to this principle is found where
there is such an intermingling that that which is interstate
cannot be protected or regulated without also touching
that which is intrastate, Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
354; Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342; and here the federal power is limited
to the removal of the obstruction. Illinois Central R. R.
Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 243 U. S. 493.
Still another phase of the question is presented where
the condition or subject matter is wholly within intrastate commerce, but it gives rise to certain incidents or
opportunities, which enable evilly disposed persons so to
act as to create an obstacle to or burden upon interstate
commerce. The commerce power here should-if the
spirit of the Constitution is not to be violated-be confined to measures directly aimed at the obstacle and
those who create it. Congress may not use such obstacle
as a pretext for absorbing complete control of such
intrastate commerce in respect to things and persons in
no way responsible for the supposed obstacle or burden.
The present case falls within this last phase of the question.
Again Congress may not compel a trade agency created
by a State and not itself participating in the offense-

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

25

Argument for Appellants.

as a condition of its continuing to participate in purely
intrastate commerce-to actively assist the Nation in the
enforcement of its laws--that is, become the police officer
or the criminal court of the General Government.
The obstacle here claimed is overtrading which prejudices prices in interstate commerce in grain. The grain
exchanges never trade at all: they merely maintain halls
where others trade. The great majority of the members
of exchanges are not guilty of overtrading.
The Grain Futures Act does not, in the section (9)
which provides for the enforcement of the act through the
criminal courts, include as an offense manipulation or
overtrading. The act, however, does in fact, in § 6, make
an attempt to manipulate a crime. When this is ascertained by the commission which the act creates, the
offending person is punished by being deprived of the
right to trade on any exchange-which may be his only
vocation-and the exchange is required to co~perate in
imposing this punishment, as a condition to the exercise
of its right to conduct its purely intrastate business.
Thus the exchange-which is not guilty of manipulation
or overtrading-is punished by this law by being restricted
in its right to pursue a lawful business.
The act is, therefore, not one to remove an obstruction
to commerce, because it does not adopt the only appropriate means for doing so-a statute aimed at those who
create the obstacle. See United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall.
41, where this.Court held that Congress could not prohibit
the making of some oils in order to increase the production of others that it taxed.
IV. The removal of an obstruction to interstate commerce is a mere pretext, under which Congress seeks to
regulate what is exclusively intrastate commerce.
V. The Grain Futures Act conflicts with the legislative discretion of the States respecting their intrastate
commerce, and is in itself a burden upon that commerce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

VI. The act cannot be sustained under the power of
Congress to establish post offices, or under its control of
interstate communication by telegraph or telephone.
The purpose in this connection is not to exclude from
such avenues of communication a message or letter or
quotation that is false or obscene or fraudulent in itself
or will promote fraud or other illegal conduct.
It is to compel the exchange to accept designation as a
contract market by denying its members, if the exchange
refuses so to qualify, the privilege of communicating
with their customers through the mails or by interstate
telegram or telephone. The prohibition is in the nature
of a penalty. It is one of the enforcing provisions of the
act. Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; In re Rapier, 143
U. S. 110; Lewis PublishingCo. v. Morgan, 229 U. S.288;
Burton v. United States, 202 U. S.344, 371; Hoover v.
McChesney, 81 Fed. 472; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Foster, 247 U. S. 114; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S.
251.
VII. The insurance feature.
Section 3 of the act recites that future contracts are
utilized by shippers and dealers engaged in interstate
commerce "as a means of hedging themselves against
possible loss through fluctuations in price."
Section 4 of the act makes it unlawful for any person
to make a contract of sale upon an exchange "which is
or may be used for hedging any transactions in interstate
commerce in grain," except it be made through a member
of a "contract market."
These provisions seem to be based upon the theory
that, because those who ship grain in interstate commerce
resort to future trading to get insurance, future trading
is thereby subject to the interstate commerce power.
But this Court has held that the business of insurance
is not commerce, nor an instrumentality of commerce, but
a, mere incident thereto.

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.
1

27

Argument for Appellants.

VIII. The provision of the act, § 5 (e), requiring exchanges to admit to membership representatives of cooperative associations of producers, and sanctioning "patronage dividends," deprives the Board of Trade and its
members of their property without due process of law.
This identical provision was in the Future Trading Act,
and was by this Court held to be not within the commerce
power of Congress. The reasons alleged for reenacting
some of the provisions of the former act, and which are
thought to justify the new act, have no application to this
particular provision. But this provision is also unconstitutional upon the further ground that it violates the due
process provision of the Constitution.
It has never been held, even as respects modern common carriers, that any person could be legislated into a
position where he might share with the owners the profits
accruing from the use of their property in public service.
The power to impress property with a public use is, as
respects a State, " an exercise of the police power of the
State." Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 545; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133-137.
Congress may exercise such power only so far as it is
included in the other powers conferred on it by the Constitution. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries, 251 U. S.
146; United States v. (ruikshank, 92 U. S. 542; Tennessee
v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
Again, this power, as respects any particular object,
must reside exclusively either in the State or in Congress;
it cannot well reside in both without producing conflicting
statutes.
The property of this Board is situated in Illinois, the
Board transacts no business upon its property, and the
business that it permits its members to transact thereon
is mostly of a domestic and local, as distinguished from
an interstate, character; and it seems that the power to
impress this property with a public use ought to belong
to the State of Illinois alone.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

Again, this section 5 (e) is in no sense a proper exercise
of the power. In all cases where the property involved is
privately owned, the only interest therein that a statute
may grant to the public (without paying for the property) is the right of all to share in the service it renders
on fair and common terms.
This section is not for the benefit of the public generally, but only a certain class--farmers' organizations.
What the Grain Futures Act does is to force agents
of farmers' organizations into membership in the exchanges, so that all farmers who join coperative associations may escape the payment of the commissionswhich all others must pay-and thereby indirectly share
in the profit which accrues from the rendering of the
service-a profit which has resulted to the members of
the exchanges from the creation and maintenance for
many years (at private expense of money and effort) of
these instrumentalities of trade.
This instrumentality or privately owned property, and
the profit accruing from its use, like the grain elevator or
insurance company, and the profit therefrom, belong to
those who have created and own it.
Any statute which takes private property for a private
purpose-as well as one which takes property for a public
use without the payment of adequate considerationviolates the due process clause of the Fifth or Fourteenth
Amendments to the Constitution. Missouri Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403; Missouri, etc., Ry. Co. v.
Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196; Chicago, Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co.
v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491; Eubank v. Richmond, 226
U. S. 137; Cole v. La Grange, 113 U. S. 1.
The Fifth Amendment applies to an intangible right as
well as to tangible property. Monongahela Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312, 343; Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 253.
Again, any statute which materially impairs the value
or profitable use of private property is as much a taking

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

29

Argument for Appellants.

within the due process provision as the actual appropriation of it. Peabody v. United States, 231 U. S. 530; Filor
v. United States, 9 Wall. 45, 49.
Indeed, a pecuniary loss need not be shown. If the
right of property is invaded, the statute is within the constitutional provision. Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S.
60, 74.
IX. Section 6 of the act violates the due process of law
provision of the Constitution.
This section provides that any person Nyho "is violating any of the provisions of this Act, or is attempting
to manipulate the market price, of any grain in violation of the provisions of' section 5 hereof, or of any of
the rules or regulations made pursuant to its requirements," shall upon the complaint of the Secretary of
Agriculture be tried before a commission consisting of
such Secretary and two other cabinet officers (all of
whom are appointed by, and hold office during the will
of, the President), and if found guilty, the commission
may punish him by depriving him of all trading privileges upon all "contract markets" "for such period as:
may be specified in said order," which may be permanently.
As speculating in grain and acting as agent for such
speculators are recognized by the law to be lawful vocations, and as the right to pursue any lawful vocationsometimes called "the liberty of pursuit "-is a part of
the liberty which the Constitution' guarantees to every
citizen, it follows that the punishment here authorized
is a deprivation of liberty within the meaning of that
term in the due process clause.
Considering the offense created by, and the punishment
provided therefor in, § 6, a trial by this commission appointed by the President, is not "due process of law."
Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Wong Wing v. United
States, 163 U. S. 228; Huber v. Reily, 53 Pa. St. 112; Ex

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

262 U. S.

parte Randolph, Fed. Cas. No. 11,558; Ong Chang Wing
v. United States, 218 U. S. 272; Kilbourn v. Thompson,
103 U. S. 168; State v. Ryan, 70 Wis. 676; Parsons v.
Russell, 11 Mich. 113; Addison v. State, 126 Pac. 840;
Bessette v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324.
Within authoritative definitions, attempts to manipulate, or other violation of the Grain Futures Act, clearly
constitute crimes, which are punished solely in the interest of the general public. By depriving the violator of a
part of his liberty it penalizes him for a wrong done to
the public.
In this particular it iano less a criminal statute because,
instead of compelling the wrong-doer to pay a money
penalty or sending him to jail, it deprives him of his constitutional right to earn a living by trading on an exchange.
Section 6 authorizes the commission to punish one
"violating any of the provisions of the act." Section 9
of the act declares a like violation a misdemeanor and
punishable by a fine not exceeding $10,000, or imprisonment not exceeding a year, or both. Section 9 contemplates a conviction in a criminal prosecution in the District Court. If violating any of the provisions of the act
is a crime under § 9 it cannot be less so under § 6. By
declaring in one section that the forbidden act is a misdemeanor and not doing so in another section, Congress
cannot make the same act at once a crime and not a crime
within the Constitution. Schick v. United States, 195
U. S. 65; Passavant v. United States, 148 U. S. 214;
Origet v. Hedden, 155 U. S. 228; Oceanic Steam Nay. Co.
v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320; Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S.
540; Murray v. Hoboken Co., 18 How. 277; United States
v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S. 81.
Section 6 also violates the Constitution in not being
confined to such attempts to manipulate as prejudicially
affect interstate commerce. Trade-Mark Cases, 100
U. S. 82.

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

31

Opinion of the Court.
It is hardly conceivable that the Constitution, in conferring interstate commerce power on Congress, intended
to authorize it to exact licenses from every person engaged
in making intrastate contracts for future delivery and
make them revocable by an executive officer as a means
of preventing some from obstructing interstate commerce.
It is therefore submitted that § 6 of the act, so far as it
confers on this commission jurisdiction to try persons for
overtrading, and to punish them by depriving them of
the right to resort to the exchanges, is unconstitutional.
This question directly arises on this appeal; for the suit
is not merely one by the Board of Trade, but also by
seven members of the Board (suing on behalf of all of
them) to restrain a public official (the Secretary of Agriculture) from enforcing, as prosecutor, what is a criminal
provision-it being, as the bill alleges, his purpose to
enforce it.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Blackburn
Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, Mr. R. W.
Williams and Mr. Fred Lees were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT,

after stating the case as

above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellailts contend that the decision of this Court in
Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, is conclusive against the constitutionality of th*e Grain Futures Act. Indeed in their
bill they pleaded the judgment in that case as res jiudicata in this, as to its invalidity. The act whose constitutionality was in question in Hill v. Wallace was the Future Trading Act (c. 86, 42 Stat. 187). It was an effort
by Congress, through taxing at a prohibitive rate sales
of grain for future delivery, to regulate such sales on
boards of trade by exempting them from the tax if they
would comply with the congressional regulations. It was

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

held that sales for future delivery where the parties were
present in Chicago, to be settled by offsetting purchases
or by delivery, to take place there, were not interstate
commerce and that Congress could not use its taxing
power in this indirect way to regulate business not within
federal control. We said (p. 68):
"Looked at in this aspect and without any limitation
of the application of the tax to interstate commerce, or to
that which the Congress may deem from evidence before
it to be an obstruction to interstate commerce, we do not
find it possible to sustain the validity of the regulations
as they are set forth in this act. A reading of the act
makes it quite clear that Congress sought to use the taxing
power to give validity to the act. It did not have the
exercise of its power under the commerce clause in mind
and so did not introduce into the act the limitations which
certainly would accompany and mark an exercise of the
power under the latter clause."
Again, on page 69, we said:
"It follows that sales for future delivery on the Board
of Trade are not in and of themselves interstate commerce.
They can not come within the regulatory power of Congress as such, unless they are regarded by Congress, from
the evidence before it, as directly interfering with interstate commerce so as to be an obstruction or a burden
thereon."
. The Grain Futures Act which is now before us differs
from the Future Trading Act in having the very features
the absence of which we held in the somewhat carefully
framed language of the foregoing quotations prevented
our sustaining the Future Trading Act. As we have seen
in the statement of the case, the act only purports to regulate interstate commerce and sales of grain for future
delivery on boards of trade because it finds that by
manipulation they have become a constantly recurring
burden and obstruction to that commerce. Instead.,

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

33

Opinion of the Court.

therefore, of being an authority against the validity of the
Grain Futures Act, it is an authority in its favor.
The Chicago Board of Trade is the greatest grain market in the world. Chicago Board of Trade v. United
States, 246 U. S. 231, 235. Its report for 1922 shows that
on that market in that year were made cash sales for some
three hundred and fifty millions of bushels of grain, most
of which was shipped from States west and north of Illinois into Chicago, and was either stored temporarily in
Chicago or was retained in cars and after sale was shipped
in large part to eastern States and foreign countries. This
great annual flow is made up of the cash grain sold on the
exchange, the cash sales to arrive (Chicago Board of Trade
v. United States, 246 U. S. 231), and the comparatively
small percentage of grain contracted to be sold in the
futures market not settled by offsetting. Chicago Board
of Trade v. ChristieGrain & Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 248.
The railroads of the country accommodate themselves to
the interstate function of the Chicago market by giving
shippers from western States bills of lading through Chicago to points in eastern States with the right to remove
the grain at Chicago for temporary purposes of storing,
inspecting, weighing, grading, or mixing, and changing the
ownership, consignee or destination and then to continue
the shipment under the same contract and at a through
rate. Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504. Such a contract
does not prevent the local taxing of the grain while in
Chicago; but it does not take it out of interstate commerce
in such a way as to deprive Congress of the power to regulate it, as is plainly intimated in the authority cited (p.
516) and expressly recognized in Stafford v. Wallace, 258
U. S. 495, 525, 526. The fact that the grain shipped from
the west and taken from the cars may have been stored in
warehouses and mixed with other grain, so that the owner
receives other grain when presenting his receipt for con51826-23-----8

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

tinuing the shipment, does not take away from the interstate character of the through shipment any more than a
mixture of the oil or gas in the pipe lines of the oil and
gas companies in West Virginia, with the right in the
owners to withdraw their shares before crossing state
linos, prevented the great bulk of the oil and gas which
did thereafter cross state lines from being a stream or
current of interstate commerce. Eureka Pipe Line Co.
v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 265, 272; United Fuel Gas Co. v.
Hallanan, 257 U. S. 277, 281.
It is impossible to distinguish the case at bar, so far as
it concerns the cash grain, the sales to arrive, and the
grain actually delivered in fulfillment of tuture contracts,
from the current of stock shipments declared to be interstate commerce in Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495.
That case presented the question whether sales and purchases of cattle made in Chicago at the stockyards by
commission men and dealers and traders under the rules
of the stockyards corporation could be brought by Congress under the supervision of the Secretary of Agriculture to prevent abuses of the commission men and dealers in exorbitant charges and other ways, and in their
relations with packers prone to monopolize trade and depress and increase prices thereby. It was held that this
could be done even though the sales and purchases by
commission men and by dealers were in and of themselves
intrastate commerce, the parties to sales and purchases
and the cattle all being at the time within the city of
Chicago.
We said (pp. 515, 516):
"The stockyards are not a place of rest or final destination. Thousands of head of live stock arrive daily by
carload and trainload lots, and must be promptly sold
and disposed of and moved out to give place to the constantly flowing traffic that presses behind. The stockyards are but a throat through which the current flows,

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

35

Opinion of the Court.

and the transactions which occur therein are only incident to this current from the West to the East, and from
one State to another. Such transactions can not be separated from the movement to which they contribute and
necessarily take on its character. The commission men
are essential in making the sales without which the flow
of the current would be obstructed, and this, whether
they are made to packers or dealers. The dealers are
essential to the sales to the stock farmers and feeders.
The sales are not in this aspect merely local transactions.
They create a local change of title, it is true, but they do
not stop the flow; they merely change the private interests in the subject of the current, not interfering with,
but, on the contrary, being indispensable to its continuity. The origin of the live stock is in the West, its ultimate destination known to, and intended by, all engaged
in the business is in the Middle West and East either as
meat products or stock for feeding and fattening. This
is the definite and well-understood course of business.
The stockyards and the sales are necessary factors in the
middle of this current of commerce."
This case was but the necessary consequence of the
conclusions reached in the case of Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375. That case was a milestone in the
interpretation of the commerce clause of the Constitution. It recognized the great changes and development
in the business of this vast country and drew again the
dividing line between interstate and intrastate commerce
where the Constitution intended it to be. - It refused to
permit local incidents of great interstate movement,
which taken alone were intrastate, to characterize the
movement as such. The Swift Case merely fitted the
commerce clause to the real and practical essence of modem business growth. It applies to the case before us
just as it did in Stafford v. Wallace.
The distinction that the exchange of the Chicago Board
of Trade building is not within the same enclosure as the

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

railroad yards and warehouses in which the grain is received and stored on its way from the West to the East
as it is being sold on the exchange, while the stockyards
exchange and the actual receipt and shipment of cattle
are within the same fence, surely can make no difference
in the application of the principle. The sales on the
Chicago Board of Trade are just as indispensable to the
continuity of the flow of wheat from the West to the
mills and distributing points of the East and Europe, as
are the Chicago sales of cattle to the flow of stock toward
the feeding places and slaughter and packing houses of
the East.
The question under this act is somewhat different in
form and detail from that in the Stafford Case, but the
result must be the same. It is not the sales and deliveries
of the actual grain which are the chief subject of the
supervision of federal agency by Congress in the Grain
Futures Act although a record of cash sales is required
and a comer in cash sales would be a violation of it, and
there are other provisions equally regulatory of them. It
is the contracts of sales of grain for future delivery, most
of which do not result in actual delivery but are settled
by offsetting them with other contracts of the same kind,
or by what is called "ringing." Chicago Board of Trade
v. Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 246-247.
The question is whether the conduct of such sales is subject to constantly recurring abuses which are a burden
and obstruction to interstate commerce in grain? And
further, are they such an incident of that commerce and
so intermingled with it that the burden and obstruction
caused therein by them can be said to be direct?
In United States v. Ferger,250 U. S. 199, the question
was of the validity of a statute of Congress punishing, the
forging of bills of lading used in interstate commerce,
and altering them. The lower court had dismissed an
indictment charging the offense denounced in the statute,

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

37

Opinion of the Court.

on the ground that Congress could only deal with real
bills of lading where there was an actual shipment in
interstate commerce and had no power to punish a fraud
and fiction where there was no such commerce, and where
the bills of lading whose fabrication was the subject of
complaint were mere pieces of paper fraudulently inscribed, and did not relate to any actual interstate commerce. This Court, speaking through Chief Justice
White, rejected the view of the lower court, on the ground
that interstate commerce would be directly impaired and
weakened by the unrestrained right to fabricate and circulate spurious bills of lading apparently connected with
such commerce. The Court, in Stafford v. Wallace, supra,
adopted and applied this principle and said, 258 'U. S.
521:
"Whatever amounts to more or less constant practice,
and threatens to obstruct or unduly to burden the freedom of interstate commerce is within the regulatory power
of Congress under the commerce clause, and it is primarily
for Congress to consider and decide the fact of the danger
and meet it. This court will certainly not substitute
its judgment for that of Congress in such a matter unless the relation of the subject to interstate commerce
and its effect upon it are clearly non-existent."
In the act we are considering, Congress has expressly
declared that transactions and prices of grain in dealing
in futures are susceptible to speculation, manipulation
and control which are detrimental to the producer and
consumer and persons handling grain in interstate commerce and render regulation imperative for the protection of such commerce and the national public interest
therein.
It is clear from the citations, in the statement of the.
case, of evidence before committees of investigation as
to manipulations of the futures market and their effect,
that we would .be unwarranted in rejecting the finding

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

of Congress as unreasonable, and that in our inquiry as
to the validity of this legislation we must accept the view
that such manipulation does work to the detriment of
producers, consumers, shippers and legitimate dealers in
interstate commerce in grain and that it is a real abuse.
But it is contended that it is too remote in its effect
on interstate commerce, and that it is not like the direct
additions to the cost of the producer of marketing cattle
by exorbitant charges and discrimination of commission
men and dealers, as in Stafford v. Wallace. It is said
there is no relation between prices on the futures market
and in the cash sales. This is hardly consistent with
the affidavits the plaintiffs present from the leading
economists, already referred to, who say that dealing
in futures stabilizes cash prices. It is true that the
curves of prices in the futures and in the cash sales are
not parallel and that sometimes one is higher and sometimes the other. This is to be expected because futures
prices are dependent normally on judgment of the parties
as to the future, and the cash prices depend on present
conditions, but it is very reasonable to suppose that the
one influences the other as the time of actual delivery
of the futures approaches, when the prospect of heavy
actual transactions at a certain fixed price must have a
direct effect upon the cash prices in unfettered sales.
The effect of such a "deal" as that of May, 1922, as
cxplained by Mr. J. H. Barnes, shows this clearly and
illustrates in a striking way the direct effect of such
manipulation in disturbing the actual normal flow of
grain in interstate commerce most injuriously. Mr.
Barnes also points out the effect of the operation of the
rule limiting deliveries to warehouse receipts from warehouses selected by the directors of the Board whose unregulated power to suspend or modify the rule pending
settlement, adds to the speculative character of the market and frightens consignors.

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

39

Opinion of the Court.

More than this, prices of grain futures are those upon
which an owner and intending seller of cah.grain is influenced to sell or not to sell as they offer a good opportunity to him to hedge oomfortably against future fluctuations. Manipulations of grain futures for speculative
profit, though not carried to the extent of a corner or
complete monopoly, exert a vicious influence and produce
abnormal and disturbing temporary fluctuations of prices
that are not responsive to actual supply and demand and
discourage not only this justifiable hedging but disturb
the normal flow of actual consignments. A futures market lends itself to such manipulation much more readily
than a cash market.
In the case of United States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525, an
indictment charged a conspiracy to run a corner by making purchases of quantities of cotton for future delivery,
by means of which the conspirators were to secure control
of the available supply of cotton in the country and enhance the price of cotton at will. It was contended that
even if the necessary result of this was an 6 bstruction of
interstate trade, it was so indirect as not to constitute a
restraint of it within the Federal Anti-Trust Law under
which the indictment was drawn. This Court held otherwise and sustained the indictment.
Corners in grain through trading in futures have not
been so frequent as they were before 1900, due, as the
plaintiffs aver, to the stricter rules of the Board of Trade
as to futures and to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, though
they do seem to have since occurred infrequently. The
fact that a comer in grain is brought about by trading in
futures shows the direct relation between cash prices and
actual commerce on the one hand, and dealing in futures
on the other, because a corner is not a monopoly of contracts only, it is a monopoly of the actual supply of grain
in commerce. It was this direct relation that led to the
decision in the Patten Case. If a corner and the enhance-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

ment of prices produced by buying futures directly burden
interstate cQmmerce in the article whose price is enhanced,
it would seem to follow that manipulations of futures
which unduly depress prices of grain in interstate commerce and directly influence consignment in that commerce are equally direct. The question of price dominates trade between the States. Sales of an article which
affect the country-wide price of the article directly affect
the country-wide commerce in it. By reason and authority, therefore, in determining the validity of this act, we
are prevented from questioning the conclusion of Congress that manipulation of the market for futures on the
Chicago Board of Trade may, and from time to time does,
directly burden and obstruct commerce between the States
in grain, and that it recurs and is a constantly possible
danger. For this reason, Congress has the power to provide the appropriate means adopted in this act by which
this abuse may be restrained and avoided.
The next provision of the act which is attacked as invalid is that which forbids a board, designated as a contract market, from excluding from membership in, and all
privileges on, its exchanges any duly authorized representative of a lawfully formed and conducted association
of producers having adequate financial responsibility, engaged in the cash grain business, and complying or agreeing to comply with the terms and conditions lawfully imposed on the other members, and which bars any rule forbidding the return by such association of the commissions
of its representative, less expenses, to the bona fide members of the cooperative association in proportion to their
consignments of grain to the exchange. It is said that
this will impair the value of membership in the Board and
will take the property of the members without due process
of law.
The Board of Trade conducts a business which is
affected with a public interest and is, therefore, subject to

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE v. OLSEN.

41

Opinion of the Court.

reasonable regulation in the public interest. The Supreme Court of Illinois has so .decided in respect to its
publication of market quotations. New York & Chicago
Grain Exchange v. Chicago Board of Trade, 127 Ill. 153.
In view of the actual interstate dealings in cash sales of
grain on the exchange, and the effect of the conduct of the
sales of futures upon interstate commerce, we find no difficulty under Munnv. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 133, and Stafford v. Wallace, supra, in concluding that the Chicago
Board of Trade is engaged in a business affected with a
public national interest and is subject to national regulation as such. Congress may, therefore, reasonably limit
the rules governing its conduct with a view to preventing
abuses and securing freedom from undue discrimination
in its operations. The incidental effect which such reasonable rules may have, if any, in lowering the value of
memberships does not constitute a. taking, but is only a
reasonable regulation in the exercise of the police power
of the National Government. Congress evidently deems
it helpful in the preservation of the vital function which
such a board of trade exercises in interstate commerce in
grain that producers and shippers should be given an opportunity to take part in the transactions in this world
market through a chosen representative. Nor do we see
why the requirement that the relation between them and
this representative, looking to economy of participation
on their part by a return of patronage dividends, should
not be permissible because facilitating closer participation
by the great body of producers in transactions of the
Board which are of vital importance to them. It would
seem to make for more careful supervision of those transactions in the national public interest in the free flow of interstate commerce. Under the present rules of the Board,
corporations are permitted to enjoy the benefit of membership by reason of the membership of two of their executive
officers who are bona fide stockholders, and all their stock-

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

holders are thus given a chance to enjoy the commissions
earned and the benefits to the corporation of other membership privileges to the extent of their stock ownership.
The provisions of the act objected to are to be sustained
on the principles laid down in House v. Mayes, 219 U. S.
270; Brodnax v. Missouri, 219 U. S. 285, and Grisim v.
South St. Paul Live Stock Exchange, 152 Minn. 271. We
think the objection to this feature of the act untenable.
We do not find it necessary to our decree in this case to
consider the constitutional objections made in the bill to
that part of the fourth section which forbids the use of
the mails and interstate facilities of communication to
offer or accept sales for future deliveries or to send quotations of prices thereof except through members of a board
of trade, because the plaintiffs are not affected thereby.
Section 10 of the act reads as follows:
"If any provision of this Act or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity
of the remainder of the Act and of the application of such
provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be
affected thereby."
The unconstitutionality of these provisions, if they be
unconstitutional, would, therefore, not invalidate the rest
of the act.
Section 9 declares it to be a misdemeanor for a member
of a designated board of trade to fail to evidence any contract mentioned in § 4 by a record in writing as therein
required. This is only a legitimate means of enforcing
the statutory regulations of the Board of Trade which we
have found to be within the power of Congress.
As to the power of Congress to provide in § 9 for the
punishment of any one who shall knowingly or carelessly
deliver through the mail or interstate means of communication false or misleading crop or market reports, it will
be time enough for us to consider its existence when some
one is charged with the offense and is brought to trial
therefor. The plaintiffs present no such case.

PRENDERGAST v. N. Y. TEL. CO.
Syllabus.

Paragraph (b) pf § 6 which gives to the Commission
the power, on complaint after investigation by the Secretary of Agriculture, and after a hearing, to exclude from
all contract markets any person violating any of the provisions of the act or attempting to manipulate the market
price of any grain in violation of the provisions of § 5 of
the act or of any of the rules or regulations made in pursuance to its requirements, is attacked as invalid because
a jury trial is not afforded. The plaintiffs do not aver that
they are committing acts which. will subject them to such
exclusion, or that charges have been made and -proceedings have been begun or are about to be begun against
them by the Secretary of Agriculture. Until they are
-thus in danger of suffering prejudice from the operation
of the paragraph, they can not invoke our decision as to
its validity.
For the reasons given the decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

dissent.

PRENDERGAST ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF THE STATE
OF NEW YORK, ET AL. v. NEW YORK TELEPHONE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 542. Argued February 21, 1923.--Decided April 16, 1923.
1. The fact that a public service commission, seven months after it
had been temporarily enjoined - from enforcing rates fixed by it
provisionally for a public service corporation, made final orders
fixing rates yielding a much higher return, does not, without more,
establish that the former rates were confiscatory when they were
made, and does not, therefore, constitute a sufficient basis for dismissing, on motion, an appeal from the temporary injunction. P. 46.

