PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
544

Syllabus.

of Wisconsin, was not a person "within its jurisdiction."
Moreover, the statutory provision complained of put nonresidents substantially upon an equality with residents.
Compare Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, 167. No
question of interstate commerce is involved. In my opinion the equal protection clause does not prevent Wisconsin from moulding, in the case of foreign corporations,
the details of its judicial procedure to accord with the requirements of justice.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

Nos. 15 and 16," Original. Argued December 8, 9, 1921; restored to
docket for reargument January 9, 1922; reargued February 28,
March 1, 1922; restored to docket for reargument November 13,
1922; reargued April 20, 1923.-Decided June 11, 1923.
1. A justiciable controversy between States, in the sense of the Judiciary Article, is presented when the plaintiff State, relying on
the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, seeks to enjoin the
defendant State from consummating a purpose, evinced by her
statutory enactment, and about to be carried out by her officials,
of withdrawing natural gas from an established current of commerce moving from her territory into that of the plaintiff, when
such withdrawal is likely to be productive of great injury to the
interests of the plaintiff as the proprietor of public institutions
and schools in which the gas is largely used, and to private consumers, including most of the inhabitants of many urban communities and a substantial part of the population of the plaintiff
State, whose health, comfort and welfare are seriously jeopardized
by the threatened withdrawal of the gas from the interstate
stream. P. 591.
2. Suits by Pennsylvania and Ohio to enjoin West Virginia from
enforcing an act of her legislature (c. 71, Acts 1919,) intended,
through regulation of pipe line companies, to compel the retention

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

262 U. S.

within West Virginia of all natural gas there produced, that might
be required for local needs, were not premature in not awaiting an
actual test of the act or an order of the public service commission
vested by it with functions for its enforcement, since the act
contains procedural, penal and remedial provisions adequate to
accomplish its purpose, and the situation when the suits were
brought was such that, directly and immediately, it would work a
large curtailment of the volume of gas moving into the complaining
States and, in a few years, with increasing demand and decreasing
production, would work a practical cessation of the interstate
stream which it was the object of the suits to protect. P. 592.
3. In such suits, neither the pipe line companies transporting and
supplying the gas, nor consumers in the defendant State who
would be benefited by an enforcement of the act, were essential
parties. P. 595.
4. A State wherein natural gas is produced and is a recognised subject of commercial dealings may not require of those producing and
transporting it that, in its sale and disposal, consumers in that
State shall be accorded a preferred right of purchase over consumers in other States, when the requirement necessarily will
operate to withdraw a large volume of the gas from an established
interstate current whereby it is supplied in other States, to consumers there. P. 595.
5. The purpose of the Commerce Clause is to protect commercial
intercourse from invidious restraints, to prevent interference
through conflicting or hostile state laws, and to insure uniformity
of regulation. It means, that, in the matter of interstate commerce, we are a single Nation--one and the same people. P. 596.
6. The transmission of natural gas from one State to another, for
sale and consumption in the latter, is interstate commerce, and a
state law, whether of the State where the gas is produced or of that
where it is to be sold, which by its necessary operation prevents,
obstructs or burdens such transmission, is a regulation of interstate
commerce--a prohibited interference. P. 596.
7. The power of a State to require gas pipe-line companies to furnish reasonably adequate service within reasonable territorial
limits, will not enable her to enforce preference to local consumption at the expense of interstate business which has grown up with
her sanction and encouragement. P. 597.
8. Interference with interstate commerce in natural gas cannot be
justified upon the ground that it is a measure designed to conserve
the gas, as a natural product of the State in the interest of her

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Statement of the Case.

people, because the gas has become a necessity and the supply
is no longer sufficient to satisfy local needs and be used abroad.
P. 598. West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229.
9. The Court, on full consideration, having reached the conclusion
that the West Virginia Act is unconstitutional, and that its intended
enforcement will subject the complaining States to injury of serious magnitude, operating with obvious inequity against them,-the appropriate decree is one declaring the act invalid, and enjoining its enforcement, leaving any needed regulation of the interstate commerce involved to be sought elsewhere. P. 600.
Decrees for complainants.
THESE

were two suits, brought originally in this Court,

to enjoin the defendant State from enforcing an enact-

ment of her legislature (c. 71, Acts 1919,) upon the
ground that it would curtail or cut off the supply of natural gas produced within her territory and carried by

pipe lines into the territory of the plaintiff States, and
there sold and used for fuel and lighting purposes.

The

act, and the facts constituting the situation to which it
applied, are fully analyzed in the opinion.'
Mr. John W. Davis and Mr. George E. Alter, Attorney
General of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with
whom Mr. John G. Price, Attorney General of the State
of Ohio, Mr. A. Leo Weil, Mr. E. E. Corn, Mr. Freeman
T. Eagleson and Mr. R. G. Altizer were on the briefs, for
2
plaintiffs.
'After the first argument, the Court, on January 9, 1922, ordered
the cases restored to the docket for reargument with special reference
to the questions whether the suit was not prematurely brought and
whether the bill presents a cause justiciable between the two States
parties to the action. See 257 U. S. 620. After reargument, the
cases were again, on November 13, 1922, restored to the docket for
reargument before a full bench.
'At the first hearing, the case was argued by Messrs. Alter and
Weil on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and by
Messrs. Price and Eagleson on behalf of the State of Ohio. At the
second hearing, the case was argued by Mr. Davis on behalf of both
States and by Mr. Alter on behalf of Pennsylvania.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

262 U. S.

The Act of West Virginia is an unconstitutional interference with established courses of interstate commerce.
The course of the gas from the well to the ultimate consumers in Pennsylvania and Ohio is determined by existing contract relations, public service duties in other
States, long-established courses of business and the physical structures adapted thereto. The gas that goes into
other States is actually in interstate commerce from the
time it leaves the wells until it reaches the ultimate consumers. UnitedFuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan,78 W. Va. 396;
257 U. S. 277; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service
Comm., 252 U. S. 23.
The whole design of the West Virginia statute is to
divert or retain for the benefit of West Virginia consumers natural gas that in the absence of the statute
would go to consumers in the other States through these
established channels of interstate commerce. This intention is made manifest:
(a) By the consideration of the extent and character
of the industry to which it applies, from which it appears
that the full supply of gas that the statute requires to be
furnished can be furnished only at the expense of consumers in other States. (b) By the history of the efforts
'of other States and of West Virginia to secure for themselves the exclusive or preferential enjoyment of their
natural products, of which the present act is the logical
development. West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S.
229, and cases there cited; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, supra. (c) By the very terms of the act, which in
effect if not in words, require that all gas produced in
West Virginia shall be supplied to West Virginia consumers so far as they want it for any purpose, domestic,
industrial, or other. (d) By the admissions in the answers, which in effect state that the purpose of the act is
to supply fully the requirements of West Virginia consumers out of the abundance of gas produced in the State
now going to supply consumers in other States.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Plaintiffs.

The statute, to the extent that it requires natural gas
that otherwise would go to other States to be diverted
or retained for the use of West Virginia consumers, is
equivalent to a prohibition upon the transmission of such
gas to such other States and is void as a discrimination
against interstate commerce. West v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, and cases there cited; Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall.
123; Welton v. Missouri,91 U. S. 275; Guy v. Baltimore,
100 U. S. 434; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Minnesota v. Barber 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S. 78.
It may be conceded that state regulations that have
to do primarily with matters of local concern, calling imperatively for regulation, and that do not discriminate
against or burden interstate commerce, are unobjectionable. Pennslyvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 252 U. S. 23. It is an open question, not involved
in this case, whether West Virginia, in the absence of
congressional action, could prescribe regulations more directly affecting interstate commerce -and designed to secure equality among consumers and the most advantageous use of the gas produced in her borders irrespective of
state lines, for example, regulations designed to secure a
preference, for domestic consumers everywhere over industrial consumers. There is no discrimination in favor
of consumers in Pennsylvania and Ohio and the act under
consideration is not designed to prevent such discrimination. Its intention and necessary effect are to produce
discrimination in favor of West Virginia.
The theory that there was an antecedent duty resting on the natural gas companies in West Virginia to supply fully the requirements of their West Virginia consumers before supplying gas for the use of consumers in
other States does not rest on any special provisions contained in their charters, or on any contract obligations

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

262 U. S.

into which they have entered. The preexisting obligation, if any, must be inferred from the fact that the companies in question had the power of eminent domain
under the West Virginia; law and were engaged
in the
business of supplying gas to the public in West Virginia.
The obligations of the companies in West Virginia to
supply gas for the use of consumers in Pennsylvania and
Ohio were assumed before there was any question of the
sufficiency of their supplids of gas both to meet fully the
requirements of their West Virginia consumers and to
meet fully the obligations assumed by them to furnish
gas to or for the use of consumers in other States. If the
order in time of the assumption of obligations were a matter of importance, the fact is that in large measure the
obligations to furnish gas for use in other States antedated the obligations assumed to furnish gas in West
Virginia. But it is believed that the order in time is of
no consequence. The public service duties in West Virginia and elsewhere and the contract obligations were
rightfully undertaken and were on a parity. When, by
reason of subsequent events, the supply of gas has become
insufficient to meet fully the wants of West Virginia
consumers and the commitments for the supply of consumers in other States, the burden of the shortage must
be borne on an equitable basis that recognizes this parity
of obligation.
The fact that the companies in West Virginia were
organized under the laws of that State, or were permitted
to do business there and were given the power of eminent
domain or were denominated common carriers, does not
invalidate contracts made by them to deliver gas in interstate commerce or import into their interstate contracts
and commitments a condition that they shall be subject
to a prior obligation on the part of the West Virginia
companies to supply fully the requirements of West Virginia consumers. A railroad organized under the laws

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Plaintiffs.

of a State and engaging in interstate commerce is not
under an implied duty to devote its facilities to meeting
fully the requirements of intrastate traffic in case they are
insufficient to fully meet both intrastate and interstate
requirements. Neither a public service corporation nor
other corporation should assume obligations that it is
unable to perform. But the situation here does not concern the propriety of a public service corporation's extending its service or entering into contracts and commitments that will interfere with its due performance of
the public service duties to which it is already subject, but
has to do with a system that already exists and has existed
for many years and has supplied adequate service in all
the States alike.
The act cannot be sustained on the ground that it is
the exercise by West Virginia of a right to impose new
duties on corporations of her creation or which she permits to do business within the State, or on any similar
ground.
The question whether West Virginia might originally
have imposed upon corporations of her cieation or upon
corporations which she permitted to do business within
the State the condition that they should supply fully the
requirements of West Virginia consumers before taking
any gas out of the State is not involved. On principle
the validity of such a statute may well be doubted.
There is here, however, an existing system of interstate
contracts, an established course and flow of interstate
commerce, and West Virginia cannot under the guise of
imposing new duties on corporations of her creation or
new conditions on foreign corporations doing business
within the State work a discrimination against or impose
burdens upon this interstate commerce. Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1.
The statute in fact applies to individuals and partnerships as well as to corporations; it applies not only to

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

262 U. S.

those who are engaged in the business of furnishing gas
to the public, but to all those who are furnishing or are
required by the common law or by statute to furnish gas
for the use of the public or any part of the public; it requires every person or corporation who is furnishing gas in
any place to furnish it in every place that can be reached
directly or indirectly by the lines of such person or corporation, and every person, firm or corporation who is
furnishing gas for special purposes to furnish it for all
purposes. It fastens not merely upon part but upon all
the gas produced by any of the persons named, "to the
extent of his supply produced in this state." It gives to
the West Virginia consumer a preferential right which in
times of scarcity must surely blossom into absolute monopoly. It can be sustained only on the theory that the
right of all the persons and corporations to whom it applies to engage in interstate commerce in natural gas and
all contracts entered into by them in furtherance of such
commerce are subject to the prior performance by such
persons and corporations of every obligation in favor of
West Virginia consumers that the legislature of West Virginia may see fit at any time to impose. But such a
theory substantially claims for West Virginia the right to
refuse to allow her natural gas to be taken out of the State,
which was the very right denied to Oklahoma in West v.
Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229.
There is no time after the gas comes into the possession
of the companies in West Virginia when it is not in interstate commerce. When it first comes out of the ground
or is first purchased from the local producer it comes into
the possession of the public utility company, dedicated, so
far as concerns the proportion thereof necessary to fulfill
interstate contracts and obligations, to interstate commerce. The proportion that has an interstate destination
is fixed from the first moment by existing contracts and
relations. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 87 W. Va.
396; 257 U. S. 277.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Plaintiffs.

But it may be said that the obligation of the statute
goes back of the production or purchase by the West
Virginia utility company, so that the gas first comes
into existence as a possible subject of interstate commerce already charged with the obligation created by the
statute. The answer to this suggestion is that the commerce clause is not confined in its operation to commodities in transit in interstate commerce. It renders void
legislation that would forbid the putting of property
into interstate commerce or the acquisition of property
for delivery in fulfillment of interstate commerce contracts just as effectively as it renders void legislation interfering with the transportation of goods after they are
in interstate commerce. The State may put many restrictions upon the production of gas, or on the manufacture of beer or on any other subjects of production
and manufacture; it may in the exercise of its police
powers prohibit altogether the manufacture of things
deemed noxious and any resulting effect on interstate
commerce is indirect and incidential; but if the State permits the production, or creation, or acquisition of a subject of commerce, it cannot limit such subject of commerce to intrastate commerce. It can no more by discriminatory legislation forbid the creation of a subject of
interstate commerce than it can forbid its transportation.
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190; Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519.
The bill of complaint in each case presents a cause
justiciable between the two States parties to the action.
Pennsylvania and Ohio sue to protect themselves and
their citizens in the enjoyment of the natural gas service
that has grown up under the free flow of interstate commerce against interference with that service by the wrongful act of West Virginia. The right they assert is their
right and the rights of their citizens to receive natural
gas that would come to them in the ordinary course of
51826°-23-36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

262 U.S.

interstate commerce following its accustomed channels
and unimpeded by any illegal obstruction. They do not
set up any title by contract or grant in the gas produced
in West Virginia but each State rests its cause on the
fact that there has grown up and is established'a definite
course of interstate commerce through the pipe line companies of West Virginia and the distributing systems in
the plaintiff State, on which its institutions and inhabitants are dependent for their supply of fuel and
which course of interstate commerce is threatened by the
act of West Virginia. In a broad sense, the unlawful
obstruction of interstate commerce threatened by West
Virginia would constitute a nuisance, which each State
has the right to have enjoined. The cause presents all
the elements necessary to sustain an ordinary cause of
action between individuals, to wit, a wrongful and unlawful act and special injury. The relation of cause and
effect between the act threatened by West Virginia and
the injury to the plaintiff States and their citizens would
be immediate, whether the gas passes from its source in
West Virginia to the consumers in the plaintiff States:
through the lines of a single company, or successively
through the lines of several companies, and whatever the
arrangements may be between the successive companies
through whose lines it may pass. It is sufficient that the
course of the gas from its source in West Virginia to the
consumers in the plaintiff States is so fixed by existing
facilities, business arrangements, contracts and custom
as to establish the relation of cause and effect between
the threatened interference on the part of West Virginia
and the apprehended injury to the plaintiff States and
their citizens.
The cause falls within the class of controversies justiciable between States.
The decisions indicate that the jurisdiction embraces
every controversy between States determinable by any

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Plaintiffs.

existing or discoverable rule which may be deemed to fix
their relative rights; in other words, every controversy
which if it arose between independent States might be
determined by arbitration and even controversies which
as between independent States would not be justiciable
because involving questions of independence or sovereignty or other matters of vital interest. Indeed, it would
seem that the jurisdiction must include every controversy
growing out of a grievance of one State against another,
for a State asserting a grievance must base it upon the
violation of some existing or assumed principle fixing
their relative rights. If the principle exists and the violation is proved a cause of action is made out; while if the
principle does not exist, judgment must go against the
complaining State upon the merits. Cohens v. Virginia,
6 Wheat. 264; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet.
657; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46.
But whatever limits there may be upon the jurisdiction
of the Supreme Court in controversies between States to
which no existing rule of international or municipal law
is applicable, the decided cases appear clearly to establish
that every controversy between States is justiciable when
(1) it involves a claim which if it arose between independent sovereignties might properly be prosecuted by
diplomatic representation, reprisal or war, and (2) which
is determinable by existing rules of international or municipal law. Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208; 200 U. S.
496; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46;
Georgiav. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230; 237 U. S.
474; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296.
The controversies between Pennsylvania and West Virginia and between Ohio and West Virginia are clearly
justiciable within the principles so established. In each
case there is a controversy between two States, involving
a grievance asserted by one against the other. The
asserted grievance is that the State complained against is

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiffs.

262 U. S.

threatening to do something that is forbidden by the Constitution governing the relations between the States and
which will cause injury to the complaining State and its
citizens. The Constitution itself and a long line of decisions interpreting the meaning of the Commerce Clause
furnish the rules of law for the determination of the
controversy.
To the suggestion that the suit cannot be maintained
because it is brought to redress the grievance of individual citizens there are two answers: (1) Each of the
plaintiff States sues as well in its own behalf in the capacity of owner and proprietor of its institutions, etc., and
guardian of their inmates as in the capacity of representative or parens patrim of its citizens. (2) In suing in a
representative capacity the States do not represent individual citizens but the consuming public served by the
public utilities companies that derive their gas from West
Virginia.
While a State may not sue in this Court to promote
purely private interests, it may properly sue to protect the
health and comfort of its inhabitants and the value of
their property, though in its sovereign capacity or in its
capacity - as proprietor it has no interest in the controversy, and though the danger it seeks to avert does not
threaten all of its inhabitants, or does not threaten all of
them in like degree. Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208;
200 U. S. 496; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206
U. S. 46; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296. The
line between the cases in which a State may bring suit as
representative of its citizens and the cases in which it will
be regarded as not a real party to the controversy is not
hard to find. A State may not use its power of eminent
domain or its taxing power for the benefit of an individual
or for the benefit of defined individuals, however numerous. It may, however, use its power of eminent domain
and its taxing power for the benefit of the public. But

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Plaintiffs.

the public does not mean necessarily all the people. So
a State may maintain a suit for- the benefit of the public
though the public immediately concerned is less than all.
The same principles that determine in other fields of action what are public and what are private purposes will
serve to determine the cases in which a State may sue as
representative of its citizens. Pennsylvania and Ohio sue
for the benefit of all their citizens who are or may be dependent on -the public service companies obtaining their
supplies of natural gas from West Virginia. These citizens constitute the same public in whose behalf these
States authorize their public service companies to exercise the power of eminent domain, and in whose behalf
they assume the right to regulate the rates and service
of the public service companies. This great class, including a great proportion of the population of each State,
must be regarded not as the mere sum of the individuals
of which it is at any given time composed, but as a part or
factor of the community itself.
It is too late to question the right of a State to maintain a suit in this Court based on the Commerce Clause of
the Constitution to protect its own proprietary rights.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co., 9
How. 647; 11 How. 528; 13 How. 518; 18 How. 421.
The Commerce Clause establishes, in the absence of
congressional action to the contrary, the right to free
trade between the States. It is a right which is the subject no less of judicial than of legislative protection.
Whenever it is interfered with by state action, those injured, whether individuals or a State in its proprietary
capacity, are entitled to resort to the courts for relief. In
addition a State may sue as the representative of her citizens when there is special injury done or threatened to
the special public whose interest and welfare it is the
function of the State to safeguard.
The law of West Virginia is wrongful; through its
effect upon an established and definite course of interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

commerce it reaches into the territory of the plaintiff
States, and there does injury to the plaintiff States and
their citizens. The liability of West Virginia to suit rests
upon the same principle declared in Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46, 97, 98.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, determined
for all time that controversies between States are not excluded from the cognizance of this Court because they
involve questions that are political in their nature, and
Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208; 200 U. S. 496; Kansas
v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46, and New York
v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, are illustrations of the fact
that a State is not immune from suit on account of the
extra-territorial effect of its own laws, because such laws
also immediately affect persons or property within its
own jurisdiction, and have a final object which if sought
to be attained by lawful means would be a proper aim for
state legislation.
These suits are not prematurely brought.
Mr. George M. Hoffheimer, with whom Mr. Edward T.
England, Attorney General of the State of West Virginia,
Mr. Fred 0. Blue, Mr. Philip P. Steptoe and Mr. William
S. John were on the briefs, for defendant. 8
In neither case does the bill present a cause justiciable
between the two States.
Whether a suit is against a State, in the constitutional
sense, is a matter of substance and effect, not to be determined by the names of the parties.
Conceding that no hard and fast line has yet been
drawn delimiting the justiciable and the non-justiciable
between States, Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, 241,
we think that a brief survey of the cases and the mode of
8

At the first hearing the case was argued on behalf of the State of
West Virginia by Messrs. Hoffheimer, Blue and Steptoe. At the
second hearing it was argued by Messrs. Blue and Hoffheimer.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

their disposition, Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S.
265, 287, 297, readily marks the present litigation as falling within the latter category. It is not the "subject of
judicial cognizance," Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1, 15;
Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 15; Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208, 233, or "susceptible of judicial solution."
Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 18, 22; Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208, 233, 234.
Of the cases of which this Court has taken original
jurisdiction the most numerous have been those relating
to the boundaries or territorial integrity.
In another class of cases jurisdiction was exercised because of a nuisance by the invasion of the plaintiff States
by sewerage or disease germs polluting their waters and
soil, to the injury, actual or threatened, of the lives, health
and property of the citizens of those States. Examples
are Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208; 200 U. S. 496;
and New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296. Falling
within the same category is Georgia v. Tennessee Copper
Co., 206 U. S. 230.
These nuisance cases are identical in principle with
the boundary cases. The sovereign rights and territorial
integrity of a State may be as effectually invaded or infringed by the casting or precipitation thereon of intangible, but nevertheless noxious, bacteria or gases as by
visible seizure of its lands. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.
125; 206 U. S. 46, was similar in aspect. In Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co., 13 How. 518,
the suit was treated "as brought to protect the property
of the State."
Another class of cases has been those of contract,--of
indebtedness from one State to another, or to the creditors
of the latter, from the debts to whom the plaintiff was
entitled to exoneration at the hands of the defendant.
South Dakotav. North Carolina,192 U.S. 286; Virginia v.
West Virginia, 206 U. S. 290; 220 U. S. 1; 238 U. S. 202;

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

United States v. North Carolina,136 U. S. 211; United
States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379. Comparison of South
Dakotav. North Carolina,and Virginia v. West Virginia,
with New Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76, indicates
that jurisdiction in the former cases was predicated upon
the property rights in the plaintiff States or the protection
of their corporate credit.
But we have found no instance in which this Court has
entertained original jurisdiction predicated solely upon
the right of the plaintiff State as parens patriae, or as the
representative of its citizens, to enforce their private
grievances or to protect their private claims arising out
of the enforcement of the law of another State, in the
absence of a special or additional right of the character
above indicated in the plaintiff State itself. Vide, New
Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; New York v.
Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1;
Oklahoma v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 220
U. S. 277; Oklahoma v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry.
Co., 220 U. S. 290. And see: North Dakota v. Chicago
& N. W. Ry. Co., 257 U. S. 485; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518, 559; Cherokee Nation v.
Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 20.
From the foregoing it is evident that a suit by one
State against another cannot be predicated upon the mere
relation of parens patriae; that something more than a
willingness or desire to vindicate the supposed rights of
the plaintiff's citizens is requisite; and that the multiplicity or unanimity of complaints by the citizens of the
one State against the acts of the other cannot, by a
process of aggregation or combination, be erected into a
controversy between States or present a cause justiciable
between such States.
It follows that no justiciable cause arises by reason of
the alleged threatened deprivation or shortage of gas
supply to the inhabitants of the plaintiff States. And

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

much the more is this true in respect of the alleged infringement of constitutional guaranties of companies engaged in gas transportation, or of citizens of the plaintiff
States alleged to have made investments in West Virginia,
"since it is a well settled rule of this Court that it only
hears objections to the constitutionality of a law from
those who are affected by its alleged unconstitutionality
in the features complained of." "The plaintiffs must
show that their own rights are infringed." Jeffrey Mfg.
Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571; New York Central R. R. Co.
v. White, 243 U. S. 188; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.531; Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S. W.
Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134; Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant,
257 U. S.282.
If original jurisdiction is attempted to be sustained because of the supply of West Virginia gas to municipalities
or public institutions in Ohio and Pennsylvania, the jurisdiction is equally negatived by the above cited cases.
Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 18; Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208, 249; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.125, 145.
The alleged right to West Virginia gas claimed by
the plaintiffs for themselves and their inhabitants, if
such right exists, is a right, not against the State of
West Virginia, but against the gas companies to whom
the plaintiffs and their inhabitants look for their gas
supply. If the right exists against the West Virginia public service gas companies by whom the gas is furnished,
either directly or remotely, it is mainfest that the right can
rise no higher than that of the companies themselves.
As against the State of West Virginia the claim in substance is, not that West Virginia has directed its action
against the plaintiffs, but that by the exercise of governmental power against the public service companies within
the boundaries of West Virginia, the plaintiffs are, or
may be, affected consequentially.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

Whether the West Virginia companies shall furnish gas
to or for the plaintiffs, is at most a matter of controversy
between such companies and the plaintiffs, and not a
controversy between the plaintiffs and West Virginia,
within the meaning of the Constitution; and the question
whether West Virginia may validly regulate its public
service corporations in the manner attempted by the
statute in litigation, involves a controversy between West
Virginia and such corporations, and is not a controversy
between States within the meaning of the Constitution.
The suits were not necessarily premature merely because no action was taken by West Virginia or its Public
Service Commission under the statute. The suits were
premature in the sense that, at the time of their commencement, the practical operation of the statute had not
been tested, and no threatened injury of serious magnitude was clearly or convincingly proved, or susceptible of
clear or convincing proof. Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v.
Michigan Railroad Comm., 231 U. S. 457; Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S.46, 117; Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S.
496, 521; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296; and
other cases.
These cases must be considered in the light of the
peculiar nature of gas and of the gas companies, and the
exceptional rules of law applicable thereto. Brown v.
Spilman, 155 U. S.665; Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana,177 U. S.
190; Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S.300; Westmoreland Gas Co. v. Dewit, 130 Pa. St. 235; Bacon v.
Walker, 204 U. S. 311.
The statute does no more than to declare, and to prescribe appropriate procedure for the enforcement of, the
obligation of each public service gas company to furnish
reasonably adequate service within reasonable territorial
limits. It does not require unreasonable service or unreasonable extension by any company.
The public service gas companies were and are obligated, irrespective of the statute in contest, to furnish

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

West Virginia consumers a reasonably adequate supply of
gas, and they cannot lawfully abandon or disable themselves from performing the obligation.
It was within the right and power of the State to regulate the gas companies. The right and power are based
on: (1) The implied condition accompanying the grant of
rights and privileges to the companies; (2) the reserved
power to alter or repeal corporation charters and laws;
and (3) the police power.
The statute is a legitimate exercise of the police power.
From the social and economic dependency on gas in
reasonably adequate volume, the domestic and industrial
evils resulting from the lack of such service, and the " fact
accomplished" that there is now, and for several years
has been, insufficient West Virginia gas to permit at once
the full-measure of service in West Virginia and the other
States to which it was and is transported, admittedly there
must be, in the nature of things, a limitation upon the
service and consumption of gas, in respect of either the
purposes of the consumption or the territorial area of
supply.
In this situation, it was and is incumbent on some one
to formulate and enforce suitable regulations. And the
Congress not having acted, even in respect of the interstate transportation of gas (Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309,
§ 7, 36 Stat. 539, 544; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public
Service Commission, 252 U. S. 23, 30), the exercise of a
regulatory power must emanate either from the State or
from the gas companies.
As to the police power over the general subject, see
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190; Walls v. Midland
Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61.
The police power is "one of the most essential of powers, at times the most insistent, and always one of the
least limitable of the powers of government." District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138, 149. As said in Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 66, 77,
"this power can neither be abdicated nor bargained
away, and is inalienable even by express grant; and . . .
all contract and property rights are held subject to its
fair exercise. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Goldsboro,
232 U. S. 548."
The public welfare to which the protection of the power
extends, embraces not only public health, morals, and
safety, but also the public convenience and the general
prosperity. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v.
Illinois, 200 U. S. 561; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311;
Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137; Sligh v. Kirkwood,
237 U. S. 52; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,
238 U. S. 66.
The scope of this power, and its flexibility in meeting
and dealing with modern conditions, are illustrated in
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389, where
state regulation of fire insurance rates was upheld; and,
again, in Hall v. Geiger-JonesCo., 242 U. S. 539; Caldwell
v. Sioux Falls Stockyards Co., 242 U. S.599; and Merrick
v. Halsey, 242 U. S. 568, upholding "Blue Sky laws."
Measures to safeguard the business prosperity of the
State are exampled by the prohibition of monopolies and
combinations in restraint of trade, Waters-Pierce Oil Co.
v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433; Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224
U. S.270; InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234
U. S.199; of unfair competition, Central Lumber Co. v.
South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157; and of the sale or shipment of products detrimental to the business reputation
of an important industry, Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S.50.
If it be true that in any instance the State may legislate
in the interest of the health and general business prosperity of its inhabitants, it must follow that health may
be preserved against injury by cold as well as by disease

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

or adulteration of food, and that the industry of the State
may be protected as well from destruction by deprivation
of necessary fuel as from mere injury by practices hurtful
to its trade or reputation. Upon this ground, aside from
any peculiar relations or obligations affecting public
service corporations, it is plain that the State may legislate in defense of its people and its industries in prevention of a real and present danger arising from deprivation
of gas.
Nor is it an answer that the State did not interpose
earlier. While the gas supply was adequate there was
no occasion for the exertion of the State's power. And
regardless of this, the delay did not detract from the
power. German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S.389;
Thornton v. Duffy, 254 U. S.361, 369.
Assuming, as we have already shown, that the supply
of industrial gas is, by the holding out by the gas companies of their readiness and willingness to furnish such
gas (subject only to the needs of domestic consumers)
and by the settled law of West Virginia, a public service,
ClarksburgLight Co. v. Public Service Comm., 84 W. Va.
638; Kelly Axe Mfg. Co. v. Public Service Comm., 87
W. Va. 105; Mill Creek Coal Co. v. Public Service Comm.,
84 W. Va. 662; there is no distinction in principle between that service and the domestic service. Between the
supply of gas for domestic purposes and for industrial
use there is but one difference. The service differs only
in degree of necessity because the hardship is personally
more acute in case of failure of the domestic supply than
where the failure pertains to the industrial supply. This,
of course, constitutes a sufficient basis for classification,
preferential to the domestic consumer. The uses to which
gas may be applied in West Virginia was and is a local
question for the determination of the legislature of that
State; and the objections of the plaintiffs go, as said in
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, 211, "not to the

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

power to make the regulations, but to their wisdom."
Lindsley v. Nat. Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 76, 77;
Walls v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300.
As to forebodings that the enforcement of the statute
as to industrial consumers will absorb all the West Virginia gas, these are wholly speculative, and "mere
prophecies which are ventured." Tanner v. Little, 240
U. S. 369, 385.
If a decision of the Commission as to reasonable adequacy, in respect of either volume or economy of consumption, is deemed erroneous, the gas companies will
have their day in court. Such questions can be answered
when they arise.
The burden being on the plaintiffs to show a violation
of
guaranties there
be no declaration
of constitutional
unconstitutionality upon mere can
loose opinion or conjecture.
The plaintiffs claim through the gas companies, and
have no higher right or title to relief.
The statute works no impairment of obligation of
contracts, nor does it deprive of property without due
process of law, nor deny equal protection of the laws.
If the State may validly compel the rendition of adequate service to its people by public service corporations
operating within its borders, the State's authority cannot be defeated by expenditures in aid of evasion of that
service, or contracts or arrangements having that result.
The contention that the seven companies engaged in
business, and that their pipe lines and pump stations were
constructed and are used as facilities for the service of
consumers in foreign States, is fallacious.
If fairly compensated, the gas companies are not entitled to refuse to West Virginia an adequate service
merely because a greater remuneration can be obtained
elsewhere.
Whatever may be the result in reference to property
devoted to the service of consumers in other States or to

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

contracts made with them, or consequentially affecting
their service, the constitutional power of West Virginia,
nevertheless, remains clear and certain. The expenditures for that property and those contracts were made
subject to the police power of the State and find no protection in the constitutional provisions against the impairment of the obligation of a contract or the deprivation of property without due process of law or any other
guaranty of the State or Federal Constitution. Chicago,
Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S.
549; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,238 U. S.
67; Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.
348; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342;
Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service Corp.,
248 U. S. 372; Erie R. R. Co. v. Board of Public Utility
Commissioners, 254 U. S. 394.
What has been said above applies equally to the claim
of abridgment of privileges and immunities of citizens
of other States or of the United States. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Commercial Mill Co., 218 U. S. 406.
The plaintiff States are not citizens of any State or of
the United States, Stone v. South Carolina, 117 U. S.
430; Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 487;
Title Guaranty& Surety Co. v. Idaho, 240 U. S. 136; and
the gas companies are not citizens within the privileges
and immunities clauses of the Federal Constitution.
Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239; Western Turf Association v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359; Selover v. Walsh, 226
U. S. 112.
The statute does not regulate interstate commerce.
We think that to the objection, based on the Commerce
Clause, there are several answers:
(1) The West Virginia public service corporations have
no right to engage in interstate commerce, except in subordination to the performance of their duties to the State;

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

(2) If interstate commerce is affected, the effect is only
indirect and incidental, and therefore, in the absence of
congressional enactment, the effect is not violative of the
Commerce Clause; and,
(3) The duties of these corporations to the State in
respect of their gas exist not only during interstate commerce therein, but also before the entry of the gas
into that commerce; and the gas enters interstate
commerce subject to those duties and the operation of
the statute.
The question here is, not whether a State may prohibit
or restrict the transportation of natural gas from its territory into another State, but whether the State may
require companies-owing to its people the obligation of
adequate service-to perform that service, even though
the performance may involve the intrastate consumption
of gas which otherwise might be transported to another
State.
If the gas companies owe a duty to the people of West
Virginia, the performance of that duty cannot be evaded
merely because they prefer to enter into interstate commerce rather than to perform it. Hudson County Water
Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 348; Manufacturers Light Co.
v. Ott, 215 Fed. 940, 951; South Covington Ry. Co. v.
Kentucky, 252 U. S. 399; Erie R, R. Co. v. Public Commissioners, 254 U. S. 394.
If it be true, that a gas company, or its business, or the
commodity in which it deals, is affected by the public
interest, precedents are not wanting to show that the
principles relating to interstate commerce in ordinary
goods and chattels are inapplicable.
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; New York v. Hesterberg, 211
U. S. 31.
It is no answer to what has been said that if a State can
compel a supply of gas to its citizens and thereby prevent
its exportation to another State, the other State may

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

impose a similar restriction on the interstate shipment of
corn, wheat, lumber or other commodities. Those commodities lack entirely the exhaustibility and other peculiarities of gas. Until their production or distribution
shall become affected with a public interest in the sense
that the gas business is so affected, no such case will
occur. Tanner v. Little, 240 U. S. 369; Noble State Bank
v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; German Alliance Ins. Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U. S. 389.
In West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229,
neither the corporations and individuals who were plaintiffs, nor their gas, could be said to be affected with a
public use, since the persons themselves were not engaged
in the business of public gas supply in Oklahoma, and
their gas was required by no present necessity in that
State. The Oklahoma statute was not in substance, or
even ostensibly, enacted in regulation of a public utility,
so as to render merely indirect or incidental any decrease
in the volume of gas transported out of the State. On
the contrary, the principal and direct design of the Oklahoma statute was to prevent exportation of gas. Haskell
v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 224 U. S. 217, 221.
The later decisions in Public Utilities Comm. v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236, and Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public
Service Comm., 252 U. S. 23, as well as Franke v. Johnstown Fuel Supply Co., 70 Pa. Super. Ct. 446, recognize
the local character of gas supply and its regulation, even
though the gas has been in interstate commerce.
Interference, if any, with interstate commerce is indirect and incidental. The direct purpose of the law is to
compel the performance of a public duty by those obligated to perform it, and by a legitimate exercise of the
police power to protect against the injury to persons and
property consequent on the failure to perform the public
duty. Conceivably, interstate commerce might not be
affected at all, and this is presently true, if, as the evi51826°-23-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U. S.

dence indicates, the gas companies hold in reserve sufficient territory to supply the deficit without subtracting
from the quantity of gas transported to other States.
But even if the quantity of gas entering into interstate
commerce should be diminished as a consequence of the
statute, the authorities well establish that the Commerce
Clause would not stand in the way. To argue to the contrary would be to contend that the State would stand
powerless to relieve its citizens from the most flagrant
discrimination, or even against a total deprivation of gas,
at the hands of its public service corporations, which, for
gain, preferred to serve consumers in other States.
The validity of state legislation incidentally or indirectly affecting interstate commerce, even though it
diverts to the local need commodities or facilities which
otherwise might go into or aid interstate commerce, has
repeatedly been upheld. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio,
183 U. S. 238; Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; New
York v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31; Hudson County Water
Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 348; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237
U. S. 52; Jamieson v. IndianaNatural Gas Co., 128 Ind.
555.
The police power of the State embraces, to this extent
of indirect or incidental interference, commodities which
are actually in interstate commerce. The fact that they
are in such commerce does not necessarily withdraw them
from the operation of reasonable state laws. The repeatedly held valid state inspection and labelling laws,
designed to promote public health and safety, though applied to commodities in original packages, are a commonplace example. The rule is the same as to the instrumentalities of interstate commerce.
Though interstate commerce be incidentally or indirectly affected, the police power of the State includes the

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Argument for Defendant.

authority to compel a reasonably adequate service to the
communities within it at the hands of a public service
corporation, though it is engaged in interstate commerce;
and up to the point where reasonably adequate local facilities are afforded by a public service corporation, the
State may exercise a free hand. Until that point is
passed, interstate commerce is not unconstitutionally
infringed. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 237 U. S. 220; Mobile, etc. R. R.
Co. v. Mississippi, 210 U. S. 187; Gladson v. Minnesota,
166 U. S. 427; Lake Shore, etc. Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S.
285; Wisconsin, etc. R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S.
287; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North Carolina
Corp. Comm., 206 U. S. 1; Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Larabee Flour Mills Co., 211 U. S. 612; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; Washington v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510; Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Michigan
R. R. Comm., 231 U. S. 457; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co.
v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334; Michigan Central R. R. Co. v.
RailroadComm., 236 U. S. 615; Illinois Central R. R. Co.
v. Mulberry Hill Coal Co., 238 U. S. 275; Seaboard Air
Line Ry. Co. v. Railroad Comm., 240 U. S. 324.
But the objection that interstate commerce is interfered with, fails entirely when the transaction is analyzed
in point of time. The duty of reasonably adequate service rests on the gas company in its character of a public
service corporation. It exists prior to and contemporaneously with its acquisition of the gas, wherewith it is
to perform its duty.
That the production of gas, or coal, or any other commodity, though intended for interstate commerce, is not
interstate commerce, is now settled. See Heisler v.
Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
R. R. Co. v. Yurkonis, 238 U. S. 439; United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S. 344; Public Utilities

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant.

262 U.S.

Co. v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236; Pennsylvania Gas Co. v.
Public Service Comm., 252 U. S. 23; Franlke v. Johnstown Fuel Supply Co., 70 Pa. Super. Ct. 446.
Before gas can enter into interstate commerce, it must
become property susceptible of such commerce. Until
it is reduced to possession by being brought into the well
or to the surface of the earth, there is no property in it,
save as a qualified right thereto as part of the land. Walls
v. Midland Carbon Co., 254 U. S. 300; Ohio Oil Co. v.
Indiana,177 U. S. 190; West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co.,
221 U. S. 229; Peoples Gas Co. v. Tyner, 131 Ind. 281;
Hall v. Vernon, 47 W. Va. 295.
Until reduced to possession, the gas is part of the real
estate. Brown v. Spilman, 155 U. S. 665; Carterv. Tyler
County Court, 45 W. Va. 806;. Preston v. White, 57
W. Va. 278; Warren v. Boggs, 83 W. Va. 89; and other
cases.
It follows, therefore, that at the very moment when
gas produced by or for a public service gas company becomes property, and the subject of commerce, it finds the
gas company incumbered with the obligation of public
service, and subject to the statute. This is true, even
though the gas is straightway discharged into the pipe
line. It is the more clearly true of those wells which are
shut in either upon completion of the drilling or in order
to rest them after a period of use.
In this aspect there is no distinction between the gas
produced by the gas company itself and that purchased
from other producers. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517;
Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245; Champlain Realty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366.
Hallananv. United Fuel Gas Co., 257 U. S. 277, did not
directly involve the question of adequacy of public service
in West Virginia by the United Fuel Gas Company. We
think that with the added element of the duty of public
service on the part of the owner of the pipe line, the pipe

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

line is properly viewed, not only as an instrumentality of
transportation, but also as a reservoir for the distribution
of the gas, both that supplied within the State and that
destined for other States. And in this light a situation is presented more nearly like that involved in
Champlain Realty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U. S. 366;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S. 504; General Oil Co. v. Crain,
209 U. S. 211; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed,
192 U. S. 500; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188
U. S. 82.
We think, too, the fact that in the HallananCase, much
the greater part of the gas was destined to other States, as
was the condition of most of the grain in Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50, creates a distinction. These
cases may apply when most of a commodity is to be taken
to another State. But the question remains whether
they apply to gas in a pipe line, most of which is intended
for consumption within the State; and whether they will
govern even in the ultimate time when by reason of the
continuing depletion of the gas ninety-nine per cent. of
the gas in a particular pipe line remains in West Virginia
and one per cent. goes elsewhere.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These are suits, one by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the other by the State of Ohio, to enjoin the
State of West Virginia from enforcing an act passed by
her legislature (c. 71, Acts 1919) which the complainants
believe will largely curtail or cut off the supply of natural
gas heretofore and now carried by pipe lines from West
Virginia into their territory and there sold and used for
fuel and lighting purposes. Although distinct, the suits
are so much alike that they have been presented at the
bar substantially as a single case. They will be dealt with
accordingly in this opinion.

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The West Virginia Act is set forth at length in the
margin.' The complainants challenge its validity on the
ground that it directly interferes with interstate commerce and therefore contravenes the commerce clause of
1

The Act was passed February 10, 1919, went into effect May 11,
1919, and reads as follows:
"Section 1. That every person engaged in furnishing, or required
by law (whether statutory or common law) to furnish, natural gas
for public use, or for the use of the public, or any part of the public, whether for domestic, industrial or other consumption, within this
state, shall to the extent of his supply of said gas produced in this
state, (whether produced by such person or by any other person),
furnish for public use within the territory of this state, and for
the use of the public and every part of the public within the
territory of this state, in or from which such gas is produced,
or through which said gas is transported, or which is served by
such person, a supply of natural gas reasonably adequate
for the purposes, whether domestic, industrial or otherwise,
for which natural gas is consumed or desired to be consumed
by the public, or any part of the public, within said territory
in this state, and for which said consumer or consumers therein
shall apply and be ready and willing to make payment
at lawful rates.
"Sec. 2. That in case any person engaged in furnishing, or required by law (whether statutory or common law) to furnish, natural
gas for public use within this state, or for the use of the public or
any part of the public within this state, shall have a production or
supply of natural gas which is, or probably will be, insufficient to
furnish for such use, (for the purposes, whether domestic, industrial
or otherwise, for which natural gas is consumed by the public or
any part of the public), within the territory in this state served by
such person, then and in that event the public service commission
shall have authority, and the same is hereby conferred on it, upon
the application of any such person or any of his consumers within
this state and after due hearing upon notice and proof to the satisfaction of the commission that public convenience and necessity so
require, to order any other person engaged in furnishing, or required by law (whether statutory or common law) to furnish, natural gas for public use within this state, and producing or furnishing
natural gas for public use in said territory or transportng the same
through said territory, to furnish to such person having such in-

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution of the United States; and they rest their
right to relief on the grounds that to enforce the act will
subject them to irreparable injury in respect of many of
their public institutions and governmental agencies, which
sufficient production or supply, natural gas for the purpose of supplying such deficiency, at and during such times, upon and at such
just and reasonable terms, conditions and rates, and in such
amounts, as the commission shall prescribe. And whenever, after
such hearing upon notice and proof, the commission shall determine
that public convenience and necessity so require, the commission
shall have authority to provide for and compel the establishment
of a reasonable physical connection or connections between the lines,
pipes or conduits of such person having such excess supply of gas
and the lines, pipes or conduits of the person having such deficiency
of supply, and to require the laying and construction of such reasonable extensions of lines, pipes or conduits as may be necessary for
the establishment of such physical connection or connections, and
to ascertain, determine and fix the just and reasonable terms and
conditions of such connection or connections, including just and
reasonable rules and regulations and provisions for the payment of
the costs and expense of making the same or for the apportionment of such cost and expense as may appear just and reasonable.
Provided, however, that no person shall, by virtue of this section,
be ordered to furnish natural gas to any other person so engaged in
furnishing, or required by law to furnish, natural gas for public use,
except to the extent that the person so ordered to furnish natural
gas shall, at the time, have a production or supply of natural gas in
excess of the quantity sufficient to furnish a reasonably adequate
supply to his consumers within this state; nor shall any person, by
virtue of this section, be ordered to furnish natural gas to any
other person so engaged in furnishing or required by law to furnish, natural gas for public use in a territory within this state,
if and when the said person having said excess shall, to the extent of such excess, be ready and willing to furnish, and within such
time as the commission shall prescribe shall actually furnish, to the
consumers within said territory a reasonably adequate supply of
natural gas.
"Sec. 3. That insofar as the same shall not be in conflict with this
act, all of the authority, powers, jurisdiction and duties conferred and
imposed on the public service commission by the act entitled, 'An
act to create a public service commission and to prescribe its powers

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

long have been and now are using this gas, and will subject them to further and incalculable injury in that (a)
it will imperil the health and comfort of thousands of

their people who use the gas in their homes and are largely
and duties, and to prescribe penalties for the violations of the provisions of this act,' passed February twenty-first, one thousand nine
hundred and thirteen, as amended by the act entitled, 'An act to
amend and re-enact sections one, two, three, four, five, nine, ten,
*fourteen, fifteen and twenty-two, of chapter nine of the acts of one
thousand nine hundred and thirteen, creating a public service commission, prescribing its powers and duties, and penalties for violation of the provisions of said chapter, and to add thereto six sections
to be known as sections twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five,
twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, enlarging the powers and
duties of said public service commission, prescribing additional penalties and giving to the commission power to punish for contempt,'
passed February tenth, one thousand nine hundred and fifteen, are
hereby conferred and imposed on the public service commission in
respect to the subject matter of this act, or any part thereof.
"Sec. 4. That in case of violation of any provision of this act any
person aggrieved or affected thereby may. complain thereof to the
public service commission in like manner, and thereupon such procedure shall be had, as is provided in respect to other complaints to
or before said commission, and all such proceedings and remedies
may be taken or had for the enforcement or review of the order or
orders of said commission, and for the punishment of the violation
of such order or orders, as are provided by law in respect to other
orders of said commission. In case of. the violation of any provisions
of this act, the public service commission, or any person aggrieved
or affected by such violation, in his own name, may apply to any
court of competent jurisdiction by a bill for injunction, petition for
writ of mandamus or other appropriate action, suit or proceeding,
to compel obedience to and compliance with this act, or to prevent
the violation of this act, or any provision thereof, pending the proceedings before said commission, and thereafter until final determination of any action, suit or proceeding for the enforcement or review
of the final order of said commission; and such court shall have
jurisdiction to grant the appropriate order, judgment or decree in the
premises.
"Sec. 5. That if any person subject to the provisions of this act
shall fail or refuse to comply with any requirement of the commis-

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

dependent thereon, and (b) will halt or curtail many industries which seasonally use great quantities of the gas
and wherein thousands of persons are employed and millions of taxable wealth are invested.
sion hereunder, such person shall be subject to a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars for
each offense; and such person, or the officers of the corporation,
where such person is a corporation, may be indicted for their failure
to comply with any requirement of the commission under the provisions of this act, and upon conviction thereof, may be fined not
to exceed five hundred dollars, and in the discretion of the court,
confined in jail not to exceed thirty days. Every day during which
any person, or any officer, agent or employee of such person, shall
fail to observe and comply with any order or direction of the commission, or to perform any duty enjoined by this act, shall constitute
a separate and distinct violation of such order or direction of this
act, as the case may be.
"Sec. 6. That any person claiming to be damaged by any violation of this act may bring suit in his own behalf for the recovery of
the damage from the person or persons so violating the same in any
circuit court having jurisdiction. In any such action the court may
compel the attendance of the person or persons against whom said
action is brought, or afiy officer, director, agent or employee of such
person or persons, as a witness, and also require the production of all
books, papers and documents which may be useful as evidence, and in
the trial thereof such witness may be compelled to testify, but any
such witness shall not be prosecuted for any offense concerning which
he is compelled hereunder to testify.
"See. 7. That the word 'person' within the meaning of this act
shall be construed to mean, and to include, persons, firms and corporations.
"Sec. 8. That the sections, provisions and clauses of this act shall
be deemed separable each from the other, and also in respect to the
persons, firms, corporations and consumers mentioned therein or
affected thereby, and if any separable part of this act be, or be held
to be unconstitutional or for any reason invalid or un[en]forceable,
the remaining parts thereof shall be and remain in full force and
effect.
" Sec. 9. That all acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act
are hereby repealed."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The conditions out of which the suits have arisen and
the facts material to their disposal are as follows:
Natural gas is found at pronounced depths in porous
strata-usually sand rock-constituting a natural reservoir and is brought to the surface and reduced to possession through wells drilled into the containing strata.
When a surface owner thus reduces it to possession he
becomes its owner and it becomes a subject of commerce,
like any product of the forest, field or mine. In the enclosing strata it is under great pressure, called rock pressure, which causes it to flow out rapidly when the strata
are penetrated. If one surface owner drills Wells and begins to draw off the gas, others desiring to exercise their
common right must take the same course, for otherwise
the gas under their lands may be drained out by those
wells. After the gas is drawn from the enclosing strata
there is no practicable mode of storing and holding it.
It must be used promptly. Its chief use consists in producing heat and light by burning it. The points of use
generally are in centers of population.or of industry more
or less remote from the places of production. The intervening transmission is effected through pipe lines. The
-normal rock pressure will carry the gas considerable distances and when that pressure wanes or is inadequate it
can be supplemented by using compressors.
In West Virginia the production of natural gas began
as much as thirty years ago and for the last fourteen years
has been greater than in any other State. The producing
fields include thirty-two of her fifty-five counties. At
first the gas was produced only in the course of oil operations, was regarded as a nuisance and was permitted to
waste into the air. But it soon came to be regarded as
valuable for heating and lighting, and the economy and
convenience attending its use made it a preferred fuel.
Its use within the State became -relatively general, but
was far less than the production, so the producers turned

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

to neighboring States, notably Pennsylvania and Ohio,
for a further market.
West Virginia sanctioned that effort. She permitted
the formation under her laws of corporations for the purpose of constructing pipe lines from her gas fields into
other States and carrying gas into the latter and there
selling it. She also permitted corporations of other
States to come into her territory for that purpose. And
she extended to all these companies the use of her power
of eminent domain in acquiring rights of way for their
pipe lines. In no way did she then require, or assert any
power to require, that consumers within her limits be
preferred over consumers elsewhere. The effort to find
a further market succeeded, and the gas came to be extensively carried into Pennsylvania as far as Pittsburgh
and into Ohio as far as Cleveland, Toledo and Cincinnati. In that way the entire production was made of
value to the producers. Land owners and lessees in the
gas fields were greatly benefited and the taxable wealth
of the State was largely increased. Approximately
$300,000,000 were invested in the business-fully onehalf in West Virginia. More than 7,000 miles of the pipe
lines are in that State,-2,000 miles being trunk lines.
Some of the pipe lines reach from the producing fields
to the areas of consumption in Pennsylvania and Ohio.
Some connect at or near the state line with others leading
to the consuming areas. All are so operated that there
is a continuous flow of gas from points of production to
points of use. Branch lines divert some of the gas at
intervening points, but without changing the general
flow. Several lines cross and recross the state boundary
repeatedly.
The pipe lines are all operated as public utilities, that
is, in supplying gas to the public, and this is true in
Pennsylvania and Ohio as well as in West Virginia. The
lines long have been and now are supplying gas to the

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

three States for use in their charitable, educational and
penal institutions, to their counties and municipalities
for use in county, city and school buildings, to local utilities serving particular communities, to the people generally in many cities and towns for use in their homes,
places of business and offices, and, in seasons when there
is an adequate supply, to industrial plants for use in their
operation. The predominant use is for fuel purposes,
that for lighting being relatively small. All gas going
into Pennsylvania and Ohio is carried and supplied under
prior engagements respecting its disposal,-most of it
under long time contracts exacted or preferred by the
purchasers or consumers.
Experience in other gas fields has shown that multiplied and prolonged drafts on the natural supply will exhaust it. Since 1916 it has been apparent that the older
portions of the West Virginia fields are approaching exhaustion and that production in those fields has reached
and passed its maximum. The newer portions, however, in the judgment of informed operators, will make
the fields commercially productive for several years more.
Latterly during the colder months--from November 1
to May 1-the combined needs of domestic and industrial consumers have been largely in excess of the production, and the pipe line companies generally have
adopted and are pursuing the policy of preferring domestic consumers during those months. All the long
time contracts contain provisions admitting of such a
preference. During other months, when there is little
occasion for heating homes and offices, the needs of domestic consumers drop so materially that much gas may
be and is supplied for industrial use without affecting
the domestic use. But increased population, enlarged
industry-particularly in West Virginia-and the advantages inhering in the gas as a fuel have finally resulted in
a gross demand, which cannot be satisfied even in the

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

summer months. The present actual consumption is all
that the production will sustain. The pipe line companies cannot supply more gas in West Virginia without
cutting down what they carry into Pennsylvania and
Ohio; nor can they carry more into Pennsylvania and
Ohio without cutting down what they supply in West
Virginia. In short, the situation is such that to constrain the companies to supply more gas in any one of
the three States necessarily will constrain them to supply
less in the other two.
In 1918, 265 billion cubic feet of gas were produced in
West Virginia, 38 billion were consumed within the State
without becoming available to the public and 227 billion
became available in the hands of the pipe line companies.
The companies supplied 70 billion to consumers in the
State and carried 157 billion to consumers outside. They
also brought 4 billion into the State from gas fields outside and to that extent enlarged the amount supplied to
local consumers. Of that amount, 21 billion went into
domestic use and 53 billion into industrial use. The
major part of the gas carried into Pennsylvania went to
industrial consumers, and the major part of that carried
into Ohio went to domestic consumers.
The gas carried outside the State is sold for more than
that used therein, but this naturally would be so, considering the additional pipe lines, compressors and labor employed in the longer transmission. The proportion marketed beyond the State has not varied much. It now
is practically what it was ten years ago. Nor has there
been any discrimination against consumers inside the
State. They have been dealt with on the same plane as
others. The companies have declined to quit the existing
service to communities and consumers outside and to
serve only those inside, but there is nothing invidious in
this. It is in the line of fair treatment rather than discrimination.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

The gas carried into Pennsylvania and Ohio, respectively, and there supplied to the State and her municipal
agencies for strictly public use is not negligible, but
amounts to billions of cubic feet per year. It is the fuel
with which food is cooked and water heated for thousands
of dependents in charitable and penal institutions, with
which hundreds of school houses are heated and made
comfortable for thousands of children, and with which
municipal water works are operated in several cities, notably Cincinnati and Toledo. The heating and other appliances have been adjusted to its use and to make the
changes incident to substituting other fuel would involve
an expenditure in each State of a very large sum of public
money.
In Pennsylvania the gas is used by 300,000 domestic
consumers caring for 1,500,000 people, and in Ohio by
725,000 domestic consumers caring for 3,625,000 people.
This is where no other natural gas service is available.
To change to other fuel would require an adjustment of
heating and cooking appliances at an average cost of
more than $100 for each domestic consumer, or an aggregate cost exceeding $30,000,000 in Pennsylvania and
$72,500,000 in Ohio.
The act whose enforcement is sought to be enjoined
was passed by the legislature of West Virginia February
10, 1919, and went into effect May 11th following.2 These
suits were brought eight days thereafter by direction of
the legislatures of the complainant States, and by leave
of this Court. Interlocutory injunctions were prayed and
granted at the outset and are still in force.
Three questions bearing on the propriety of entertaining the suits were raised soon after the suits were begun
Under the state constitution the act went into effect on the expiration of ninety days after its "passage" by the legislature as distinguished from its approval by the governor. State v. Mounts,
36 W. Va. 179.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

and consideration of them was postponed to the final
hearing.
The first question is whether the suits involve a justiciable controversy between States in the sense of the Judiciary Article of the Constitution. We are of opinion that
they do and that every element of such a controversy is
present.
Each suit presents a direct issue between' two .States as
to whether one may withdraw a natural product, a common subject of commercial dealings, from an established
current of commerce moving into the territory of the
other. The complainant State asserts and the defendant
State denies that such a withdrawal is an interference
with interstatp commerce forbidden by the Constitution.
This is essentially a judicial question. It concededly is
so in suits between private parties, and of course its character is not different in a suit between States.
What is sought is not an abstract ruling on that question, but an injunction against such a withdrawal presently threatened and likely to be productive of great injury. The purpose to withdraw is shown in the enactment of the defendant State before set forth and is about
to be carried into effect by her officers acting in her name
and at her command. The State is the principal and the
action of her officers rightly may be imputed to her, even
though a suit for an injunction might lie against them.
The attitude of the complainant States is not that of
mere volunteers attempting to vindicate the freedom of
interstate commerce or to redress purely private grievances. Each sues to protect a two-fold interest--one as
the proprietor of various public institutions and schools
whose supply of gas will be largely curtailed or cut off by
the threatened interference with the interstate current,
and the other as the representative of the consuming public whose supply will be similarly affected. Both interests are substantial and both are threatened with serious
injury.

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

Each State uses large amounts of the gas in her several
institutions and schools,-the greater part in the discharge of duties which are relatively imperative. A break
or cessation in the supply will embarrass her greatly in
the discharge of those duties and expose thousands of
dependents and school children to serious discomfort, if
not more. To substitute another form of fuel will involve
very large public expenditures.
The private consumers in each State not only include
most of the inhabitants of many urban communities but
constitute a substantial portion of the State's population.
Their health, comfort and welfare are seriously jeopardized by the threatened withdrawal of the gas from the
interstate stream. This is a matter of grave public concern in which the State, as the representative of the public, has an interest apart from that of the individuals
affected. it is not merely a remote or ethical interest
but one which is immediate and recognized by law.
In principle these views have full support in prior decisions, such as Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, 241;
s. c. 200 U. S. 496, 518; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S.
125, 141-143; s. c. 206 U. S. 46, 95-99; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237; New York v. New
Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 301, and Wyoming v. Colorado,
259 U. 8. 419, 464. The defendant State relies on such
cases as New Hampshirev. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1; Kansas v. United States, 204
U. S. 331; Oklahoma v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277, and Texas v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 258 U. S. 158, 162, but the facts on which
they turned, as the opinions show, were so widely different from those here that they are not in point.
The second question is whether the suits were brought
prematurely. They were brought a few days after the
West Virginia act went into force. No order under it
had been made by the Public Service Commission; nor

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
Cpinion of the Court.

553

had it been tested in actual practice. But this does not
prove that the suits were premature. Of course they
were not so, if it otherwise appeared that the act certainly would operate as the complainant States apprehended it would. One does not have to await the consummation of threatened injury to obtain preventive
relief. If the injury is certainly impending that is
enough.
Turning to the act, we find that by its first section it
lays on every pipe line company a positive duty,-to the
extent of its supply of gas produced in the State, whether
produced by it or others,-to satisfy the needs, whether
for domestic, industrial or other use, of all intending consumers, whether old or new, who are willing to pay for
the gas and want it for use within the section of the State
in which it is produced, in that through which it is transported or in that wherein it is supplied to others. This
is a substantive provision whose terms are both direct
and certain, and to which immediate obedience is commanded. No order of the commission is required to give
it precision or make it obligatory, and it leaves nothing
to the discretion of those who are to enforce it. On the
contrary, it prescribes a definite rule of conduct and in
itself puts the rule in force. It imposes an unconditional and mandatory duty, as counsel for the State admit, and obviously is intended to enforce a preferred
recognition and satisfaction of the needs of consumers
within the State, present and prospective, regardless of
the effect on the interstate stream or on consumers outside the State.
The second section invests the commission with authority,--on finding after notice and hearing that a company supplying gas for local needs is or probably will
be without an adequate supply for the purpose,-to order
another company having gas in excess of what is required for its "consumers within this State" to furnish
51826*-23--38

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

the company whose supply is or will be inadequate with
gas to make up the deficiency, or in the alternative to
undertake itself to supply such local needs "to the extent
of such excess." This provision, like the first, shows
the purpose to give local consumers, present and prospective, a preferred status and to permit surplus gas only
to be carried into other States.
The fourth section empowers.the commission to entertain complaints by persons aggrieved or affected by any
"violation" of the act and to require that the violation
be discontinued and the act obeyed, subject to a right of
review in the courts, and also provides means of compelling obedience to the act pending the proceedings before
the commission and until the decision on review.
Other sections contain penal and remedial provisions
designed to make those just described effective. One in
the fifth section declares that "every day" during which
any company, or any of its officers, agents or employees,
"shall fail to observe and comply with any order or
direction of the commission, or to perform any duty enjoined by this act, shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation." Another in the sixth section subjects any
company violating the act to an action for damages by
anyone claiming to have been wronged by the violation.
We regard .it as entirely clear that the act is intended
to compel the retention within the State of whatever gas
may be required to meet the local needs for all purposes,
and that its procedural, penal and remedial provisions are
amply adequate to accomplish that result. And we
think it equally clear from the allegations in the bills,
now established by the evidence, that the situation when
the suits were brought was such that the act directly and
immediately would work a large curtailment of the volume of gas moving into the complainant States. Indeed,
the conclusion is unavoidable that with the increasing
demand in West Virginia and the decreasing production

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

the act in a few years would work a practical cessation
of the interstate stream.
It must be held therefore that the suits were not
brought prematurely.
The third question is whether the requisite parties
have been brought into the suits. It is objected that the
pipe line companies have not been brought in. But there
is nothing which makes their presence essential. The
complainant States make no complaint and seek no relief
against them. They are supplying gas in those States
and evidently will continue to do so, if not restrained or
prevented by the defendant State. It is only with her
that the complainant States are -in controversy. It also
is objected that the consumers in the defendant State
who will be benefited if the act is enforced have no representation in the suits. But this is a misconception. They
are represented by that State, and there is nothing in the
situation requiring that they be specially represented or
brought in. With equal basis it could be objected in a
suit to prevent the enforcement of a statute reducing railroad freight rates, or in one to prevent the enforcement
of a municipal ordinance reducing telephone or electric
light rates, that shippers or users who would be benefited
by the reduction must be specially represented or brought
in. Such an objection would of course be untenable; and
so of the objection here.
We turn now to the principal issue, whether a State
wherein natural gas is produced and is a recognized subject of commercial dealings may require that in its sale
and disposal consumers in that State shall be accorded
a preferred right of purchase over consumers in other
States,-when the requirement necessarily will operate
to withdraw a large volume of the gas from an established
interstate current whereby it is supplied in other States
to consumers there. Of course, in the last analysis, the
question is whether the enforced withdrawal for the bene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

fit of local consumers is such an interference with interstate commerce as is forbidden to a State by the Constitution. The question is an important one; for what one
State may do others may; and there are ten States from
which natural gas is exported for consumption in other
States. Besides, what may be done with one natural
product may be done with others, and there are several
States in which the earth yields products of great value
which are carried into other States and there used. But,
notwithstanding the importance of the question, its solution is not difficult. The controlling principles have been
settled by many adjudications,-some so closely in point
that the discussion here may be relatively brief.
By the Constitution, Art. I, § 8, cl. 3, the power to
regulate interstate commerce is expressly committed to
Congress and therefore impliedly forbidden to the States.
The purpose in this is to protect commercial intercourse
from invidious restraints, to prevent interference through
conflicting or hostile state laws and to insure uniformity
in regulation. It means that in the matter of interstate
commerce we are a single nation--one and the same
people. All the States have assented to it, all are alike
bound by it and all are equally protected by it. Even
their power to lay and collect taxes, comprehensive and
necessary as that power is, cannot be exerted in a way
which involves a discrimination against such commerce.
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.

344, 350; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 525-526; Guy v.
Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434, 442-443; Robbins v. Shelby
County Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 498.
Natural gas is a lawful article of commerce and its
transmission from one State to another for sale and consumption in the latter is interstate commerce. A state
law, whether of the State where the gas is produced or
that where it is to be sold, which by its necessary opera-

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

tion prevents, obstructs or burdens such transmission is
a regulation of interstate commerce,-a prohibited interference. West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229;
Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236,
245; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U. S. 277;
Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282,
290-291; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster, 247 U. S. 105;
Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S. 78. The West Virginia act is such a law. Its
provisions and the conditions which must surround its
operation are such that it necessarily and directly will
compel the diversion to local consumers of a large and
increasing part of the gas heretofore and now going to
consumers in the complainant States, and therefore will
work a serious interference with that commerce.
But it is urged that there are special considerations
which take the act out of the general rule and sustain its
validity, even though there be an interference.
One of these is that the pipe line companies are engaged in supplying the gas to the public in West Virginia, that this is a quasi-public business and that the act
does no more than require the companies to furnish a
reasonably adequate service within reasonable territorial
limits. It is true that the business is of a quasi-public
character, but it is so in Pennsylvania and Ohio as well as
in West Virginia. The obligations inhering in it and the
power to insist on an adequate service are the same in all
three States. The supply of gas necessarily marks the
extent of the service that can be rendered. Much of the
business is interstate and has grown up through a course
of years. West Virginia encouraged and sanctioned the
development of that part of the business and has profited
greatly by it. Her present effort, rightly understood, is to
subordinate that part to the local business within her
borders. In other words, it is in effect an attempt to

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

262 U. S.

regulate the interstate business to the advantage of the
local consumers. But this she may not do. A direction
to one of her railroads when short of facilities for moving
coal to haul intrastate coal to the exclusion of interstate
coal would not be different in kind or force.
Another consideration advanced to the same end is that
the gas is a natural product of the State and has become
a necessity therein, that the supply is waning and no
longer sufficient to satisfy local needs and be used abroad,
and that the act is therefore a legitimate measure of
conservation in the interest of the people of the State. If
the situation be as stated, it affords no ground for the
assumption by the State of power to regulate interstate
commerce, which is what the act attempts to do. That
power is lodged elsewhere. A contention, in essence the
same, was presented and considered in West v. Kansas
Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, a case involving the
validity of an Oklahoma statute designed to accomplish
the retention of natural gas within the State. In the
District Court the case had been heard on bill and answer, a proceeding in which the allegations of fact in the
answer are taken as true. The hearing resulted in a decree
adjudging the statute invalid and enjoining its enforcement. The decree was affirmed here. In the answer, as
the opinion shows, it was alleged that physical conditions
made it apparent that the gas field was of relatively
short duration, that cities were near the field and their
people needed the gas, that the State embodied only
prairie land devoid of timber and there was no local fuel
supply excepting coal and natural gas, that the production of coal was growing rapidly more costly, that "substantially, the only natural, practical, usable fuel, both
for domestic and industrial use, is natural gas," and that
if pipe lines, such as the plaintiffs were intending to
construct and put in operation, were permitted to carry
gas into other States the supply would be speedily ex-

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Opinion of the Court.

hausted. Referring to these allegations and to a contention that the ruling principle of the statute was conservation of a needed natural resource, the Court said
(p. 255):
"The results of the contention repel its acceptance.
Gas, when reduced to possession, is a commodity; it belongs to the owner of the land, and, when reduced to possession, is his individual property subject to sale by him,
and may be a subject of intrastate commerce and interstate commerce. The statute of Oklahoma recognizes it
to be a subject of intrastate commerce, but seeks to prohibit it from being the subject of interstate commerce,
and this is the purpose of its conservation. In other
words, the purpose of its conservation is in a sense commercial-the business welfare of the State, as coal might
be, or timber. Both of those products may be limited in
amount, and the same consideration of the public welfare
which would confine gas to the use of the inhabitants of
a State would confine them to the inhabitants of the
State. If the States have such power a singular situation
might result. Pennsylvania might keep its coal, the
Northwest its timber, the mining States their minerals.
And why may not the products of the field be brought
within the principle? Thus enlarged, or without that enlargement, its influence on interstate commerce need not
be pointed out. To what consequences does such power
tend? If one State has it, all States have it; embargo may
be retaliated by embargo, and commerce will be halted
at state lines. And yet we have said that 'in matters of
foreign and interstate commerce there are no state lines.'
In such commerce, instead of the States, a new power
appears and a new welfare, a welfare which transcends
that of any State. But rather let us say it is constituted
of the welfare of all of the States and that of each State
is made the greater by a division of its resources, natural
and created, with every other State, and those of every

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
HOLMES,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

other State with it. This was the purpose, as it is the
result, of the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States. If there is to be a turning
backward it must be done by the authority of another
instrumentality than a court."
Finally, it is urged that this Court can not prescribe
and execute regulations respecting the apportionment
and use of the.gas among the three States, and therefore
that the bills should be dismissed. The conclusion does
not follow from the premise. The object of the suits is
not to obtain decretal regulations, but to enjoin the enforcement of the West Virginia act on the ground that it
is an unconstitutional enactment and its intended enforcement will subject the complainant States to injury of serious magnitude. On full consideration, we reach the conclusion that the act is unconstitutional, that the apprehensions of the complainant States respecting the injury
which will ensue from its enforcement are well founded
and that it obviously will operate most inequitably against
those States. In this situation the appropriate decree is
one declaring the act invalid and enjoining its enforcement. To dismiss the bills and leave the act to be enforced would be quite inadmissible. If there be need
for regulating the interstate commerce involved, the regulation should be sought from the body in whom the power
resides.
Decrees for complainants.
MR.JUSTIcE HOLMES.

The statute seeks to reach natural gas before it has
begun to move in commerce of any kind. It addresses
itself to gas hereafter to be collected and states to what
uses it first must be applied. The gas is collected under
and subject to the law, if valid, and at that moment it
is not yet matter of commerce among the States. I
think that the products of a State until they are actually
started to a point outside it may be regulated by the

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

HOLMES, J., dissenting.

State notwithstanding the commerce clause. In Oliver
Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172, it was held that
the State might levy an occupation tax upon the mining
of iron ore equal to six per cent. of the value of the ore
produced during the previous year, although substantially all the ore left the State and was put upon cars for
that purpose by the same single movement by which it
was severed from its bed. There could not be a case of a
State's product more certainly destined to interstate commerce. It was put upon the cars by the same act by
which it was produced. But as it was not yet in interstate commerce the tax was sustained. I know of no
relevant distinction between taxing and regulating in
other ways. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431.
But the States have been held authorized to regulate
in other ways more closely resembling the present. In
Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, a state law was sustained
that made it criminal to sell or offer for shipment citrus
fruits that were immature or otherwise unfit for consumption. That, upon grounds of local policy, intercepted before it got into the stream, what would have
been an object of interstate commerce. The local interest in the present case is greater and more obvious
than in that of green oranges. Again, the power of the
State to preserve a food supply for its people by game
laws notwithstanding an indirect interference with interstate commerce is established. Geer v. Connecticut, 161
U. S. 519, 534. Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31, 42. If
there is any difference between the property rights of the
State in game and in gas still in the ground it does not
concern the plaintiffs and it is plain from the decisions
cited that they do not depend upon a speculative view as
to title. See Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416, 434.
The right of the State so to regulate the use of natural
gas as to prevent waste was sustained as against the

602

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

Fourteenth Amendment in Walls v. Midland Carbon Co.,
254 U. S. 300, and I do not suppose that the plaintiffs
would have fared any better had they invoked the commerce clause. I need do-no more than refer to prohibition of manufacture of articles intended for export, such
as colored oleomargarine; Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio,
183 U. S. 238, 245; or spirits. The result of that and
other cases has been expressed by this Court more than
once in the form of a general recognition of the right of a
State to make "reasonable provision for local needs";
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402, 410, 411; and
the right has been recognized even when the interference
with interstate commerce is direct, as when an interstate
train is required to stop to accommodate passengers who
do not leave the State. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285. Gulf, Colorado &
Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 246 U. S. 58.
I see nothing in the commerce clause to prevent a
State from giving a preference to its inhabitants in
the enjoyment of its natural advantages. If the gas
were used only by private persons for their own purposes -I know of no power in Congress to require
them to devote it to public use or to transport it across
state lines. It is the law of West Virginia and of
West Virginia alone that makes the West Virginia gas
what is called a. public utility, and how far it shall be
such is a matter that that law alone decides. I am aware
that there is some general language in Oklahoma v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 255, a decision that I
thought wrong, implying that Pennsylvania might not
keep its coal, or the northwest its timber, &c. But I confess I do not see what is to hinder. Certainly if the
owners of the mines or the forests saw fit not to export
their products the Constitution would not make them
do it. I see nothing in that instrument that would produce a different result if the State gave the owners

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

motives for their conduct, as by offering a bonus. However far the decision in the case referred to goes it cannot
outweigh the consensus of the other decisions to which
I have referred and that seem to me to confirm what I
should think plain without them, that the Constitution
does not prohibit a State from securing a reasonable
preference for its own inhabitants in the enjoyment of its
products even when the effect of its law is to keep property within its boundaries that otherwise would have
passed outside. Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter,
209 U. S. 349, 357.
I agree substantially with my brothers MCREYNOLDS

and BRANDEIS, but think that there is jurisdiction in such
sense as to justify a statement of my opinion upon the
merits of the case. I think that the bill should be
dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.

It seems to me quite clear that the record presents no
justiciable controversy; certainly none within the original jurisdiction of this Court.
For the manifest purpose of protecting local consumers, West Virginia commanded her public service corporations not to transport natural gas beyond the borders of the State until they had satisfied the reasonable
requirements of the people therein. Thereupon, complainants came here by original bills and alleged that if
the statute were enforced they and their inhabitants could
not obtain enough gas for their imperative demands from
the divers pipe lines theretofore accustomed to supply
them. They ask us to declare the enactment invalid because of conflict with the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution and to restrain its enforcement. If the
pipe lines hereafter fail to comply with their contracts,
of course, they may be proceeded against in a proper
forum; but to say that they probably will fail because

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

of the statute and then to demand that the law-making
power be enjoined is not to set up a real controversy cognizable in any court.
If West Virginia should prohibit the drilling of new
gas wells, I hardly suppose complainants could demand
an injunction here even if it were admitted that their
supplies would be cut off. But why not, under the doctrine announced? Production has been permitted for
years and appealing hardships would follow its cessation.
And suppose West Virginia should repeal the charters of
all her public service corporations now transporting gas
and thereby disable them, could we interfere upon the
demand of another State who claimed that she would
suffer?
As originally adopted, the Constitution provided-" In
all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and
consuls, and those in which a State shall be party, the
Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction." Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, declared that a citizen of
one State could proceed against another State by original
action here. In Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, Mr.
Chief Justice Fuller pointed out the character of controversies between States over which this Court has original jurisdiction. With emphasis he declared that vindication of the freedom of interstate commerce is not
committed to any State as parens patriae. Unless this
ruling is to pass into the discard, it follows that neither
of the complainants has any higher standing than one
of her citizens with a contract for gas would have if there
were no Eleventh Amendment. It is unnecessary to
argue that the framers of the Constitution never intended
to empower this Court, at the suit of an individual, to
enjoin a State from enforcing regulations prescribed for
her own public service corporations. And yet, that possibility must be affirmed under the doctrine now announced. •

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

Concluding his opinion in Chisholm v. Georgia (1793),
Mr. Justice Iredell exclaimed-" I pray to God, that if
the Attorney General's doctrine, as to the law, be established by the judgment of this Court, all the good he
predicts from it may take place, and none of the evils
with which, I have the concern to say, it appears to me
to be pregnant." A like prayer seems not inappropriate
here and now.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,

dissenting.

The statement made by Mr. Justice Holmes seems to
me unanswered. But, like Mr. Justice McReynolds, I
think that there are reasons why the bills should be dismissed without passing upon the constitutional question
presented.
Natural gas in quantity is produced in thirty-two of
the fifty-five counties of West Virginia. One-half of the
inhabitants of that State have for years been dependent
upon it for domestic uses; and it has been supplied to
nearly two thousand industrial establishments. Sixtyseven concerns are engaged in the business of distributing
this natural gas to the public. Most of them are corporations organized under the laws of West Virginia. A
few are organized under the laws of some other State.
Some are unincorporated. Each had, prior to the Act
of February 17, 1919, hereinafter referred to, been declared by statute to be a public service corporation'
endowed with the power of eminent domain. Each was
under the common-law duty of furnishing to the public,
I" The words 'Public Service Corporation' used in this act shall
include all persons, associations of persons, firms, corporations, municipalities and agencies engaged or employed in any business herein
enumerated, or in any other public service business whether above
enumerated or not, whether incorporated or not." Acts, 1913, c. 9,

§ 3; Acts, 1915, c. 8, § 3; Acts, 1921, c. 150, § 3.
c. 71, § 3.

See Acts 1919,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

throughout the West Virginia territory in which it does
business, adequate service. Carnegie Natural Gas Co. v.
Swiger, 72 W. Va. 557; Clarksburg Light & Power Co.
v. Public Service Commission, 84 W. Va. 638. And as
to each this duty has been confirmed by the legislation
of that State.
Prior to the World War the production of natural gas
in West Virginia and the demand were such that large
quantities could be exported by its public service corporations to other States without thereby lessening the
ability of these concerns to give adequate service to their
West Virginia customers. During the war the demand,
both within and without the State, increased greatly; and
thereafter the supply became smaller. Of the net supply
of West Virginia natural gas available for distribution by
its public service corporations, 77.1 per cent. was exported
in the year 1916; 80.1 per cent. in 1917; 76.7 per cent.
in 1918.2 The West Virginia consumers complained that
the amount furnished them was inadequate; and that
they were being discriminated against by West Virginia
gas companies in the interest of residents of other States.8
'A large part of the gas produced is not available for distribution
to the public. Much is consumed within the State for field purposes--such as drilling and cleaning out wells or the operation of
compressor or pump stations to transport the gas. The producer
must, also, under reservations in the leases, ordinarily deliver to the
landowner free gas service.
8
The temptation to discriminate may have been great. For Pennsylvania and Ohio communities formerly supplied from local pro-

duction of natural gas could, if this is no longer possible, afford to
pay a very high price for gas rather than to discard existing gas
appliances and to instal new ones which would be required if oil or
coal were to be substituted as fuel. In 1921 the average price per
M cubic feet for domestic consumption was 26 cents in West Virginia,
44 cents in Pennsylvania and 42 cents in Ohio. For industrial consumption it was 16 cents in West Virginia; 32 cents in Pennsylvania;
and 34 cents in Ohio. United States Geological Survey, "Natural
Gas in 1919-1921," published May 22, 1923.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

Some of the companies which exported gas sought to
justify the inadequacy of their service to West Virginia
customers by asserting that they were under contract, or
other duty, to supply West Virginia gas to distributing
companies or consumers in other States; and that the
aggregate demand of their customers in the several States
exceeded the available supply. Only twelve of the sixtyseven West Virginia public service corporations took part
in the export business. The remaining fifty-five were
engaged solely in distribution within the State; and many
of these were dependent largely upon the other twelve
for their gas supply. Some of these fifty-five companies
sought to justify their inadequate service by the fact that,
because of the demands for gas to be exported to the other
States, the corporations on which they were dependent
denied them their full supply.
West Virginia consumers insisted that the common law
forbade its public service companies to so disable themselves from performing their duty to give adequate service
within the State; and contended that the exporting public
service corporations which habitually supplied the local
distributing companies could not justify furnishing a
reduced supply by setting up their contracts to furnish
supplies to concerns in other States. These contentions
were denied by the exporting companies; and it was asserted that they could not legally be controlled in this
respect by the Public Service Commission of West Virginia. To remove all doubt concerning the statutory
powers of the Commission and to ensure adequate service
to West Virginia consumers, the legislature of the State
enacted c. 71 of the Acts of 1919, approved on February
17 of that year, to take effect ninety days after its passage.
That statute declared these rules of substantive law:
(a) That no public service corporation engaged in distributing natural gas produced within the State shall, by
exporting its supply to other States, disable itself from

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J.,

dissenting.

262 U. S.

performing its duty to give adequate service within West
Virginia.
(b) That any such public service corporation whose
gas supply is insufficient to afford such service to its customers, may, -under prescribed conditions, call upon any
other public service corporation within the same territory
which has a surplus supply, to furnish to it such part of
this surplus as may be required to enable it to give adequate service.
Before the effective date of that act, the State of Pennsylvania and the State of Ohio each filed in this Court a
bill in equity against the State of West Virginia, in which
it prayed that the act be declared void, because obnoxious
to the Federal Constitution, and that all West Virginia
officials be enjoined from attempting in any way to enforce the statute. As a basis for the relief each bill set
forth the extensive use of natural gas by state institutions,
by their several municipalities, and by millions of residents; and it alleged that serious injury would result if
these consumers were deprived of the West Virginia supply, The Ohio bill alleged also that cutting off the West
Virginia supply of natural gas would greatly reduce the
value of public service properties, would reduce taxable
values of these and other properties, and would thereby
deprive the State of important revenues. It prayed,
specifically, that the plaintiff State, and its residents, be
declared to have no adequate remedy at law; that West
Virginia and its officials be enjoined from interfering with
the transportation of natural gas for use in Ohio; and that
pending the suit an injunction be granted against their
instituting in any court of the State of West Virginia any
suit under the statute against any "person, company or
corporation which is engaged in the production or transportation of natural gas out of the State of West Virginia
and into the State of Ohio." No public official or producer,
exporter or distributor of gas or consumer (other than

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

these States) was made party plaintiff or defendant in
either bill. A temporary injunction issued in each case
upon the filing of the bill. In each a motion to dismiss,
an answer, and a replication were filed. Without disposing of the motions to dismiss, the parties proceeded to
take the evidence and, thereafter, submitted the cases for
final hearing.
Several objections made to the maintenance of these
suits may be passed without discussion. It will be assumed that the constitutional question submitted is not
to be deemed merely a political one, as in Georgia v.
Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, and Massachusetts v. Mellon, ante,
447. It will be assumed that the alleged right to acquire
by purchase and to bring into a State natural gas produced elsewhere is--despite a fundamental difference 'to be treated as similar legally to the right asserted in
Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46, to have
the water of an interstate stream continue to flow into a
State; or the right recognized in Missouri v. Illinois, 180
U. S. 208; New York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, and
Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, to have
the waters and the air within one State kept reasonably
free from pollution originating in another. It will be
assumed, further, that the use of natural gas in Pennsyl'The State has a property interest in running water naturally
flowing into it and in the public waters and air within its boundaries.
Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237. If the running water is withheld, its property is taken. If the public waters
or the air is polluted, its territorial integrity is invaded. But the
alleged right to purchase in interstate commerce and to import a natural resource is, in no sense, a right of the State. It would be
described appropriately as a privilege of citizens of the United States.
Compare Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1, 24, 25. Such privileges the
State is not charged by the Federal Constitution with the duty to
enforce; and the fact that the institution of these suits was specially
authorized by the legislatures of Pennsylvania and of Ohio can be of
no legal significance.
51826*-23-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

vania and in Ohio is shown to be so general as to bring
these suits within the rule acted upon in the cases just
cited and to render inapplicable the rule declared in Kansas v. United States, 204 U. S. 331, and Oklahoma v.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277, 286,
289, where the suits were dismissed because brought in
aid of interests deemed private. And finally it will be
assumed-although this is still more doubtful-that a
State which has permitted one of its natural resources to
be freely dealt in as an article of interstate commerce may
not thereafter prohibit all export thereof, although it
appears that the whole of the remaining supply will be
required to satisfy the needs of its own citizens. These
objections raised by defendant will not be considered;
because there are other objections which, in my opinion,
present insuperable obstacles to the maintenance of the
suits.
First. This Court is without jurisdiction of the subjectmatter.
The bills present neither a" case," nor a" controversy,"
within the meaning of the Federal Constitution. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cr. 137; Muskrat v. United States,
219 U. S. 346, 356, 359; Texas v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 258 U. S. 158. They are not proceedings
"instituted according to the regular course of judicial
procedure" to protect some right of property or personal
right. They are, like McChord v. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co., 183 U. S. 483, 495, an attempt to enjoin, not
executive action, but legislation. They are instituted
frankly to secure from this Court a general declaration
that the West Virginia Act of February 17, 1919, is unconstitutional. Compare Giles v. Harris, 189 U. S. 475,
486. The well settled rule that the Court is without
power to entertain such a proceeding applies equally,
whether the party invoking its aid is a State or a private
person. And the rule cannot be overcome by giving to

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

pleadings the form of a bill in equity for an injunction.
Compare Fairchildv. Hughes, 258 U. S. 126; Atherton
Mills v. Johnston, 259 U. S. 13, 15; Texas v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, supra.
Moreover, it is not shown that there is, in a legal sense,
danger of invasion of the alleged rights. It is shown that
the States of Pennsylvania and Ohio are, in their public
institutions, themselves consumers of West Virginia gasa "makeweight " as suggested in Georgia v. Tennessee
Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237. And it is shown that
these and many other consumers within the plaintiff
States would suffer serious injury if the West Virginia
supply were cut off. But it is not shown that discontinuance of the supply is threatened or that there is, in a legal
sense, danger that the supply will be stopped. The mere
enactment of the statute, obviously, does not constitute a
threat to interrupt the flow of gas into the plaintiff States.
The importation into Ohio and Pennsylvania is conducted, not by the State of West Virginia, but wholly by
twelve privately owned public service corporations. If
the importation ceases it will be, primarily at least, because of acts or omissions of these twelve corporations.
Yet there is not even an allegation that these corporations
threaten, or intend, to discontinue the importation; or
that they will be compelled to do so unless the State of
West Virginia is enjoined from enforcing the statute.
On the other hand, it clearly appears that, under the
laws of West Virginia, there can be no present danger
that any of these twelve corporations will be summarily
prevented by that State from continuing in full volume
the export of gas or will be compelled to reduce it. The
only restriction, if any, imposed by the Act of 1919 upon
exportation of gas is that which may result from the requirement that West Virginia public service corporations
shall not, by means of export, disable themselves from
performing their duties to consumers and. to other dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

tributing companies within the State. Before there can
be, in a legal sense, danger that restriction will result, it
must appear that one or more of the twelve exporting
companies is disabling itself by such exportation, or is
about to do so; and also that some state official is about
to take effective action to prevent the exportation. But
under the legislation of West Virginia many things would
have to happen and much time must elapse before any
of the exporting corporations would be under any legal
duty to discontinue or lessen their exports, and still more
time before it could actually be prevented from exporting gas. For, under West Virginia legislation, no executive officer and no court has power or jurisdiction to declare, or to enforce performance of, such alleged duty of a
public service corporation until primary resort has been
had to the Public Service Commission and the application
to it has been acted upon, either by granting or by denying relief. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 73 W. Va. 571; State v. Bluefield Water Works
Co., 86 W. Va. 260; Kelly Axe Manufacturing Co. v.

United Fuel Gas Co., 87 W. Va. 368. The act establishing the Commission prescribes the methods and the remedies which are to be pursued in order to enforce the duty
to give adequate service. C. 9, Acts of 1913, §§ 11 and 18;
c. 8, Acts of 1915, §§ 23, 24; c., 71, Acts of 1919; c. 150,
Acts of 1921; Manufacturers' Light & Heat Co. v. Ott,
215 Fed. 940. If it is claimed that there is failure to give
adequate service, a petition may be filed before the Commission to secure it. After notice to and hearing of the
corporation by the Commission an order may be made.
Until the Commission issues some order which purports
to restrict in some way the discretion theretofore exercised by a corporation in respect to exports, every such
concern is, under the Act of 1919, legally as free to continue the transportation of gas to Pennsylvania and to
Ohio as if that statute had not been passed.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

It is possible that the Commission would never be
called upon to act.'

It is possible that if called upon, the

Commission would refuse to make an order. It is possible that if the Commission made an order, the order
would be of such a character as not to affect seriously
the interests which plaintiffs seek to protect. And it is
possible that if any order were made, the state court
would suspend its operation and would eventually annul it. The act makes such careful provision for judicial
review of the orders of the Commission and for postponing the incidence of penalties or other liabilities until
'The Attorney General of Ohio states in his brief: "The supply
of gas was adequate, both for consumption inside. the State of West
Virginia and for transportation to other States, until during the time
of the world war in 1917 and 1918. (Record, pages 331 and 334.)
By reason of the vast demand for gas for industrial consumption,
which occurred as a result of the war, and which drew ' upon the
lines of the gas companies during the summer as heavily as, or
more heavily than during the winter, the gas companies had no
opportunity to rest their wells or to accumulate a surplus of gas,
as they had been in the habit of doing, in accord with good practice, under normal conditions. The federal government, through the
fuel administration, gave orders to the gas companies to supply
essential industrial plants with all the gas possible. Wells were
drilled and turned into lines which, under normal conditions, would
have been held in reserve, to assure a future supply. (Record,
pages 333, 334.) The supply of gas has never been adequate for
all purposes, during periods of maximum demand, since that time."
It may be that production will increase. The war has closed.
The excessive post war activities of 1919 and early 1920 ceased,
and were followed by a period of industrial depression. There may
again be opportunity for periodic rest which gas wells, as well as
human beings, appear to need; and thus, seemingly exhausted wells
may be restored. Furthermore, hitherto undeveloped gas areas may
be worked or more wells may be drilled in areas already developed;
or new areas may be opened. For of the 2,725,798 acres of the
gas territory held by the sixty-seven public service corporations of
the State in 1919, a large part are still undeveloped.
Moreover, the demand may lessen. Except in times of emergency,
use of natural gas by the industries will be determined largely by

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

after such review can be had, that there could never be
occasion for .invoking in respect to this statute the doctrine of Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.8 For the Commission is without power to enforce an order or to impose a penalty. To overcome disobedience, or disregard,
of an order, resort must, under the West Virginia statutes, be had to the courts; and to this end an original
proceeding must be instituted. Whether the suit
to enforce obedience is brought by the Commission
or by others, the corporation is given opportunity to
defend on the ground that the order is, for any reaits relative cost as compared with coal or oil. The demands of
economy in manufacture may alone compel a reduction of its use
in industry and thus, for some time, leave the supply ample for
domestic purposes. In 1920 Pennsylvania used for manufacturing
purposes three times as much natural gas as it imported from West
Virginia in 1921. U. S. Geological Survey, "Natural Gas, 19191921," published May 22, 1923, pp. 347, 355. Domestic consumption amounts to only 30 or 40 per cent of the total consumption.
U. S. Geological Survey, "Natural Gas, 1919-1921," supra, p. 352.
Moreover, the present large waste may be stopped. The waste in
Ohio in 1919 was 12 per cent.; in 1920 it was 18 per cent.; in 1921
it was 19 per cent. On the other hand in West Virginia the waste in
1919 was only 1 per cent.; in 1920 and 1921 only 2 per cent. "Natural Gas," supra, p. 352.
°The situation is wholly unlike that presented in Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501, 520, 521, which is relied upon by plaintiffs. There
the suit was against the State Chemist, the executive official vested
with power to act, and he had "threatened the complainant that in
default of such compliance he would cause the arrest and prosecution
of every person dealing in the article within the State and had
distributed broadcast throughout the State warning circulars."
Moreover, even if the West Virginia statute were construed as
imposing penalties for disobedience so severe and menacing as to
require the interposition of a federal court, it would be the public
service corporations of West Virgnia-not the States of Pennsylvania and Ohio--which would thereby be denied due process of law
undepr the doctrine of Ex parte Young. And it is those corporations
which would have to sue, as in Oklahoma Operating Co. v. Love,
252 U. S. 331, here relied upon by plaintiffs.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

son, invalid. Or it may itself inaugurate the proceeding by bringing suit to have the order annulled. Randall Gas Co. v. Star Glass Co., 78 W. Va. 252, 256;
United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 73
W. Va. 571. Moreover, a final order of the Commission is not enforceable, even by a court, until thirty
days after entry have elapsed. That period is allowed
within which any party feeling aggrieved may apply
to the court for suspension of the order; and if such
application is made, a speedy hearing must be given
(§ 16).
Up to the time when these suits were begun no action
of any kind had been taken in relation to matters dealt
with by the Act of February 17, 1919, either by the Commission, by any other board or official of the State, by
any corporation, or by any other person who could ever
be affected by any provision of the statute. And no
action could have been taken; for the act was then not yet
in effect. How then can it be said that, in any legal sense,
the Pennsylvania and Ohio consumers were in present
danger of irreparable injury? Plaintiffs' fears were at
best premature. This Court held in Oregon v. Hitchcock,
202 U. S. 60, 70, that it would not, even at the instance of
a State, take upon itself the decision of questions, committed to another department of our Government and
thus anticipate the action of the federal executive. The
reasons are equally strong against our interfering, in advance of decision, with the executive of a State in a matter
committed to its determination. If these were private
suits relief would necessarily be denied. Compare First
National Bank of Albuquerque v. Albright, 208 U. S. 548;
South Carolinav. Georgia,93 U. S. 4, 14. As the suit is
that of one State against another, even greater caution
should be exercised by this Court before assuming to act.
Missouri v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 496, 520, 521; Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 117; New York v. New Jersey,

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

256 U. S. 296, 309. The objection here is not, as in
Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 238that those interested should be left to an action at law
for redress of any injuries which may be suffered. It is
that the" judicial stage" of the controversy had not been
reached when these suits were begun; and, indeed, has
not been since. See Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co.,
211 U. S. 210, 228; Bacon v. Rutland R. R. Co., 232 U. S.
134, 137.
Second. There is a fatal lack of necessary parties. It
is only by failure of the twelve exporting companies to
continue the exportation of gas that the plaintiffs, and
other consumers or the distributing companies in Pennsylvania or Ohio, can be injured. Primarily at least, it is
the rights of these twelve corporations, if of anyone,
which would be invaded by enforcing the statute; and
rights of consumers and of distributing corporations of
Pennsylvania and of Ohio are derivative merely.
Whether the West Virginia corporations may furnish gas
to the plaintiff States, and whether those corporations may
be Kegulated as the statute attempts, are at most controversies between West Virginia and those corporations.
They have not submitted their rights to adjudication in
these suits. It is intimated that these corporations wish
to have the act declared void. :But we may not assume
that such is their wish. Conceivably a decision holding
the act valid might benefit them; since it might relieve
them from improvident contracts with distributing companies in Pennsylvania and Ohio. Or it may be that
some of the twelve corporations would be benefited and
others injured by any decision made of the question presented. Unless the twelve corporations are legally represented either by the plaintiff or the defendant, they
would not be bound by a decree in either of these suits.
New Orleans Water Works Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S.
471, 480. That neither plaintiff nor defendant legally

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

represents them is clear.' And since they would not be
bound, this Court should not entertain a suit to decide the
question presented. For, as was held in California v.
Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S. 229, and Minnesota v.
Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 246, it does not
comport with the gravity and finality which should characterize an adjudication in the exercise of the original
jurisdiction of this Court to proceed, at the instance of a
State, in the "absence of parties whose rights would be
actually passed upon and be in effect determined, even
though they might not be technically bound in subsequent litigation in this, or some other tribunal. Compare Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 258
U. S. 158.
The remaining fifty-five West Virginia gas corporations
which do not export any gas are also vitally interested in
the question submitted. So far as their interest is the
general one qua consumer, it might be represented by
the Public Service Commission; and to that end the
Commission (not the State) should, perhaps, have been
made party defendant. But many of these gas corporations appear to have specific interests which a decision
might affect directly. They have contracts with the exporting companies for their supply of gas; and the obligations under these contracts would be different if the act.
is held valid than if it were held to be void. A decision
to the effect that the prohibition of exports declared in
the act is void might seriously impair their contract
rights.
'" It is not sufficient to say that the Attorney General, or the Governor, or even the Legislature of the State, can be conclusively deemed
to represent the public interests in such a controversy as that pre-

sented by the bill. Even a State, when it voluntarily becomes a complainant in a court of equity, cannot claim to represent both sides
of the controversy." Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S.
199, 246.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

Moreover, § 8 of the act provides:
"That the sections, provisions and clauses of this act

shall be deemed separable each from the other, and also
in respect to the persons, firms, corporations and consumers mentioned therein or affected thereby, and if any separable part of this act be, or be held to be unconstitutional or for any reason invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining parts thereof shall be and remain in full force
and effect."
Surely the statute may be valid as to some exporting
companies; for the action in exporting may be ultra
vires. Or certain West Virginia distributing companies
may have acquired preferential rights to the supply of
gas. How can the Court determine, in view of this provision, that the act is void, in toto, when it has not before it the parties to be affected thereby and the facts
which only they as litigants would be able to present?
Therefore, even if it appeared that rights of the plaintiffs---or of those whom they legally represent-were in
present danger of irreparable injury resulting from wrongful acts of defendant, these suits should not be maintained.
Third. But if all other obstacles could be overcome, this
Court, sitting as a court of equity, should dismiss the
bills, because it would be unable to grant the only relief
appropriate. This Court, sitting in equity, clearly should
not lend its aid to enable West Virginia public service
corporations to discriminate against West Virginia consumers in the interest of Ohio and Pennsylvania consumers. Therefore, an appropriate decree should be
framed so as to require each of the West Virginia corporations to treat West Virginia customers at least as
well as it does those outside of the State and the decree
should not leave any West Virginia public service corporation free to export gas in disregard of the duty not
to discriminate against the public in that .State. But

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

natural gas is produced also in Pennsylvania and Ohio;
and the local production furnishes a large part of the
supplies consumed in those States.' Furthermore, West
Virginia gas is exported also to'Maryland, Indiana and
Kentucky; and in two of those States natural gas is produced in quantity.' Clearly the Court should, in no
event, go further than to compel West Virginia to share
its production equitably with other States now dependent upon it for a part of their gas supply. But in ordef
to determine what is equitable, (that is, what part of
the West Virginia production that State might require
its public service corporations to retain and what part
they should be free to export to other States) it would
obviously be necessary to marshal the resources and the
demands, or needs, of the six States, and to consider, in
respect to each, both the conduct of the business therein
and the circumstances attending its development. The
factors necessary to be considered in determining what
division of the West Virginia production would be fair,
the conditions under which the determination would have
to be made, and the character of the questions to be decided are such that this Court would be obliged to refuse to undertake the task. For this reason, the bills
should be dismissed, even if it were held both that rights
legally represented by plaintiffs were in present danger
of irreparable injury by wrongful acts of defendant and
that there was not a fatal lack of necessary parties. To
'In 1920 the production in Pennsylvania was 125,787,000 M cubic
feet, and the consumption 161,397,000 M. In 1920 Ohio production
was 58,938,000 M cubic feet and the consumption 136,872,000 M.
U. S. Geological Survey, " Natural Gas 1919-1921," p. 345, published
May 22, 1923.
'The 1920 production in Kentucky was 3,345,000 M cubic feet;
the consumption 15,297,000 M. The Indiana production 1,779,000
M; the consumption 4,435,000 M. The Maryland production is
negligible. U. S. Geological Survey Bulletin, "Natural Gas in 19191921," supra, p. 345.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

do justice as between the several States the following enquiries would be essential:
(a) The potential as well as the actual production in
each State would have to be ascertained. The actual
production during earlier years, and approximately the
current production, could be ascertained from data which
are regularly collected by the United States Geological
Survey and by the public utility commissions of the several States. But to ascertain the potential production,
searching enquiry would have to be made into the methods of production pursued; and, among other things,
to what extent recent production has been secured by
forcing the wells; what the likelihood is that production
lessened by forcing wells will be restored by allowing
periods of rest; and to what extent recent reduced outputs may have been attributable to failure to sink enough
wells or to open additional territory.'" It would be necessary to enquire also into The extent and character of the
existing gas reserves, wherever situated and by whomsoever owned. In ascertaining the extent of the gas territory not yet developed, it would be necessary to enquire to what extent the reserve is controlled by, or is
otherwise available to, the several public service corporations of the several States; the cost of developing
particular fields and of marketing the supply therefrom;
what the relation of such undeveloped territory is to
that then being worked and to that already exhausted;
and to what extent and how rapidly the development of
new areas and new sources of supply should properly
proceed.
(b) The demand, actual and potential, in each State
would have to be determined. In determining the demand, the Court could not confine its enquiry to ascer"Some idea may be formed of the scope of this enquiry by examining the data concerning the natural gas operations collected by
the United States Geological Survey.

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

taining the amount then used or called for. The rates
charged in the several communities must also be considered. For upon these, as well as upon the relative cost
of other kinds of fuel, would depend in large part the
extent of the demand; particularly by the industries.
The character of the use and the circumstances under
which it had been developed would, likewise, be important factors in deciding what distribution would be equitable. Among other things, it would be necessary to
determine to what extent there was, as in Ohio, a high
percentage of waste; and what investment had been made
in distributing mains and in customers' appliances and
when and under what circumstances these investments
had been made. For, while a long established local distributing company might reasonably be required to restrict its business to existing customers and even to the
existing needs of such, a like restriction would be a great
hardship, if applied to new companies which had not yet
brought their business to a paying basis.
(c) No determination concerning production and none
concerning demand could afford a stable basis for future
action; for no factor entering into the determination
would be constant. Investigations into supply and demand would have to be pursued continuously; and recurrent decisions as to distribution would be required. Thus,
the estimate of the undeveloped gas territory must be
ever changing; for new discovery may open territory
theretofore unknown; and the sinking of test wells may
establish the fact that territory previously deemed valuable will be wholly unproductive. In no other field of
public service regulation is the controlling body confronted with factors so baffling as in the natural gas
industry; and in none is continuous supervision and control required in so high a degree.
(d) The decisions to be made would be of the character
which calls for the informed judgment of a board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

262 U. S.

experts. The tribunal would have to determine, among
other things, whether inadequate service was due in the
several States to inadequate supply or to improvident use
by some consumers; whether to overcomeinadequacy of
supply new territory should be developed or more wells
be sunk in old territory; whether, in view of prospective
needs of the several communities, it would not be better
that the reserves should be husbanded and that the uses
to which gas may be put be curtailed. It Would, thus, be
called upon to review-and perhaps to control-the business judgment of those managing the companies. Pro
rata distribution among all users of the gas from time to
time available would obviously not result in equitable
distribution. For domestic users, and also many industrial ones, would, if their gas supply were uncertain, find
it necessary to assure themselves of an adequate supply
for heating, cooking and power, of either oil or some other
kind of fuel; and the expense of producing the necessary
alternative appliances would be large. The tribunal
would have to decide, also, many other serious questions
of the character usually committed for determination to
public utility commissions, and the difficulties involved
in these decisions would be much enhanced by differences
in the laws, rules and practices of the several States
regarding the duties of natural gas companies to furnish
adequate service."
'For instance: If it should appear that the potential supply in
Pennsylvania is ample for all present needs, but that its concerns
prefer to husband their resources for the remoter future, would it
be unjust discrimination on the part of the West Virginia companies
to deny to their customers within the State an adequate supply while
supplying to Pennsylvania distributing companies an amount of gas
which these might have produced from reserves within Pennsylvania?'
Or if Kentucky had ample supplies and undeveloped fields, but sought
gas from West Virginia because the Kentucky companies did not have
the funds, or the inclination, to make, af the time, a large investment
required to secure a supply within that State, would, under those

PENNA. v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553

Syllabus.

Clearly, this Court could not undertake such determinations. To make equitable distribution would be a
task of such complexity and difficulty that even an interstate public service commission with broad powers, perfected administrative machinery, ample resources, practical experience and no other duties, might fail to perform
it satisfactorily. As this Court would be powerless to
frame a decree and provide machinery by means of which
such equitable distribution of the available supply could
be effected, it should, according to settled practice, refuse
to entertain the suits. Compare Marble Co. v. Ripley,
10 Wall. 339, 358; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Marshall,
136 U. S. 393, 406; Giles v. Harris,189 U. S. 475, 487, 488.

COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

Nos. 15 and 16, Original.

Decree entered June 11, 1923.

Decree, declaring c. 71, Laws of West Virginia of 1919, unconstitu-

tional; enjoining that State and her officials from enforcing it;
apportioning costs; and fixing the pay of the' commissioner who
took and reported the evidence.
circumstances, West Virginia companies be justified in supplying the
Kentucky demand while leaving that of its West Virginia customers
unsatisfied? Should distributing companies in Pennsylvania, Ohio,
Kentucky and Indiana be permitted to extend their mains or add
new customers after West Virginia had recognized the insufficiency
of the supply to satisfy the needs of consumers within the State?
And what shall be deemed the existing demand of a State? Is
existing demand to be limited to customers already connected? And
does it mean the amount theretofore taken by such customers or that
which they may wish to take through existing appliances?

