C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
Syllabus.

32

mission had wrongly held that it did not have jurisdiction
to adjudicate the controversy; nor is it like Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
252 U. S. 178, where the Commission wrongly refused
to perform a specific, peremptory duty prescribed by
Congress.
Whether a judicial review can be had by some other
form of proceeding, we need not enquire. Compare,
Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 114, 116; Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. United
States, 240, U. S. 334, 336; Procter & Gamble Co. v.
United States, 225 U. S. 282.
Reversed.
CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. NYE SCHNEIDER FOWLER COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 24. Argued April 18, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A state statute making the initial railroad carrier liable to the
shipper for the default of its connecting carrier, is not lacking in
due process of law if the first carrier is allowed subrogation against
the second, whether the subrogation be founded on statute, common
law, or equitable considerations. P. 37.
2. A statute imposing on common carriers the duty of seasonably
considering and settling claims for loss or damage of freight, under
pain of being required to pay 7% on the recovery and reasonable
attorney's fees, to be fixed by the court, in any case where the
claimant recovers judgment for more than has been tendered him
by the carrier, is not per se objectionable under the equal protection or due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 38.
3. Such statutes are to be judged by their application in the particular case; where the result is fair and reasonable, they will be
sustained; aliter where it is so arbitrary, unequal and oppressive
as to shock the sense of fairness inspiring the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 43.
4. In this case, involving numerous claims for loss or injury to hogs
while in the carrier's custody, the amount of which the cafrier

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1922,
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

might have ascertained and so protected itself by a tender, and
where the trial lasted four days, an attorney's fee of $200 for
service in the trial court, a d 7% interest on $800 ultimately
recovered, was not an excessive penalty.. P. 45. Chicago, Mlwaukee & St. Paul ,Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 Ui. S. 165, distinguished.
5. But imposition on the carrier of an additional attorney's fee of
$100, fixed under the statute upon the basis of the service rendered,
time and labor bestowed, and recovery secured, by the claimant's
attorney in resisting an- appeal by which the carrier obtained a
large reduction of an excessive judgment, was unconstitutional.
P.- 46.
105. Neb. 151, reversed in part and affirmed: in part.

t6 a judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska affirming with reductions a judgment for damages, interest, and attorney's fees, and taxing a further
attorney's fee for -services in that court, in an action
against a railroad company for loss and injury of livestock freight.
ERROR

Mr. Wymer Dressier,Mr. F. W. Sargent and Mr. T. P.
Littlepage, for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr.. GarrardGlenn, with whom Mr. William B. Walsh
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
-MR. CHIEF JUSTIonX TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case, the constitutional validity of two 'statutes
of Nebraska is questioned, the first subjecting the initial
railroad of two connecting roads, receiving freight, to
liability for safe delivery by the other, and the second
making every common c~rrier liable for a reasonable
attorney's fee in the court of first instance *andon appeal,
for collection from it of every claim for damage or loss
to property shipped, not adjusted within 60 days, for
intrastate shipments.
. The Nye Schneider Fowler Company, defendant
in
error, is a corporation of Nebraska, at Fremont, Nebraska,

C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
35

37

Opinion of the Court.

engaged in the business of bringing hogs into the State
and shipping them to South Omaha for sale in the stockyards there. It brought this suit against the plaintiff in
error, a, common carrier, to recover damages in the sum
of $2,097.21 and $900 attorney's fees, for loss or injury to
hogs shipped in 105 intrastate shipments, averring due
presentation of such claims and the refusal of the company to pay any amount whatever on them. The jury
returned a verdict of $802.27, with interest at 7%, as
provided in the statute. On motion, the court fixed the
reasonable attorney's fees in the suit at $660, as part of
the costs, and judgment for verdict and costs was accordingly entered. By the Supreme Court of the State,
to which the defendant company appealed the cause, a
remittitur was required and consented to for $209.01 on
the amount recovered for loss and damage, and the fee
of $600 taxed as costs was reduced to $200, but the Supreme Court -taxed the plaintiff in error with an attorney's fee of $100 for services in the Supreme Court and
judgment was entered accordingly. The questions made
involved separate statutes and we shall take them up in
order.
First. Section 6058 of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska,
1913, provides as follows:
"Any railroad company receiving freight for transportation shall be entitled to the same rights and be subject
to the same liabilities as common carriers. Whenever
two or more railroads are connected together, the company owning either of such roads receiving freight to be
transported to any place on the line of either of the roads
so connected shall be liable as common carriers- for the
delivery of such freight, to the consignee of the freight,
in the same order in which such freighf was shipped."
It is objected that this imposes on one railroad liability
for the default of another without providing reimbursement by that other and so deprives the one of its property

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

without due process of law. - But the Supreme Court of
Nebraska has declared in this case that, in such a case
under the statute, the initial carrier has a right of reimbursement under the general principle of subrogation.
This conclusion is sound and is supported by Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Eastin & Knox, 100 Tex. 556, and the
general principle involved finds support in Fisherv. Milwaukee Electric Ry. &Light Co., 173 Wis. 57; Arnold v..
Green, 116 N. Y. 566, 571; Syracuse Lighting Co. v. Maryland Casualty Co., 226 N. Y. 25, and Holmes v. Balcom,
84 Me. 226. Counsel for the plaintiff in error contend
that the legislature has granted no such right of subrogation in this statute, that it is not a right but purely a
matter of equity under the circumstances. We can not
follow this distinction. We have here a construction of
this statute by the Supreme Court o, the State, in which
that -tribunal holds that, under all the circumstances to
which this statute can apply, subrogation does exist.
The initial carrier is, therefore, certaihly protected within
the jurisdiction within which the statute operates, and,
as no doubt can arise as to the enjoyment of the right,
it is immaterial whether it was originally founded on the
common law or was developed in the broader justice of
equity jurisprudence.
Second. Authority for taxing of attorney's fees as part
of the costs in such cases is founded in c. 134, Laws of
Nebraska, 1919, amending § 6063, Revised Statutes, 1913,
which-reads as follows:
"Every claim for loss or damage to property in any
manner, or overcharge for freight for which any common
carrier in the State of Nebraska may be liable,-shall be
adjusted and paid by the common carrier delivering such
freight at the place of dpstination within sixty days, in
cases of shipment or shipments wholly within the state,
and within ninety days in cases of shipment or shipments
between points without and points within the state, after

C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
35

Opinion of the Court.

such claim, stating the amount and nature thereof accompanied by the bill of lading or duplicate bill of lading
or shipping receipt showing amount paid for or on account
of said shipment, which shall lie returned to the complainant when the claim is rejected or the time limit has expired, shall have been filed with the agent, or the common
carrier at the point of destination of such shipment, or
at the point where damages in any other manner may
be caused by any common carrier. 'In the event such
claim, which shall have been filed as above provided,
within ninety days from the date of the delivery of thefreight in regard to which damages are clained, i not
adjusted and paid within the time herein limited, such
common carrier shall be liable for interest thereon at
seven per cent per annum from the date of filing of such
claim, and shall also be liable for a reasonable attorney's
fee to -be fixed by the court, all to be recovered by the
consignee or consignor, or real party in interest, in any
court of competent jurisdiction, and in the event an
appeal be taken and the plaintiff shall succeed, such
plaintiff shall be entitled to recover an additional attorney
fee to be fixed by such court or courts: Provided, in
bringing suit for the recovery of any claim for loss or
damage as herein provided if consignee or consignor, or
real party in interest, shall fail to recover a judgment in
excess of the amount +hatmay have been tendered in an
offer of settlement of such claim by the common carrier
liable hereunder, then such consignee or consignor, or
real party in interest, shall not recover the interest penalty
or attorney's fee herein provided."
The Supreme Court of the State has held that provision
for attorney's fees in this section is in the nature of
reimbursement of costs and not a penalty. Smith v.
Chicago, St. Paul, M. & 0.- Ry. (o., 99 Neb. 719; Marsh
& Marsh v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 103 Neb.
654. But this does not meet the objection pressed on us.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Cov-i

260 U. S.

These are costs imposed on the defeated defendant in the
litigation, but not on the defeated plaintiff. This is an
inequality, and the question is whether it is a just dis.:
crimination and one which the legislature may make and
not take the defeated defendant's property without due
process or deny it the equal protection of the law. We
have considered in oir more recent decisions the constitutional validity of inequalities of this general character
as between claimants and common carriers created by
state legislation, and it may perhaps be worth while to
review the decisions to see what general rule runs through
them, with a view of applying it to thb case before us.
In the first of these cases, Gulf, Colorado&-Santa Fe Ry.
Co. v. Ellis, 165 U3. S. 150, a defendant railroad comppny
attacked a statute of Texas under which it had been required to pay an. attorney's fee to the plaintiff., The
statute provided that any person having a claim for personal services, for overcharges for freight, or for clairs
for stock killed if it did not exceed $50, which was duly
presented and not settled in 30 days, might, if he'recovered- the full amount in a suit, riecover also an attorney's
fee not exceeding $10, if he had an attorney. This Court,
three judges dissenting, held that the statute denied the
equal protection -of the laws to railroads, because it was
only a penalty to compel them'to pay their debts, and
that to single them out as a group of general debtors was
not just classification.
In Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. 1?. Co. v. Matthews,
174 U. S. 96, a statute,relating to the liability of railroads
for damages for fire caused by their negligent operation,
allowed the plaintiff if 'he recovered a reasonable attorney's'fee. This was held a valid classification of defendants, because it was a police measure to prevent fire likely
to be caused by operation of railroads and the attorney's
it..
fee stimulated care to prevent
In Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Seegers, 207 U. S. 73, a
state statute imposed a penalty of 850 on all common car-

C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
35

41

Opinion 6the Court.

riers for failure to adjust damage claims within 40 days;.
if in the subsequent litigation the plaintiff recovered the
full amount claimed. The statute was sustained in a case
where the claim was $1.75. It was held not to be a statute
imposing a penalty merely for the non-payment of debts,
or against railroad corporations alone, as iii the Ellis Case,
but one based solely upon the nature of the business
peculiarly within the knowledge of the carrier, who could
determine the loss more accurately and with less delay
than the plaintiff. It was said that the design was to
secure a reasonably prompt settlement of proper claims,
and especially small claims which most need such penal
provisions to protect them.
In St. Louis, Iron Mountain cc Southern Ry. Co. v.
Wynne, 224 U. S. 354, a state statute required railroad companies to pay claims for livestock killed or
injured by their trains, within 30 days after notice, with
a penalty, for failure to do so, of double damages and
attorney's fee, if claimant recovered what he sued for.
The plaintiff had made a claim for $500 for the killing of
two horses by defendant's train. On refusal; suit was
brought for $400 and recovery had for that amount. It
was held that, to apply the statute, as the state court did,
to a case in which plaintiff had demanded more than he
sued for, made an arbitrary exercise of power and deprived defendant of its property without due process of
law.
In Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Anderson, 233
U. S. 325, the same statute which was held invalid in the
Wynne Case was again before the Court for consideration
as applied to a case where plaintiff had not demanded
more than he sued for and recovered, and the validity of
the statute was upheld.
In Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. Co. v. Jackson
Vinegar Co., 22G U. S. 217, the statute required every
common carrier to settle - claims for lost or damaged

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1922,
Opinon of the Court.

260 U. S.

freight within 60 days and made it liable for $25 damages
in each case in addition tothe actual damages, but limited
the penalty to claims of 'less than $200. The claim was
$4.76, and there was a recovery of the claim and penalty.
Such
a statute was held a reasonable incentive to the
prompt
settlement without suit of just demands of a class
admitting_ of special legislative treatment. It was objected to the statute that it intended the assessment .of a
penalty, whether the recovery was less than the claim or
not. But the Court refused to consider the objection, on
the ground that it sufficed to hold that, as applied to cases
like those before it, the statute was valid; and that it
would not deal with imaginary cases or speculate on what
application the state court would make of the statute in
another class of cases.
In Chicago,,Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232
U. S. 165, the state statute made a railroad company
absolutely responsible for loss of property destroyed by
fire communicated from its locomotives, and provided
that, unless it paid or offered to pay the full amount of
the damage within ,60 days from notice, the owner should
have double damages, unless he recovered less than the
amount offered by the company before suit. The plaintiff demanded and sued for $838.20. The company offered $500. The verdict was for $780. The Court said
that, the rudiments of fair play required by the Fourteenth Amendment were wanting when a defendant in
such a case was compelled to guess rightly what a jury
would find or pay double if that tribunal added a cent to
the amount tendered, though the tender was futile because of an excessive- demand.
In Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Cade, 233 U. S.
642, a statute regulating the presentation and collection
of claims for personal service, material furnished, overcharges for freight, for lost or damaged freight, or . for
stock killed or injured, against any person or corporation,

C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
35

Opinion of the Court.

less than $200 in amount, required that they be settled in
30 days and, if not, the person injured could bring suit,
and, if he recovered the full amount of his claim, he
should be entitled, in addition to the amount and costs,
to a reasonable attorney's fee not exceeding $20. It was
held that the attorney's fee here was manifestly only costs
of suit and that, as the statute applied to every one and
any person might be plaintiff or defendant, the mere dis- tinction between the costs to be taxed against the plaintiff
and those against the defendant did not deny the equal
protection of the laws, because the plaintiff usually had
the burden in the case, and, as the outlay for an attorney's
fee was a necessary consequence of the litigation, it was
reasonable to impose it upon the party whose refusal to
pay the just claim rendered the litigation necessary.
In Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Vosburg,
238 U. S. 56, a statute requiring prompt furnishing of cars
by carriers, and prompt loading by shippers, and which
imposed the same penalty per car upon delinquents of
either group, but which added attorney's fee to the pen-.
alty imposed on the carriers in case of recovery by a
shipper, was held to deny to the carriers the equal protection of the laws, because in such a case there was no
ground for putting the carriers in a different class from
the shippers and imposing a special burden on them,
when they were both in identically the same situation.
The general rule to, be gathered from this extended
review of the cases is, that common carriers engaged in
the public business of transportation may be grouped in
a special class to secure the proper discharge of their
functions, and to meet their liability for injuries inflicted
upon the property of members of the public in their performance; that the seasonable payment of just claims
against them for faulty performance of their functions is
a part of their duty, and that a reasonable penalty may
be imposed on them for failure promptly to consider and

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

pay such claims, in order to discourage delays by them.
This penalty or stimulus may be in the form of attorney's
fees. But it is also apparent from these cases that such
penalties or fees must be moderate and reasonably sufficient to accomplish their legitimate object and that the
imposition of penalties or conditions that are plainly
arbitrary and oppressive and," violate the rudiments of
fair play" insisted on in the Fourteenth Amendment,
will be held to infringe it. In this scrutiny of the particular operation of a statute of this kind, we have sustained
it in its application to one set of facts by the state court
-and,held it invalid when applied to another. In some of
the cases in which the statutes are sustained there is a
fixed penalty or a limited attorney's fee. In others, the
attorney's fee is merely required to be reasonable and
fixed by the court. In some, there is a limit in the amount
of the claims to which the statute applies, and in others,
not. In some statutes held valid, the penalty or fee is
allowed only: on-condition that the full amount claimed be
recovered, in others, that the amount sued for be recovered. In the one case, the statute imposed no- condition
upon the imposition of a penalty that the full amount
claimed or sued for should be recovered, but the Court
refused to consider the validity of the penalty from that
standpoint because the facts did not require it. In another case, the requirement that a tender of the amount
recovered could alone save double damages was held invalid; because requiring a guess as to the verdict of the

jury.

....

.

. It is obvious that it is not practical to draw a line of
distinction between these cases based on a difference of
particular limitations in the statute and the different facts
in particular cases. -The Court has not intended to establish one, but only to follow the -general rule that when,
in their actual operation in the cases before it, such statutes work an arbitrary, unequal and oppressive result for

C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
35

45

Opinion of the Court.

the carrier which shocks the sense of fairness the Fourteenth Amendment was intended to satisfy in respect of
state legislation, they will not be sustained.
Coming now to the case before us, we find that the
statute affects all common carriers, that it imposes on
them the duty of considering and settling claims for loss
of and damage to freight within 60 days, and provides
that, if they do not so settle them and in a subsequent
suit more is recovered than the amount tendered, the
amount found due shall carry 7% interest from the presentation of the claim, as a penalty, and reasonable attorney's fees. If an appeal be taken and the plaintiff succeed, an additional attorney's fee may be included. The
statute is confined to freight claims. It does not place a
limit on them, but, as we have seen, the cases do not
require this. The statute does require a tender, but in
this case the claims were wholly rejected. No tender of
any amount was even attempted. The claims numbered
105 when presented and sued on. They were reduced to
72. The trial lasted four days.
It is said here, as it was said in the Polt Case in 232
U. S. 165, that the company can not be subjected to a
penalty for not guessing rightly the verdict of ,a jury.
But the cases are very different. There the penalty was
double damages for a failure to guess rightly as to the
jury's view of damages from a fire to a house, when the
extent of the damage was not peculiarly within the company's knowledge. Here the damages were for hogs,
injured during the custody of the carrier, and whose value
was determined by weight and market price and not difficult of ascertainment after a bona fide effort, and there
was no effort at a tender at all. Here the penalty is
only 7% interest on the actual recovery, and reasonable
attorney's fees as costs. The amount of the attorney's
fee, $200 for a case involving the preparation for trial of
72 different claims and a four days' trial, does not shock
one's sense of fairness.

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

It is further separately assigned for error that the Supreme Court imposed upon plaintiff in error an attorney's
fee of $100 when it won the case on appeal by reducing
the amount recovered in the trial court. The original
§ 6063, Revised Statutes of Nebraska, only provided for an
attorney's fee to be fixed by the court; but c. 134, Laws
of Nebraska, 1919, added the words "and in event an
appeal be taken and the plaintiff shall succeed, such plaintiff shall be- entitled to recover an additional attorney
fee to be fixed by such court or courts." This might
have been construed to mean that the plaintiff could only
have an attorney's fee in the appellate court or courts,
if he maintained the judgment he had obtained in the
court of first instance. But the Supreme Court of the
State, and that controls our view, has evidently interpreted the words " the plaintiff shall succeed" to mean
success in securing a judgrr'ent for more than the amount
tendered, if any, and it is in light of this interpretation
that we must consider the reasonableness of the statite
and the validity of the fee fixed in this case.
The evident theory of the amendment of §6063, as thus
interpreted, is that the burden of the litigation, both in
the trial and appellate court, could be avoided by reasonable -assiduity of the defendant carrier in availing itself
of its peculiar sources of knowledge, ascertaining the
actual damage and making a genuine tender of what it
believes to be due, and, if the ultimate recovery is not
more than the tender, that the claimant shall have neither
interest nor attorney's fee. Under the circumstances, does
the statute thus construed work a fairresult? Here is an
excessive claim of $2,000 reduced to 800 by a trial in one
court, with an attorney's fee fixed at $600, and then an
appeal by which the claim is reduced to $600, anhc the fee
to $200. It is said that there were 105 claims reduced
by the litigation to 72, and that claimant might have
brought a separate suit on each and so had an attorney's

C. & N. Vy. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
35

t

47

Opinion of the Court.

fee in each claim on which it recovered anything, making
a larger aggregate of fees than it has secured. But we do
not think this consideration can play any part in the
case as it is. The claimant doubtless united the claims
for its own convenience and to save its own time and that
of its counsel.
Then it is said the fee in the Supreme Court is left to
the discretion of that court, which can be trusted to do
the fair thing as a chancellor often does, by dividing the
6osts on an equitable basis. But the difficulty with this
view is that the construction which the Supreie Qourt
has given the statute does not reserve to itself this power.
It says that in such a statute the fee must be reasonable,
in that it is to be based on a consideration of the value
of the attorney's service to the claimani and the amount
of time and labor expended by him, bearing a fair proportion to the amount of the judgment recovered. These
are the usual and proper elements in fixing compensation
for a lawyer's service. In other words, the Supreme
Court, if any amount over the tender is recovered by its
judgment, must fix a fee compensating the attorneys for
the claimant for their work on the appeal, however excessive the recovery below and however much reduced on
theappeal, if more than the original tender. Thus what
we have here is a requirement that the carrier shall pay
the attorneys of the claimant full compensation for their
labors in resisting its successful effort on appeal to reduce
an unjust and excessive claim against it. This we do not
think is fair play. Penalties imposed on one party for
the privilege of appeal to the courts, deterring him from
vindication of his rights, have been held invalid under
the Fourteenth Amendment. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Tucker, 230 U. S. 340. Wliile the present case does not
involve any such penalties as were there imposed, we
think the principle applies to the facts of this case. We
hold that so much of the statute as imposed an attorney's

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
I,

Syllabus.

260 U. S.

fee-upon the carrier in this case in the Supreme Court was
invalid. The judgment of the Supreme Court is to this
extent reversed and in other respects affirmed. The costs
in this court will be taxed one-third to the defendant in
error, and two-thirds to the plaintiff in error.
Reversed in part and
Affirmed in part.
WICHITA RAILROAD & LIGHT COMPANY v.
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF KANSAS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.':

No. 27. Argued, April 24, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Jurisdiction acquired'by the District' Curt on the ground of
diverse citizenship, is not divested by the intervention by leave of
the court, of a party, opposed to and of like citizenship with the
plaintiff, but whose presence is not essential to a decision of the
original controversy. P. 53.
2. The, jurisdiction of the District Court arising from diverse citizenship extends to the entire suit, and to every question, state or
federal, involved in its determination. P. 54.
3. Where a plaintiff in equity successfully movei the District Court
for judgment on the pleadings, reserving the right to adduce evidence and be heard on issues of mixed law and fact presented, a
decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the decree in his
favor, should accord that opportunity, and not dismiss the bill.
P. 54.
4. Under the Public Utility Law, of Kansas, Laws 1911, c. 238, in
order that an increase of rates, proposed by a gas company, may
supersede lower rates fixed by its contract with another, it is not
enough that the change be filed with and consented to by the Commission, under § 20; there must, under § 13, be an express finding
by the Commission, after full hearing and investigation, that the
existing rates are unjust, unreasonable, unjustly discriiinatoity, or
unduly preferential; and without such finding the Commission's
order is void. -P. 56.

