GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 261
245

Syllabus.

begin to be governed and protected by the national law
of commercial regulation, and that moment seems to us
to be a legitimate one for this purpose, in which they commence their final movement, for transportation from the
State of their origin to that of their destination."
And again, "nor is exportation begun until they are
committed to-the common carrier for transportation out
of the State to the State of their destination, or have
started on their ultimate passage to that State." Until
then, it was said, that'they were a part of the general mass
of property of the State, and subject to its jurisdiction.
Other. cases have decided the sane and afford illustrations of it. Cornellv. Coyne, 192 U. S.418; Susquehanna.
Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U. S.665; Bacon v. Illinois,
227 U. S.504; General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211;
United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259,.U. S.
344.
The effect of these cases is attempted to b'e evaded by
the assertion that the statute, in imposing the tax whenthe coal " 'is ready for shipment or market,' is a plain and
intentional fraud upofl the commerce clause." We cannot accept the accusation as justified, or that the situation
of the coal can be changed by it and as moving in interstate commerce when it is plainly not so moving. The
coal, therefore, is too definitely situated tq be misunderstood, and the cases cited-to establish E different character
and subjection need not be reviewed.
Decree affirmed.
GENERAL INVESTMENT COMPANY v. LAKE
SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL$ FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 34. Argued October 6, 1922.-Decided November' 27, -1922.
1. A motion by a defendant to quash service of process may be-made
in and entertained by the District Court after removal of The cause,

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

though previously made -and overruled in the state court before
r emoval. P. 267.
2. Service on a foreign railway corporation in a State where, it had
no railroad or office, upon a person not its agent, held void. P. 268.
3.A petition of removal filed in a state court, with or without reservations as to jurisdiction, is a special .appearance, and leaves the
validity, of attempted service of process open to question in the
'District Court. P. 268.
4. An objection to.the validity of service of process made by special
'appearance in the state court and renewed in like manner in the
District Court after removal, -heldnot waived by a stipulation that
evidence directly relating to it and uied on the first hearing, might
be used on the second. P. 269.
5. defendints,"
The filing of a brief, subscribed by solicitors as "solicitors for the
held to have been on behalf of the one defendant
duly
served, and.not t6 have been intended, or to have operated, as. a
general appearance for another defendant not duly served. P. 270.
6. The restriction (Jud. Code, § 51) that no suit shall be brought in
.the District Court against any person by any original process or
proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, does not affect the general jurisdiction of the court over the
particular cause as defined by § 24, but merely establishes a, personal privilege of the defendant which he may -waive, and does
waive by entering an appearance without claiming it. P. 272.
7. Under Jud. Code, §§ 28, 29, permitting removal of causes to the
Distridt Court "for the proper district," the proper district is that
one, which includes the county or place where the suit in the state
court is pending at the time of the removal. P. 274.
8. In providing for removal of suits, arising under the Federal Constitution or laws, "of which the district courts .. , are given
original jurisdiction by this title,-" § 28 of the Judicial Code (like
§ 2 of the Judiciary Act of 1888,) refers td the general jurisdiction
conferred by § 24, and not to the venue provision of § 51, (see
supra, par. 6). P. 276.
9. A suit arising under the Federal Constitution or laws. may therefore be removed to the "proper distrief" (embracing the seat of
the staie court) by a defendant who is not an inhabitant of that
district, and who consequently could have objected to the venue
under Jud. Code, § 51. "P.279.
10. No change in. the- meaning of the Judiciary Act of August 13,
1888, was intended or wrought by the rearrangement of its parts in
the Judicial Code. P. 278.

GENERAL-INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 263
261

Syllabus.*

11. Like §: 51, Jud. Code, the special provision as to venue made by
§ 12 of the Clayton"Act, respecting suits under anti-trust laws,
does not affect the general jurisdiction of the District Courts, but
allows the defendant a personal privilege which.he may waive.
P. 279.
12. A suit against two railroad companies-one having lines within
and without, and the other lines without, the State of suit,--to enjoin them from entering into consolidation, and to dissolve the
consolidation if consummated pendente lite, is a suit in personam
to which the provisions of Jud. Code, § 57, for special service of
process in local suiis directly relating to specific property, do not"
apply. P. 279.
13. The office of a supplemental bill is to introduce matters occurring
after the filing of the original bill, or not then known to the plaintiff (Equity Rule 34); but not to shift the right in which the plaintiff sues or change the character and object of the suit.' P. 281.
14. Application to file a supplemental bill is addressed to the sound
discretion of the court. P. 281.
15. Where a decree of the District Court dismissing a bill was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals as to part of the bill
but as to the remainder was reversed upon the ground that, as to
that part, the dismissal was erroneously based, on a supposed defeet of parties, held, that upon the return of the -case, 6ther objections to the remaining part which might have been, but were not,
urged or considered on the appeal, could be considered by the "District Court, and Jby the Circuit Court of Appeals on a second"
appeal. P. 284.
16. In a suit by a shareholder to prevent two corporations from
carrying out an agreement for a consolidation alleged to be unlawful, which was subject to ratification by their shareholders, held,
that one of the corporations; which held shares of the other,
was an indispensable party as to so much of the bill as sought .to
'enjoin it from voting them and to enjoin the other from permitting
it s67 to do, but not as to so much as sought to enjoin the other
from. entering into or consunimating the proposed consolidation.
P. 285:
17. Under § 16 of the Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, a private
sdit to enjoin a viola ti.on of that act or of the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act, can only be brought in a federal court. Such a suit cannot be
brought, in a state court; P. 286,.
18. Want of jurisdietion in a state court is not "cured "by removal of
the cause to the federal court. P. 288.'

! OCTOBER TERM,,1922.
Statement of, the Case.

260 U. 5.

19. A decree, dismissing a bill for -want of jurisdiction should be
without prejudice., , B,288.
20: When a private individual,' in virtue of a minute -interest in the
stock of a-railroad corporation acquired after it entered into an
agreement looking to consolidation 'with other companies, seeks to
,enjoin it, from entering- the consolidation as contrary to the -policy
of the State respecting control of parallel, c6mpeting lines, but
shows by his allegations- that the control, complained of .las long
existed, practically; through stock ownership, and exhibits no objeotion on the-part of:,the State or the other shareholders, he must
show in his bill, with precision and certainty, in what respects the
law is about to be violated and, clearly and positively, that substantial and irreparable injury will result to his private rights.
P. 288 .
269 Fed. 235,,mQdified and affirmed.,-

This suit in equity was begun in the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, to enjoin a proposed consolidation of the 'New York Central and Hudson
River Railroad Company, the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railway .Company, and nine other companies,
not identified in the bill, 'and to secure other relief of, an
incidental nature. The suit 'was brought by the General
Investment CompaRj" a Mainecorporation, and the New
York Central-and Hudson River Railroad Company, the
Lake Shore, and Michiigan Southern Railway Company,
the Central Trust Company, arid three individuals, called
the Read Committee, were hiamed as defendants.
The principal gi'ound on which the proposed consolidation was assailed was that it would contravene the Sherman Anti-Trust Act and the Clayton Act,-both laws of
.the United States' There were also charges that it would
be contrary to the constitution and laws of Ohio and other
-States, but the general tenor of the bill made it evident
that these' charges" were'to be taken as of secondary im-.
portance. The plaintiff's right to sue was based on allegations that it was a stockholder in the New York Central
Company and the Lake Shore Company and, as -such,

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

265

Statement of the Case.

would be subjected to irreparable loss and damage should
the consolidation be effected.
Process was duly served on the Lake Shore Company
and there was a purported service on the New York Central Company; but there was neither servide on nor appearance by the other defendants. The New York Central Company, appearing specially for the purpose,
promptly challenged the validity of the service on it by moving to set the same aside; but the state court overruled the motion.
In due time the two railroad companies caused the suit
to be removed into the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Ohio. The plaintiff
objected to this and reserved an exception to the order
allowing it. The removal was sought and allowed on the
ground that the suit, according to the claim made in the
bill, was one arising under the laws of the United
States, and of which the District Courts of the United
States are given original jurisdiction. Diversity of citizenship was shown but not specified as a ground for
removal.
Shortly after the removal the New York Central Company, again appearing specially for the purpose, sought
and obtained in the District Court another hearing "on
its objection to the purported service on it, and on that
hearing the objection was sustained and the service set
aside. 226 Fed. 976. Afterwards motions by the plaintiff to remand the suit to the state court, to direct special
service on the New York Central Company and other defendants in the mode provided in § 57 of the Judicial
Code, and for leave to file a supplemental bill and make
new parties defendant were severally overruled. And
lastly a rhotion by the Lake Shore Company, the onlydefendant then before the court, to dismiss the suit was
sustained on the ground that the New York Central Company was an indispensable party, had not Voluntarily ap-

266

---OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

peared and was not within 'the reach, of the court's
process.
the decree of -dismissal the Plaintiff appealed -to
-rons
th",Circuit Court of Appeals. That court upheld the
rulngs s6tting aside the'service on'the"New York Central
Company, denying the motion to remand to the state
court, declining to direct special service on the New
York Central Company and other defendants, and refusing leave 'to 'file a supplemental bill and make new
parties. It also sustained the decree of dismissal as to
much of the bill, with the qualification that it be without
prejudice, and'revers 6a it 'as to other parts of the bill
to which -that court thobght the Lake Shore Company
was the only nedessary defendant. ' 250 Fed. 160.
When the caus& Was returned to the District Court theplaintiff,' complying with a direction that 'the bill be made
certain in a particular in which the Circuit Court of Appeals' deemed it unceitain, so amended .it as to show the
.date on Which the directors of the Lake Shore and other
companies adopted the agreement for the proposed consolidation.' The 'LakeS
Shore Compan3r then ,moved that
the bill, as left by the decision of the'Circuit Court of
Appeals, be dismissed on the 'grounds (a) ihat in s'o' far as
it was directed to securing an injunction against alleged
or threatened yi6latios of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act
or the Clayton Act the plaintiff had no right or standing
to maintain it, or,' -if having such a right' or standing,
co!uld -not bring i. in a state court, as was done, and (b)
that, in so'far as 'it was directed 'against 'alleged or
threatene.d violations of state constitutions or laws, it did
not shbw a'right in 'equity to the relief sought 6r any
part thereof. This motion was sustained- and .a decree
of 'dismissal entered. The plaintiff again appealed to the
Circuit* Cou t' of Appeals and that court affir hed .the
decree, but without prejudice to the institution in a proper
court of a new 'suit based only on infractions of state

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

267

Opinion of the Court.

constitutions or laws.
brings the case here.

269 Fed. 235.

A further appeal

Mr. Frederick A. Henry, with whom Mr. Elijah N.
Zoline was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Walter C. Noyes, with whom Mr. Robert J. Cary
and Mr. S. H. West were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, after stating the case as

above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
Complaint is made of each of the rulings alluded to in
the foregoing statement together with some others. We
take them up in their order.
The setting aside of the purported service on the New
York Central Company.
While the st6.te court considered the objection to the
service and overruled it before the removal, this was not
an obstacle to an examination of the question by the District Court after the removal. The state court's -ruling
was purely interlocutory, and its status in this regard was
not affected by the removal. Being interlocutory, it was
subject to reconsideration and would continue to be so up
to the passing of a final decree. Had the cause remained
in the state court the power to reconsider would have been
in that court, but when the removal was made the power
passed with the cause to the District Court. Of course in
the 'latter the ruling was to be .treaied with respect, biit
not as final or conclusive. Garden City Manufacturing
Co. v. Smith, 9 Fed. Cas. p. 1153; Bryant v. Thompson,
27 Fed. 881. And see Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S.
518, 522.
The sheriff returned that he had served the summons
on the New York Central Company in Cuyahoga County
by delivering a, copy to "W. A. Barr, regular ticket agent,
in charge of the business of said company." As grounds

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.'

260 U. S.

for assailing this service the 6ompany alleged that it was a
New York corporation, had no. railroad in Ohio, was not
doing business there, did not maintain a place of business
or office in that State, and had not made Barr its agent or
employee. From the evidence adduced on that issue the
District Court, as-also the Circuit Court of Appeals, found
that the grounds of the company's objection were all true
in point of fact. We have examined the evidence and discover no occasion for disturbing the finding. 'Indeed, we
think a different one would have been quite inadmissible.
The substance of the evidence is accurately set forth in the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals (250 Fed: 165)
and need' not be repeated here.
It follows that the purported service on this company
was invalid and rightly set aside. Philadelphia& Reading
'Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264, and'cases cited.
Alleged submission by New York Central Company to
court-s jUi'7sdiction.
The plaintiff contends that, even'if the service-was not
good, the company waived the fault and submitted to the
court's jurisdiction. Three things are relied on as constitutingor showing such a waiver and submission. They
are, the-petition for removal," stipfulation bringing be-'
fore the District Court evidence' presented in the state
court, and a brief filed in opposition to the motion to remand. We think the'contention has no support in any,
of them.
In fact the 'petition for removal contained an express
declaration that the~company was "not intending to waive
any iqestion of the sufficiency of service or the want of
service," but was "reserving all questions of service, jurisdiction and want of service." Besides, it is well settled
that' a petition for removal, even if not containing -sch a
resdrvition, does not amount to a general appearance, but
only a special appearance, and that 'after the removal the
party'securing it has the same right to invoke the decision

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

269

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States court on the validity of the prior
service that he has to ask its judgment on the-merits.
Wabash Western Ry. v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271, 279; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S.437, 441;
Cain v. Commercial Publishing Co., 232 U. S. 124, 131.
The plaintiff insists that, even'if that be the usual rule, it.
is not applicable here, because by this petition the company sought and secured a removal into a District Court
other than the one designated by law. But, as will be
shown presently, the court to which removal was asked
and effected was the proper one. So, whether the petition
be judged by what it says or by its legal effect, it'did not
amount to a general appearance or a waiver of any invalidity' in th e service.
The stipulation relied on was made between the plaintiff and the New York Central Company and related to
the use of specific evidence bearing directly on the validity of the service on the latter. The evidence had been
presented at the hearing in the state court on that question, and the purpose of the stipulation was merely to make
it, or a report of it, available at a new hering in the District Court on the same question. The stipulation did
not in terms restrict the use to that hearing, but such
a restriction inhered in the nature of the evidence specified, and was implied. In the application' whereon the
new hearing was granted the company had declared that
it was appearing specially for the purpose only of questioning the validity of the service. That declaration,
made at the outset, applied to and qualified every step
taken by the company in bringing the question to a hearing and decision. Joining in the stipulation was merely
such a step.
After the service on the New York Central Company
was held invalid and set aside, the plaintiff moved that
the cause be remanded to the state court. At that time
the Lake Shore Company was the only defendant before

OCTOBER, TERM,, 1922.
Opinion .,of the Court.

260 U. S.

the court. A brief by solicitors subscribing themselves as
"Solicitors for Defendants" was filed in opposition to
the motion. The plaintiff insists this was a general appearance by the New York Central Company. In the
body of the brief its authors referred to the absence of
any process against or, appearance by the Central Trust
Company and the members of the Read Committee, recited the proceedings -and order wherebyj the service on
the New York Central Company was set aside, said of
that company that it "is not now a defendant," spoke of
the Lake Shore Company as , ow the only real and
actual defendant," and otherwise indicated that in filing
the brief they were acting for the Lake Shore Company,
and for it alone. The plaintiff attaches much weight to
the plural term "defendants," in the subscription and
gives little consideration to the prior proceedings and the
plain pfirport of the body of -,the,,brief. We think all
should be considered and that when this is done, it is apparent, as was said by the Circuit Court of Appeals, that
the use of ihe plhral term was an inadvertence the singular'being intended. Certainly the plural had no particular reference to the New York Central Company, and yet
the plaintiff treats it as including that company , but not
the Central Trust Company or the members of the Read
Committee. This serves to show the fallacy of the claim.
If the term included any defendant not then before the
court, it included all--one as much as another. But if it
be reconciled, as we think it should be, with, the prior
situation and the general purport, of the brief, it becomes
evident that it referred, and was intended to refer, to the
Lake Shore Company, the only defendant then in the
suit,'and to it alone.
Refusal to remand to state court.
A restatement of the facts bearing on the propriety of
this ruling will be helpful. The suit, according to the
plaintiff's statement of its case asmade in the bill, was one

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 271
261

Opinion of the Court.

arising under the laws of the United States, and this was
so although the claim to the relief sought was based in
part on local constitutions and laws. It also appeared
that the matter in controversy exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of three thousand dol-:
lars. Because the suit possessed these elements it was removed from the Common Plews Court of Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, where it had been brought and was pending, into the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio, which included Cuyahoga
County. The removal, which was over the plaintiff's
objection and exception, was had on the petition of two
defendants, the.only ones attempted to be brought before
the state court. One of these, the New York Central
Company, was a corporate citizen of New York, and therefore not an inhabitant of the Northern District of Ohio,'
while the other, the Lake Shore Company, was a corporate citizen of Ohio aid an inhabitant of the Northern
District of that State.
The ground on which the plaintiff moved that the cause
be remanded to The state court was that, as the New York
Central Company, one of the defendants, was not an inhAbitant of the Northern District of Ohio, the suit could
not have been originally brought in the District Court
for that district, and therefore could not be removed into
it from the state court. The motion was denied.
As'we shall show, the argument advanced against that
ruling confuses venue with general jurisdiction and also
confuses the venue prescribed for cases begun in the District Courts with that prescribed -for cases removed into
them from state courts.
Section 24 of the Judicial Code declares that"The district courts shall have original jurisdiction
. . . of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in
'See Shaw v. Quincy Mining Co., 145 U. S. 444.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
-Opiion of the Court.

260 U. S.

equity,. . . where the natter-'in controversy exceeds,
exclusive of interest and costs, the sum'-or value-of three
thousand dollars, and (a) arises under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, or. treaties made, or which
shall be made, under' their authority, or (b) is between
citizens* of different Staues,
This provision' covers two distinct classes of suits. In
one the distinctive feature consists in the fact that the
suit arises under the Constitution, or a law or treaty,-'of
the United States, the citizenship of the parties 'not being
an element; while in the other the' distinctive feature
'consists in the fact that the parties are citizens of different States, the particular basis or ground of the sit not"
being-an element. This suit was within the first class,
and;-the requisite amount being involved, it came within
the general jurisdiction of the District Courts as defined
by § 24.
Section 51 deals with the venue of suits begun in those.
courts and provides, subject to exceptions not material
here, that-no civil suit shall be brought in any district
court against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an
inhabitant; but where the'jurisdiction is founded only on
the fact that the action is between citizens of. different
States, suit shall be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant."
This restriction, as repeatedly has been held, does not
affect the general jurisdiction of a District Court over a
particular cause, but merely establishes a personal privilege of the defendant, which he may.insist on, or may
waive, At his election, and does waive, where suit is
brought in a district other than the one :specified, if he
enters an appearance without claiming his privilege.
Central Trust Co. v. McGeorge, 151 U.- S. 129; Interior
Construction Co. v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217; In re Moore,

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

273

Opinion of the Court.

209 t. S.490, 501; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S.
1, 12; Camp v. Gress, 250 U. S. 308, 311.
It therefore cannot be affirmed broadly that this suit
could not have been brought against the New York Central Company in the District Court for the Northern
District of Ohio, but only that it could not have been
brought and maintained in that court over a seasonable
objection by the company to being sued there. And the
inability of the court to proceed with the cause in the
presence of such an objection would not have resulted
from any want of power to entertain and determine such
a suit between such parties, if they were before it, but
only because the company declined to yield the necessary
jurisdiction of its person. Macon Grocery Co. v. Atlantic
Coast Line R. R. Co., 215 U. S.501, 503, 508.
. Respecting the jurisdiction of the district courts on
removal from state courts, § 28 of the Judicial Code
declares:
"Any suit of a civil nature, at law or in equity, arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority, of which the district 'ourts of the United States
are given original jurisdiction by this title, which may
now be pending or which may hereafter be brought, in
any State court, may be removed by the defendant or
defendants therein to the district court of the United
States for the proper district. Any other suit of a civil
nature, at law or in equity, of which the district courts
of the United States are given jurisdiction by this title,
and which are now pending or which may hereafter be
brought, in any State court, may be removed into the
district court.of the United States for the proper district
by the defendant or defendants therein, being non-residents of that State ..
The next section (2o) provides that the removal shall
be "into the district court to be held in the district where
45646*-23--1

274-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

sudh suit is pending "; and § 53 provides that where the
district is separated into distinct divisions the removal
shall be into the District Court "in the division in which
the county is situated from which the removal is made."
Shortly after the original enactment of the removal
provisions now embodied in §§ 28 and 29, the meaning of
the words the proper district," found in § 28, was drawn
in question; and the courts, on examining the entire statute, very generally reached the conlusion that the words
mean the district which includes the county or place
where the suit is pending at the time of the removal.
Subject to exceptional departures soon disapproved, that
view has prevailed ever since,' and we regard it as obviously right.
From what has been said it seems'plainly to follow thqt
this suit-was removable and that the removal was to the
District' Court for the proper. district. But the plaintiff
insists that this view does not give due effect to the clause
in § 28 "of which the district courts of the United States
are given original jurisdiction ", and the provision in § 51
respecting the place of suit'or venue. These, it is argued,
show that removability is not to be determined by inquiring merely whether the particular suit is one of which § 24
says the District Courts "shall have original jurisdiction,"
but by inquiring also whether it is one which under § 51
could be brought, over the defendant's objection, in the
District Court for the particular district -within which
'ee Ex parte State Insurance Co., 18 Wall. 417; Hess v. Reynolds,
]13 U. S. 73; Knowlton v. Congress & Empire Spring Co., 14 Fed.
Cas. p. 796; Hyde v. Victoria Land Co*, 125 Fed. 970; Rubber &
Celluloid Harnes Trimming Co. v. Whiting-Adams Co., 210 Fed. 393,
395; 'St. John v. Taintor, 220 Fed. 457; Pavick v. Chicago, Milwaukee & -St. Paul Ry. Co., 225 Fed. 39,5; Eddy v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 226 Fed. 120; New York Coal Co. v. Sunday Creek
.Co., 230 Fed. 295; Ostrom''. Edison, 244 Fed. 228; Matarazzo v..
Eustis, 256 Fed. 882; 885, 892,

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

275

Opinion of -the Court.

it is pending. in a state court. The argument means,
and counsel for plaintiff so claim, that a suit arising under
the Constitution, or a law or treaty, of the United States
and brought in a state court within a particular federal
district is removable if the defendant be an inhabitant
of that district, but not if he be an inhabitant of some
district in another State-in other words, that in respect
of the right to remove such a suit the statute discriminates against defendants who are inhabitants of other
States and in favor of those who are inhabitants of the
State and district where the suit is pending. We think the
contention runs counter to both the letter and spirit of
the statute.
Section 24 contains a typical grant of original jurisdictionA to the District Courts in general of "all suits" in
the classes falling within its descriptive terms, save certain suits by assignees of particular choses in action. Section 51 does not withdraw any suit from that grant, but
merely regulates the place of suit, its purpose being to
save defendants from inconveniences to which they might
be subjected if they could be compelled to answer in any
district, or wherever found. Like similar state statutes,
it accords to defendants a privilege which they may, and
not infrequently do, waive.
Coming to the removal section (28), it is apparent that
the clause, "of which the district courts of the United
States are given original jurisdiction," refers to the jurisdiction conferred on the District Courts in general, for it
speaks of them in the plural. That it does not refer to the
venue provision in § 51 is apparent, first, because that
provision does not except or take any suit from the 'general jurisdiction conferred by § 24; next, because there
could be no purpose in extending to removals the personal
privilege accorded to defendants by- § 51, since removals
are had only at the instance of defendants, and, lastly,.

' 276

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

because 'the venue on removal is pecially dealt with and
fixed by § 29.
There are still other reasons for thinking the venue provision of § 51 has no bearing on removals. First, its own
words confine it to suits begun in the District Courts; and
next,, it cannot be regarded as limiting the right of removal without disregarding the plain import -of § 28.
That sectior provides for the removal of suits falling
within any one of several classes and declares who shall
have the right to remove them. As to the first class,
which comprises suits arising under the Constitution, or a
law or treaty, of the United States, the right is given to
the defendant or defendants without any, qualification,
-while as to the other classes the right is given to the defendant or def hdants if he or they be non-residents of the
State. Evidently the question of what, if any, limitation
in that regard -should be attached to the right was considered -when the section was in process of enactment and
was dealt with therein to the extent that Congress deemed
a limitation advisable. Of course, the omission of such
a limitation as'to suits of the first class, when contrasted
with the express imposition of one as to suits of the other
classes, means that Congress intended there should be
none as to the former.
Prior to ,the adoption' of the Judicial Code with its
present arrangement of sections the jurisdictional provisions of § 24 and the venue provision of § 51 constituted
the first section of the Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25
-Stat. 433, the jurisdictional provisions preceding the other:
The removal provision of § 28, with the clause, "of which
the circuit courts I of the United States are given original
jurisdiction," constituted the second 'section of the same
'At that period the jurisdiction here discussed was lodged in the
Circuit Courts. Afterwards they were abolished by the Judicial Code

and the sam' e jurisdiction was lodged in the District Courts.

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 277
261

Opinion of the Court.

act. Speaking of that act, and particularly of the meaning of the clause just quoted, this Court on different occasions said the clause referred " to the first part of section one by which jurisdiction is conferred, and not to the
clause relating to the district in which suit may be
brought," and that "the clause vesting jurisdiction should
not be confounded with the clause determining the particular courts in which the jurisdiction must be exercised."
Mexican National R. R. Co. v. Davidson, 157 U. S. 201,
208; Sweeney v. CarterOil Co., 199 U. S.252, 259. There
were also many decisions to the same effect in the circuit
courts.'
True, that view was departed from in the case of Ex
parte Wisner, 203 U. S.449, where the provision relating
to the district in which suit may be brought was treated
as strictly jurisdictional, not avoidable even by the consent of both parties, and applicable to removals. But
much that was said in that case was afterwards disapproved in the case of In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490, where
the Court returned to its former view, saying (p. 501):
"'The contention is that as this' action could not have
been originally brought in the Circuit Court for. the Eastern District of Missouri by reason of the last provision
quoted from § 1, it cannot under § 2 be removed to that
court, as the authorized removal is only of those cases of
which by the prior section original jurisdiction is given
to the United States Circuit Courts. But this ignores the
distinction between the general description of the jurisdiction of the United States courts and the clause naming
SFales v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 32 Fed. 673;
inal v. Continental Construction Co., 34 Fed. 228; Wilson v. Westem Union Telegraph Cb., 34 Fcd. 561, 564; Cooley v. McArthur, 35
Fed. 372; Kansas City & Topeka Ry. Co. v. Interstate Lumber Co.,
37 Fed. 3; Baltimore & Ohio R.R. Co. v. Meyers, 62 Fed. 367, 372;
Duncan v. Associated Press, 81 Fed. 417; Rome Petroleum & Iron
Co. v. Hughes Specialty Co:, 130 Fed. 585,

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

the particular district in' which an action must be
brought."
That no 6hange in the meaning of the Act of 1888 was
intended or wrought by the mere rearrangement of its
sections or parts as incorporated into the Judicial Code is
shown by §§ 294 and 295 of the .Code. See Brown v.
Fletcher, 235 U. S. 589, 597; United States ,v.
Cress, 243
U. S. 316, 331, J. .Homer Fritch, Inc. v. VUnited States,
248 U. S_ 458, 463.
The plaintiff cites the cases of Tennessee v. Bank of
Commerce, 152 U. S. 454; Cochran v. Montgomery
County, 199 U. S.260, and In re. Winn, 213 U. S.458, as
holding that to be removable into a particular federal
court a suit must be one which as of right could have
been brought originally in that court. But those cases are'
not fairly susceptible of,that interpretation. In each a
right of removal was claimed and was denied. In'the first
and*third the right was claimed on the ground that the
suit was one arising under the laws of the United States;
and the denial was put on the ground that the plaintiff's
statement of his cause of action, apart from any anticipation of defenses, did not show that it arose under those
laws. Because of this, it was said in both cases that the
suit could not have been brought originally in the Circuit
Court, and therefore could not be removed into it. In the
second case the right was claimed on the ground of diversity of citizenship" coupled with prejudice and local influence, and- the denial was put on the ground that the
requisite diversity of citizenship did not exist, the plaintiff and one of the-defendants being citizens.of the same
State. Thus the turning point in each case was that the
suit was not one of which the Circuit Courts were given
original jurisdiction-in other words, that it could not
have been btought in any of them, and not that there was
any special obstacle to the exercise of jurisdiction by the
particular one to which removal was sought. The opin-

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

279

Opinion of the Court.

ions in the cases show that the real holding was that the
suit was not removable because not within the original
jurisdiction conferred on the Circuit Courts in general.
Indeed, in the second case it was said to be the established
rule that "those suits only can be removed of which the
Circuit Courts are given original jurisdiction," and the
first case was cited as so holding. 199 U. S. 269.
We conclude that, as the present suit was one arising
under the laws of the United States, of which the District
Courts al-e given original jurisdiction by § 24, the defendants were entitled under §§ 28 and 29 to remove it from
the state court where it was begun into the District Court
for that district, regardless of their citizenship or places of
inhabitance, and therefore that the motion to remand
was rightly denied.
In presenting this question counsel have treated § 51
of the Judicial Code as regulating the district in which
suits under the anti-trust laws may be brought; and our
discussion of the question has proceeded on that line. To
avoid any misapprehension it should be observed that
§ 12 of the Clayton Act (38 Stat. 736) alters that venue
provision in respect of such suits, but not in a way which
is material here. Like § 51, the special provision in § 12
does not affect the general jurisdiction of the District
Courts, but merely establishes a personal privilege which
a defendant is free to waive.
Refusal to direct special service under § 57 of the Judicia Code on New York Central Company and other
defendants.
This section is in terms restricted to suits "to enforce
any legal or equitable lien upon or claim to, or to remove
any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon the title to real
or personal property" located with*in the district of suit
or partly within that district and partly within another
district "within the same State." As to such')i suit it
provides that where a defendant is not an inhabitant of

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

.

260 U. S.

the district, nor found within the same, and does not
voluntarily appear, the court may makean order directing
such defendant to appear and plead by a day dertain, to
be fixed in the order; that persgnal service o the order,
if practicable, shall be made on such defendant wkaerever
found, and, ,if that- mode of service' be not .practicable,
service may be had- by,'publication; that the order shall
also .be, served on the person in possession 6r charge of
the property,.if any there be, and that after the order
-has been properly served 'the court may proceed with the
cause, but with the qualification that as-against any such
defendant 'not., 'appearing the adjudication shall affect
only the property which :shall have been the subject of
the suit and so located as to be -under the court's ,jurisdiction therein.
It has been doubted that this section applies to suits
begun in state courts and removed into federal courts; 1
but this question was not noticed in argument and we
find its decision is not essential here.
Obviously the section is confined to suits which are
local in the sense of relating .directly to specific property,
real or personal, within the district of suit or partly
therein and partly in another district .of the same State.
This suit was "not within that category. It was' not
brought to enforce a claim to or lien upon specific-property, so located, nor to cancel an incumbrance or 'lien
thereon nor to remove a cloud upon the title. On the
contrary, as the original bill plainly disclosed, it was
brought to enjoin two railroad companies---one having
lines both within .and without the State in which the
suit was begun, and the other having lines without that
State-from consolidating, along with nine other companies, into a single corporation. Such a' suit is essentially in ?ersonam and strictly transitory, and is not made
'See Adams v. Heckscher, 80 Fed. 742, 744.

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

281

Opinion of the Court.

any the less so by including in the bill, as was done here,
an incidental prayer that the consolidation be annulled
if consummated pending the suit. So, tested by the
original bill, this suit was not one wherein special service
could be had under § 57.
Denial of leave to file supplemental bill and make new
parties.
The original bill showed that the plaintiff was suing
in its own right as a stockholder in the New York Central
and the Lake Shore companies to prevent loss and damage which it apprehended would come to it as such stockholder if the consolidation were effected. By the supplemental bill, proffered for filing eight months after the
suit was begun, the plaintiff sought, first, to show that
in the meantime the consolidation had been effected, that
the properties of the consolidating companies had been
turned over to the consolidated company and that two
mortgages had been executed and delivered by -the latter
covering all the property received from the Lake Shore
Company; secondly, to change the character and object,
of the suit in such way that the plaintiff would be suing
in the right and on behalf of the Lake Shore Company, of
which it was a stockholder. with the purpose (a) of having so much of that company's property as was within
that district freed from the claim of the consolidated company, (b) of enfoicing a restoration of that part of the
property to the Lake Shore Company, and (c) of having
the two moifgages executed by the consolidated company
pronounced void and of no effect as to that part of the
property; and, thirdly, to bring in various new parties
as defendants.
An application for leave to file a supplemental bill is
addressed to the discretion of the court, and the ruling
thereon will not be disturbed on appeal unless the discretion has been abused. Under Equity Rule 34 the office of a supplemental bill is to introduce matters oc-

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of. the Court.

260 U. S.

curring after the filing of thq original bill, or not then
known to the plaintiff. Much more was attempted by
the supplemental bill tendered in this instance. By it,
as we have shown, the plaintiff sought to shift the right
in which it was suing and to change the character and
object of the suit. Other matters also had a bearing on
the propriety qf granting leave to-file it. The railroad of
the Lake Shore Company extended from Buffalo,' New
York, to Chicago, Illinois. Its maintenance and operation
as a through line was a matter of general concern. To
-dismember it might work a serious disturbance of both
public and private interests. If its inclusion in the consolidation was unlawful, it was so in respect of the entire
line. The supplemental bill.sought to deal with only, a
minor part and if sustained would result in restoring that
part to the Lake Shore Company while leaving the major
part with the consolidated company. At a meeting of the
stockholders of the Lake Shore Company at which 459,461
shares were represented the holders of 459,379 shares had
voted to ratify the consolidation. The plaintiff held but
five shares and had purchased these knowing that the directors had signed the agreement for the consolidation
two months before. The ownership of these shares was
put forward as entitling the .plaintiff to proceed in the
right of the Lake Shore Company. No other shareholder
was seeking to join in fhe proceeding. Under the terms
of the consolidation the plaintiff could surrender its shares
and take five tirnes'their par value in stock of the consolidated'company; or under a supplemental arrangement it
coul surrender its shares and receive five times their par.
value in cash-a sum not alleged to be less than the ac.tual or market value. The shareholdes represented by
the Read Committee availed themselves of the latter alternative. The Circuit Court of Appeals, considering all
these matters, concluded that. the act-ion of the District
Court in refusing leave to file the supplemental bill was

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

283

Opinion of the Court.

within the limits of a reasonable discretion and should not
be'disturbed. We concur in that conclusion.
Dismissal of original bill on motions of Lake Shore Company.
In so far as the allegations of fact in the bill need be
noticed here they may be summarized as follows: The
railroad of the New York Central Company' extended
from New York City to Buffalo and there connected with
the Lake Shore Company's line from Buffalo to Chicago.
Continuously since 1898 the New York Central Company had owned ,more than a majority of the stock of the
Lake Shore Conipany and the Michigan Central Company. For several years the Lake Shore Company had
been and it still was the owner of more than a majority-of
the stock of the Nickel Plate, the Big Four, the Lake Erie,
and the Ohio Central companies. The railroad of the
Michigani Central Company and, those of the several companies a majority of whose stock was owned by the Lake
Shore Company were all parallel to and potential competitors of some part or all of the Lake Shore Company's
line. *All of the lines named were engaged in both intrastate and interstate commerce. The New York Central
Company's interest in and control over the Lake Shore
and the Michigan Central companies had been acquired
and was held with a view to suppressing competition in
intrastate and interstate transportation and to restraining
such commerce. In furtherance of that purpose the directors of the New York Central, the Lake Shore and nine
other companies (the nine were not named in the bill)
recently had formulated and signed an agreement for the
consolidation of the eleven companies into- a single corporation. The agreement called for ratification by stockholders' meetings. It was ratified over the plaintiff's protest at a meeting of the stockholders of the New York
Central Company. The stockholders of the Lake Shore
Company were intending to act on it at a meeting called

284

OCTOBER TERIM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

for an early day, and would ratify it over the plaintiff's
opposition unless prevented from doing so by an injunction. Out of 2,555,810 outstanding shares in the New
York Central Company the plaintiff was the owner of
*three -hundred, which it had purchased two months before
the agreement for the consolidation was signed by the
directors; and out of 499,961 outstanding shares in the
Lake Shore Company. the plaintiff was the owner of five,
which it had, purchased two months after the directors
signed the agreement.
The bill prayed that the New York Central Company
be enjoined from voting its shares in the Lake Shore Company in-favor of the consolidation agreement, or in any
other way, or for ahy other purpose, that the Lake Shore
Company be enjoined from permitting the New York Central Company to vote its shares in the former at any meeting of the stockholders, and that the Lake Shore Company
be also enjoined from in any way entering into or consummating the proposed consolidation. Other incidental
relief was prayed,but it need not be noticed here.
Two motions to dismiss, were interposed by the LakeShore Company and-sustained by the District Court--one
before and the other after the first appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. On that appeal the Circuit Court of
Appeals upheld the ruling on the first motion as to part
off the bill ,and reversed it as* to the remainder. The
second motion was directed against all that remained of
-the bill and advanced objections thereto which might have
been, but were not, urged or considered- on the first appeal.
The District Court, regarding these as well taken, sustained the second motion, and on_ the next appeal the
Circuit Court of Appeals ,approved that ruling. These
motions gave rise to several distinct questions which we
shall take up separately.
Effect of decision on-first appeal.
The plaintiff takes the position that the partial reversal
on the first appeal amounted*to an 'djudication of the

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY.
261

285

Opinion of the Court.

sufficiency of so much' of the bill as fell within the reversal
and that the District Court could not thereafter treat its
sufficiency as an open question. This position is not
tenable. The reversal was put on the ground that the
District Court had erred in holding in respect of that
part of the bill that the New York Central Company was
an indispensable party. Whether that part was rightly
subject to other objections, such as afterwards were idvanced in the second motion to dimiss, was neither discussed nor decided on that appeal. The opinions delivered on the two appeals make this plain: In that situation"it was. quite admissible for the District Court, after
the case was returned to it, to examine and pass on the
objections presented in the second motion, and was likewise admissible for the Circuit Court of Appeals to consider them on the second appeal. Mutual Lfe Insurance
Co. v. Hill, 193 U. S. 551, 553. And see Messenger v.
Anderson, 225 U. S. 436, 444.
Was the New York Central Company an indispensable
party?
As. to so much of the bill as sought to enjoin the New
York Central Company from voting its shares in ihe Lake
Shore Company and to enjoin the latter from permitting
it to vote them, we think it is obvious that the New York
Central Company was an indispensable party, and that
with it neither appearing. nor reached by any effective
probess no other *course was open than to dismiss that.
part .of the bill. 'Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co.,
184 U. S. 199, 235, 246; Taylor & Co. v. Southern Pacific
Co., 122 Fed. 147, 152, 154.
As to so much of the bill as sought to .enjoin the Lake
Shore Company from entering or congummating the proposed consolidation, the New York Central Company
plainly was not an indispensable party. Its stockholding
interest in the Lake Shore Company did not make its
presence essential, its status in this regard being merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

that of the stockholders in general. Nor.did its participation in the agreement for the consolidation give it any
right-which reqfiired that it be brought in. At best the
agreement was not to be effective unless and until ratified
by the. stockholders of the several companies. It had not
-been ratified by the stockholders of the Lake Shore Company and they were under-no obligation to ratify it.
Was plaintiff entitled to sue under the Sherman AntiTrust Act and the Clayton Act, and, if so, aould that'
right be exercised through a suit brought in a state

court?
In the part of the bill assailed in the s cond motion to
dismiss, as in the bill as a whole, the plaintiff based.its
right to relief by injunction primarily on the ground
that the proposed consolidation would contravene the.
Sherman Anti-Trust Act, c. 647,. 26 Stat. 209, and the
Clayton Act, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730, and secondarily on the
ground that it would be contrary to the constitution and
laws of Ohio and other States.
As respects the Sherman Anti-Trust Act as it stood
before t was supplemented by the Clayton Act, this
Court has heretofore determined that the civil remedies
specially provided in the act for actual and threatened
violations of its provisions were intended to be exclusive
and that those remedies consisted only of (a) suits for
injunctions brought by the United States in the public
interest under § 4 and (b) private actions to recover
damages brought under § 7. Minnesota v. Northern
Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 71; Wilder Manufacturing Co.
v. Corn ProductsRefining Co., 236 U. S. 165, 174; Paine
Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. 8. 459, 471; Geddes v.
Anaconda Copper Mining Co., 254 U. S. 590, 593. The
present suit for an injunction, brought by a private corporation in its own interest, was not within those
remedies, and so could not be maintained under that act
standing alone.

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 287
261

Opinion of the Court.

That act was supplemented by the Clayton Act, particularly by its sixteenth section reading as follows:.
"That any person,- firm, corporation, or association
shall be entitled to sue for and have injunctive relief, in
any court of the United States having jurisdiction over
the parties, against threatened loss or damage.by a violation of the anti-trust laws, including sections two, three,
seven and eight of this act, when and uzider the same
conditions and principles as injunctive relief against
threatened conduct. that will cause loss or damage is
granted by courts of equity, under the rules governing
such proceedings, and upon the execution of proper bond
against damages for an injunction imprdvidently granted
and a showing that the danger of irreparable loss or
damage is immediate, a preliminaryf injunction may
issue: Provided, That nothing herein contained-shall be
construed to entitle any person, firm, corporation, or association, except the United States, to bring suit in equity
for injunctive relief against any common carrier subject
to the provisions of the Act to regulate commerce, approved February fourth, eighteen hundred and eightyseven, in respect of any matter subject to the regulation,
supervision, or other jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission."
This section undoubtedly enlarges the remedies provided in the Sherman Anti-Trust Act to the extent of
enabling persons and corporations threatened with loss
or damage through violations of that act to maintain suits
to enjoin such violations, save in the instances specified in
the proviso. This right to sue, however, is granted in
terms which show that it is to be exercised only in a
"court of the United States."- This suit was brought in
a state court, and in so far as its purpose was to enjoin a
violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act that court could
not entertain it. The situation was the same in respect
of the purpose to enjoin a violation of the Clayton Act.

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of thei -Court.

260 U. S.

When a cause is removed from a state court into a federal court the latter takes it as it stood in the former. A
want of jurisdiction in the state court is not cured bythe
removal, but may be asserted after it is consummated.
Cain v.- Commercial Publishing Co., 232..U: S. 124, 131,
et seq..; Cowley v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 159 U. S.
569, 583; De Lima v. Bidwell, 182 U. S: 1, 174; Lambert
Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.,, 258 U. S.
377.
It follows that so much of the bill as based the right to
relief on ass~rted violatiolis of the Sherman Anti-Trust
Act and the Clayton Act was rightly dismissed; but the
dismissal, being for want of jurisdiction, should have been
without prejudice.
Did the bill show h right -to relief in equity because of
infractions of state-constitutions and laws?,*
This branch of the suit was loosely set forth and, as was
observed by both courts below, there is some ground for
thinking the references to state constitutions and laws
were merely makeweights. With other matters eliminated, this branch at best was left in a state of relative
uncertainty. After commenting on this, the Circuit Court
of Appeals said, with ample warrant (269 Fed. 239):
"We next observe that the consolidation sought to be
enjoined was only a new formulation of the situation
which had been existing for many years. It is expressly
averred that the obnoxious control of parallel and competing lines had been accomplished, and for many years maintained, by stock ownership and control. It does not seem
to be claimed that the proposed consolidation would create any restraints on competition that did not already
exist. We find no definita statement that what was proposed would be obnoxious to any statute or constitutional
provision which did -not relate to competition between*
parallel lines, excepting the claim that the proppsed.consolidation would increase the capital stock and debts above-

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 289
261

Opinion of the Court.

te permitted limit. It is probable, also, from the silence
of the bill, that during all these years the public authorities of the various states have rested content and have not
indicated any belief that public policy was being violated,
and it may likevise seemingly be inferred that no public
authorities are now objecting to the proposed consolidation, but that, on the contrary, they are all content.
"Further, we notice that plaintiff owns only one onethousandth of 1 per cent. of the capital stock, that no other
shareholder has accepted its invitation to join in prevent-'
ing the imminent irreparable injury, and that this interest
plaintiff bought after the consolidation contract was made.
He seems to be a volunteer, rather than a conscript. We
have, then, a case where a private suitor, with a minimum
of ponderable interest, and with no disposition to beware
of entrance to a quarrel, is seeking relief -upon the sole
ground that the public policy of the state is being violated, and where the state authorities have long acquiesced
and do acquiesce in any' violation there may be. Under
such circumstances, the court of equity will be strict in
requiring the plaintiff to point out with precision and certainty in what respects the law is about to be violated and
to show, clearly and positively, substantial aiid irreparable
injury to its piivate rights. A measure of imperfection"
in pleading that might well be overlooked in.the ordinary
controversy should not be disregarded in such a case as
this."
We think this branch qf the suit should be tested by the
rule of pleading there suggested and that when this is
done it is apparent that a right to equitable relief was not
shown.
Our conclusion is that the motions to .dismiss weie
rightly sustained. The Circuit Court of Appeals qualified
the dismissal by making it without prejudice "as to all
parts of the bill save ond. We have indicated that the
qualifibation should have included that part.
456460-23-19

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

The decree is accordingly modified by making the dismissal without prejudice as to all parts of the bill, and as
thus modified it is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. OREGON LUMBER COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIIICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR -THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 40. Argued October 9, 1922.-Decided November 27, 1922.
Where the Government sued to annul land patents upon the ground
of fraud, and persisted in the suit after the defendant had pleaded
in bar the statute of limitations applicable to such cases, and the
plea was sustained and the bill dismissed, held, that the Government had elected its remedy, and therefore could not afterward
maintain an action at law. to recover damages for -the fraud.

P. 294.
QUESTIONS certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
arising upon review of a judgment of the District Court
which dismissed the complaint in an action brought by
the United States to recover damages for fraud in procuring patents to public land.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood were on
the brief, for the United States.
it is settled that the doctrine of election of remedies is
applicable only where a suitor has inconsistent remedies
available. When he pursues one of them, he is bound
by his election even if that remedy be not efficacious.
Robb v. Vos, 155 U. S.- 13, 41, et seq.
It is equally well settled that there can not be an election unless inconsistent remedies are available; that the
pursuit of a remedy which a party may think himself
entitled to, but to. which it develops he is not, does not
bar the bringing of a suit on the remedy which does

