326

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Counsel for Parties.

960 U. S.

be reimbursed for such of its expenditures "as may be
approved or ratified by the contracting officer."
We have decided that the parties to the contract can so
provide and that the decision of the officer is conclusive
upon the parties. Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S.
398; Martinsburg & Potomac R. R. Co. v. March, 114
U. S. 549; United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 588; Ripley
v. United States, 223 U. S. 695. This is extending the
rule between private parties to the Government.
,
There were such decisions, and settlement, and payments, in consequence of them, a, we have seen. Over
the effect of these the Comptroller of. the Treasury has
no power. They were the acts and duty of the officer in
charge, in the expression of which there was no ambiguity,
and were, therefore, conclusive in effect.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NORTHEASTERN CON-STRUCTION COMPANY.

-

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 122. Argued November 24, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
Decided on the authority of United States,v. Mason & Hanger Co.,
ante, 323.
56 Ct. Clms. 492, affirmed.
APPEAL by the United States from a judgment of the
Court of Claims. See the per curiam decision of April 9,
1923, to be reported in: volume 261, reaffirming the judgment after rehearing.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields 'were on the brief, for appellee.

PORTSMOUTH CO. v. UNITED STATES.
326

327

Counsel for Appellants.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Judgment in this case was rendered at the same time as
that in Mason & Hanger Co. v. United States, just decided, ante, 323.
The amounts only are different. In that case it was
$2,500-in this case it is $150. In both, the amounts
represented premiums on bonds and depend upon the
same considerations. On the authority of the Mason &
Hanger Co. Case the judgment of the Court of Claims in
this case is
Affirmed.
PORTSMOUTH HARBOR LAND & HOTEL COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 97. Argued November 15, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
1. The petition alleged that the United States, after having several
times in the past discharged its batte-.7 over petitioner's land, reinstalled its guns with the intention of so firing them and without
intention or ability to fire them otherwise, established a fire control
and service upon that land, and again discharged all of the guns
over and across it. A taking by the United States was alleged as a
conclusion of fact from these specific acts, and damages were
claimed. Held; that the taking of a servitude, and an implied contract to pay, might be inferred; and that a demurrer to the petition should not have been sustained. P. 328.
2. Where acts amount to a takig of property by the United States,
without assertion of an adverse right, a contract to pay may be
implied whether it was thought of or not. P. 330.
56 Ct. Clms. 494, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of fhe Court of Claims dismissing a petition on demurrer.

Mr. Chauncey Hackett, with whom Mr. John Lowell
was on the briefs, for appellants.

