HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
235

Syllabus.

in.
appeals in equity. The plaintiff below was evidently
not certain of the proper practice and prepared for either
writ of error or appeal. Under § 269 of the Judicial Code,
as amended by the Act of February 26, 1919, c. 48, 40
Stat. 1181, appellate courts are enjoined to give judgment
after an- examination of the record without regard to
technical errors, defects or exceptions which do not affect
the substantial rights of the parties; and under § 274b,
whether the review is sought by writ of. error or appeal,
the appellate court is given full power to render such
judgment upon the record as law and justice shall require.
It follows that the court should have considered the issue
of law and fact upon which the decree of the District
Court depended, that is, whether there was a good and
marketable title.
On this review by certiorari, we could consider and
decide the. issue which the Circuit Court of Appeals erroneously refused to consider. On such an issue alone,
however, we would not have granted the writ, because
except for the important question of practice the case was
not of sufficient public interest to .justify it. We think
it better, therefore, to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and to -remand the case to that
court for consideration and decision of the -issues *of fact
and law in this case as on an appeal in equity.
Reversed.
HEISLER v. THOMAS COiLIERY COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLvANIA.

No. 541. Argued November 14, 15, 1922.-Decided November- 27,
1922.
1. In view of the differences: between anthracite and bituminous coals
in properties and uses, a Pdnnsylvania tax is not unreasonable

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

and arbitrary because levied on the one but not on the other, ,ad
is therefore. unobjectionable under the equal protection clause of
the]Fourteenth Amendment. P. 254.
2. The commercial competition between these two products is n6t a
sufficient reason against classifying them separately for taxation
purposes. P. 257.
3. The fact that useful products are -obtained from bituminous coal
which are not produced from, anthracite serves to justify the state
policy of favoring the former in taxation. P. 257.
4. Whether a statute or action of a State impinges on interstate commer'ce, depends upon the statute or action, and not upon what was
said about it or the motive that impelled it. P. 258.
So held, where it was argued that anthracite being virtually confined in production to Pennsylvania but, largely, consumed by the
necessities of other States, the tax law in question was advocated
by the Pennsylvania governor as a means of levying tribute on the
other-state consumption.
5. A state act regulating interstate commerce is invalid; whatever
the degree of interference. P. 259.6. The Pennsylvania tax on anthracite when prepared and "ready
for shipment or market," as applied to coal destined to -have
a market in other States but not as yet moved from the place of
.production or preparation, is not an interference with interstate
commerce. P. 259. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517.
7. The fact that the statute imposes the tax when the coal "is ready
for shipment or market" does not proveit an intentional fraud olf
the commerce clause. P. 261.
274 Pa. St. 448, affirmed.
ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court of Pennsyl-

vania, affirming a decree of a lower court, which dismissed
a bill brought by Heisler, as a stockholder, to enjbin -the
Co1 ' ery Company and its trustees from paying a state
tax and defendant state officials from enforcing it.
Mr. Louis Marshall for plaintiff in error.
The producers of anthracite coal in Pennsylvania are
denied the. equal protectioli of the. laws because th6 ad
valorem tax imposed by the Act of, 1921 is not made applicable to bituminous or other kinds or -grades of coal
.produced in the State. Citing numerous cases and dis-

H
IEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
245

247

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

cussing: Commonwealth v. Alden Coal Co., 251 Pa. St.
124; District of Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138; Bell's
Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. 5. 232; Barbierv.
Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400;.Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412;
People ex rel. Farringtonv. Mensching, 187 N. Y. 8;
Hauser v. North British & Mercantile Ins. Co., 206 N. Y.
455; State v. Julow, 129 Mo; 163.
Mr. George E. Alter, Attorney General of the State of
Pennsylvania, with whom Mr. Emerson Collins and Mr.
George Ross Hul were on the brief, for, defendants in
error.
Mr. J. Weston Allen, Attorney General of the State of
Massachusetts, as amicus curiae,by special leave of court.
Mr. Edwin H. Abbot, Jr., Assistant Attorney General of
that State, and Mr. Charles D. Newton, Mr. Thomas F.
McCran, Mr. Ransford W. Shaw, Mr. Oscar L. Young,
Mr. Frank C. Archibald,Mr. Herbert Ambrose Rice, Mr.
Frank E. Healy and Mr. Sylvester D. Townsend, Jr., Attorneys General respectively of the States of New York,
New Jersey, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode
Island, Connecticut and Delaware, were on the briefs.
The question whether a state law is permissible regulation of loc. affairs or a forbidden regulation of interstate
commerce coes not depend upon whether that law purports to regulate interstate commerce eor nomine or .by,
express words. On the contrary, it depends upon the actual operation of thd law upon interstate commerce under
the particular circumstai~es.
The question whether the exercise of state powers upon
matters within their apparent. scope is in fact a direct
burden upon or regulation bf interstate commerce, and-is
therefore forbidden, or merely remotely and incidentally
affects such commerce, and is therefore permitted, is
frequently one of dearee. The dividing line "is to be

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument of Amius Curiae.

260 U. S.

pricked out by the gradual contact of opposing decisions."
N oble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S."104.
The power of a State to impose ordinary and general
property taxes without discrimination upon the mass of
property within its borders extends to the whole mass
even though some portion of that mass has come from
other States or is about to be shipped into Other States;
and the test as to whether this class of taxes burdens interstate -commerce is whether the goods are atrest within
the State. If they have not begun to move in interstate
commerce, or if the interstate movement is complete, such
property taxes may be levied. It may be observed that a
different rule would exempt from the general taxes ordinarily levied upon personal property a large mass of
property either because it had once moved in interstate
commerce or might so move in the future.
But the very cases which uphold ordinary property
'.taxes upon. property at rest within the State recognize
that no special or discriminatory tax may be imposed
either because the goods have been shipped into the Statb
or are about to be shipped out of it. Brown v. Houston,
114 U. S. 622; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; Pittsburg &
Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; Diamond
Match Co. v. Ontonagon; 188 U. S. 82; American Steel
& Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500; Bacon v. Illinois,
227 U. S. 504.
There is ample authority to sustain the distinction
between the general ordinary and non-discriminatory
property tax and the' special tax intended to discriminate
against goods because of their relation to interstate commerce. Thus, a general and noi-discriminatory tax upon
selling goods which have become part of.the general mass
of property within the State is valid. Emert v. Missouri,
156 U. -S. 296; Woodruff V. Parham, 8 Wall. 123. But a
special tax upon "goods, wares and'merchandise which
are not the growth, produce or manufacture of this state".

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
245

249

Argumxrit of Amicus Curiae.

is void, as a discrimination against interstate commerce,
even though the goods have become a part of the general
mass of property within the State. Welton v. Missouri,
91 U.. S. 275; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566; Guy
v. Baltimore, 100 U. S..434; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.
344; Walling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446; Minnesota v.
Barber, 136 U. S. 313; Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis,
208 U. S. 113; New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S.
345, 348, semble; Bethlehem Motors Corp. v. ;Flynt, 256
U. S. 421. Cf. PhiladelphiaS. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
122 U. S. 326; Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry.
Co. -. Texas, 210 U. S. 217; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsyl/
vania, 245 U. S. 292.
In principle the cases just considered'go*ern the case
at bar. It is true that many of them condemn what is
in effect a special discriminatory tax on. goods shipped
into the State, levied after those goods have become a
part of the general mass of property within the State by
reason of such interstate shipment, while the case, at bar
concerns a tax which, we conte'nd, is imposed upon goods
about to be shipped out of the State by reason of such
interstate or foreign shipment. But that distinction cannot avail even if it be pressed. What is condemned is
a discrimination'. because of interstate shipment whether
the movementbe into the State or out of the State. Outward movement is as much within the protection of the
commerce'clause as inward movement. Coe v. Errol, 116
U. 9. 517; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188'U. S.
82; Almy v. California,24 How. 169; Fairbankv. United
States, 181 U. S. 283 ; United States v. Hvoslef, 237 U. S.
1; Thames & Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. United States,
237 U. S. 19; New York & Cuba Mail 'S. S. Co. v. United
States, 125 Fed. 320.
Even if it be assumed, without conceding, that this tax
is imposed upon this coal while it is still- a part of the
general mass of property in, Pennsylvania, and before it

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

260 U. S.

has actually begun to move in interstate commerce -to
other States or foreign countries, the tax is none the less
void if in fact it operates as a discrimination against such
outward moving commerce. As the .tax is imposed directly upon the coal at the moment before shipment, it is
unnecessary to argue at length the proposition that the
tax is not upon the coal, but upon some person or thing
which the State could lawfully tax. It is enough to point
out that such devices have been uniformly condemned by
this Court, if in fact the tax ultimately must be borne by
the goods. Thus, a tax upon The person who sells the
goods is a tax upon the goods. -Brown v. Maryland, 12
*Wheat. 419; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.275; Davis v.
Virginia, 236 U. S. 697: So also a discriminatory charge
made for the use of a wharf ultimately falls upon the
goods and is equally condemned. Guy v. Baltimore, 100
U. S. 434. So also a special and burdensome license tax
imposed upon maintaining an office for the transaction
of interstate commerce cannot be upheld. Rosenberger v.
Pacific Express Co., 241 U. S.48. And special burdens
imposed upon foreign corporations engaged in interstate
commerce as a condition to suit upon interstate accounts
cannot be sustained. Sioux Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235
U. S.197. Similarly, a stamp tax imposed upon all bills
of lading, manifests, charter parties or policies of marine
insurance is void as to such documents used in interstate
or foreign commerce, United States v. Hvoslef, 237'U. S.
1; Thames & Mersey Marine Ins. Co. v. United States,
237 U. S.19; New York & Cuba Mail S. S. Co. v. United
States, 125 Fed. 320; and is doubly bad if it is specifically,
directed at the documents used in such commerce. Almy
v. California, 24 How. 169; Fairbank v. United States,
181 U. S.283.
In connection with the stamp tax cases it may be observed that the goods had not started upon their foreign
journey, but the tax was. overthrown notwithstanding

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
245

251

Argument of Amicus Curiae.

because it inevitably imposed a burden. upon interstate
or foreign commerce *hether the goods had already
started or not.
That the essential test is whether the tax in fact burdens interstate commerce, even though in terms laid upon
some privilege or thing which the State has unquestioned
jurisdiction to tax, is well illustrated by those cases which
hold that where a foreign corporation is doing both local
and interstate business, the State cannot impose a license
fee for doing local business in such a manner or in such
amount that it burdens the interstate business., Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Co. v.
Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Ludwig v. Western Union Tel. Co.,
216 U. S. 146; InternationalPaper Co. v. Massachusetts,
246 U. S. 135.
If these cases are considered in connection with the cases
to the effect that a State cannot exert its undoubted power
to regulate local rates in such a manner as to interfere
with natiohal regulation of interstate rates (New* York
v. United States, 257 U. S. 591), it is plain that if this tax
does in fact burden interstate commerce the exactioA of
it before the goods have begun to move (if that, be the
fact) cannot save it. This is perhaps simply another
way of saying that, a State cannot discriminate against interstate commerce even by exerting its undoubted powers
upon matters clearly within its jurisdiction.
Apply these principles to the present case. Pennsylvania has a natural monopoly of anthracite coal in this
country. That coal is a prime necessity of life, especially
in the northeastern States. Eighty per cent of such coal is
shipped out of Pennsylvania. The Thomas Colliery so
ships 67 per cent of its anthracite. It is therefore a proper
party to present this question here.
The declared intention at the time this act was passed
was so to 'use the natural monopoly which Pennsylvania
possesses as to compel the inhabitants of other States to

, OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument of Amicus Curiae.

-

2.60 U. S.

pay a tax to Pennsylvania by collecting a special tax
from the colliery which would inevitably pass such tax on
to the consumer.
In order to avoid constitutional difficulties so far asmight be, the act provides that the tax shall be imposed
when the coal "is ready for shipment or market." As
a practical matter, the tax would have exactly the same
operation and effect- so far as coal shipped out'of the
State is concerned, if it had been exacted at the boundary
line of the State as an express export duty. The selection of the moment before the coal moves (if that moment
has been effectively selected) is a plain and intentional
fraud upon the commerce clause. Cf. Hammerv. Dagenhart, 247 U.,S. 251;_ Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U.. S. 20;
Hil v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44.
As this coal has already borne its full share of ordinary,
non-discriminatory property taxes (which are the kind of
taxes permitted by Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517), to sustain this additional and discriminatory tax imposed upon
anthracite coal alone would permit the holder of a natural
monopoly to use the ochannels of interstate commerce to
tax persons in other States to the extent of about $6,000,0.00 a year, of which about $3,600,000 will be paid by
the States which here protest as amici curiae.
The question at issue extends far beyond the validity
or invalidity of the particular tax in question. It will
establish a far reaching principle for good or ill. If the
tax be upheld, it is inevitable that every State which
possesses natural resources essential to other States will
impose similar taxes in order to make those whom it cannot directly and constitutionally tax contribute to its
exchequer through, the channels of commerce. Indeed,
several States may combine so as to create absolute monopolies by the enactment of uniform laws exacting taxes
similar to this. Such a situation would bring back the
commercial conflicts between the States which the corn-

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
245

253

Opinion of the Court.

merce clause was enacted to prevent. A result so absolutely repugnant to both the letter and the purpose of
the commerce clause ought not to be permitted.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1913 the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, by an act
of its General Assembly [P. L. 1913, p. 639], imposed a
tax of 21% upon anthracite coal, and provided for the
distribution of the tax.
The act was adjuidged a violation of the constitution of
the Commonwealth which required uniformity of taxation. Commonwealth v. Alden Coal Co., 251 Pa. St. 134,
and Commonwealth v. St. Clair Coal Co., 251 Pa. St. 159.
In 1921 the Commonweath passed the act here involved. [P. L. 1921, p. 479.] It provided that from and
after its passage each ton of anthracite coal mined,
"washed, screened, or otherwise prepared for market,"
in the Commonwealth should be "subject to a tax of one
and one-half per centum (11/2) of the value tliereof when
prepared for- market." It was provided that the tax
should be assessed at the time when the coal has been subjected to the indicated preparation "and is ready for
shipment or market."
Plaintiff in error, alleging himself to be a stockholder of
the Thomas Collieiy Company, brought this suit to have
the act adjudged and decreed to be unconstitutional and
void, and to enjoin that company and its directors from
complying with the act, and to enjoin defendant in error,
Samuel S. Lewis, Auditor General of the Commonwealth,
and the defendant in error, Charles A. Snyder, Treasurer
of the Comimonwealth, from enforcing the act.
The trial court, Court of Common Pleas, decided against
the relief prayed, distinguishing the case from those in
which the Act of 1913 was declared void, and adjudged and
decreed that the suit be dismissed. The ruling was affirmed

OCT0BER TERM. 1922.

254

Opinion-of the Court.

260 U. S.

by the Supreme Court -of the State. The case is here on
writ of error to that action.
The bill in the case, as far as we are concerned with it,
assails the Act of 1921 as offensive, to the Fourteenth
Amendment' of the Constitution- of the United States, in
that it denies to the Thomas Colliery Company, and other
owners and operators of anthracite mines, the equal protection'of the- laws, because it taxes -such 'owners and
anthracite. coal, and. does ngt tax the owners of bituminous mines and bituminous Coal. The ultimate foundation of, the contention is that anthracite coal and bituminous coal are-fuel and necessarily, therefore, must be associated in -the -same class for taxation, in disregard or in
diminution of ,whateyer other differences may exist between them in composition, qualities or-uses, -and-that not
to-so associate them is arbitrary and unreasonable, having
the _consequences of inequality and illegality, 'and, therefore, within 4the ban of the Constitution of-the United
States.
The contention, therefore, concentrates attention upon
tie consideration of what resemblances or differences in
objects justify their inclusion in, or their exclusion Ifrom,
a particular class.
It would be commonplace and wearisome to enlarge
much upon the principle that presides iii and determines
the classification of objects. It is too necessary and too
familiar in the affairs of life. We cannot go far in thought
or practice without its exercise. It is the process of considering objects together or in separation as determined
by their properties or some of them, and the purpose we
have in hand. If the properties and purpose have relation, the process 'is logically justified.
Illustrations readily occur. A farmer will classify
plants differently from a botanist, but' the classifications
of both may, notwithstanding the difference, be logically
proper.
,

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
245

255

Opinion of the Court.

And so classification has uses in government-indeed,
we may say, necessities in government, for government
as well as persons has purposes, varied and, at times, exigent, and its legislation must be accommodated to them,
either in convenience or necessity. That government has
the power to do so, we have often pronounced; not, however, omitting to recognize the restraiints upon the power
while expressing its range and adaptation. In its exercise
in taxation, we have said, it is competent -for a State to
exempt certain kinds of property and tax others, the
restraints upon it only being against "clear and hostile
discriminations against particular 'persons and classes."
Discriminations merely are not inhibited, for, it 'was
recognized, that there are "discriminations which the best
interests of society require." Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237.
The principle of that case, and its concession to the
power of a State, has received expression and illustration
in -cases which concerned the exercise of the power in the
classification of objects for taxing purposes. "In Watson
v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122, 124, it is qaid, "Any
classification is permissible which has a reasonable relation to some permitted end of governmental action ...
It is enough, for instance, if the classification is reasonably founded in 'the purposes and policy of taxation."'
In. other cases it is said that facts which'can be reasonably
conceived of as having existed when the law was enacted
will be assumed to justify it. Lindsley v. Natural Car*bonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.61, 78; Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v.
Mississippi,257 U. S. 129, 137, And "it makes no difference that the facts may be disputed or their effect opposed
by argument and opinion of serious strength. It is not
within the compes -cy of the courts to arbitrate in such
contrariety." Po v. Vdn Deman & Lewis Co., -240V. S.
342, 357, and cases there cited. And further, the purpose
of the legislation may not be the correction of some

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

definite evil but may be only to remove "obstacles to "a
greater public welfare." See also, as to classification by
legislation and its consonance to the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, District of Columbia v. Brooke,
214 U. S. 138; 150."
Is there a guide in these cases to decision, or is it to
be found in the cases cited by the plaintiff in error, which
express the admonition. and restraint that a classification
to be justified must not be unreasonable or arbitrary?
.To answer, a comparison of the coals, becomes necessary.
In making it, the first fact we encounter is a difference
in their names, and as names of things are considered
significant of their attributes, the names, it may be assumed, announce a difference in attributes, and as dependent upon it, a difference in uses. Resemblances, however,.
are alleged in the bill and not denied- in the answer,
which, it is -alleged, essentially assimilate the coals and
make arbitrary the selection of one for taxation and not
the other.
The detail is interesting. It includes the description
of the processes of nature in the formation of the coals,
.their particular properties, composition and appearances,
and the localities, of their production. Anthracite coal,
'it is said, is found onlyin nine counties out of sixtyseven in the State of Pennsylvania; bituminous coal in
twenty-four counties. Both are sold, is the allegation,
to places outside of the State and in competition for fuel
purposes, and that the anthracite in certain: sizes, termed
steam sizes, competes with bituminous, coal, and certain
subgrades (intermediate grades) of the latter with certain subgrades of anthracite.
But we need not dwell further on these considerations.
The fact -of competition may be accepted. Both coals,
being compositions of carbon, are of course capable of
combustion and may be used as'fuels, but under different
conditions and manifestations: and the difference deter-

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.

257

Opinion of the Court.

24t5

mines a choice between them even as fuels. By disregarding that difference and the greater ones which exist,
and by dwelling on competition alone, it is easy to erect
an argument of strength against the taxation of one and
not of the other. But this'may hot be done. The differences between them are a just basis for their different
classification; and the differences are great and important.
They differ even as fuels; they differ fundamentally in
other particulars. Anthracite coal has no substantial use
beyond a fuel; bituminous coal has other uses. - Products
of utility are obtained from it. The fact is not denied
and the products are enumerated, and the extent of their
use.' They are, therefore, incentives to industries that
the State in natural policy might well hesitate to obstruct or burden; and to 'yield to the policy or consider it,
is well within the concession of the power of the State
-expressed in the cases we have cited. The distinction in
the treatment of the respective coals being within the
power conceded by the cases to the State, it "has logical
and legal justification and is, necessarily, not unreasonable
or arbitrary. We concur; therefore, in the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State sustaining the Act of 1921.
SThe differences of the coals and their respective uses were found
by the Court of Common Pleas and the Supreme Court. One of
the findings is as follows: " We find that anthracite coak differs from
bituminous coal in its physical properties, namely, the amount of
fixed carbon,, the amount of volatile matter, color, lustre, and structur.d- character. The percentage of fixed carbon in anthracite is
much higher and the percentage of volatile "matter much lower, than
in bituminous coal. Anthracite coal is hard, compact, and comparatively clean and free from dust, while bituminous coal is softer,
dusty and. dirty." The court also observed that it was persuasive
of the difference between the coals that the Congress of the United
States and the Canadian Parliament, in levying import taxes, put the
.eoals in different classes, and .hat 'he railroads of Pennsylvania so
separated them, and that, therefore, quoting another, the classification
was "one which actually exists in the business world."
45646°-23----17

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Anthracite coal, as we have 6bserved, is asserted to be
found in'only nine coufities in the State, and practically
nowhere else in the -United States. The fact, it is further
said, gives the State a monopoly of it, and that a tax
upon it is levying a tribute upon the consumption of other
States, .and nine of them have appeared by their attorneys general to assail it as illegal and denounce it as
an attempt to regulate interstate commerce. In emphasis
of the contention, the Governor of the State is quoted as
urging the tax .because of that effect. The fact, tribute
upon the consumers of the coal in other States, is pro,nounced inevitable,as, it is the assertion, 80% of the total
production is shipped to other States, and that this constitutes its '"major 'market.'"
And the dependency
upon Pennsylvania is represented as impossible of evasion
or relief. Anthracite coal, is the assertion, has become
a prime necessity of those States, "particularly for domestic purposes" and even "municipal laws and ordinances have been passed forbidding the use of other coal
for heating purposes."
The representation is graphic, but the first impression
it makes is that it is in contradiction of the contention of
the plaintiff in error that the tax discriminates against
anthracite coal; for certainly there cannot be that complete competition and identity of use as a fuel between
that coal and bituminous coal when there is such a difference between them as fuels that the use of one is enjoined by law and the other, in effect, prohibited.
This, however, only in passing. We will consider the
contentions of the attorneys genieral, independently of the
contentions of plaintiff in error, and assume that the
antagonism, if existing, between the contentions, may in
some way, not now appearing, have reconciliation.
The contention that the tax is a regulation of interstate
commerce seems to be based somewhat upon the declaration of the Governor of the State of its effect upon con-

HEISLER v. THOMAS COLLIERY CO.
-245

259

Opinion of the Court.

sumers in. other States. We are unable to discern in the
fact any materiality or pertinency, nor in the fact that
Pennsylvania has a monopoly (if we may use the word)
of the coal. Whether any statute or action of a State
impinges upon interstate commerce depends upon the
statute or action, not upon what is said about it or the
motive which impelled it, and a tax upon articles in one
State that are destined for use in another State cannot
be called a regulation of interstate commerce, whpther
imposed in the certainty of a return from a monopoly
existing, or in the doubt and chances because of competition. The action. of the State as a regulation of interstate commerce does not depend upon the degree of interference; it is illegal in any degree.
We may, therefore, disregard the adventitious considerations referred to and their confusion, and by doing
so we can estimate the contention made. It is that the
products of a State that have, or are destined to have, a
market in other States, -are subjects of interstate corn-:
merce, though they- have not moved from the place of
their production or preparation.
The reach and consequences of the contention repel its
acceptance. If the possibility, or, indeed, certainty of exportation of a product or article, from a State determines
it to be in interstate commerce before the commencement
of its movement from the State, it would seem to follow'
that it is in such commerce from the instant of its growth
or production, and in the case of coals, as they lie in the.ground. The result would be curious. It would nationalize, all industries, it would nationalize andwithdraw
from state jurisdiction and deliver to federal commercial
control the fruits of California and the South, the wheat
of the West and its meats, the cotton of r the South; the
shoes of Massachusetts and the woolen industries of other
States, at the very inception of their production or

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

growth, that is, the fruits unpicked, -the cotton and wheat
ungathered, hides and flesh of cattle yet "on the hoof,"
wool yet unslorn, and coal yet unmined, because they are
in 'varying percentages destined for and surely to be exported to States other than those of their production.
However, we need not proceed further in speculation
and argument. Ingenuity and imagination have been exercised heretofore upon a like contention. There is-.
temptation to it in the relation of the States to the Federal Government, being yet superior to the States in instances, or rather, having spheres of action exclusive of
them. The instances cannot in all cases be precisely defined. And the uncertainty attracts disputes, and is
availed of to assert or suppose collisions which, in fa86t,
do riot exist. There is illustration in the cases. In Coe v.
Errol, 116 U. S. 517, the precise contention,here made was
passed upon and'rejected. Itinvolved the taxing power
of a State, and the propertysubject to it (timber cut in'
its forests) was. intended for exportation 'and had
progressed nearer to exportation than the coal in the
present case.
The question in the caa itas said to be "whether the
products of a State (in this case timber cut in its forests)
are liable to be taxed like other property within the State,
though intended for exportation to another State, and
partially prepared for that purpose by being deposited
at a place of shipment, such product' being owned by persons residing in another State." And again, "Do the
owner's state of mind in relation to the 'goods, that is, his
intent -to export them, and his partial preparation t6 do so, exempt them from taxation?" In answer to the questions, the point of 'lime when goods cease to be under the
power of the State 'ahd 'come under the protection of the
Constitution was considered. -To express it, as the Court
did" there must be a point of time when they [goods]
cease.,o be governed exclusively by the domestic law and

GENERAL INV. CO. v. LAKE SHORE RY. 261
245

Syllabus.

begin to be governed and protected by the national law
of commercial regulation, and that moment seems to us
to be a legitimate one for this purpose, in which they commence their final movement, for transportation from the
State of their origin to that of their destination."
And again, "nor is exportation begun until they are
committed to-the common carrier for transportation out
of the State to the State of their destination, or have
started on their ultimate passage to that State." Until
then, it was said, that'they were a part of the general mass
of property of the State, and subject to its jurisdiction.
Other. cases have decided the sane and afford illustrations of it. Cornellv. Coyne, 192 U. S.418; Susquehanna.
Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U. S.665; Bacon v. Illinois,
227 U. S.504; General Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211;
United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259,.U. S.
344.
The effect of these cases is attempted to b'e evaded by
the assertion that the statute, in imposing the tax whenthe coal " 'is ready for shipment or market,' is a plain and
intentional fraud upofl the commerce clause." We cannot accept the accusation as justified, or that the situation
of the coal can be changed by it and as moving in interstate commerce when it is plainly not so moving. The
coal, therefore, is too definitely situated tq be misunderstood, and the cases cited-to establish E different character
and subjection need not be reviewed.
Decree affirmed.
GENERAL INVESTMENT COMPANY v. LAKE
SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAL$ FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 34. Argued October 6, 1922.-Decided November' 27, -1922.
1. A motion by a defendant to quash service of process may be-made
in and entertained by the District Court after removal of The cause,

