360

OCTOIWR TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

by prior usage has come to be a-cattle range, Omaechevarria v. Idaho, 246 U. S. 343. As construed by the Supreme Court of the State, these regulations are not intended to cover the driving, of sheep from one range to
another, nor such occasional grazing as is done by the
sheep while being driven or during temporary stops for
needed rest or similar'purposes. In view of the instructions to the jury in'this case the verdict must be taken as
finding that there was no herding or grazing here which
was forbidden by these regulations.
Complaint is made of several rulings on the trial, but
we think all were right. As to some the complaint is disposed of by what has been said, and as to the others it is
so wanting in substance- that it does not call for special
notice.
,
Judgment affirmed.
AMERICAN MILLS COMPANY v. AMERICAN
SURETY COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 118. Argued November 24,-1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
1. In a suit to cancel a written guaranty f6r fraud, the defence that
the plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law by defending actions
brought by the defendant on the guaianty, is waived by the'defendant where, -without insisting upon it as he might, he introduces
proof, under a counterclaim for the amount of the guaranty, putting
the instrument in evidence. P. 363.
2. The provision of Equity Rule 30, that the answer must state any
counterclaim arising out of the transaction which is the subjectmatter bf the suit, applies only to equitable, not to legal, claims.
P. 363.
,273 Fed. 67, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
affirming a decree of the District Court which canceled a
written guaranty for fraud.

AMER. MILLS CO. v. AMER. SURETY CO. 361
360

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Henry Uttal for petitioner.
Mr. Win. Marshall Bullitt, with whom Mr. Henry C.
Wilcox and Mr. Allan C. Rowe were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHiEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves a question of procedure and turns
on the construction of Equity Rule 30. An understanding
of the point at issue requires a statement of &he facts
and the course of the litigation.
In September, 1918, the Ilartenfeld Bag Company,
which was ill a failing condition, owed the Amercan Mills
Company, the petitioner, about $22,000, which it was unable to pay. The Mills Company and the Bag Company
made a contract, the performance of which by the Bag
Company. the American Surety Company guaranteed.
The contract recited that the Mills Company had paid
in advance to the Bag Company $22,100 for which the
Bag Company was to deliver certain merchandise within
seventy-five days, and in default of this delivery, the
money was to be returned. The Bag Company delivered
only $1,050 worth of goods and then went into bank-ruptcy. The fact was that the Mills Company had never
made the advance payment of $22,000 recited in the contract, but instead' of that, some days after the execution
of the contract, the Mills Company and the Bag Company exchanged checks for a little less than this amount
in orddr to create, the appearance of a genuine transacon. The effect of what .was done was that the Mills
ompany received a guaranty from the Surety Company
of a bad debt, while the latter company thought it was
insuring the performance of a bona fide contract of sale
and delivery of goods by the Bag Company for which
that company had received the full purchase price in advance. In December, 1918, after demand .for payment

.362

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

and refusal, the Mills Company, a corporation of Georgia,
sued the Surety Company, a corporation of New York,
on its guaranty in a. state court in Georgia and in a state
court in Illinois. In March, 1919, the Surety Company,
before appearing in the Georgia or Illinois courts, filed
the suit at bar in a state court in New York against the
Mills Company seeking to cancel the guaranty on the
ground of fraud and 'to enjoin its enforicement. The
Mills Company removed the , cause to the equity side
of the District Court below, and then filed an answer and
counterclaim in which it denied the alleged fraud and
pleaded as a separate and distinct defense, that the
Surety Company had an adequate remedy at law by setting up the alleged fraud as an answer to the suits in
Georgia and Illinois, and second, as "a separate and distinct counterclaim to the cause of action alleged in the
complaint" set up the execution of the guaranty, the default thereunder, notice to the Surety Company, demand
for payment, refusal thereof and a prayer for "judgment against the plaintiff, on defendant's counterclaim,
for the sum of $21,050, with interest." Thereafter the
Mills Company twice moved to dismiss fhe action on the
ground that the plaintiff had an adequate remedy at law
and these motions were denied without prejudice to such
action as the trial court might deem advisable. When the
cause came on for hearing the Surety Company introduced proof of the fraud. The Mills Company introduced no evidence on the issue of fraud but made proof
of the execution of the guaranty.and the facts subsequent
thereto to show the liability of the Surety Company and
put the contract of guaranty in evidence. The court
directed that it be delivered to the clerk and impounded.
After both sides had rested in the case, the court called.
for an argument on the law of the case, announcing with
emphasis that the fraud had beeil,: clearly shown. The
court entered a decree canceling the guaranty, holding

AMER. MILLS CO. v. AMER. SURETY CO. 363
360

Opinion of the Court.

that the defendant had waived its defense that there
was an adequate remedy at law and had thereby given the
court of equity jurisdiction to grant the relief prayed for
by cancelation of the guaranty. American Surety Co.
v. American Mills Co., 262 Fed. 691. On appeal, the
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 273
Fed. 67.
It is conceded by the respondent that its bill in equity
in the District Court should have Leen dismissed because
it had an adequate remedy at law. The cases of Insurance
Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 622, and Cable v. United
States Life Insurance Co., 191 U. S. 288, 306, 307, settle
that. Respondent therefore relies solely on the waiver of
this defect by the Mills Company in doing what it did in
the District Court. A defendant in a bill of equity may
waive such a defect. McGowan v. Parish,237 U. S. 285,
295; Re Metropolitan Railway Receivership, 208 U. S.
90, 109, 110; Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co., 150
U. S. 371, 380; Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, 395;
1 Daniell's Ch. Pr. (4th Amer. ed.) 555.
Did petitioner waive it? It made the objection seasonably both by answer and by motions to dismiss. The
motions were denied without prejudice to their renewal
when the cause should come, on for hearing before the
trial court. The defendant instead- of renewing its motion to dismiss or insisting on the sufficiency of the first
defense of its answer, introduced proof of its right to an
affirmative judgment for the full amount of the guaranty,
putting the written instrument in evidence. This certainly constituted a waiver unless the contention of the
defendant, the petitioner here, that Equity Rule 30 required it to put in proof of its claim on penalty of being
barred from prosecuting it at law, is sound.
The relevant part of Rule 30 is as follows:
"The answer must state in short and simple form any
counter-claim arising out of the transaction which is the

OCTOBER TERM,- 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

subject matter of the suit, and may, without cross-bill, set
out any set-off or counter-claim -against the plaintiff which
might be the subject of an independent' suit in equity
against him, and such set-off or counter-claim so set up,
shall havi the same effect as a cross-suit, so as to enable
the court to pronounce a final judgment in the same suit
both on the original and cross-claims." (Italics ours.)- -i
. The petitioner argues that must and may..are
here set
over against one another for the purpose-of enf6rcing the
intention and -effect of the rule to require the defendant
in an action in equity to set out any counterclaim arising
out of the subject-matter of the bill, but to leave it to
the option of the defendant whether a counterclaim or
setoff not arising out of the same transaction shall be
interposed or shall be prosecuted by -independent bill.
The respondent contends that while this may be correct,
the counterclaim growing out of the same tranisaction
must be an equitable claim and not a legal one as here.
We concur in this view.
The new Equity Rules were intended to simplify equity
pleading and-practice by limiting the pleadings to a statement of ultimate facts without 'evidence and by uniting
in one action as many issues as could conveniently be disposed of. But they normally'deal with subjects-matter
of which, under the dual system of law and equity, courts
of equity can properly take cognizance. They -certainly
were not drawn to change in any respect the line between
law and equity as made by the federal statutes, practice
and decisions when the rules were promulgated. By the
construction which petitioner would put upon Rule 30,
it is an attempt to compel one who has a cause of action
at law to bring it into a court of equity and then try it
without a jury Whenever the defendant in that cause can
find some head of equity jurisdiction under which he can
apply for equitable relief in respect of the subject-matter.
The order of procedure as between the law and equity

AMER. MILLS CO. v. AMER. SURETY CO. 365
360

Opinion of the Court.

sides in such cases always has been that the equity issue
is first disposed of by the chancellor and then, unless
that 'ends the litigation, the original plaintiff may have
his action at law and his trial by jury secured him by
the Seventh Amendment of the Constitution. Liberty
Oil Co. v. Condon NationalBank, ante, 235. Petitioner's
construction of Rule 30 would deny the successful de-fendant in the equity action this-right. Petitioner seeks
to avoid the dilemma by the suggestion that the rule
would be satisfied by merely pleading the action at law
without proving it, but this would be futile. The
counterclaim referred to in the first part of the paragraph must therefore be an equitable counterclaim, one
which like the setoff or counterclaim referred to in -the
next clause could be made the subject of an independent
bill in equity. The counterclaim and the setoff and
counterclaim in the two clauses are in pari.materia, except that the first grows out of the subject-matter of
the bill and the other does not. That which grows out
of the subject-matter of the bill. must be set up in the
interest of an end of litigation. That which does not,
may be set up if the defendant wishes in one proceeding
in equity quickly to settle all equitable issues capable of
trial between them in such a proceeding, even though
they are not related. Buffalo Specialty Co. v. Vancleef,
217 Fed. 91. The formality of cross-bills is not required,
and the rule goes as far as possible to facilitate the
prompt disposition of equitable controversies between
the same litigants.' The rule should be liberally construed to carry out its evident purpose of shortening litigation, but the limitation of counterclaims to those which
are equitable is imperative. Equity Rule 30 was evidently suggested by Order XIX, Rule 3, of the English
practice, but as the division between equity and law
jurisdictions does not now obtain in the English courts,
the English rule applies to all actions either at law or in

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

equity-Hopkins' Federal Equity Rules, 3rd ed., p. 195-and consideration of it does not aid us in the question
we are discussing.
The result is that the petitioner as defendant was not
obliged to set up and prove its action at law under Rule
30, and when it did so, by its affirmative action, it waived
its previous objection to the equitable jurisdiction and
also its right of trial by jury. An analogous effect of
such affirmative action in pressing a counterclaim is seen
in Merchants Heat & Light Co. v. J. B. Clow & Sons,
204 U. S. 286, 289, 290, where a non-resident corporation,
having saved its right to object to the service of summons,
lost it, not by answer, but by a counterclaim.
Decree affirmed.
CHAMPLAIN-REALTY COMPANY v. TOWN OF
BRATTLEBORO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
VERMONT.
No. 12&" Argued November 27, 28,.1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
Logs, under control of their owner, which are being floated in a river
in continuous movement from one State to another, or which, in
the course of their interstate journey, are being temporarily detained by a boom to await subsidence of high waters and for the
sole purpose of saving them from loss, are in interstate commerce
and not subject to state taxation. . P. 371. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S,
517, and other cases, distinguished.
"113 Atl. 806, reversed.

This was a suit in assumpsit by the petitioner, the
Champlain Realty Company, t6 recover $484.50 and interest, from the Town of Brattleboro, Vermont, being the'
amount of taxes levied on logs of pulp wood of the petitioner floating in the West River in that town on April 1,
1919, and paid by the petitioner under protest as illegally
collected because the logs were then in transit in interstate commerce to Hinsdale, New Hampshire. The suit

