386

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argumeni for Respondent.

260 U. S.

REGAL DRUG 'CORPORATION v. WARDELL,
UNITED STATES COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE OF THE FIRST. DISTAICT OF CALIFORNIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE -CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 108.

Submitted November 28, 1922.-Decided December 11,
1922.

Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S. 557, followed, to the effect that penalties and so-called taxes for alleged violations of the National Prohibition Act, cannot be imposed and summarily enforced by distraint of property, without notice and an opportunity to be heard;
and that Rev. Stats., § 3224, does'not preclude injunctive relief
against such unlawful action. P. 390.
273 Fed. 182, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
affirming a decree of the District Court, which sustained
a demurrer and dismissed the bill in a suit brought by
the petitioner to enjoin the respondent revenue collector
from enforcing collection of unlawful taxes and penalties.
Mr. John W. Preston for petitioner.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mis. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, for
respondent.
The-Government concedes that under the decision in
Lipke v. Lederer, 259 U. S.'557, penalties and double
taxes could not be collected in the manner here attempted.
But it contends that under tax laws which antedated
the National Prohibition Act, and which were expressly
retained under that act, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue properly levied taxes (not double taxes) on the
distilled spirits and wines used for beverage purposes,

REGAL DRUG CO. v. WARDELL.
386

Opinion of the Court.

and the Collector of -nternal Revenue properly sought
to collect such taxes by distraint proceedings.
Section 35 of the Prohibition Act provides: "All provisions of law that are inconsistent with this Act are
repealed only 'to the extent of such: inconsistency and
the regulations herein provided for the iianufacture or
traffic in intoxicating liquor shall be construed as in addition to existing laws. This Act shall not relieve anyone
from paying any taxes or other charges .imposed upon
the manufacture or traffic in such liquor."
There is nothing in Lipke v. Lederer which militates
against this portion of § 35 or which shows that preexisting taxes may not be collected in the manner in
which such taxes had been collectible.
In United States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450, this
Court said: "That Congress may, under the broad au-.
thority of the taxing power tax intoxicating liquors notwithstanding their production is prohibited and punished,
we have no question. . . . Congress manifested an intention to tax liquors illegally as well as those legally
produced, which was within its constitutional power."
In the License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, it was expressly
decided that Congress might tax businesses which were
prohibited by valid state laws. See Youngblbod v. Sexton,
32 Mich. 406, per Cooley, C. J.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case involves the legality of taxes, assessments or
penalties under the revenue law or the National Prohibition Act,'upon certain distilled spirits and liquors of the
Regal Drug Corporation (herein called complainant), and
the distraint- of its store and the property contained
therein.
The remedy sought is by injunction against respondent,
Wardell, as Collector of Internal Revenue, from taking
or continuing in possession of the store and its property,

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

or from conducting any action or proceeding to enforce the
collection of the taxes, assessments or penalties.
Complainant presented the giounds of its prayer in a
bill of complaint filed'in the Southern Division of the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
Cifornia.
'lThe' Collector demurred to the bill on the ground,
among others, that complainant had a "plain, speedy,
adequate and complete remedy ht law." The District
Court sustained the demurrer and decreed the dismissal
of the suit. The ruling and decree were hfflrmed upon
appeal of complainant by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit.
The bill of complaint is an amended one. A summary
of its allegations is all that is necessary and the facts
alleged may be assumed to be true. They are as follows:
The complainant is a corporation under the laws of California and the defendant (respondent here) is the United
States Collector of Internal Revenue for the First District
of California. On the 28th day of October, 1919, complainant was the holder of a permit 'duly issued to it to
sell intoxicating liquor and distilled spirits for non-beverage purposes, and continued to be the holder thereof
until some time in June, 1920, during which time it was
in force.
During that time complainant purchased and withdrew
from the bonded warehouses distilled spirits and intoxicating liquors to the amount of 17,900 gallons, and also 450
gallons of sweet wines containing not over 21% of alcohol,
and purchased about 20 gallons of dry wines containing
not over 14% of alcohol. .All taxes and assessments
against the spirits and liquors that were levied or could
be levied were paid by the complainant in advanie, and
during the time the permit was in force co'iiplainart sold
-and disposed of the spirits and liquors un'der the permit,
"and under and in accordance with the provisions of the
National Prohibitie'1i:iAct." Complainait also cor olied

REGAL DRUG CO. v..WAkDELL.
386

Opinion of the .Court.

with the law in regard to filing a bond in the sum of
$100,000.
Complainant had in its drug store during the time mentioned, a stock of drugs, medicines and sundries of the
value of about $15,000.
That in or about the month of June, 1920, the Com
missioner of Internal Revenue levied against complainant
a so-called assessment or tax at the rate of $6.40 per gallon, amounting in the ggregate to $115,092.50, upon all
distilled liquors that had been withdrawn by complainant
from the bonded warehouses between October 28, 1919,
and the time when complainant's permit to sell and dispose of the spirits was revoked, to wit, in the month of
June, 1920.
The Commissioner also levied arbitrarily, a so-called
tax or assessment against complainant at the rate of 40
cents a-gallon on the sweet wines purchased and disposed
of by complainant, and 16 cents a gallon on the dry wines.
None of the levies were either taxes or assessments but
were fines and penalties imposed on comfiplainant without'
notice or a hearing.
. Complainant had already paid taxes on all of the articles amounting to the sum of $39,656.89. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue claimed and claims there is
due the further sum of $75,592.61.
The Commissioner also levied against complainant, a
penalty of $500 for selling spirits in violation of law, and
a penalty of $93.75 for conducting the business of a rectifier, in violation of law, and a penalty of $1,000 a month
for having manufactured distilled spirits of intoxicating
liquors in violation of law.
The levies of the taxes and assessments were without
notice or hearing, or that the same were proposed, and
complainant was, therefore, .without knowledge or information of the proposed action or the basis or grounds
of it. No evidence was taken or received. by the Commissioner in regard thereto prior to-the attempted"levy.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

On'lie 19th day of July, 1920, the Commissioner took
possession of complainant's drug store and of the entire
stock of drugs and goods therein, excluding complainant
therefrom, and is proceeding to and threatening to sell
the same in order to satisfy the so-called assessments or
taxes and penalties, and that the damage done to complainant will be irreparable.
The District-Court, comparing the inconvenienice and
loss to the parties from a preliminary injunction, said it
would grant one but for § 3224 1 of the Revised Statutes
of the United $tates, which the c6urt considered applied
and forbade relief by injunction. The court also expiessed a doubt.of the validity of the tax but was of the
.y4tw that the fact did not preclude the application of
the statute. For this conclusion the court cited Snyder
v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189; Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S. 118,
and other cases.
The court decreed the dismissal of the suit. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree, citing the same
cases, and expressed the view that they conclusively
determined against relief by injunction, even if the tax
could be considered "in the nature of a penalty."
Since the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals we
have decided a case which is a necessary factor to be
considered. In Lipke v. Ledere, 259 U. S. 557, the power
of a collector of internal revenue under circumstances
such as are presented by this record was passed upon, the
limitations upon it, and the rights of one against whom
it is attempted to be exercised..
The case originated in the District Court of the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, and was brought, as the case
at bar is, to restrain the enforcement of a tax on the
,ground that it was the imposition of a penalty, not a tax,
and was not preceded by a hearing. The bill was dis" 1 Sec. 3224. - No suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment
i collection of any tax shall be m aintained in any court.

-REGALMIRUG CO
386

WARDLL.

391

Opifion of -the Cdurt.

missed byr the District Court upon the authority of Ketterer-v. Lederer, 269 Fed. 153, that case deciding that an
injunction could not be issued to-restrain the collection
of a tax.
The facts of the dase were these: Lipke paid all revenue taxes required'by the laws for the year ending June
30, 1920. He held a retail liquor license under the laws
of the State. On December 29, 1920, he was arrested
for selling liquor, under the National Prohibition Act, and
.gave bail to appear and answer in the United States
District Court.
On March 18, 1921, he was notified that there .was
assessed against him a tax (its amount was stated), and
if not paid within 10 days, a penalty would be added to
the tax. On March 31st, he received a second demand
and was advised that, if the tax and penalty were not paid
within 10 days, collection of the same with accrued interest and costs would "be made by seizure and sale of
property."
To restrain the execution of the threat, the suit was
brought, Lipke alleging that he was " wholly without
adequate remedy at law to prevent such seizure of his
property."
Passing on § 3244 of the Revised Statutes, which was
urged against the guit, it wa.9 decided that the section
had no application, and that § 35 of the Prohibition Act
did not confer the power the Collector threatened to
exercise. Describing the power, we said, that the Collector was undertaking to punish Lipke "by fine and
penalty for an alleged criminal offense without hearing,
information, indictment or trial by jury, contrary to the
Federal Constitutioni." And we said further that, if
the "section has the meaning ascribed to it by the defendant [the Collector], it is unconstitutional."
The distinction between a tax and a penalty was emphasized. The function of a tax, it was said "is to pro-

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

vide for the support of the government ' the function
of a penalty clearly involves the "idea of punishment
for infraction of the law," and that a condition of its
imposition is notice and hearing. O'Sullivan v. Felix,
233 U. S. 318, 324. And even if the imposition may be
considered a tax,,if it have punitive purpose, it must be
preceded by opportunity to contest its validity. Central
of Georgia Ry. Co. v. Wright, 207 U: S. 127.
We took pains to say that "evidence of crime (§ 29) is.
essential to assessment under § 35 ", and that we could not
"conclude, in the absence of language admitting of no
other construction, that Congress intended that penalties
for crime should be enforced through the secret findings
and summary action of executive officers. The guarantees of due process of law and trial by jury are not to
be forgotten or disregarded. See Fontenot v. Accardo,
278 Fed. 871. A preliminary injunction should have been
granted."
The comment and decision are applicable here, and
decisive. The Government concedes that the case is conclusive against the "penalties and double taxes ", but contends that, of tax laws which antedated the National Prohibition Act, only inconsistent laws are repealed, and that
taxes in this case were levied under a law not inconsistent.
For this § 35 is adduced. Lipke v. Lederer manifestly
precludes the contention.
The contention encounters, besides, the averments of
the bill. They assert that all taxes that were or could be
levied were paid by complainant, -and that those against
which the bill is directed were imposed without notice or
hearing as penalties for criminal violations of the. law.
The facts are not denied. They impel the application bf
Lipke v. Lederer, and the reversal of the action of the
District Court and that of the Circuit Court ol Appeals.
Reversed and remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance with this oinion.

