166

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Casp.

260 U.S.

BALTIMORE & OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. SETTLE ET AL., PARTNERS
UNDER THE FIRM NAME OF W. H. SETTLE

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 83. Argued October 20, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Whether a shipment of goods is interstate, and is therefore subject
to the rates provided by the carrier's interstate tariff, depends
upon the essential character of the movement, and this chaxacter
is not necessarily determined by the contract between shipper and
carrier. p. 169.
2. Neither through billinguninterrupted movement, contmuous possession by th; carrier nor unbroken bulk is ain essential of interstate shipment, though these are common *incidents of through
shipment, and their presence or absence may be important evi."dence of the intention with which a shipment was made, when
that question is in issue. P. 171.
3. Where the shipper bills his goods from one State to a point in
another, paying the interstate rate, and, after receiving delivery
of the loaded cars-at the latter point, reships them within a few
days to another poiit in the second State on local bills, paying the
local freight rate, .intending throughout to move them to this
destination from the point of origin and interrupting the movement only thai he may take advantage of a differeriqe in his favor
between the through rate and the sum of those paid, his intention,
thus carried out, determines, as a matter of law, the essential
nature of the entire movement as a movement in interstate
commerce.. P. 171.
4. In such a case the through interstate rite is the only lawful rate;
and the misuse of the intermediate rates unjustly depletes the
carrier's revenues and opens the door to discrimination, contrary
to the Act-to Regulate Commerce. P. 172.
272 Fed. 675, reversed

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court ot Appeals
which affirmed a judgment of the bistrict Court adverse
to the Railroad Company in its action to recover the

B. & 0. S. W. R. R. CO. v. SETTLE.
166

167

Opinion of the Court.

difference between the amount due on interstate shipment of lumber measured by the through interstate tariff,
and a less amount paid under a combination of interstate
and'local rates. See 272 Fed. 675; 249 Fed. 913.
Mr. George Hoadly, with whom Mr. Judson Harmon
and Mr. Edward Colston were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Harry C. Barnes,for defendants in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern Railroad has
freight stations at Oakley and .at Madisonville, both
within the city limits of Cincinnati. It duly published,
in connection with other carriers, interstate carload rates
on lumber from southern points to Oakley and to Madisonville. It also duly published itftrastate. carload rates
from Oakley to Madisonville. The interstate rates to
Madisonville were higher. than the interstate rates to
Oakley plus the local rate from Oakley to Madisonville.
W. H. Settle & Co., who are lumber dealers, with a place
of business at Madisonville, had lumber shipped from
the South to Oakley; paid the freight to that point; received at that station delivery of the loaded cars on the
team tracks or in the bulk yard; and, without unloading
any of the cars, reshipped them within a few days to Madisonville on local bills of lading, paying the local freight
rate. Thus, the shippers secured transportation of the
lumber to Madisonville by paying less in freight charges
than would have been payable according to the interstate
tariff, if the cars had been billed through to Madisonville.
At the time these cars were shipped from points of origin,
and continuously thereafter, it had been the intention of
the shippers that the cars should go to Madisonville.
They were billed to Oakley and physical possession was

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

taken by the shipper there, in order to get the benefit of
the lower freight charges resulting from the combination
of rates. The railroad insisted that, in view of this fact,
the through rate to Madisonville applied; aid it brought
an action against the shippers, in the Federal District
Court for Southern Ohio, Western Division, to recover
the difference between the amounts actually received and
the through rate to Madisonville. A demurrer to the
petition, which set up the above facts, was overruled by
the trial court; judgment entered thereon was reversed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit;
and the case was remanded to the District Court. 249
Fed. 913. The railroad then discontinued that suit and
brought this one in the same court. The action was tried
before a jury; the facts above stated were, shown; the
shippers got the verdict; and judgment entered for them
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 272 Fed.
675. The case is here on writ of error.'
It is admitted that if the reshipment from Oakley to
Madisonville was, part of a through interstate movement,
the railroad was entitled to recover. The question is
presented whether, in view of the undisputed facts, the
original and continuing intention so to reship made the
reshipment, as matter of law, part of a through interstate
movement. The following instruction given and excepted to shows sufficiently how the question arose:
"As a matter of law, the existence of an original and
continuing intention in the minds of the defendants
Settle and Clephane to reship this lumber from Oakley.
to Madisonville, for the-purpose of saving expense, is not,
of itself, sufficient to convert, the shipments into through
shipments, if there was otherwise a good-faith delivery
at Oakley. . . . If there was a good-faith delivery of
this lumber at Oakley, to Settle and Clephane, the fact
they always had an intention in their mind, and persevered in that intention, of,reshipping it to Madisonville

B. & 0. S. W. R. R. CO. v. SETTLE.
166

Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of saving money on freight, that would
not necessarily constitute a through shipment in interstate commerce."
No material fact, evidential or ultimate, had been left
in dispute. There was no room for any issue of good
faith to be determined by the jury. Physical delivery of
the cars to the shippers had been made at Oakley, after
payment of the freight and other charges. The shippers
had no place of business at Oakley. The delivery there
was the completion, of one stage in the contemplated
movement to Madisonville. After a brief interval' the
second stage was begun under the local bill of lading. It
was conceivable that the shippers might find a customer
who would take the lumber at Oakley; and, in that event,
the rail movement would have ended there. But that
was not probable or expected; nor was it the reason for
shipping to Oakley. The movement had been divided
by the shippers into two stages-instead of using through
billing-because they believed that by so doing they
could secure transportation to Madisonville at less than
the through interstate rate. Whether under the Act to
Regulate Commerce lower intermediate rates can be so
used in combination, is the precise question for decision.
The contention of the shippers is that the character of
a movement, as intrastate or interstate, and, hence, what
the applicable rate is, depends solely upon the contract
of transportation entered into between shipper ,and carrier at the point of origin of the traffic; that when an
interstate shipment reaches the destination named in this
contract and, after payment of charges, delivery is taken
there by the consignee, the contract for interstate transportation is ended; that any subsequent movement of
the commodity is, of necessity, under a new contract with
the carrier and at the published rate; and that, since this
lumber came to rest at Oakley before that new movement, the reshipment from there to Madisonville (both

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

stations being within the State of Ohio), was an intrastate movement. This contention gives to the transportation, contract an .effect greater than is consistent
with the purposes of the Act to Regulate- Commerce.
The rights of shipper against carrier are determined by
law through the provisions of the tariff which are embodied in the applicable published rate. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Esteve Brothers & Co.,
,256 U. S. 566. And'whether the interstate or the intrastate tariff is applicable depends upon the essential char-acter of the movement. That the contract"between shipper and carrie does not necessarily determine the character was settled by a series of cases in which the subject
received much consideration. Southern Pacific Terminal
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 219 U. S. 498;
Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S.
101; Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co.,
227 U. S. 111; RailroadCommission of Louisianav. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co., 229 U. S.336. And in Baer Brothers
Mercantile Co. v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 233
U. S.479, 490, this Court held that a carrier cannot, by
separating the rate into its component parts, charging
local rates and issuing local way bills, convert an-interstate shipment into intrastate transportation, and thereby
deprive a shipper of the benefit of an appropriate rate for
a through interstate movement.
If the intention with which the shipmenb was made
had been actually in issue, the fact that possession of the
cars was taken by the shipper -at Oakley and that they
were not rebilled for several days, would have justified
the jury in finding thai it was originally the intention to
end the movement at Oakley and that the rebilling to
Madisonville was an afterthought. But the defendant
Clephane admitted at the trial that it was intended from
the beginning that the cars-should go to Madisonville;

B. & 0. S. W. R. R. CO. v. SETTLE.
166

Opinion of the Court.

and this fact was assumed in the instructions complained
of. In other Words, Madisonville was at all times the
des.tination of the cars; Oakley was to be merely an intermediate stopping place; and the 'original intention persisted in was carried out. That the interstate journey
might end at Oakley was never more than a possibility.
Under these circumstances, the intention as it was carried
out determined, as matter of law, the essential nature of
the movement; and hence that the movement through to
Madisonville was an interstate shipment. For neither"
through billing, uninterrupted movement, continuous
possession by the carrier, nor unbroken bulk, is an essential of a through interstate shipment. These are common incidents of a through shipment; and when the
intention with which a shipment was made is in issue,
the presence, or absence, of one or all of these incidents
may be important evidence bearing upon that question.
But where it is admitted that the shipiment made to the
ultimate destination had at all times been intended, these
incidents are without legal significance as bearing on the
character of the traffic. For instance, in many cases
involving transit or reconsignment privileges in blanket
territory, most or all of these incidents are absent, and
yet the through interstate tariffs apply. See Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Harold, 241 U. S. 371;
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 245
U. S. 136; Central Railroad Co. of New Jersey v.-United
States, 257 U. S. 247. Compare Philadelphia& Reading
Ry. Co. v. Hancock, 253 U. S. 284.
Through rates are, ordinarily, made lower than the sum
of the intermediate rates. This practice is justified, in
part, on the ground that operating costs of a through
movement dre less than the aggregate costs of the two
independent movements covering the same route. But
there may be traffic or commercial conditions which compel, or justify, giving exceptionally low rates to move-

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

meiits which are intermediate. 'The mere existence of
such intermediate rates confers no right upon the shipper
to use them in combination to defeat the applicable
through rate. Here, there had been published interstate
rates for the transportation from the southern points to
Madisonville. For such transportation the interstate
rates ,to Madisonville were the only lawful rates. To
permit the applicable through interstate rate to be defeated by use of a combination of intermediate rates
would open wide the door to unjust discrimination. And
it would unjustly deplete the revenues -of the carrier.
The sole question, therefore, which could arise in this
case was whether the movement actually entered upon
at point of origin, and persisted in, was transportation
.
...
of the lumber to Madisonville.
Before the decisions above referred to it was commonly
assumed that, while a carrier, or one of its-employees,
might, not, act, as a reconsigning agent for a shipper in
order to enable him to use a combination of lower intermediate rates and thus avoid the higher charges incident
to the through interstate movement,, the shipper might
so use,the combination, provided he consigned the car to
himself at the intermediate point, there paid the charges,
took possession, and then reshipped the car on the local
rate to its real destination.' The distinction made was
without basis in reason. To permit carriers' revenues
from interstate rates to be depleted by such misuse of a
combination of intermediate rates-would be no less inconsistent with the provisions and purposes of the Act to
.Regulate Commerce than to permit them to be used as a
means -of discrimination. And, since the decisions cited
See Morgan v. Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co., 12 1. C. C.
525, 528; Wood Butter Co. v. Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago & St.
Louis Ry. Co., 16 I. C. C. 374; Big Cafion Ranch Co. v. Galveston,
Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co., 20 I. C. C. 523, 526. Compare
Kurtz v. Pennsylvania Co.,. 16 I. C. C. 410, 413:.

B. & 0. S. W. -R. R. CO. v. SETTLE.
166

Opinion of the Court.

above were rendered, the principle -there declared has been
steadfastly applied by the Interstate Commerce Commission for the purpose of protecting revenues of railroads
against such attacks.- See also McFadden v. Alabama
Great'Southerm R. R. Co., 241 Fed. 562. The decision
in Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S.
403, relied upon by defendants in error, is entirely consistent with these later decisions of this Court, although
some expressions in the opinion are not.
The mere fact that cars received on interstate movement are reshipped by the consignee, after a brief interval, to another point, does not, of course, establish .an
essential continuity of movement, to the latter point.
The reshipment, although immediate, may be an independent intrastate movement. The instances are many
where a local shipment follows quickly upon an interstate
shipment and yet is not to be deemed part of it, even
though some further shipment was contemplated when
the original movement began. Shipments to and from
distributing points often present this situation, if the
applicable tariffs do not confer reconsignment or transit
privileges.' The distinction is clear between cases of that
character and the one at bar, where the essential nature of
'Kanotex Refining Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
34 I. C. C.271; 46 I. C. C. 405; Rates on Railroad Fuel and Other
Coal, 36 I. C. C. 1, 8; Lumber Rates from Newcastle, Cal., 37 I. C. C.
596, 597; Lumber from Easton, Wash, 39 I.. C. C. 188, 189; Miller
Brothers v. St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co., 42 I. C. C. 261, 262;
Memphis Merchants Exchange v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 43
I. C. C. 378, 391; Woolworth v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 46 I. C. C.
437, 438; Sugar Land Mig. Co. v. Beaumont, Sour Lake & Western
Ry. Co., 56 I. C. C. 212.
'Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 233 U. S. 334,
was a case of this character. See also Southern Pacific Co. v. Arizona,
249 U. S. 472; Bracht v. San Antonio & Aransas Pass Ry. Co., 254
U. S. 489;, Illinois Grain to Chicago, 40 I. C. C. 124; Kettle River
Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 52 I. C. C. 73, 77. On the other

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

the traffic as a through movement to the point of ultimate
destination is shown by the original and persisting intention of the shippers which was carried out.
Reversed.
MR.'JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, dissents.
R
ZUCHT, BY HER NEXT FRIEND, ETC. v. KING
ETAL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FOURTH SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF, TEXAS.

No. 84.-Argued October 20, 1922-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A city ordinance is a law of a State within the meaning of Jud.

.1
l
'Code, ยง 237. P. 176.
2. It is the duty of this Court to decline jurisdiction whenever it
appears that the constitutional question upon which jurisdiction
depends was not, at the time of granting the writ, a substantial
question. P. 176.
,
3. City ordinances making vaccination a condition to attendance at
public or private schools and vesting broad discretion in health
authorities to d.etermine when and under \what circumstances the
requirement shall be enforced are consistent with the Fourteenth
Amendment and, in view of prior decisions, a contrary contention
presents no substantial constitutional question. P. 176.
4. The question whether city officials have" administered a valid
ordinance in such a way as to deny the plaintiff the equal protection of the laws, is not one of those upon which the judgment of
a state court may be brought here by writ of error. P. 177.
Writ of error to review 225 S.W. 267, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the court below affirming a

judgment of a trial court which dismissed the bill in a
suit for injunction, mandamus and damages.
hand there are many instancei where the grant by tariffs of extensive transit or reconsignment privileges have rendered what otherwise would be independent local movements, a part of the through
interstate shipment. See In Matter of Substitution of Tonnage at
Transit Points, 18 I. C. C. 280; The Transit Case, 24 I. 0.C. 340.

