N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO. v. FRUCHTER.

141

Argument for Petitioner.

NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN & HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY v. FRUCHTER, AN INFANT,
&C.

NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN .& HARTFORD RAILROAD COMPANY v. FRUCHTER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

CIRCUIT.

Nos. 35, 36. Argued October 6, 9, 1922.-Decided November 13,
1922.
A boy of eight years, by climbing to the topmost girder of a municipal bridge used for conveying a street across a railroad, and thence
up a latticed tower, touched a live electric wire twenty-nine feet
above the street, and was injured. Held, upon the circumstances
stated in the opinion, that the railroad company, (which maintained the wires and the bridge framework,) could not be deemed
liable upon the theory of license or invitation. P. 143. United
Zinc Co. v. Britt, 258 U. S. 268.
271 Fed. 419, reversed.
CERTIORARI to judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming judgments in the District Court against
the petitioner, in two actions for personal injuries.

Mr. James W. Carpenterfor petitioner.
The attractive-nuisance doctrine was not applicable,
for defendant owed the plaintiff no active or affirmative
duty. Defendant's duty to the public in relation to the
bridge was confined by statute. to maintenance of the
bridge superstructure as such, and no negligence in whole
or in part could be predicated on its attractiveness to
children. There was no excuse nor justification for plaintiff's trespass on defendant's property, since (a) it was
not attractive or alluring to him,-the bird attracted him,
the property was a mere incident; (b) the relative inaccessibility of the property and the obvious danger in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondents.

260 U. S.

volved in scaling the intervening bridge superstructure
was notice to all, having the physical capacity to reach it,
of defendant's intent to use and occupy it exclusively;
(c) the attitude of both the city and the defendant was
forcibly resistant to the public use of the respective properties as a play or hunting ground; and (d) defendant
had no notice of any use of its property byboys. Furthermore, there was no proof that either insulation or the
evidential protective, devices would not seriously interfere with the wires' functions in interstate commerce.
The New York rule of non-liability to infant trespassers or licensees for injuries received from inherent dangers
in private premises is so thoroughly established that .it
has become a fixed rule of property and action by Which
the Courts below were bound in comity. Nationai inferests. require the affirmation of the principle deciared by
the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. 169 Fed. 1.
If the, defen dant owed the infant any duty, therd 'was
no evidence of negligence.
Mr. Harold R. Medina, with whom Mr. Leo Snders,
M, George M. Curtis, Jr., Mr. Young B. Smith and, Mr.
Jacob-Zeienko weie on the brief, for respondensT
The defendant's liability is governed by those rules of
law applicable to persons maintaining _a dangerous thing
in or adjacent to a public highway.,
...
,
V
Upon the decisions of, the federal courts, the defendant
was under a legal dutyrto take -reasonable steps to guard
against injuries to children of tender years which were
likely, to occur because of the close proximity of the live
wire to a place and structure alluring to childreh and
about-which, well known to.the defendant, younig children
,
were in the habit of playing.
It was not necessary for the plaintiffs to prove that thestructure and wire maintained by the defendant, as distinguishable from 'the city's bridg6 and defendant's strut,

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO. v. FRUCHTER.
141

143

Opinion of the Court.

were alluring to children. It is sufficient that the defendant maintained a dangerous wire in close proximity
to something which was alluring to children or in close
proximity to a place where defendant knew, or should
have known, children were likely to be attracted.
The remaining contentions of the defendant with reference to the essentials of' the attractive-nuisance doctrine
are unsound.
The defendant's duty in the premises was in no sense
diminished by ยง 93 of the Railroad Law of New York.
It is well settled that the question of liability for negligence when not modified or regulated by statute, is one
of general common law and the federal court is not bound
to follow the decisions of the state court. Furthermore,
the New York decisions sustain the judgments in these
cases.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Since 1908, One Hundred and Forty-Ninth Street, New
York City, has been carried over and across the tracks of
the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad by a
public municipal steel truss bridge of standard construction. The bridge is fifty-four feet wide, two hundred and
seventy feet long and is formed of posts, beams, girders,
etc., connected and strengthened by trellis or lattice work.
The top girders, or beams, are twenty-three feet above
the street. The local law imposes upon the railroad the
duty of maintaining the framework; the municipality is
required to keep the roadway in repair.
Fastened to the top girder at the end of the bridge are
two upright steel lattice towers, posts or struts. Cross
arms attached to these six feet above their bases, Sulport
bare wires carrying electric current used for operating
trains. The nearest wire is nineteen inches from the
strut.

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

With considerable difficulty and some danger active
boys can climb to the highest parts of the bridge. They
did, often climb upon it; some reached the struts. They
were frequently chased away by a policeman and the railroad guard, and seem generally to have understood that
to play there was forbidden-, when an officer came in
sight they kept off. At each corner of the bridge there
was a notice board displaying the words: "Live wires,
Danger, Keep Off."
In June, 1916, the plaintiff David Fruchter, eight years.
old, by using the trellis work climbed from the street to
the top of the bridge in quest of a bird's nest. He then
saw a bird on the wire above and to catch it climbed up
the strut and reached out; the bird flew away; his hand
touched the wire and severe injuries resulted. He sued
for damages; and the father also seeks to recover for loss
of services and expenses incurred. The causes were tried
together. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed judgments for the plaintiffs February, 1921. 271 Fed. 419.
At the time of,-the accident the boy was attending
school. Whether he could then read the warning words
upon: the notice boards is left in doubt; upon the witness
stand he both affirmed and denied that he could. He
further stated that before climbing ulion the bridge he
.looked to see whether a policeman was present, and admitted that if one had been there he would not -have
gbne up.
The court bdlow accepted the-theory that the jury
could have found the structure was well known to be both
dangerous and attractive to children and that failure to
supply proper guards, human or mechanical, constituted
negligence within the doctrine of Railroad Co,,v. Stout,
17 Wall. 657, and Union Pacific Ry. Co.,v. McDonald,
152 U. S. 262.1
In United Zinc & Chemical Co. v. Britt, 258 U. S. 268,
275, we pointed out the theory upon which liability may

N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. CO. v. FRUCHTER.
141

145

Opinion of the Court,

exist for injuries suffered by an infant although the circumstances would give no cause of action to an adult.
"Infants have no greater right to go upon other peoples'
land than adults, and the mere fact that they are infants
imjoses no duty upon landowners to expect them and to
prepare for their safety. On the other hand the duty of
one who invites another upon his land not to lead him
into a trap is well settled, and while it is very plain that
temptation is not invitation, it may be held that knowingly to establish and expose, unfenced, to children of an
age when they follow a bait as mechanically as a fish,
something that is certain to attract them, has the legal
effect of an invitation to them although not to an
adult. . . . There can be no general duty on the part
of a landowner to keep his land safe for children, or even
free from hidden dangers, if he has not directly or by
implication invited or licensed them to come there."
Considering the peculiar circumstances of the present
cause, it is clear that, if the plaintiff had been an adult
he could not recover; and we are unable to find any sufficient evidence from which the jury could have properly
concluded that the railroad company either directly or by
implication invited or licensed him to climb upon the
strut to a point from which he could touch the bare wire
thirty feet above the street. The motion for an in3tructed verdict should have been granted.
The judgment of the court below is. reversed and the
cause rerhanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
45046o-23----10

