482"

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U.S.

UNITED STATES,- OWNER OF THE STEAMSHIPS
"CLIO," "MOOSEABEE," "FORT LOGAN," AND
"MORGANZA/' ET AL. v. CARVER ET AL., COPARTNERS, UNDER THE--FIRM NAME OF
BAKER, CARVER, -AND MORRELL.
CEBTIFICA. EFROM THE, CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
-SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 402. Argued December 6, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. Under the Maritime Liem and Ship Mortgage' Acts, June 23, 1910,
c. 373, 36 Stat. 604; June 5, 1920, -c. 250, § 30, 41 Stat. 1000, 1005,
no lien arises for- supplies furnished A chartered vessel where the
-charter forbids it, and where the material-man, by reasonably diligent minyestigation, could have ascertained there was a charter and
gained-kmowledge of its terms. P. 489.,
2.,A charter-party provided that the charterer would not "suffer
nor permit to be continued any lien . . which has or might
have priority over the title and interest of the owner," and that,
in any event, within fifteen days, the charterer would provide for
'the satisfaction or discharge of every claim that might have such
any
priority, or cause the vessel to be discharged from such lien, in:
event, within fifteen days after it was imposed.- Held, that the
charterer was under- a primary obligation not to suffer- any lien
tobe imposed. P. 489.
QUESTIONS 'certified by the Circuit- Court of- Appeals,
arising upon an appeal, from- a judgment of the District
Court, in admiralty, upholding a,claim of right to a
maritime'lien, in a suit in personam brought against the
United :States and-the receiver of a ship corporation,
under the Suits in Admiralty Act.

Mr. Norman B. Beecher, with whom Mr. Solicitor'General Beck,-MrAssistant Attorney General Ottinger, Mr.

J. FrankStaley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
and Mr.'Arthur M. Boal were on the briefs, for the United
States.

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
482

Argument for the United States.

Maritime liens for necessaries or supplies would not
have arisen against either the Clio or Morganza had both
vessels been privately owned.
The person ordering the supplies or necessaries was
without authority from the owner to impose maritime
liens on either the Clio or Morganza.
The fact that the order for the supplies'came from a
shore agent and not from the master put the supply man
on inquiry as to the extent of the authority of the person
giving the order to bind the vessel. His failure to make
any inquiry rebuts any possible presumption of authority
in the person giving the order to impose liens on the
vessel.
Under the lien statutes a supply man receiving an
order from a person other than the master, is put upon
inquiry as to the relation of the person giving-the order
to the vessel. If he -fails to make any inquiry he is
charged with such knowledge as a reasonable inquiry
would have disclosed of any lack of authority in the person giving the order to bind the vessel.
Any possible presumption of authority in the person
ordering the supplies for the Morganza to impose a maritime lien on the vessel is rebutted by knowledge in fact in.
the supply man of his lack of such authority.
The United States is not liable for what would have
been a maritime lien had the vessels affected been privately owned.
The United States is not liable for the personal indebtedness of the States Steamship Corporation in respect of
supplies and necessaries furnished to a vessel in respect
of which no maritime lien would have arisen had such
vessel been privately owned.
Mr. E. Curtis Rouse for Carver et al.
A maritime lien arose for the supplies furnished the
Clio which would have been enforceable in. rem had that
vessel been privately owned.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1922..
Argument for Carver et al;

260 U S.

Whether the contracts under which the State Steamship- CorporatOn obtaiied possession ot the Clio and
.Morganza be called conditional or partial payment 'purchase contracts or charters, the fact remains that they
were a complete and absoluie demise of the vessels. The
coiporation was the dwner pro hac vice of the yessels at
the time. That the cqrporation wsin lawful possession
has never been questioned..
The . person ordering the supplies for these vessels was
the person to whom the management of the vessels at the
port of supply had -been inrusted.L
The 'certificate staties that these libelants had no notice
oirkh6wledge of any charter or contract under which the
Stat Steamship Corporation held the Clio, or that they
were other than owners, and that they had no cause to
Suspect the existenc'of one.
-,

The paragraphs of

e

aritim' Lien-Statute of 1910

(36 Stat. 604), material to the consideration of the question here presented, are in §§ 1 and 2.
Since that statute, -demised vessels have uniformly been
held liable in rem, and subject to liens for supplies furnished on the order of the representatives named in the
-statute, although, appoiim~ed by charterers or conditional
vendees in possession under such contracts and clauses
as exist here.- The various Circuit Courts have been uniform in their construction cf this, statute. The Oceana,
244 Fed. 80 (certiorari denied 245 U. S. 656); The Yankee,
233 Fed, 919, 926 (certiorari denied 243 U. S. 649); The
Penn, 276 Fed: -118;-The St. Johns, 273. Fed. 1005; 277
Fed. 1020r(certiorari granted 257 U. S. 626) ; The Ascutne'y, 278 Fed. 991; The Portland,273 Fed. 401; The'South
Coast, 251 U. S.519; The Cratheus,263 Fed. 693.
. The appellant,. relying on a forced construction of certain lianguage used in the decision in Piedmont Cbal
Co, v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., 24 -U.S. 1, urges lere,
exactly as was unsuccessfully urged in The Oceana, that,

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
482

Argument for Carver et al.

in the case where a charter exists, the Lien Statute of
1910 does not apply, and that the rule of The Valencia;
165 U. S.264, still obtains, and that a supplyman cannot
obtain a lien where a charterer ordered the supplies.
Both of the objections pointed out by the Court in The
Valencia, have been expressly eliminated by the Lien
Statute of 1910 (and also that of 1920). First, by dispensing with the so-called home port rule and the presumption of dealing on the credit of the owner only and,
secondly, by expressly giving the presumption of a lien
for supplies upon -the order of any one of a certain class
of persons, whether appointed by a charterer; or agreed
purchaser, or other. owner pro hac vice. This did away
with the requirement for the express contract for lien referred to in that decision.
The statute was passed directly after the Valencia
decision and obviously to modify its harshness and yet
render practical the protection of the lien for maritime
supplies. This interpretation of the decision is supported by Piedmont Coat Case, 254 U. S. 1, and The
South Coast, 251 U. S. 519.
There is nothing in the decision supporting the argument made by the: appellant here that the mere fact
of the existence-of a charter prevents a supplyman procuring a lien and puts him on notice. On the contrary,
the case supports the argument sustained in The Oceana
and in the lower court in this case, that there must b'e
some condition or circumstance brought home to th'4 sup-plyman which puts him on inquiry or notice of the existence of a.restriction which would prevent his acquiring a
lien. This is made clear by the concluding pariagraph of
the Valencia opinion.
The rule urged by the appellant would bring back a
worse :chaos than ever existed before the statute.. It
would nullify in fact the entire. point and force of the

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Carver, et al.

260 U. S.

statute. It would require that every supplyman, on receiving an order, Would have to initiate an inquiry, not as
to the home port, it is true, but as to whether he was
dealhig with a representative of a charterer, 'vendee or
other owner pro hac vice. If he found that he was dealing with other 'than an owner personally, he would be
obliged, at his -peril, to inquire the exact authority of
that *person to order for the ship, and the fact that the
person was in open, visible control of the management
of the- vessel at the port of supply or said he was the
owner would be immaterial He would be obliged to go
to the original charter or contract or letter of appointment and record title. He could not rely on theT state-hennt of the purchaser or of the charterer. It is not always r e that these charters or contracts' are readily
available. Therefore, the express words of the statute
ihat these respective officers or agents, when appointed
by & charterer, agreed purchaser in possession, or owner
SIr ha vice, are to have' the same authority as when appointed by the owner, or as the owner himself, would be

ex ressly nuified. It seems too clear for extended argument that this could not have been the intention of the
framers of the statute.'
It is urged' by the appellant that this difficulty would
be'"cured by insisting on the order being signed by the
master. --The weakness' of this lieg in the fact that usually
these charters are bareboat form; where the master is
the appointee of the charterer, or agreed purchaser in
possession. -He hgs no greater authority than they, and,
being the appointee of the charterer or vendee, his authority must necessarily be subject to the same inquiryThe master, as ma'ter,-has no inherent power, in absence
of the statute, to pledge the credit of the vessel. He
never could do it in the home port, or.where the owner
was preent. He could not do it in a foreign port unless
necessity was shown, and also he'had no funds and the

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
482

487

Opinion of the Court.

owner had no credit. But by § 2 of the statute he
is now given that power and is placed in the same class
as managing owner, ship's husband or any other person
such as the marine or port superintendent, or captain, to
whom the management of the vessel, at the port of supply,
is entrusted. This is the force of the decision in The
South Coast, 251 U. S. 519, as applied to the present case.
The charter clearly contemplates that a lien may, in
the course of operations, be incurred, and that this ,lien
may be continued to exist for a limited time; that the
vessel may be arrested to enforce such lien and ,may
continue under such arrest for a limited time. It is practically the same clause which this Court said in The South
Coast, 251 U. S. 519, was not a prohibition; The Oceana,
suora; The Yankee, supra. The lien was not denied,' in
the Valencia Case, because of the language of the clause,
but because of the home port rule.
A maritime lien arose for the supplies furnished the
Morganza herein which would have been enforceable in
rem had that vessel been privately owned:
..
.
There being a right to a lien in rem against the ships,
had they been privately owned, this suit was maintainable under the Suits in Admiralty Act.
MR. JUSTiCE HoLmkEs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a libel in personam against the United States
and the receiver of State Steamship Corporation, a company of the State of Delaware, bankrupt, to charge the
United States for supplies furnished to the steamships
Clio and Morgatiza. Act of March 9, 1920, c. 95, 41 Stat.
525. The United States owned the vessels, but they were
in the possession of the corporation under charters by
which the corporation was to pay all costs and expenses
incident to the use and operation of the vessels, and" will
not suffer nor permit to be continued any lien, encum-

488

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.,

260 U. S.

brance, or charge~which has 'or might have priority over
theJtitle and interest of the owner insaid vessel." , It was
stipulated: further that in any event within fifteen. days
the.charterer would make-adequate provision for the satisfaction -or discharge of every claim that might ,have
priorityr over-the title,,&c., or would cause such vessel-to
be discharged from such. lien in any eyent -within fifteen
days, after it was imposed.- Supplies, or necessities were
furhishbed-to the-Cli0 upon the orders of-the corporation'S
pdrt cdptain -who was charged with the duty of procuring
them. -The Iibelants did not know any facts -tending to
show that. tie corporation did not own the vessel, and
so far 'as' apears made' no inquiry -or effort to ascertain
what the ,facts might: be. The case 'bf- the Morganza is
similar except thdu before furnishing some of the supplies
'th4t libelahts' agent who dealt with: the corporation.]mew
facts putting the libelants upon inquiry but preferred to
avoid -_maidng-it., ,The- liability-of the' corporation is
admitted. That of the -vessels is hsserted under the Act
373, 36 Stat. 604, and the Ship MIortof June 23, 1910, :c.,
gage Act, being § 30 of the Merchant Marine -Act 1920;
Aobtof June:5, 1920, c., 250, § 30, gubsections.P. Q.& R.,
J. ' , ,
41 Stat. 988, 1000, .1005. The questions certified are whether.. a maritime lien
""the Mot. ould have, arisen agalnst (1) the..Cii& or
ganza; if they had been priately owned;- (3) it-yes,
"vjwether he United -States is lible foi. the- -amount,Zf
.I4at would have, beeft the -lien; 'and (4) whether the
Uxilted States is Hable for the personal, indebtedness of
the 'State' Sternship :Corporation for-supplies in respect
ij the vessel
whh
'of no-maritime lien would have arisen
. had been privately, owned. ,:,
We -take up first questions 1 and 2; The Act of.19101
by which the -transactions with the, Clio -ere governed,
after enlarging the right to a maritime lien and providing
who shall be presumed -tohave authority for the owper to

UNITED STATES v. CARVER.
482

Opinion of the .Court.

procure supplies for .the vessel, qualifies the whole in 3.
as follows: "but nothing in.this Act shall be construed
to confer a lien when the furnisher knew, or by the exercise of ;easonable diligence could have ascertained, that
because of the terms of .a charter party, agreement for
sale of the vessel, or for any other reason, the person ordering the repairs, supplies, or other necessaries was without authority to bind the vessel therefor." We regard
these words as too plain for argument. They do'not allow
the material-man to- rest 'upon presumptions until he is
put upon inquiry, they call upon him to inquire. To,)ascertain is to find out by investigation. If by in'estiga-

tion with reasonable diligence the material-man could
have foind out that the vessel was under charter, he Was
chargeable with notice that there was a charter; if in the
same way he could have found out its terms he was
chargeable with notice of its terms. In this case it would
seem that there would have been no difficulty in finding
out both. The Ship Mortgage Act of 1920 repeats. the
-,words of the Act of 1910,But it is said that the charter-party if known would
have'shown that the master at least, if not the' agentwho
ordered the supplies, had authority to impose a lien, since
the charter-party contemplated the possibility of one
being created and provided for its removal. The South
Coast, 251 -.
S. 519, is cited as establishing the position.
But there is a sufficient difference in the language employed
there and here to bring about a different result. In The
South Coast the contract went no farther' than to agree
to discharge liens within a month. Here the primary
undertaking was-that 'the charterers will not suffer nor
permit to be continued any h.'en," &c. We read this as
meaning will not suffer any lien nor permit the same to
be continued. 'Naturally there are provisions for the
removal of the lien if in spite of the primary undertaking
one is imposed or claimed. But the primary undertaking

490

OCTOBER TERM, -1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

is that a lien shall- not be imposed. .-We are of opinion
that the libelants got no lien uponthe Clio, and a fortton
that the Morganza was, free. The denial of a writ of
certiorari imports no eipression of opinion upon the
merits oE the case, as the bar has been told many times.
Therefore it-is unnecessary to consider whether the libelants' argument is supported by the decisions to which
they refer. The Yankee, sub nom. Rswer_ & Iarbors
Improvement Co. v Latta, 243 U. S. 649. The ,Oceana,
sub nom., Morse -Dry Dock,.& Eepair Co. v. ,Conron
Broiher's Co., 245 U S. 656. .. ..
As the libelan't disclaum the contentionthat thpe United
States is liable even if the vessels would not havre been
siibjeot to a lien it is unnecessary to answer the4fourth
question. It is enough ihat the -first. n second are
answered,3No.
Answer to questions 1 and 2, No.
OSAKA SHOSET KAISHA ET AL. v. PACIFIC
EXPORT LUMBER -COMPANY
C)MRTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF , APPEALS-- FOR THE
NINTH, CIRCUIT.

-Noi 129. Submitted Novomber 23, 1922.--Decided January 2, 1923.
1. Whether the ship is subject to a lien to secure damages resulting
from-breach of a maritime affreikhtment contract, is a question of
imaritime law not controllable by a-state stdtute. _R 495.
2. Acceptance of part of the designated cargo under a contract of
affreightment creates -no, lien upon the ship for damages resulting
from refusal to take all. P.1495.
3. The maritime lien or privilege adhering to a -iessel is a secret one
which ma operAte to -tte-prepidie' of genere creditors and purchasers without notice, and is therefore stncti:jurs, not to be extended by construction;analogy or inference. JP 499.
4. The lien,, created by law presupposes mutbiaility and reciprocity
as between-ship and cargo. P 499.
272 Fed. 799, reversed. -"

