PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.

393

Syllabus.

PENNSYLVANIA COAL COMPANY v. MAHON
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 549. Argued November 14, 1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
1. One consideration in deciding whether limitations on private property, to be implied in favor of the police power, ar&exceeded, is
the degree in which the values incident to the property are diminished by the regulation in question; and this is to be determ'ined
from the facts of the particular case. P. 413.
2. The general rule, at least, is that if regulation goes too far it will
be recognized as a taldng for which compensation must be paid.
P. 415.
3. The rights of the public in a street, purchased or laid out by
eminent domain, are those that it has paid for. P. 415.,
4. Where the owner of land containing coal deposits had deeded the
surface with express reservation of the right to remove all the coal
beneath, the grantees assuming the risk and waiving all claim to
damages that might arise from such mining, and the property
rights thus reserved, and contracts made, were valid under th&
state law, and a statute, enacted later, forbade mining-in such way
as to cause subsidence of any human habitation, or public street
or building, etc., and thereby made commercially impracticable the removal of very valuable coal deposits still standing unmined, held,
that the prohibition exceeded the police power, whether viewed as
a protection to private surface owners or to cities having only
surface rights, and contravened the rights of the-coal-owner under
the Contract Clause of the Constitution. and the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 413.
274 Pa. St. 489, reversed.
1The following summary of the statute involved is taken from the
opinion of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court:
The statute is entitled: "An act regulating the mining of anthracite coal; prescribing duties for certain municipal officers; and imposing penalties."
Section 1 piovides that it shall be unlawful "so- to conduct the
operation of mining anthracite coal as to cause the caving-in, collapse, or subsidence of (a) Any public building or any structure cus-

.94

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

ERROR to a decree of the Supreme Court-of Pennsyl-

vania, for the defendants in error, in their suit to enjoin
the Coal Company from mining under their property in
such way as to remove supports and cause subsidence of
the surface and of their house..
Mr. John W. Davis with whom Mr. Frank W. Wheaton,
Mr. Henry S. Drinker,Jr., and Mr. Reese H. Harriswere
on the brief, fork plaintiff in error.
I. The statute impairs the obligation of the contract
between the parties.
On August 26, 1921, the Mahons were bound by a
valid covenant to permit the Coal Company, which had
sold to them or to their ancestor the surface rights only
in their lot, to exercise without objection or hindrance
tomarily used by the public as a place of resort, assemblage, or amusement, including, but not being limited to, churches, schools, hospitals,
theatres, hotels, and railroad stations; (b) Any street, road, bridge,
or other public passageway, dedicated to public use or habitually
used-by the public; (c) Any track, roadbed, right of way, pipe, conduit, wiie, or other facility, used in the service of the public by any
municipal corporation or public service company as defined by the.
Public Service Company Law,-.(d) Any dwelling or other structure
used as a human habitation, or any factory, store, or other"industrial
or 'mercantile establishment in which human labor is employed; (e)
Any cemetery or public burial ground."
Sections 2 to 5, inclusive, place certain duties on public officials and
persons ,incharge of mining operations, to facilitate .the accomplishment of the purpose of the act.
Section 6 provides the act "shall not apply to [mines in] townships of the second class [i. e., townships having a population of less
than 300 persons to a square mile], nor to any area wherein the
surface overlying the mine or mining operation is wild or unseated
land, nor where such surface is owned by the owner or operator of
the underlying coal and is distant more than one hundred and fifty
feet from any improved property belonging to any other person."
Section 7 sets forth penalties; and § 8 reads: "The courts of common pleas shall have power to award injunctions to restrain violations
of this act." P. L. 1921, p. 1198.

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

395

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by them, its reserved right to mine out all the coal,
without liability to them for damages occasioned thereby,
which damages had been expressly waived as a condition
for the grant. On August 27, 1921, the statute comlpletely annulled this covenant, by giving them the right,
by injunction, to prevent such mining. The fact that
this contract was contained in a deed of conveyance does
not make it any the less a contract within the constitutional protection. A deed is a contract between the
parties thereto, even though the grantor is a sovereign
State. Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cr. 87, 137; Ohio Trust Co. v.
Debolt, 16 How. 416, 432.
II. The statute takes the property of the Coal Company without due process of law.
Whenever the use of the land is restricted in any way
or some incorporeal hereditament is taken away which
was appurtenant thereto, it constitutes as much a taking
as if the land itself had been appropriated. Tiedeman,
State and Federal Control of Real and Personal Property,
p. 702, § 143; Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166;
Commonwealth v. Clearview Coal Co., 256 Pa. St. 238.
If an act would be unconstitutional which specifically
required one-third of the coal to be left in place to support thfe surface, it is in no way saved by the subterfuge
of permitting the mining, provided this does not cause
the subsidence which will inevitably result unless the
Coal Company provides artificial support at a cost exceeding the value of the coal. The theoretical right to'remove
the coal without disturbing the surface is, as a practical
matter, no more available than was Shylock's right to his
pound of flesh.
As pointed out in Justice Kephart's dissenting opinion,
the courts of Pennsylvania have recognized three distinct
estates in mining property: (1) The right to use the surface; (2) the ownership of the sibjacent minerals; (3)
the right to have the surface supported by the subjacent
strata.

396

OCTOBERTERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

This third right, called the Third Estate, has beenrecognized as so distinct from the ownership of the surface or of the minerals that it may be transferred to and
held or conveyed by one who was neither the owner of
the surface nor of the coal. Penman v. Jones, 256 Pa.
St. 416; Charnetslki v. Coal Co., 270 Pa. St. 459; Young
v. Thompson; 272 Pa. St. 360.
III. The statute is not a bona fide exercise of the police
power.
With the swing of the popular pendulam during recent
years, the , descendants of the able lawyers who, forty
years ago, were employed to draft special legislation,
are now employed in drafting laws to evade the restrictions of the state and federal constitutions. This legislation divides itself generally into two classes. In the first
class fall those laws which are prompted by upright and
public spirited progressives who, impelled by the need
for the immediate adoption of the reforms which they
advocate, are impatient at the constitutional restrictions
on federal and state power, and are unwilling to await
the enlargement of such powers by constitutional amendment. Examples of this class of law are the two recent
Child Labor Acts.,
The second class consists of laws passed at the insistence of a determined and organize(] minority, designed
to confiscate for their benefit the rights of producers of
property, and passed by a legislature in time of political
stress, in its anxiety to secure the votes controlled by the
advocates of the measure. Such a law, we submit, is the
Kohler Act. To protect a complaisant public from such
laws is one of the primary functions of the courts.
When it is asserted that a statute is not what the
legislature sought to have it appear, it is necessary for
those attacking its constitutionality to point, in the
statute itself, to evidences which, viewed in the light of
the court's knowledge of human nature and of legislative
practice, are sufficient to demonstrate the position taken.

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.,
393

Argufnent for Plaintiff in Error.-

So tested, the Kohler Act is in reality what this Court
in Loan Assocfation v: Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, characterized a8 "not legislation,", but "robbery under the
forms of law_'
It will be observed that the favored expedient of the
draughtsmen of legislation of either of the classes to which
we have alluded, 'is to dress up their statute in. the garb
of a statute properly coming within one of the recognized
powers of the legislative body enacting it.
The Kohler Act speajks as a regulation of the mining'
of anthracite coal, to protect the lives and safety of the
public. It begins with a vivid preamble, from which it
would appear that a considerable part of the population
of Pennsylvania is in immediate danger of the loss of
life and limb by being incontinently projected into unexpected abysses formed by the sudden subsidence of the
surface by reason of the mining of anthracite coal. In
his dissenting opiniol however, Mr. Justice Kephart
states that the actual damage to date is confined to a
small portion of the City of Scranton. Anthracite mining,
however, is conducted in nine counties under a surface
area comprising 496 square miles. While this preamble
may possibly be regarded as spontaneous expression by
the legislature of the reasons for the passage of the act,
we call attention to the fact that an honest and vaid
law needs no specious preamble to bolster up its constitutionality. Is it not an equally plausible explanation
of the preamble that the framers of this act knew full
well that it was not really a police regulation and were
seeking to coerce the courts into holding it to be such
merely by affixing to it a label?
The act also contains a clause emphasizing that it is
remedial legislation and craving a broad construction;.
which, if the act is what it says it is, will not help it, but
which, if it is really a confiscatory measure masquerading
as a police, regulation,. merely serves to emphasize this

398

8OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

feature. The preamble and § 9 are the hand of Esau.
Section 1 is the voice of Jacob. 'Dobbins v. Los Angeles,
195 U.S. 223; Lawton v. Steele,. 152 U. S. 133.
Does the interest of the public generally, as distinguished from the private interest of Mr. and Mrs.
Mahon, require that they shall be under no necessity of
removing temporarily from their dwelling while the
mining under their lot is going on, or of themselves making the necessary expenditures to repair their house and
to fill up the cracks in their sidewalk and lawn, after the
subsidence is completed, using that part of the purchase
money which they saved by buying the lot .without the.
right of support?
Are the drastic prohibitions of § 1 reasonably necessary
to protect the lives and safety of persons on the Mahon
lot or are they unduly oppressive on the Coal Company?
The act shows on its face that its purpose is not to
protect the lives or safety of the public generally but
merely to augment the property rights of a favored few.
Genuine public streets or public property where theright of support is vested in the public, as well as private
property, where such support'has not been sold, have been
amply protected. Under the-Mine Law of 1891 (3 Purd.
2555), the Davis Act (Act of July 26, 1913, P. L. -1439;
6 Purd. 6626) maps of underground workings, both past
and prospective, must be filed with S*tate Inspectors and
City and Borough Mine Bureaus. Any citizen can at
any. time determiine whether his underlying support is
jeopardized. Actual inspection is always available and
injunctions easily obtainable. See Scranton v. Peoples
Coal Co., 256 Pa. St. 332; 274 Pa. St. 63. All this was
true before the Kohler Act.
The only interests not heretofore fully protected both
by the right to damages and to injunctive relief, were
those individuals who were owners of surface, rights
merely, and whose right of subjacent support .had been

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

Argument for Plaintiff in Erroil

withheld or waived, presumably for adequate consideration, or public or quasi-public bodies who, instead of
condemning their streets or school buildings and thus
paying for and securing the permanent support of the
underlying coal, have obtained them at a bargain from,
parties who acquired only ' restricted title such as the
Mahons possess. The. right of such surface owners, the
courts of Pennsylvania have properly held, can rise no
higher than that of their grantor, no matter whether
the presetit holder be a public service corporation operating water pipes, Spring Brook Water Co. v. Pennsyl.vania Coal Co., 54 Pa. Super. Ct. 380; a school district
which has erected its building on a lot acquired without
the right of support, Commonwealth v. Clearview Coal
Co., 256 Pa. St. 328; or a city which has similarly acquired its streets by dedication from one who himself
had no right of support, Scranton v. Phillips, 57 Pa.
Super. Ct. 633.
Apart from the consideration that the lives and safety
of such classes of persons and those whom. they permit
to come on their property need no protection other than
a proper notice to remove temporarily until it becomes
safe to return, it is obvious that the Kohler Act is not
directed to the safety of the public, but is for the benefit,
solely of a particular class.
That-there may be other private persons in a situation
similar to that of these plaintiffs merely makes the act for
the benefit of a particular class of individuals, and-not for
the benefit of the public generally.
A further feature 6f the Kohler Act which demonstrates
that it was not enacted for the protection of the general
public is that by its terms it does not apply to all those
similarly endangered. The life or safety of a surface
owner is obviously subjected to equal jeopardy irrespective
of whether the hole into which he falls was formed by the
mining of bituminous or anthracite coal, or, for that mat-

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument Tor Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

ter, of iron ore, quaitz or gravel. The Kohler Act, however, applies only to subsidences caused by 'the mining of
anthracite coal.
A further evidence that the act is disingenuous is found
in § 5. If it were really to protect life and safety, the
municipal authorities would naturally be empowered, in
case of threatened subsidence, to rope off the endangered
area and to compel the occupants to vacate the premises.
Ifistead, they are merely empowered to shut up the mine
and to exclude the workmen therefrom.
Further legilative evidence of .the true purpose is
found in'
the provisions of another statute, passed on the
same day and conceded to be its twin measure. This is
the so-called Fowler Act, discussed in the dissenting opinion. There could be no clearer demonstration than .that
afforded by the intrinsic evidence of these two interrelated
acts, that the sole design of the framers of both was to
coerce the coal companies either into donating tp the sur-:
face owner sufficient coal in place to support the surface,
or paying him th9 dimages which, as a means of getting
a chdap lot, he'had expresslybargairied away.
The means adopted by the Kohler Act are not reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of its ostensible
purpose, and are unduly oppressive upon individuals.
IV. If surface support in the anthracite district is-necessary for public use, it can constitutionally be acquired
only by condemnation with just compensation to th.e
parties affected. Commonwealth v. Clearview Coal Co.,
256 Pa. St. 328; Raub v. Lackawanna County, 60 Pa.
Super. Ct. 462; .Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co.
v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
The Barrier Pillar Law, involved in Plymouth Coal Co.
v. Pennsylvania, 232 IU.S. 531, in no sense operates to
transfer, without compensation, a permanent property
right or easement from one party to a9nother. The compensation to each owner for the burden of maintaining

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

401

Argument for Plaint f in Error.

the pillar on his side is found in the reciprocal benefit from
the pillar maintained by his neighbor. See Bowman v.
Ross, 167 U. S. 548. Furthermore, it obviously has a direct relation to the lives and safety of men working in coal
mines. The restriction .imposed is but temporary and
incidental; it applies to but a very small part of the coal
at a point along the land line, where it may well be left in
place without interfering with the operation until both
mines are almost exhausted, whereupon, as the Court
doubtless knows, the adjoining owners enter into an agreement to remove the pillar.
The Rent Cases (Block v. Hirsh,256 U. S. 135; Marcus
Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; Levy
Leasing Co. v. igiegel, 258'U. S. 242) are not authority
for the proposition that a property right of one may
under the police power be transferred to another without
compensation, even in time of .emergency. Quite the
contrary.
The principle involved in these cases was, it is submitted, not the police power but that of eminent domain.
When the State regulates railroad rates, the fair return
which the Constitution guarantees to the stockholders is
really, when analysed, the just compensation required
in condemnation proceedings. Instead of condemning a
perpetual lease on the railroad with a fair rental for the
stockholders and then operating the road at cost for-the
use of the entire public, the government allows the stockholders to operate it but requires them to serve the whole
public without discrimination and permits them to net
only the reasonable return to which their fair rental would
have amounted. There is thus an essential difference in
kind between a safety appliance act and a rate regulation. The one is an exercise of the police power, a prohibition .of something injurious to the public, without the
transfer of any property or property right of another
either with or without compensation. The other is in its
4564623--26

OCTOBM, 'TERM, 1922.
.Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

essence an exercise of the power of eminent domain, in-,
volving not only the requirement that it be for the public
benefit as distinguished from that of a privileged class,
but also the requirement of just compensation. Such
were the Rent Laws. The majority opinion disclaimed
the introduction of any new principle of constitutional
law;- it merely held applicable a recognized rule to the
admitted facts of the case. There has never been any
doubt that a railroad company can be prohibited from
charging--more -than reasonable rates, or that it can be
precluded from putting one passenger off its trains to
make room for another who is willing to pay a higher fare.
There was no suggestion in the arguments or in the
minority opinion that the means adopted were not necessary and appropriate to remedy the existing evil or that
any other method was available to produce the same
result which w6uld be attended With less hardship to
the landlords. Nor was there any attempt by the. law
to require the landlord to give the use of his property for
nothing, nor any thblght that the tenant should get
something for nothing. All that the law did was, in
view of the temporary suspension of -the law of supply
and demaiid, temporarily to suspend the landlord's
arbitrary right of extortion, the powef to exercise which
was the direct and temporary result of the national crisis.
Even if it appeared that the owners of all the coal
under buildings having no contractual right of support,
intended presently to remove it, there would be no analogy to the conditions on'which the validity of the Rent
Laws was based, since there is no thought or suggestion
that all the available dwellings, theatres, hotels and cemeteries are situated oversuch mines.
The Rent Laws were merely a tem'porary measure.
They provided reasonable compensation to the landlord;
they constituted virtually a condemnation by the sovereign of. the term to November 1, 1922, and a transfer of

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

Argument for' Plaintiff in Error.

-this term to the tenant at a reasonable cost, the just compensation provided by the Constitution.
The Kohler Act, however, is a permanent provision. It
transfers for all time the Third Estate,-the right to the
perpetual use of this coal-in the Mahon lot from the
Coal Company to private individuals, and that without
any compensation whatever.
In the court below, counsel, in discussing the Rent
Cases, contended that the justification for the Kohler Act
is even stronger than for the Rent Laws, insomuch as the
latter were merely to provide housing facilities, a necessity
of life, whereas the Kohler Act is to " protect life itself."
The obvious answer to this specious argument is, first, that
the Kohler Act is on its face unnecessary to protect the
lives of Mr. and Mrs. Mahon, and will be effective to that
end only in case they neglect to take the precautions for
'their own protection which their restricted rights in their
property demand that they shall take. Second, there is
no rule of law which entitles a State, even to protect life
itself, to transfer the property of one citizen without com-.
pensation to another.
Just here comes into force the distinction between the
police power and the power of eminent domain, so clearly
stated in a recent decision by the writer of the majority
opinion in the case at bar-Jackmanv. Rosenbaum Co.,
263 Pa. St. 158, 166.
An owner of dangerous drugs may, under the police
power, be restricted from selling them without a license,
or without a prescription, or may even be prohibited from
selling them at all. This would constitute an exercise of
the police power.
In time of epidemic it is conceivable that a State might
temporarily prohibit, the hoarding of essential medicines
and might require physicians and druggists to sell them
.at reasonable. rates. Even at such a time, the drug-

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argmnent for Pennsylvania.

260 U. S.

gist could not be required to dispense his medicines for
nothing, or a baker his-bread, and that though people were
'dying or starving for want of drugs and food.
If every word-in the preamble of the Kohler Act were
true there would still beno juftification for the uncompensated transfer of the -beneficial use of the supporting coal
from defendant to plaintiff. No emergency will justify
the transfer of property or a tangible property right from
one citizen to -another without just compensation.
The Kohler Act is not a police regulation. It is not a,
valid exercise of the right of eminent domain because,
first, it is not exercised for the benefit of the public generally, and second, because it provides no compensation
whatever to the party whose property is taken.
Mr. W. L. Pace,.withwhom Mr. H. J. Mahon was on the
brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. George Ross Hull, with whom Mr. George E. Alter,
Attorney General of the State of Pennsylvania, was on
the brief, for the State- of Pennsylvania, by special leave
of court, as amici curiae.
The problem presented to the legislature involved the
interests of the public in the life, health and safety of
persons living in the mining communities, in the wholesale destructi6n of surface property, and in securing
the maximum yield of'coal from the mines; the interest
,-of' the surface owner in his 'property and of the surface
dweller in his own:safety; the interest of the mine owner
in his labor supply and in securing the maximum yield of
coal from his, property. This problem after elaborate
investigAtion, and' abortive attempts, was sought to be
inetjby the "Fowler Act," 1921, P. L. 1192, establishing
the State Anthracite Mine Cave Commission' and the
Kohler Act," id. 1198, here involved.
As was said by Mr. Chief Justice von Moschzisker, in
this case: "In determining whether the act is a reason-

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON
393

Argument for Peansylvania.

able piece of legislation within the police power, we may
'call'to our aid all those extenal or historical facts which
are necessary for this purpose and which led to the enact-ment.'"
A reading of the Kohler Act involved in this appeal
discloses that it is not directed to the reimbursement of
surface owners for damage which may be caused either
to persons or property, but is directed solely to the protection of human life. There are probably millions of
dollars in surface improvements which are not reached
and which were not intended to be reached by the provisions of this act- In view of the historical facts it is
apparent that the good :faith of this exercise of the police
power is beyond question.
The legislative determination of the existence of a
situation inimical to the public welfare which calls for
an exercise of the police power, while it may be scrutinized
by the courts, is not to be set aside unless it clearly appear
that such determination was not well founded. Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133; McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S.
539; Lower Vein Coal Co.. v. Industrial Board, 255 U. S.
144; Nolan v. Jones, 263 Pa. St. 124; Levy Leasing Co. v.
Siegel, 258 U. S.242.
The protection of the life, health and safety of the
public in the anthracite mining communities is the primary purpose of the act. Its interference with property
rights is merely incidental: Commonwealth v. Alger, 7
Cush. 84; Holden v . Hardy; 169 U. S.392.
Land which is underlaid with coal'is a kind of property
which, by reason of operations conducted upon it or by
reason of contracts made with respect to it, may become
a grave menace to !he life, health and safety of the public.
The dangers inciaent to operations conducted on coal
lands have been met by extensive and elaborate. codes
of laws regulating coal mining. The constitutionality of
these laws fiss long since been settled The danger to

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Pennsylvania.

260 U. S.

the public arising from the contracts entered' into with
respect to coal lands, however, was not clearly recognized
until recent years-'
As the law relating 'to 'coal lands developed prior to
the enactment of the Kohler Act, it permitted the creation, by appropriate conveyances, of three distinct property rights or estates in lands: (1) the surface, (2) the
coal, and (3) the right of support; and these estates
might be vested in different persons at the same time.
Graff Furnace Co. v. Scranton Coal Co., 244 Pa. St. '592;
Penman v. Jones; 256 Pa. St. 416; Charnetski v1 Coal
Mining Co., 270 Pa. St. 459. Owners in fee. of coal lands
might part with their right to (he surface, reserviAg to
themselves the right to mine all of the coal without 'any
obligation to support the surface and without liability f;r
any daniage resulting from its subsidence.
t is probable that when conveyances of surface rights
were -first made, the right io remove coal without liability
to the surface owners was reserved merely as a safeguard
against an' occasional injury which might occur through
first mining; and that second mining, or the removal of
'pillars,*as not then in contemplation. The large extent
of territory underlaid with anthracite coal, the large number of 'people. living upon its surface, and the very obvious
menace to 'the life, health and safety of these people,
clothed these lanids'and'these mining operations with a
public interest which manifestly made' them a proper
subject for the exercise of the police power. ' If the public
welfare be threatened by the existence or the certain
occurrence of a grave public danger the legality of an
exercise of the police power to prevent or to remedy cali:
not be questioned.
The exercise of the police power to regulate contracts
relating to land has been sustained where the disaster
threatened vas of less serious consequence than that
which is dealt with in the act'now under consideration.

PENNA. COAL CO. v: MAHON.
393

Argument for Pennsylvania4

Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; 'Levy Ledsing Co. v.
Siegel, 258 U. S. 242.
It will be urged, however, that these cases are not applicable to the case now under consideration, for-.the
reason that in them the acts involved were emergency
la ws passed to meet an urgent temporary necessity and
expressly limited by their terms to a brief period. Ordinarily the operation of economic laws regulates the supply
of houses so that dwellings for rent are not clothed with
such a public interest as would subject. the contracts of
landlord and tenant' to the regulatory exercise of. the
police power. The nature of the property, the rights in it
and the contracts relating to it, are such that regulation
of the character contained in those acts could be justified
only by the existence of 'extraordinary --circumstances
which the legislature and the courts knew must disappear
when the emergency passed: But we do not .understand
the Court to mean that if a situation which threatened
the public safety and welfare might be dlialt with in an
emergency; it could not be controlled by appropriate
regulation if that emergency continued. The sound reason which sustained the validity of those acts during the
period when the emergency was reasonably expected to
continue will sustain as a permanent change an act which
is intended to meet a permanent menace to the public.
Accordingly the same fundamental principles of law which
sustained the rent laws during the period of emergency,
will sustain the Kohler Act.
It should be noted also in considering the application
of the rent cases, that the case at bar, falls within a' class
of cases which the dissenting opinion recognized as proper
for the exercise of the, police power. Block v. Hirsh,
256 U. S. 135, 167.
The Kohler Act is in line with numerous familiar cases
Wherein legislation involving the exercise of the police
power has been sustaified. The well established restric-

408*

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Pennsylvania..

260 U. S.

tion .placed.upon the righitof public service companies to
fix rates by contract, the power to forbid absolutely the'
sale of oleomargarine for the purpose of fireventing possible frauds, the power t6 prevent the sale of unwholesome
meats and- other foods, the power to regulate or prohibit
the manufacture of corn and rye into whiskey, the power
to forbid-min ing to the boundary of a mine property without leaving a barrier pillar of sufficient thickness to prevent possible injury from the -flooding of an adjoining
mine, are familiar illustrations of -theexercise of the police
power-enacted to avoid dangers which are neither so grave
nor so certain as those which the Kohler Act seeks to
prevent.
In its application to all coal lands where the right of
surface support is still vested in the surface owner, the
effect of the Kohler Act is to prevent the making of any
valid contract whereby the right of support may be separated from the surface ownership in such nanner, as to
permit the subsidence of ,any of the structures or facilities
mentioned in the act. .Itmust be remembered that there
is a broad field in which the Kohler Act does thus operate.
If the circumistances which now exist in the anthracite regions could have beeni foreseen and certainly predicted
by the legislature a half century ago, it would clearly have
been within its power t6 limit the owner's-right to contract, by the enactment of such a regulatory measure as
the Kohler Act. And we are confident that if it were not
for the existence of contracts already entered into, the
constitutionality of this act would not have been questioned.
-Itis an act, prospective in its operation, regulating the
future conduct of mining for anthracite coal. It operates
generally upon all mines, including those now being operated and all which may be opened and operated in the
future, It operates without regard to any- private contracts which may have been made reltif-g to surface sup-

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

Argument for Pennsylvania.

port. It operates alike upon lands where me surface owner
still has the right of support, and upon those where the
right of support has been separated from ownership of
the surface and is held by the owner of the coal or by a
third person.
But if the act in its operation upon lands where the
right of support and the ownership of the surface have
not been separated, be a constitutional exercise of the
police power, ii is equally valid in its operation upon lands
where these interests are held by different persons.
Persons cannot remove their property from the reach of
the police power by entering into contracts with respect,
to it. Marcus Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S.
170.
All property within the State is held, and all contracts
are entered into subject to the future exercise of the police
power of the State. Every such agreement was entered
into by the parties with full knowledge that whenever the
existence of such contracts and the exercise of the license
reserved should threaten the- life, health or safety of the
people, the Commonwealth in its sovereign power might
interpose and restrict the use of those contract rights to
such extent as might be necessary in the public interest.
Owners of coal lands, who saw highways being laid out
and improved, railroads and trolley lines built, sewers
and gas mains laid, light, telephone and power wires
stretched overhead, depots, stores, theatres, hotels and
dwellings constructed, and who, perhaps as many of the
coal companies did, laid out the surface in building lots
dedicating sfreets and alleys to public use, selling the lot
for the purpose of having dwellings erected thereon,-such
owners were bound to know that whenever the time should
come when the exercise of the license which they had reserved would threaten the welfare of the communities
upon the surface, the police powe r of the State might be
interposed to restrict their rights. Scranton v. Public

410

OCTOBER TERM,, 1922.
Argument for Pennsylvania.

260 U. S.

Service Commission, 268 Pa. St. 192; Relief ElectricLight,
Heat & Power Company's Petition,69 Pa. Super Ct. 1, 8.
In Russell v. Sebastian,233 U. S. 195, and New Orleans
Gas Light Co. v. :LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S. 650, no
exercise of the police power was involved; in the latter,
this Court recognized the principle which we have stated.
The Kohler Act does not take the property of the plaintiff in error. Commonwealth v. Plymouth Coal Co., 232
Pa. St., 141; s. c. 232 U. S. 531. The act does not-go as
far as the Barrier Pillar Act. It contains no provision
requiring any mine owner to leave coal in place. If
natural support other than coal in the pillars be available,
or if artificial support be, provided, every pound of coal
may be removed from Lhe mines.
Nor does it transfer the right of support from the owner
of the coal to' the surface owner. This right, license
or.estate in the land is nothing more than an immunity
from civil liability for damages to the surface owner.
Under the Kohler Act, this immunity continues.
If the act were designed, as the plaintiff in error contends, for the, protection of the property rights of the
surface owners, and not as a bona fide and reasonable
exercise of the police power, it would contain two features
which are conspicuously absent from it: First, it would
provide that the liability of the defendant for damages to
the person or property of the plaintiffs which was released by the contract contained in the deed, should be
restored; second, it would apply generly to all valuable
structures upon the surface.
Notice to the surface owner to vacate his property is
not, sufficient to prevent injury to him or to the public.
This same objection might have been made to the reasonableness of all of the legislation which has been enacted
-for the protection of persons employed in mines. Communities must exist in or near the vicinity of the mines or,
they cannot be operated,, and it is a matter of concern to

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

411

Argument for Pennsylvania.

the public that persons be permitted to dwell there in
safety. Even if it were possible to remove whole cities
from their present locations, and reconstruct them upon
sites beyond the coal measures, those sites - may be so
distant from the mines and so separated by the topography of the country that access to and from the collieries would be impracticable and the mines would close
for want of labor. Moreover, cities. are built where nature
affords an opportunity for them. Industrial communities cannot be perched upon the mountains nor in places
inaccessible to roads and railroads.- Nor is it always practicable or possible for the individual dweller upon the
surface to find another house in which to live. Throughout the State of Pennsylvania and elsewhere in this and
foreign countries thcre is an acute shortage of houses
due to conditions prevailing during the war, and there
is no doubt that this condition, which has elsewhere
proven so serious as to give rise to the legislation reviewed in the Rent Cases (already cited), has been aggravated in the coal mining communities by reason of
the very conditions which gave rise to the Kohler Act.
Or it may be that the occupants of the dwelling will recklessly disregard the notice given and take the chance of
escaping injury. The notice will not avail to prevent the
disastrous results of his necessity or folly. See Commonwealth v. Plymouth Coal Co., 232 Pa. St. i41, 146.
The only practicable way in which the life, health
and safety of the public in these communities may be
adequately safeguarded is by the enforcement of such
restrictions as are contained in the Kohler Act, and for
this reason those restrictions are reasonable even though
they limit to some extent the rights of others.
Mr. Philip V. Mattes, by leave of court, filed a brief
on behalf of the City of Scranton, as amicus curiae.
Mr. Philip V. Mattes, Mr. Frank M. Walsh and Mr.
Owen J. Roberts, by leave of court, filed a brief on behalf

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

of the Scranton Surface Protective Association, as amici
curiae.-_
Mr. C.-La Rue Munson and Mr. Edgar Munson, by
leave~of court, filed-a brief on behalf of the Scranton Gas
& Water Company, as amid curiae.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
-This is a bill'in equity brought by the defendants in
error to prevent the Pennsylvania Coal Company from
mining under their property in such way as to remove
the supports and cause a subsidence of the surface and
of their house. The bill sets out a deqd executed by the
Coal Company in 1878, under which the plaintiffs claim.
The deed conveys the surface, but in ekpress terms reserves the right to remove all the coal under the same,
and the grantee takes the .premises with the risk, and
waives all claim for damages that may arise from mining'
out the coal. But the plaintiffs say that whatever may
have been the Coal Company's rights, they were taken
away by,an Act of Pennsylvania, approved May 27, 1921,
P. L., 1198, commonly known there as the Koler Act.
The Court of Common Pleas found that if not restrained
the defendant would cause the damage to. prevent which
the bill"was brought, but denied an injunction, holding
that the statute if applied to this case would be unconstitutional. On appeal the Supreme Court of the State
agreed that the defendant- had contract and property
rights protected by the Constitution of the United State!s,
but' held that 'he statute was'a legitimate exercise' bf
the police power- and directed a decree for the plaintiffs.
A writ of error ,was granted bringing the case to this
Court.The statute forbids the mining of anthracite coal in
such way as to cause the subsidence of, among other

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAlION.
393

Opinion of the Court.

things, any structure used as a human habitation, with
certain exceptions, including among them land where the
surface is owned by the owner of the underlying coal
and is distant more than one hundred .afid fifty feet from
any improved property belonging to any other person.
As applied to this case the statute is admitted to destroy
previously existing rights of property and contract. The
question is whether the police power can be stretched so
far.
Government hardly could go on if to some extent values
mncdent to property could not be diminished without
paying for every such change in the general law. As long
recognized, some values are enjoyed under an implied
limitation and must yield to the police power. But obviously the implied limitation must have its limits, or
the contract and due process clauses .are gone. One fact
for consideration i4 determining such limits is the extent
of the diminution. When it reaches a certain magnitude,
in most if not in all cases there must be an exercise of
eminent domain and compensation to sustain the act.
So the question depends upon the particular facts. The
greatest weight is given to the judgment of the legislature, but it always is open to interested parties to contend that the legislature has gone beyond its constitutional power.
This is the case of a single private house. No doubt
there is a public interest even in this, as there is in every
purchase and sale and in all that happens within the
commonwealth. Some existing rights may be modified
even in such a case. Rideout v. Knox, 148 Mass..368.
But usually in ordinary private affairs the'public interest
does not warrant much of this kind of interference. A
source of damage to such a house is not a public nuisance
even if similar damage is inflicted on others in. different
places. The damage is not common or public. Wesson
v. Washburn Iron Co., 13 Allen, 95, 103. The extent of

414"

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

the public interest is shown by the statute to be limited,
since the statute ordinarily does not apply to land when
th6-sUrface is owned by the owner of the coal. Further-*
more, if is not justified as a protection-of personal safety.
That could be provided for by notice. Indeed the very
foundation of this bill is that the defendant gave timely
notice of its intent to mine under the house. On the
other hand the extent of the taking is great. It purports to abolish what is recognized in Pennsylvania as
an estate in land-a very valuable estate-and what .is
declared by the Court below to be a contract hitherto
binding the plaintiffs. If, we were called upon to deal
with the plaintiffs, position alone, we should thinkit clear
that the statute- does not. disclose a public interest -sufficient to warrant so extensive a destruction of the defendant's constitutionally protected rights.
.But the case has been treated as one in which the general validity of the act shpuld be discussed. The Attorney
General of the State" the-City of Scranton, and the representatives .of other extensive interests were allowed to
take part in the argument below and have submitted their
contentions hbre. It seems, therefore, to be our duty to
go farther-in the statement of our opinion, in order that
it may be known at once, and that -further suits should
not be brought in vain.
]tis our opinion that the act cannot be sustained as an.
exercise'of the police power, so far as it affects the mining
of coal under streets. or cities in places where the right to
mine such coal has been reserved. As said in a Pennsylvanii case, "'Forpractical purposes, the right to coal consists in the right to mine it." Commonwealth v., Clear'view:Coal Co., 256 Pa St. 328, 331. What makes the
right to mine coal valuable, is that it can be exercised _vith
profit.- To make it:commercially impracticable_ to mine
-certaih coal has-very nearly the same effect for constituioiAa1-pu rposes as appropriating or destroying it. This

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

4415

Opinion of the" Court.

we think that we are warranted in assuming that the
statute does.
It ig true thiat in Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,
232 U. S. 531, it was held Competent for the legislature to
require a pillar of coal to be left along the line of adjoining property, that, with the pillar on the other side of the
line, would be a barrier sufficient for the safety of the employees of either mine in cage the other should be abandoned and allowed to fill with water. But that was a requirement for. the *Safetyof employees invited into the
mine, and secured an average reciprocity- of advantage
that has been recognized as a justification of various laws.
The rights of the public in a street purchased or laid
out by eminent domain are those that it has paid for. If
in any case its representatives have been so short sighted
as to acquire only surface rights without the right of support, we see no more authority for supplying the latter
without compensation than there was for taking the right
of way in the first place and refusing to pay for it because
the public wanted it very much. The protection of private property in the Fifth Amendment presupposes that
it is wanted for puiblic use, but provides that it shall not
be taken for such use without compensation. A similar
assumption is made in the decisions upon the Fourteenth
Amendment. Hairston v. Danville & Western Ry. Co.,
208 U. S. 598, 605. When this seemingly absolut6 protection is found to be qualified by the police power, the
natural tendency of human nature is to extend the qualification more and more until at last private property
disappears. But that cannot be accomplished in this way
under-the Constitution of the United States.
The general rule at least is, that while property may be
regulated to a certain extent, if regulation goes 'too far it
will be recognized as a taking. It may be doubted how far
exceptional cases, like the blowing up of a house to stop a
conflagration, go-and if they go beyond the general rule,

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

260 U.S.

whether they do not stand as much upon tradition, as upon
principle. Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S.16. In general
it is not plain that a man's misfortunes or necessities will
justify hii shifting the damages to his neighbor's shoulders.
'Spade v. Lynn & Boston R. R. Co., 172 Mass. 488, 489.
We xe 'in danger of-forgetting that a strong public desire
to improve the public condition is not enough to warrant
-achieving the desire by a shorter cut than the constitutional way of paying for the change. As we already have
said, this is a question of degree-and therefore cannot be
.disposed of by general propositions. But we regard this'
as- oing'beyond any of the cases decided by this Court.
- The late decisions upon laws dealing with the congestion
of Washington and 'New York, caused by the war, dealt
.with laws intended to meet a -temporary emergency and
prov iding for compensation determined to be reasonable
by an impartial board. They went to the verge of the law
but fell far short of the present act. Block v. Hirsh, 256
U. S. 135., Marcus Brown Hoiding Co. v. Feldman, 256
-Z.S,170. 'Levy Leasing Co.v. Siegeli 258 U. S. 242.
We assume, of course, that the statute was passed upon
the conviction that an exigency existed that would warrant it, and we ass ume that an exigency exists that would
warrant the, exercise'of ^minent domain. But the question
at bottom is upon .whom the loss of the changes desired
sho.4 -fall. So'far as'private persons or communities
have .seen fit to take 'the risk 'of acquiring only surface
rights, we -cannot see' that the fact that their risk has
become a danger Warrants the' giving to' them greater
rights than they bought.
-

Decree reversed.

MR. JUSTICE BRANIEIS, dissenting.

Th Kohler Act prohibits, under certain conditions, the
mining of anthracite.coal within the limits of a city in
-such a manner or to such an extent "as to cause the

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

BRANDIS,

J., dissenting.

subsidence of any dwelling or other structure used as a
'human habitation, or any factory, store, or other industrial or mercantile establishment in which human labor is
employed.' Coal in place is land; and the right of the
owner to use his land is not absolute. He may not so'use
it as to create a public nuisance; and uses, once harmless,
may, owing to changed conditions, seriously threaten the
public welfare. Whenever they do, the legislature hak.
power to prohibit such uses without paying compensation;-and the power to prohibit extends alike to the manner, the character and the purpose of the use. Are we
justified in declaring that the Legislature of Pennsylvania
has, in restricting the right to mine anthracite, exercised
this power so arbitrarily as to violate the Fourteenth
Amendment?
Every restriction upon the use of property imposed in
the exercise of the police power deprives the owner of
some right theretofore enjoyed, and is, in that sense, an
abridgment by the State of rights in property, without
making compensation. But restriction imposed to pro.tect the public health, safety or morals from dangers
tireatened is not a taking. Therestriction here. in question is merely the prohibition of a noxious use. The,
property so restricted remains in the possession of its
owner. The State does not appropriate it or make any
use of it. The State merely prevents the owner from
making a use which interferes- with. paramount rights
of the public. IWhenever the use 'prohibited ceases to-be
fioxious,--as it may because of further change in local or
social qonditions,-the restriction will have to be removed
and the owner will again be free to enjoy his property as

-

heretofore.

The restriction upon the use of this property can not,.
of course, be lawfully imposed, unless its purpose. is to
protect the public. But the purpose of a restriction does
not cease to be public, because.incidentally sdme private._
45646o-23----2T

418-

OCTOBER TERM,- 1922.
BRAiDEs,

J., dissenting.

260 U. S.

persons may thereby receive gratuitously valuable special benefits. Tthus; owners of low buildings may, obtain,
through statutory xestrictions upon the-height of neigh';boring stiuctures, benefits equivalent to an easement of
-lightand air. Welch v. Swasey,.214 U. S. 91. -Compare
Lindsley v. Natural. Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61;
*Wzllsv. Midland Carbon-Co., 254 U. S. 300. Further*more, a restriction, though imposed for a public purpose,
will not be lawful,, unless the restriction is an appropriate'
means to the public end. 'But to keep coal in place is
.-surely an appropriate means of preventing subsidence of
.the surface; and ordinarily it is' the only available means.
Restriction upon use does not become inappropriate as a
means, merely because it deprives the owner of the only
use. to which the property can then be profitably put.
* The. liquor ancf the oleomargarine cases settled that.
.Mugler.v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 668, 669; Powell v.
Pennsylviania, 127. U. S. 678, 682. See also Hadacheck v.
-LosAngeles, 239 U. S. 3943 Pierce Oil Corporationv.City
of Hope, 248 U. S. 498. Nor is a -restriction imposed
through exercise of the -police power inappropriate as a
means, merely because the same end .might be effected
through exercise of :the power bf eminent domain, or
otherwise at public'expense. Every restriction upon the
height of. buildings might be secured through -acquiring
by eminent domain the right of each owner to build above
the -limiting height; but it is settled that the State need
not resort to that power. Compare Laurel Hill Cemetery
v. San-Francisco,216 U. S. 358; Missouri PacificRy. Co.
v.- Omaha,:235 U. S. 121. -"If by mining anthracite coal
the owner would necessarily unloose poisonous gasses, I
suppose no one would doubt the power .of the State to
prevent the mining, 'vithout buying his coal fields.. And
why may not the. State, likewise, without paying compensation, prohibit one from digging so deep or excavating so, near the surface, as to :expose the community to

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MASON.
393

BRANDEIS,

419

J., disseltitig.

like dangers? In the latter case, as in the former, crry-_
ing on the business would be a public nuisance.
It is said that one fact for consideration in determinii
whether the limits of the police power have been-"ceeded is the extent of the resulting diminution in +alie;
and that here the restriction destroys existing. rights of
property and contract. But values are relative, If we are
to consider the value of the oqal kept in place by the re-,
striction, we should compare it with thfe value of all othei,
parts of the land. That is, with the value not of the coal
alone, but with. the value of the whole property. The
rights of an owner as against the public are not increasea.'
by dividing the interests in ,his property into surface and
subsoil. The sum of the rights in the parts can not be
greater than the rights in the whole. The estate of an'
owner in land is grandiloquently described as extending
ab orco usque ad coelum. 'But I suppose no onewould
contend that by selling his interest above one hundred
feet from the surface he could prevent -the State from
limiting, by the police power, the height of structures in
a city. And why should a sale of underground rights bar
the State's power? For aught that appeafs the value of
the coal kept in place by the restriction may be negligible
as compared with the value of the whole property, or even
as compared with that part of it which is represented by
the coal remaining in place and which may be extracted.
despite the statute. Ordinarily a police regulation; general in operation, will not be held void as to a particular.
property, although proof is offered that owing to conditions peculiar to it the restriction could not reasonably
be applied. See Powell v. Pennsylvania,.127 U. S. 678,
681, 684; Murphy v. California,225 U. S. 623, 629. But
even if the particular facts are to govern, the statute
should, in my opinion, be upheld in this- case. For the
defendant has failed to adduce any evidence from which

" 420

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BPRAums, J., dis'senting.

260 U. S.

eit appears that to restrict its mining operations was
an
u'nreasonable exercise of the police power. Compare
Reinman v. Little -Rock, 237 U. S. 171, 177, 180; Pierce
Oil Corporation v. City of Hope, 248 U. S. 498, 500.
Where the surface and the coal belong to the same person, self-interest would':ordinarily prevent mining to such
an extent as to cause a subsidence. It was, doubtless, for
this reason that the legislature, estimating the degrees
of danger, deemed :statutory restriction unnecessary for
the public safety under such conditions.
It is said that this is-a case of a single dwelling house;
that
restriction upon mining abolishes a valuable
estatethe
hitherto
secured by a contract- with th6 plaintiffs;
and that the, restriction upon mining cannot be justified
as a protection of personal safety, since that could be provided for by notice. The propriety of .deferring a good
deal to tribunals on the spot has been repeatedly recognized. Welch v, Swasey, 214 U. S. 91, 106; Laurel Hill
Cd'metery v.San Francisco,216 U. S. 358, 365; Patsone v.
Pennsylvqnia, 232 U. S. 138, 144. May we-say that nbtice
would afford adequate protection of the public safety
where the legislature and the highest court of the State,
with greater knowledge of local conditions, have declared,
in effect, that it would. not? If public safety is imperiled,
surely neither grant, nor contract, can prevail against the
exercise of the police power. Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde
Park, 97 U. S. 659; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v.
Goldsboro, 232 U. -S.,548; Union Dry Goods Co. v.
Georgia Public Service Corporation, 248 U. S. 372; St.
Louis PosterAdvertisinq' Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U. S.269.
The rule that the State's power to take appropriate measurs to guard the safety of all who may be within its
jurisdiction may not be bargained away was applied to
compel carriers to est~blisli' grade crossings at their own:
expense) dgslpite contracts to the contrary; Chicagb, Burlington & Quincy. R. R. Co. v. Nebraska, 170 U. S.. 57;

PENNA. COAL CO. v. MAHON.
393

421

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

and, likewise, to supersede, by an employers' liability act,
the provision of ' charter exempting a railroad from
.liability for death of employees, since the civil liability
was deemed a matter of public concern, and not a mere
private right. Texas & New Orleans R. 1. Co. v. Miller,
221 U. S. 408. Compare Boyd, v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645;
Stone v. Mississifipi, 101 U. S. 814; Butchers' Union Co.
v. Crescent City Co., 411 U. S. .746; Douglas v. Kentucky,
168 U. S. 488; Pennsylvania Hospital v. Philadelphia,
245 U. S. 20, 23. Nor can existing contracts between
private individuals preclude exercise of the police power:
"One whose rights, such as they are, are subject to state
restrictibn, cannot remove them from the power of the
State by making a contract about them." Hudson County
Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349, 357; Knoxville
Water Co. v. Knoxville, 189 U. S. 434, 438; Rast y. Van
Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342. The fact that thig
suit is brought by a private person is, of course, immaterial to protect the community through invoking th
aid, as litigant, of interested private citizens is not anovelty in our law. That it may be done in Pennsylvania
was decided by its Supreme Court in this case. And. it is
for a State to say how its piblic policy shall be enforced.
This case involves only mining which causes subsidence
of a dwelling house. But the Koler Act contains provisions in addition to that quoted above; and as to these,
also, an opinion is expressed. These provisions deal with
mining under cities to such an extent as to cause subsidence of(a) Any public building or any structure customarily
used by the public as a place of resort, assemblage, or
amusement, including, but not being limited to, churches,
schools, hospitals, theatres, hotels, and railroad stations.
(b) Any street, road, bridge, or other public passageway, dedicated to public use or habitually used by the
public.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
BRANEIs, J., dissenting.

260 U. S.

(c) Any track, . roadbed, right of way,, pipe, conduit,
,wire, or other facility, used in. the service of the public
by any municipal corporation or public service company
as defined by the Public Service Company Law.
A prohibition of mining which causes subsidence of
such structures and facilities is obviously enacted for a
public purpose; and it seems, likewise, 'clear that mere
notice of .intention to mine would not in this connection
secure the public safety. Yet it is said that these provisions of the act. cannho be sustained as an exercise of the
police- power where the right to mine such coal has been.
reserved. The conlfusion seems to rest upon the assumption 'hat in order to justify such exercise of the police
.power there_ must be "an average reciprocity of advantage ' as between the'owner of the property restricted andthe rest of the community; and that here such reciprocity
is absent. Reciprocity of advantage is an'important consideiation; and-may even be an essential, where the State's
power 'is exercised for'the purpose of conferring benefits
upon the property of a neighborhood, as in drainage projects,-Wurts v. Hoagland, 114 U. S. 606; Fallbrook Irrigation,DistrictV. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; or upon adjoining owners, as by party wall provisions, Jackman v.
Rosenbaum do., ante, 22. But where the police power is
exercised, not to confer benefits upon property owners,
but to 'protect the-public from detrfhhent 'and danger,
there is, in my opinion, no room for consideri'g reciprocity of advantage. There was no reciprocal advantage
to the owner prohibited from using his oil tanks in 248
U. S. 498; his brickyard, in 239 U. S. 394; his liv-ery stable,
in 237-U.S. 171;"His billiard hall, in 225 U. S. 623; his
oleomargarine factory, in 127 U. S. 678; his brewery, in
123 U. S. 623; unless it be theadvantage of living and
doingbusiness in a civilized community. ' That reciprocal
advantage is given by the act to the coal operators.

