BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
71

77

Syllabus.

their principals temporarily until the application can be
examined and approved by the head office. The statute
here in question has been in force since 1913, and it does
not seem to have driven companies out of the hail insurance business, an indication that they are able profitably
and safely to adjust themselves and their methods to its
requirements. Whether it is wise legislation is not for us
to consider. All we have to decide, and that we do decide,
is that it is not so arbitrary or unreasonable as to deprive
those whom it affects of their property or liberty without
due process of law.
It is pointed out on behalf of the company that the
very application which the defendant in error signed contained an express consent that the policy should not take
effect until the company's agency at Waseca, Minnesota,
should have an opportunity to examine it and should
accept it. It is clear that if the statute is valid such a
consent is void because it defeats the very object of the
statute. This is settled by Whitfield v. Aetna Life Insurance Co., 205 U. S. 489, and Orient Insurance Co. v.
Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, already cited.
The judgment.of the Supreme Court of North Dakota is
Affirmed.
BREWER-ELLIOTT OIL & GAS COMPANY ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 52. Argued October 12, 13, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Where an act of Congress setting apart and confirming a reservation to the Osage Indians, out of lands formerly occupied but ceded
by the Cherokees, described" the west boundary as "the main
channel of the Arkansas River," and a deed to the United States
for the Osages. made bv the Cherokees in pursuance -of this and

OCTOBER TERM.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. g.

-other acts and of a treaty, described the land only by whole townships, and by fractional townships "on the left bank of the
Arkansas River,". held, that the deed was to be interpreted in conformity with the act, and that the act carried title to land in the
-river bed out to'the main channel. Pp. 82, 87.
2. Congress has power to 'make grants of lands below high water
mark of navigable waters in a Territory, to carry out public purposes appropriate to the objects for which the United States holds
the Territory. P. 83. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 47.
3. This principle was not affected as to lands within the Louisiana
Purchase .by the purpose, declared in the treaty with France, that
statehood should ultimately be conferred on the inhabitants of the
territory purchased. P. 85.
4. A navigable river is one which is used, or is-susceptible of being
used in its ordinary condition, as a highway for commerce, over
which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the modes customary on water. P. 86.
5. The evidence in this case affords no ground for rejecting the finding
of the two courts below, that the Arkansas River, along the !Osage
Reservation in Oklahoma, is not, and'never has been, a navigable
- stream., P. 86.
6. A grant of land. in the bed of a non-navigable river made by the
United States while holding complete sovereignty over the locality
including it, cannot be divested by a retroactive rule or declaration
of the State subsequently created out of that territory, classifying
I
the river as navigable. 'P.-87.
7. Such a grant being attacked upon the ground that the river was
navigable and its bed not subject to be granted by the United
States, the question of navigability is not a local but a federal
question. P. 87. Wear v. Kansas, 245 U. S.154, distinguished.
270 Fed. 100, affirmed.---'

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
affirming a decree of the District Court in favor of the
United States, in a suit brought on its own behalf, and as
trustee for, the Osage Tribe, of Indians, to cancel oil and
gas leases granted the appellants by the State of Oklahoma covering land constituting partof the bed of the
Ar kansas River within the Osage Reservation; and to
enjoin operations under the leases and quiet title in the
United States as trustee.,

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
77

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. W. A. Ledbetter, with whom Mr. Geo. F. Short,
Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, Mr. S. P.
Freeling,Mr. H. L. Stuart, M- R. R. Bell and Mr. E. P.
Ledbetter were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Eighth Circuit affirming that of the District Court for Western Oklahoma. The bill in equity
was filed by the United States for itself and as trustee for
the Osage Tribe of Indians, against the Brewer-Elliott
Oil & Gas Company, and five other such companies,
lessees, under oil and gas leases granted by the State of
Oklahoma, of portions of the bed of the Arkansas River,
opposite the Osage Reservation in that State. It averred
that the river bed thus leased belonged to the Osages, and
not to Oklahoma, and that the leases were void, that the
defendants were prospecting for, and drilling for, oil in
the leased lots in the river bed, and were erecting oil
derricks and other structures therein, and prayed for the
canceling of the leases, the enjoining of defendants from
further operations under their leases, and a quieting of
the title to the premises in the United States as trustee.
The State of Oklahoma intervened by leave of court
and in its answer denied that the Osage Tribe or the
Ur -ed States as its trustee owned the river bed of which
these lots were a part, but averred that it was owned by
the State in fee. The other defendants adopted the
answer of the State.
After a full hearing and voluminous evidence, the District Court found that at the place in question the Arkan-.
sas River was, and always had been, a non-navigable

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

stream, that by the express grant of the Government,
made before Oklahoma came into the Union, the Osage
Tribe of Indians took title in the river bed to the main
channel 'nd still had it. It entered a decree as prayed
in the bill. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that,
whether the river was navigable or non-navigable, the
United States, as the owner of the territory through which
the Arkansas flowed befo statetood; had the right to
dispose of the river bed, and had done so, to the Osages.
It also concurred in the finding of the District Court that
the- Arkansas at this place was, and always had been,
non-navigrble, and that the United States had the right
to part with the river bed to the Osage Tribe when it did
so. It affirmed the decree.
The Osage Tribe derived title to their reservation from
the Act of Congress Of June 5, 1872, entitled "An Act to
confirm to the Great :and Little Osage Indians a Reservation in the Indian Territory,'" c. 310, 17 Stat. 228. The
act with its recitals is printed in the margin.' The del' Chap. CCCX. An Act to confirm to the Great and Little Osage
,Indians a Reservation in the Indian Territory.
Whereas by the treaty, of eighteen huhdred and sixty-six between
the United States and the Cherokee nation -of Indians, said nation
ceded to the United States all its lands west of the ninety-sixth
meridian west longitude, for the settlement of friendly Indians
thereon; and whereas by act of Congress approved July fifteenth,
eighteen hundred and seventy, the President was authorized and
directed to remove the Great and Little Osage Indians to a location
in the Cherokee country west of the ninety-sixth meridian, to be
designated for them by the United States authorities; and whereas.
it was provided by the-same act of Congress that the lands of the
Osages in Kansas should be sold by the United States, and Vo much
of the proceeds thereof as were necessary should be appropriated for
the payment to the Cherokees for the lands set apart for the said
Osages west of the ninety-sixth meridian; and whereas under the
provisions of the above-mentioned treaty and act of Congress and
concurrent action of the authorities of the United States and the
Cherokee nation, the said Osages were removed from their former

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
77

81

Opinion of the Court.

scription of the tract conveyed is "Bounded on the east
by the ninety-sixth meridian, on the south and west by
the north line of the Creek country and the main channel
of the Arkansas river, and on the north by the south line
'f the State of Kansas."
The Act of March 3, 1873, c. 228, 17 Stat. 530, 538,
directed the Secretary of the Treasury to transfer $1,650,600 from Osage funds to pay for lands purchased by the
Osages from the Cherokees. The Act of March 3, 1883,
c. 143, 22 Stat. 603, 624, appropriated $300,000 to be paid
to the Cherokees for this and other lands on condition of
their executing a proper deed. The conveyance from the
Cherokees to the United States in. trust for the Osages
recites the Cherokee Treaty of 1866, 14 Stat. 799, the
homes in the State of Kansas to a reservati6n set apart for them in
the Indian Territory, at the time of the removal supposed to be west
of the said ninety-sixth meridian, and bounded on the east thereby,
and upon which said Osages have made substantial and valuable
improvements; and whereas by a recent survey and establishment of
the ninety-sixth meridian it appears that the most valuable portion
of said Osage reservation, and upon which all their improvements
are situated, lies east of the said meridian; and whereas it therefore
became necessary to select other lands in lieu of those found to be
cast of the established ninety-sixth meridian for said Osage Indians;
and whereas a tract has accordingly been selected, lying between the
western boundary of the reservations heretofore set apart for said
Indians and the main channel of the Arkansas river, with the south
line of the State of Kansas for a northern boundary, and the north
line of the Creek country and the main channel of the Arkansas
river for a southern and western boundary; and whereas the act of
Congress approved July fifteenth, eighteen hundred and seventy,
restricts the said reservation for said Osage Indians to "a tract of
land in compact form equal in quantity to one hundred and sixty
acres for each member of said tribe "; and whereas in a letter of the
Cherokee delegation, addressed to the Secretary of the Interior on
the eighth day of April, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, on behalf
of the Cherokee nation, containing their approval of and assent to
the proposition to provide for the settlement of the Osage and Kaxv
4364--23-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

Acts of June 5, 1872, March 3, 1873, and March 3, 1883,
and conveys to the United States the ' tract of country
described in -the Act-of June 5, 1872, except that, instead
of its being bounded by the main channel of the Arkansas
River, it is described as townships and fractional townships, "the fractional townships being on the left bank
"of the Arkansas River." The deed purports to be executed-under authority of an act of the Cherokee Nation,
which directed a deed under the Act of March 3, 1883,
requiring conveyance, satisfactory, to the Secretary of the
Interior, to the United States in trust for the Osages now
occupying said tract, "as they occupy the same."

We have no doubt that the title to'the river bed is to be
determined by the language of the Act of June 5, 1872,
Indians on that portion of the Cherokee country lying west of the
ninety-sixth degree west longitude, south of Kansas, -east and north
of the Arkansas river: Therefore,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That -in order to
provide said Osage tribe of Indians with a reservation, and secure
to them a sufficient quantity of land suitable for cultivation, the
following-described tract of country, west of the established ninetysixth meridian, in the Indian Territory, be, and the same is hereby,
set apart for and confirmed as their reservation, namely: Bounded
on the east by the ninety-sixth meridian, on the south and west by
the north line of the Creek country and the main channel of the
Arkansas river, and on the north by the south line -of the State of
Kansas: Provided,That the location as aforesaid shall *bemade under
the provisions of article sixteen of the treaty of eighteen hundred
and sixty-six, so far as the same may be applicable, thereto: And
provided further, That said Great and Little Osage tribe of Indians
shall permit the settlement within the limits of said tract of land
[of] the Kansas tribe of Indians, the lands so settled and occupied
by said Kansas Indians, not exceeding one hundred and sixty acres
for each member of said tribe, to be paid for by said Kansas tribe
of Indians out of the proceeds of the sales of their lands in Kansas,
at a price not exceeding that paid by the Great and Little Osage
Indians to the Cherokee nation of Indians.
Approved, June 5, 1872.

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
77

83

Opinion of the Court.

and that the meaning of the Cherokee deed is to be interpreted not as if its words stood alone but in the light of the
acts of Congress in pursuance of which it was made, and
especially of the Act of 1872, under which the Osages
took possession, and which was enough to vest in them
good title to the land described therein without the deed
of 1883. Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 673; Jones v.
Meehan, .175 U. S. 1, 10; Francis v. Frdncis, 203 U. S.
233, 237, 238.
Coming then to consider the effect of the words of the
Act of 1872 in bounding the Osage reservation by "the
main channel of the Arkansas river," we are met by the
argument that the United States had no power to grant
the' bed of the Arkansas River, a navigable stream, to
the Indians, because it held title to it only in trust to
convey it to the States to be formed out of the Louisiana
Purchase which when admitted to the Union must, in
order to be equal in power to the *other States, be vested
with sovereign rights over the beds of navigable waters
and streams. The case of Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan, 3
How. 212, is cited to sustain this proposition. That was
a case where-a Spanish claimant of land under navigable
waters in Alabama, seeking to establish title against the
State, relied on a confirmation of an invalid Spanish grant
by the United States enacted after Alabama became a
State. Such a confirmation was held to be ineffective
against the sovereign title of the State. The language
of Mr. Justice McKinley, who spoke for the Court, fully
sustains the argument madehere that, even before statehood, the United States was without power to convey title
to land under navigable water and deprive future States
of their future ownership. Such a-view was not necessary,
however, to the case before the Court, and has since been
qualified by the Court through Chief Justice Taney in
Goodtitle v. Kibbe, 9 -How. 471, 478. Ward v. Race
Hoihse, 163 U. S. 504, relied on by counsel for appellants,

'OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

does not sustain their contention. The gist of the Court's
holding there was that-a, right to hunt upon the unoccupied lainds of the United States so long as game might be
found thereon, granted by the United States in-an Indian
treaty made before the statehood' of Wyoming, was not
to be construed as intended to continue thereafter or to
give immunity from the Wyoming game lairs.
'The whole subject has been clarified after
the fullest
examination of all the authorities in a most useful opinion
by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the Court in Shively v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S 1. On page 47 the learned Justice
says:
'"VIII. Notwithstanding the dicta contained in some
of the opinionsof this court, already quoted, to the effect
that Congress has no power to grant any land below high
water 'mark, of navigable waters in a territory of the
United States, it is evident that this is not strictly true."
And he then reviews the cases and thus states the
Court's conclusion (pp. 48, 49):
"We cannot doubt, therefore, that Congress has the
power to make grants of lands below high water mark of
navigable waters in any Territory of the United States,
whenever it becomes necessary to do so in order to perform international obligations, or to effect the improvement of-such lands for the promotion and convenience of
commerce with foreign nations and among the several
.States, or to carry' out other public purposes appropriate.
to the objects for which the United States hold the Teri
ritory.
"IX.
But Congress has never undertaken by general
laws to dispoje of such lands. Arid the reasons are not

far to seek.

.

"The Congress of the Tfnited States, in dispdsing_ of the
public lands, has constantly, acted upon the theory that
those lands, whether in the interior, or on the coast, above
high water mark, may be taken up by'actual.occipants, in

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
77

85

Opinion of the Court.

oraer to encourage the settlement of the country; but that
the navigable waters and the soils under. them, whether
within or above the ebb and flow of the tide, shall be and
remain, public highways; and, being chiefly valuable for
the public purposes of commerce, navigdtion and fishery,
and for the improvements necessary to secure and promote those purposes, shall not be granted away during
the period of territorial government; but, unless -in case
of some international duty or public exigency, shall be
held by the United States in trust for future States, and
shall vest in the.several States, when organized and admitted into the Union, with all the powers and prerogatives appertaining to the older States in regard to such
waters and soils within their respective jurisdictions; in
short, shall not be disposed of piecemeal to individuals as
private property, but shall be held as a whole for the
purpose of being ultimately, administered and dealt with
for the public benefit by the State, after it shall have
become a completely organized community."
We do not think the declared purpose of the Louisiana
Purchase Treaty with France that statehood should be
ultimately conferred on the inhabitants of the territory
purchased, relied on by the appellants, varies at all the
principles to be applied in this case. They are the same
in respect to territory of the United States whether derived from the older States, Spain, France or Mexico.
If the Arkansas River were navigable in fact at 'the.locus
in quo, the unrestricted power of the United States, when
exclusive sovereign, to part with the bed of such a stream
for any purpose, asserted.by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
would be before us for consideration. If that could not
be sustained, a second question would arise whether vesting ownership -of the river bed in the Osages was for "a
public purpose appropriate to the objects for which the
United States hold the Territory," within the language of
Mr. Justice Gray in Shivqly v. "Bowiby, above cuoted.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

We do not find it necessary to decide either 'of these questions, in view of the finding as a fact that the Arkansas
is and v'as not navigable at the place where the river bed
lots, here in controversy; are.
A navigable river in this country is one which is used,
or is susceptible d' being used in its ordinary- condition,
as a highway for commerce over which tr'ade and travel
are or may be conducted in the customary modes of trade
and travel on water.L It does not depend upon the mode
by which commerce is conducted upon it, whether by
steamers, sailing vessels or fiat boats, nor upon the difficulties attending navigation, but upon the fact whether
the river in its natural state is such that it affords a channel for useful commerce. - Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S.
574; Economy Light & Power Co. v. United States, 256
U. S.4113,'The Montello, 20 Wall. 430; The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall. 557, 563. Voluminous testimony was introduced
in the District Court upon the issue of navigability.
That court considered it all with evident care and had no
difficulty in reaching the conclusion that the Arkansas
River along the Osage Reservation was not, and had never
been, navigable within the adjudged- meaning of that
term, and that the .head of navigation is and' was the
mouth of the Grand River, near which was Fort Gibson,
and this is a number of miles below the Reservation.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reviewved this finding and
fully concurred in its correctness. Neither the argument
nor the record discloses any ground which can overcome
the weight which the findings of two courts must have
with us. Washington'SecuritiesCo. v. United States, 234
U. S. 76, 78; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. 'v. Louisiana R. R,.
Commission, 232 U. S. 338; Chicago Junction Ry. Co. v.
King, 222 U. S. 222, 224; Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit
Association, 209 iU. S. 20, 24. It is a natural inference
that Congress in its grant to the Osage Indians.in i872
made i extend to the main channel of the river, only

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
77

87

Opinion of the Court.

because it knew it was not navigable. This would be
consistent with its general policy. Rev. Stats., ยง 2476;
Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574; Scott v. Lattig, 227
U. S. 229, 242; Railroad Company v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall.
272, 289. If the Arkansas River is not navigable, then
the title of the Osages as granted certainly included the
bed of the river as far as the main channel, because the
words of the grant expressly carry the title to that line.
But it is said that the navigability of the Arkansas
River is a local question to be settled by the legislature
and the courts of Oklahoma, and that the Supreme Court
of the State has held that at the very point here in dispute, the river is navigable. State v. Nolegs, 40 Okla.
479. A similar argument was made for the same purpose
in Oklahoma v. Texas, supra, based on a decision by the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma as to the Red River. Hale
v. Record, 44 Okla. 803. The controlling effect of the
state court decision was there denied because the United
States had not been there, as it was not here, a party to
the case in the state court. Economy Light & Power Co.
v. United States, 256 U. S. 113, 123. In such a case as
this the navigability of the stream is not a local question
for the state tribunals to settle. The question here is
what title, if any, the Osages took in the river bed in 1872
when this grant was made, and that was thirty-five years
before Oklahoma was taken into the Union and before
there were any local trhunals to decide any such questions. .As to such a grant, the judgment of the state court
does not bind us, for the validity and effect of an act done
by the United States is necessarily a federal question.
The title of the Indians grows out of a federal grant when
the Federal Government had complete sovereignty over
the territory in question. Oklahoma when she came into
the Union took sovereignty over the public lands in the
condition of ownership as they were then, and, if the bed
of a non-navigable stream had then become the property

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

of the Osages, there was nothing in the admission of
Oklahoma into a constitutional equality of power with
other States which-required br permitted a divesting of
the title. It is not for, a State by courts or legislature, in
dealing with the general subject of beds of streams, to
adopt a retroactive rule for determining -navigability
which would destroy a title already accrued under federal
law and grant or would enlarge 'what actually passed to
the State, at the time, of her admission, under the constitutional rule of equality here invoked.
It is true that, where the United States has not in any
way provided otherwise, the ordinary incidents attaching
toa title traced to a patent of the United States under the
public land laws may be determined a.,cording to local
rules; but this is subject to the qualification that the local
rules do not impair the efficacy of the grant or the use and
enjoyment of the property by the grantee. Thus the
right of the' riparian owner under such grant may be
limited by the law of the State either to high or low water
mark or extend-ed to the middle of the stream. Packe,
v. Bird, 137 U. S. 661, 669.
We said in Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S.574, 594:
"where the United States owns the bed of a nonnavigable stream and the upland on one or both sides, it,
of course, is free when disposing of the upland to retain
all or any part of the river bed; and whether in any particular instance it has done'so is essentially a question 'of
what it intended. If by a treaty or statute or the terms
of its patent it has shown that it intended to restrict the
conveyance to the upland or to that and a part only of
the river bed, that intention will be controlling; and, if
its intention be not otherwise shown, it will be taken to'
havre assented that. its conveyance should be construed
and given effect in this particular according to the law of
the State in which the land lies. Where it is disposing
of tribal land of Indians under its guardianship the same
rules apply."

BREWER OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
77

89

Opinion of the Court.

In government patents containing no words showing
purpose to define riparian rights, the intention to abide
the state law is inferred. Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking
for the Court in Hardinv. Jordan,140 U. S. 371, 384, said:
"In our judgment the grants of the government for
lands bounded on streams and other waters, without reservation or restriction of terms, 4re to be construed as
to their effect according to the law of the State in which
the lands lie."
Some States have sought to retain title to the beds of
streams by recognizing them as navigable when they are
not actually so. It seems to be a convenient method of
preserving their control. No one can object to it unless it
is sought thereby to conclude one whose right to the bed
of the river, granted and vesting before statehood, depends
for its validity on non-navigability of the stream in fact.
In such a case, navigability vel non is not a local question.
In Wear v. Kansas, 245 U. S. 154, upon which the appellants rely, the patent of the United States under which
Wear derived title was a grant, made before statehood,
of land bordering on the Kansas River without restriction,
reservation or expansion. The state tribunal took judicial
notice of the navigability of the river, refused to hear
evidence thereon, and held that the patent to land on a
navigable stream did not convey the bed of the river.
The United States by its unrestricted patent was properly
taken to have assented to its construction' according to
the local law. Whether the local law worked its purpose
by conclusively determining tle navigability of the
stream, without regard to the fact, or by expressly denying a riparian title to the bed of a non-navigable stream,
was immaterial. In either'view 'the result there would
have been the' same. The case of Donnelly v. United
States, 228 U. S. 243,. is to be similarly distinguished, if,
indeed, it can be said after the qualification of the opinion,
228 U. S. 708, 111, to require distinguishing.
The decree of the CircuitCourt of Appeals is affirmed.

