YAMASHITA v. HINKLE.
178

Counsel for Parties.

The questions submitted are, therefore, answered as
follows:
Question No. 1. The Act of June 29, 1906, is not complete in itself but is limited by ยง 2169 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
Question No. 2. No.
Question No. 3. No.
It will be so certified.
TAKUJI YAMASHITA ET AL. v. HINKLE, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREMVE COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 177. Argued October 3, 4, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Persons of the Japanese race, born in Japan, are not entitled,
under Rev. Stats., ยง 2169, to become naturalized citizens of the
United States. P. 200. Ozawa v. United States, ante, 178.
2. A judgment purporting to naturalize persons whose ineligibility
appears on its face, is without jurisdiction and void. P. 201.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Washington which denied the application of the petitioners for a writ of mandamus to require the respondent,
as Secretary of State of Washington, to receive and file
their articles of incorporation. This case was argued with
Ozawa v. United States, ante, 178.
Mr. George W. Wickersham, with whom Mr. Corwin -S.
Shank was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. L. L. Thompson, Attorney General of the State of
Washington, with whom Mr. E. TV. Anderson was on the
brief, for respondent.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, and Mr.Frank English, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amid curiae.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents one of the questions involved in the
case of Takao'Ozawa v. United States, this day decided,
ante, 178, viz.: Are the petitioners, being persons of the
Japanese race born in-Japan, entitled to naturalization
under ยง 2169 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States?
Certificates of naturalization were issued to both petitioners by. a Superior Court of the State of Washington
prior to 1906, when ยง 2169 is conceded to have been in
full force and effect.
The-respondent, as Secretary of State of the State of
Washington, refused to receive and file articles of incorporation of the Japanese Real Estate Holding Company,
executed by petitioners, upon the ground that, being of
the Japanese race, they were not at the time of their
naturalization and never had been entitled to naturalization under the laws of the United States, and were therefore not qualified under the laws of the State of Washington to -form the corporation proposed, or to file articles
naming them as sole trustees of said corporation. Thereiipqnr pefitioners applied. to the Supreme Court of the
State for a writ of mandamus to compel respondent to
receive and file the articles of incorporation, but that
court refused and petitioners bring the case here by writ
of certiorari.
Upon the authority of Takao Ozawa v. United States,
supra,we must hold that the petitioners were not eligible
to naturalization, and as this ineligibility appeared, upon
the face o 'the judgment of the Superior Court, admitting
petitioners to citizenship, that court was without juris-

GASTON, ETC., LTD. v. WARNER.
199

201

Counsel for Parties.

diction and its judgment was void. In re Gee Hop, 71
Fed. 274; In re Yamashita, 30 Wash. 234.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Washington is therefore

Affirmed.
GASTON, WILLIAMS & WIGMORE OF CANADA,
LTD. v. WARNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 59. Argued October 13, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
The Canadian owner of a British ship of a Canadian port made a
contract in New York.with W, a citizen of that State, authorizing
him to offer the vessel for a specified price and agreeing to pay
him a specified commission for securing a purchaser. W introduced
purchasers with whom the owner agreed for a charter and sale at
that price, the ship to be delivered and the price paid at New
York; but, it subsequently appearing that the owner was bound
by contract with, and regulations of, the British Government not
to sell without that Government's consent, which could not be
obtained, the contract of sale was rescinded. Held, That W's contract, made with6ut reference to nationality or location of the ship
or to foreign law, was governed by, and valid under, the law of
New York, and that the owner's disability to consummate the transaction was not a defense to W's action for his commission, even if,
under the British law, the contract of sale was void. P. 203.
272 Fed. 56, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals, which affirmed a recovery by the respondent in his

action against the petitioner for commission on the sale of
a ship.
Mr. Cletus Keating for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph P. Nolan for respondent.

