606

OCTOBER TERM, -1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

The later decisions have all tended in one direction and
have resulted in 'establishing th6 rule for which the irrigation company contends, and which the Circuit Court
of Appeals applied. These decisions frankly deal with the
prior situation as we have described it, reaffirm the principles announced in the early cases of Stowell V. Johnson
and Sullivan v. Northern Spy Mining Co., point -out the
dicta and uncertainty in the opinions d6livered_-in 'several
cases, hold that the common-laWv rule is not =applicable
to the conditionsin Utah, and show that it neverwas definitely adopted or followed there. Mountain Lake Mining
Co. v. Midwy IrrigationCo., 47 Utah, 346;. Bastian v.
Nebeker, 49 Utah, 390; Peterson V. Eureka Hill Mining
CQ., 53 Utah, 70; Stookey v. Green, 53 Utah, 311 Rasmussen--4 . Moroni IrrgatiOnCo., 56 Utah, 140; Peterson
v. ihd, 57 Utah, 162;. Home v. Utah Oil Refining Co.,
59 Utah, 279.
We conclude, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit
Court 'of Appeals was right.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

did not take part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case. -

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER..
IN EQUITY.
No. 18, Original.

Argued April 25, 26, 27, 1922.---Decided January
15, 1923.

1. The b6undary line between the States of Texas and' Oklahoma
along the Red River, as deltermined by the Treaty of 1819 betweern
-the United States and Spain, is along the s6utherly bank of, the
stream. P. 625.
2. There is a. material difference between taking the bank of a river
as ar boundary and taking the river itself. P. 626.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Syllabus.

3. The bank intended by'the treaty, is the water-washed and relatively permanent elevation or acclivity at the outer line of the
river bed, which separates the bed from the adjacent upland,
whether valley or hill, and serves to confine the waters within the
bed and preserve the course of the river. P. 631.
4. The boundary intended is on and along this bank at the average
or mean level attained by the waters in the periods when they
reach and wash the bank without overflowing it. P. 632.
5. The bed includes all of the area which is kept practically bare of
vegetation by the wash of the waters of the river from year to
year in their onward course, although parts of it are left dry for
years at a time; but excludes lateral valleys having the character-istics of relatively fast land and usually covered by upland vegetation,, although temporarily overflowed in exceptional instances
when the river is at flood. P. 632.
6. The provisions of the Treaty of 1819, supra, that "the use of the
waters, and the navigation of the Sabine to the sea, and of the said
Rivers Roxo [Red] and Arkansas, throughout the extent of said
boundary, on their respective banks, shall be common to the respective inhabitants of both nations ", doubtless reserve and secure
right of access to the water at all stages for enjoyment of the
permitted use (the part of Red River now in question, however,
is not navigable,) but they afford no reason for regarding the
boundary as below the bank or within the river bed. P. 632.
7. Applying the treaty to the physical situation here revealed by the
evidence, the Court finds'that the boundary should be located along
the southerly of the two water-worn banks designated as the "cut
banks," which separate almost uniformly the sand bed of the river
from land in its valley, on either side, overflowed at times but
having the physical characteristics of upland and which has heretofore been dealt with as'such by the United States and Texas,
respectively. •P. 633.
8. The-" doctrine of erosion, accretion and avulsion- applies to
boundary rivers, including the Red River, which changes rapidly
and materially in flood. P. 636. Nebraskd v, Iowa, 143 U. S.
359.
9. The party asserting that the course has changed by avulsion
since the treaty became effective, in 1821, has tfie burden of proving it. P. 638.
10. Evidence of avulsive change, held, insufficient in some instances
. and sufficient in others. P. 638..

-

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U: S.

Iw this $uit the court first decided that the boundary
between OklahQma and Texas is along the south bank of
Red River (256 U. S. 70), and made an interlocutory decree for the taking of evidence and for a further hearing
to determine what constitutes the south bank *and the
proper location of the boundary line along it (256 U. S.
608). These matters are now disposed of by the present

opinion.1
'Mr. W. W. Dya, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Rilter, and Mr. John A. Fain,
-Special. Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the
brief, for the United States.
On the face of IMdiana v. Kentucky, 136.U. S.479, and
Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158, there would seem
to be a distinction between the case in which the boundary
follows a bank and the case in which it follows the main
channel of navigation. If h2idiana v. Kentucky controls
the former class of cases, then any changes in the location
of the bank of Red River since the date of the treaty.
would not -affect the position of the boundary line.
Red River, through a large part of its course, has, in a
broad sense, two sets of banks in many places, namely,
flood plain banks and bluff banks; and the first question
to be solved is which of these banks on the south-side is
to be taken as the boundary line. The real question is,
*Where is the fixed, permanent; stable south bank of Red
River, contemplated as a permanent boundary, marking
for all time the sovereignty and jurisdictioni of sovereign
States?
The bank ofa river is-that elevation of land which contains its waters at the highest flow. The rule seems to be
settled that when a conveyance is made of land to a
'For the other decisions and orders reported in this case, see:
256 U. S. 602 et seq; 257 U. S. 609, 611, 616; 258 U. S. 574, 606;
259 U. S. 565.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

609

Argument for the Unitpdt States.

stream, on a stream, or by a stream, the grantee takes to
low water mark of the stream, including the flats between
the bank and the low water mark, but a different rule is
found if the grant is to a bank, or on the bank, or to a
monument on the bank. In such case, the grantee is
limited to the high water mark of the river on the bank
in question. Thomas v. Hatch, 3 Sumner, 170; Howard
v. Ingersoll, 13 How. 381; Alabama v. Georgia, 23 How.
505; People v. Board of Supervisors, 125 Ill. 9; Gould on
Waters, 3d ed., 105; State v. Longfellow, 169 Mo. 109;
Sun Dial Ranch v. May Land Co., 61 Oreg. 205; .17Amer.
State Papers, 91; Paine Lumber Co. v. United States, 55
Fed. 854; Minor's Heirs v. New Orleans, 115 La. 301;
Gibbs v. Williams, 25 Kans. 214; Stone v. Augusta, 46
Me. 127; Hatch v. Dwight, 17 Mass. 289; Ventura Land
Co.v. Meiners, 136 Cal. 284; Anaheim Union Water Co.
v. Fuller, 150 Cal. 327; Morgan v. Livingston, 6 Martin
(La.),* 229.
The rule is even stronger and applies with greater force
when the bank defined is a boundary line between States
or Nations. Kingman v. Sparrow, 12 Barb. 201.
The water flowing in Red River a large part of the year
is bordered upon each side in many places by broad, lowlying flood plains which Oklahoma and the United States
contend lie within the true fast-land banks and in the
larger sense comprise a part of the river itself. If that
contention is upheld, it is apparent that during considerable portions of each year some parts of the Texas land
along the boundary will not be in contact with the waters
of Red River.
The treaty does not in terms or by its natural import
secure to the inhabitants of Texas any rights running
with the lands bordering upon the stream. The right
secured was simply a personal right, extending to all the
inhabitants of the Spanish possessions, to use and navigate the waters along and coterminous with the common
4566°-23-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

boundary. Those owning or occupying lands fronting
upon Red River were not by the treaty given any higher
or better rights than those living in other parts of the
Spanish possessions. It is clear that inhabitants of the
interior of the Spanish possessions had no right either
under the treaty or by the municipal laws of that country
to reach the Red River for the purpose of utilizing or.
navigating its waters by passing over the lands of private
owners lying between them and the river. To enjoy these
rights they must. of course, reach the river by the public
highways. And, to those owning lands along the northern
boundary, if the bank on their part -of the line was so
situated as to separate them during a part of the year
from contact with the water, they would have had to
reach it for purposes -of use and havigation by the public
highways or by such ways or easements as might exist or
be arranged across the intervening flat lands or flood
plains. The contention of Texas in this behalf seems to
be fully and completely 'met by Marine Ry.& Coal Co.
v. United States, 257 U. S. 47.
It seems clear, however, that neither Texas nor her
inhabitants have at this date any rights wha~ter under
this provision of the treaty. It is true thac the boundary
line as there fixed, together with the provision as to the
use and navigation of the waters, was incorporated in
the Treaty of 1828 with Mexico, and later, i 1838, with
the Republic of Texas. But Texas came into the Union
voluntarily, with her boundaries fixed in accordance with
the Treaty of 1819; and when she was admitted any
.rights secured by the treaty, not running with the land
and of a purely personal character, such as those here
involved, were immediately abrogated. By the act of
entering the Union the State and her inhabitants submitted themselves to the laws and Constitution of the
United States, and the personal-rights of access to and
use of the waters were thereafter
controlled and regu/

OKLAHOMA v..TEXAS.
606

611

Argument for the United States.

lated thereby, and 'ceased entirely to depend upon the
treaty.
The question as to what constitutes the, south bank of
Red River must now he determined, therefore, by the
rules and precedents applicable to the ascertainment o4
the banks of rivers in general, with such modifications as
the peculiar conditions, character and regimen of Red
River and its banks necessarily impose. The treaty,
however, and the negotiations leading up to it may no
doubt be invoked for the purpose of ascertaining the intentions of the contracting parties, because the line selected by them has been perpetuated to the present day.
It will be remembered that Mr. Adams steadily insisted
that the boundary should be along the farther banks of
the three rivers because that was a definite, fixed and
stable line which (as he supposed) could be easily asc4tained, while, as he said, it would take a hundred years
to ,find where the middle of the three rivers was and to
whom the numerous islands therein would belong.
As to the upper river-from the 100th meridian to
Cache Creek and the Big Wichita, 135 miles, including the
receivership lands--we rest our ultimate claim on four
propositions, viz.,
(1) At times of high flood the waters of Red River flow
in a practically continuous sheet from bluff to bluff. The
bluffs themselves are the fast land banks-the elevations
of land which confine the waters at their highest flow.
(2) The flood plains are utterly unstable, both in detail
and as a whole. The riverin its swings from side to side
of the valley trough, rapidly cuts them away, predominantly and normally along their upper and outer edges,
and builds them out predominantly and normally at their
lower ends. They thus migrate downstream in procession; the river comes back for a time to the bluff banks
at practically every point in a comparatively short period
measured in years. In each of these periods the river
works over practically all the materials between the bluffs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

(3) The flood plains build up and extend themselves,
not by slow additions to existing shore lands, but by the
formation of sand-bar islands separated from the shores
and from each other by threads of the braided channel
system. As the islands build up, the channels ultimately
become clogged and are abandoned by a series of avulsions.
Many of the channels long remain as high water channels
often occupied during the higher oidinary floods.
(4) The great body of :the Big Bend flood plain, as it
exists today, has been formed since 1821; and all of it,
except possibly certain short narrow strips manifestly
older than the rest, became definitely attached to the
Texas bluff since the date of the treaty. What is true of
the Big Bend in this regard is true generally of the others,'
because all are the result of the same processes.
Proof that the high flood waters cover the bottom of
the valley trough clear to the bluffs, with the exceptions
ifikicated, rests ahiost wholly upon testimony of living
witnesses whose recollections go back to various periods
from about 1860 onward. Their evidence, while more or
less contradictory in details, is clear and definite, in
general, to the effect that the waters reached from bluff
to bluff in'the floods of 1866, 1876, 1891, 1908, 19i5, and
covered the flood plains- to a somewhat lesser extent in
1897, 1921 and at other times. While these high floods
are of comparatively rare occurrence, yet their sweeping
down the valley in a broad, continuous, and uninterrupted"
'sheet of water froms bluff to bluff indicates that the bluffs
themselves are the true fast land,-the containing banks
of -the'river in flood stages.
The proofs that. he flood plains migrate or disappear.
and the river comes to the bluffs at substantially all points
in the course of about a century comprise: (a) The testimony -f living witnesses; (b). the showing bf the maps;
(c) the scientific and engineering testimony.
It is utterly impossible to say where the cut banks-the
flood plains banks--were at the date of the treaty any-

OKLAHOMA -v. TEXAS..
66

613

Argument for the United States.

where along the upper river. If those banks as they exist
today are taken as the boundary, it is certain that the
boundary everywhere will be far distant fiom its location
in 1821.
It is equally certain that where now the cut bank is at
or north of mid-valley, in 40, 60, 100 years from now it
will be at or near the south bluff; and where now it is at
the foot of the bluff it will then, in many places, be at or
beyond mid-valley. So that, if the boundary, once declared, is to follow subsequent changes in the cut banks,
it will be a constantly shifting boundary. If, on the other
hand, it is forever to remain where the court now ascertains the cut bank to be, the boundary will in a few years
be at or-beyond the middle of the river itself; and where
the boundary now follows the bluff, there will then lie in
front of it new-made' flood plain lands from a quarter to
a mile and a quarter wide. Such a state of affairs would
certainly be a remarkable outcome of the efforts of the
treaty-,makers to select a stable boundary line.
But we are confident that no such result is iriierent in
the situation. In a most real and substantial sense, the
bluff banks are the banks of this river. Its high floods
are contained by them and all between is covered by flowing water. But for the sand dune dykes built solely by
the winds, the river would pour across the flood plains in
numerous channels at every moderate flood. In the
course of a century, even the low water channels and the
sand bed itself come back to the bluffs all along the line,
and the river works over all the materials between. Those
materials are a part of the river. They are under its control. The atoms of which they are composed are being
carried toward the sea, and they themselves, while preserving a continuous existence, are pushed along by the
river. We believe that both movements are so rapid, so
characteristic of this river, as to differentiate it from the
normal rivers of previous boundary litigation.

"614

OCTOBER TERM, 1922
-Argument for the United Stales.

260 U. S.

Ordinarily, we think pf..a river chiefly as a body of
water flowing in a channel; but in physiography the accepted definition is that a riyer is a mass of waste, comprising water mostly, but also the earth, the sand, the
leaves-whatever may be going along with the witer. In
the Red River the waterwaste and the silt go swiftly on
together; the river bed sand, stirred up by-the floods, goes
only less swiftly, and stops between floods; the flood
plains- do too, much less'swiftly but just -as inevitably.
The differences are merely of degree.
As we see it, the only embarrassment the Court will
meet in recognizing and giving effect to the real and
essential facts of this situation, lies in the old definitions
placing the bank at that declivity usually marked by the
line of yegetation. But that definition is not inflexible.
Like all other definitions and rules it adjusts itself to
varying cond{tions' It was not applied by Judge Story
in the old case of Thomas v. Hatch, supra. The Supreme
Court of California had no great difficulty in recognizing
the e:istence of two sets of banks in the Ventura Case,
sv'prq and we believe this Court will not be less ready
to niodify~the usual definitions and rules so as, to meet
.ede9.uately the new a:,d unique facts of this situation.
And'in any event, in the typical case of the Big Bend, the
bank, even by the old criteria, was along the foot of the
bluff a century ago (except, possibly, as to a small strip),
and the lands now in front of it, have been built up and
joined to the mainland-by process s of avulsion.
[Counsel also discussed somewhat, the conditions in
the middle and lower sections/of the river.]
Mr. Thomas W. Gregory and Mr. W. A. Keeling, Attorney General of the State of Texas, with whom Mr.
Walace Hawkins, Mr. Bruce W. Bryant, Mr. G. Carroll
Todd, Mr. R. H. Ward and Mr. C. M. Cureton were on
the brief, for defendant.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Argument for Texas.

The Treaty of 1819 fixed the boundary line-along the
south bank of Red River at low water mark,-the edge
of the water at that usual and ordinary stage in which it
was found during most of the year.
The diplomatic correspondence leading up to the treaty.
Art. 3 of the treaty, and the decree in the Greer County
Case, 162 U. S. 1, establish that the river and the north
bank belonged to the United States, and the south bank
to Spain; hence, irrespective of the provision of the treaty
that the inhabitants of 'Spain should have the use of the
waters of the river on its south bank, Handly's Lessee v.
Anthony, 5, Wheat. 374, is decisive of the question involved, since that case settled in favor of defendant the
rule of law and construction involved, especially in view
of the fact that the decision was rendered March 4, 1820,
just prior. to the ratification of the treaty by the King of
Spain on October 24, 1820, and by the United States on
February 19, 1821, and its proclamation by the President
of the United States on February 22, 1821.
The bank of a stream is the land between ordinary
high and ordinary low water marks. Child v. Star, 4
Hill, 375, 376; Freeman v. Bellegarde, 108 Cal. 187;
Peoria v. Central National Bank, 224 Ill. 43; State v.
Muncie Pulp Co., 119 Tenn. 72.
A call in a grant for the bank of the stream conveys
land to the low water mark. Jones, Real Prop. in Conveyancing, § 488; Daniels v. Cheshire R. R. Co., 20 N. H.
85; Halsey v. McCormick, 13 N. Y. .297, 298; Freeman v.
Bellegarde, 108 Cal. 188, 189; Lamb ".%Rickets, 11 Ohio
St. 311; Ydtes v. Van De Bogert, 56 -N.Y. 531; Pelton v.
Strycker, 28 Pa. Dist. 179; Murphy v. Copeland, 58 Iowa,
410, 411.
Throughout substantially the entire boundary involved,
Red River has a normal and ordinary low water stage
where it is to be frund flowing in on" channel, during
from nine *to*
eleven months of the year.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Texas.

260 U. S.

The rights reserved, by Art. 3 of the treaty, to the inhabitants of Spain-to the use of the waters and naVigation of Red River throughout the extent of the boundary,
-on its south bank, are inconsistent with the claim of the
United States and Oklahoma that.the boundary,line along
the south side of Red River is at high-water mark, as was
decided by this Courtin Maryland v. West Virginia, 217

U. S. 580.
In Marine Ry. & Coal Co. v. United State-s, 257 U. S.
47, Mr. Justice Holmes, in saying that the compact between Virginia and Maryland in 1785 need not ,becon-sidered in the case before him, recognized -thai the compact did not purport to establishza boundary line.'
-The6i-ieaty makers' treated the river as navigable, and
it must be so considered in determining their intention.
In 1819 the river was navigable by the'then instrumentalities of commerce.- Throughout one-half of the bo0undary
the riverhas always been navigable, even by steamboats.
While the eastern half of the river' along' the bounfidar y
involved has been'the portion principally used in navigation,. the. waters of the river along the entire b6u-hday
have been, and still are, -of inestimable value to' the inhabitants of Texas for' stock watering, fishing,, domestic
and other purposes-;this has been peculiarly true calong
the western half of the boundary, where the river was formaniy years the only source of water during long periods
of the year, and where, until. the development -of ,wells
within the, last, thirty years, it furnished practically the
only water supply.
- The fixing of the boundary at the foot of the, Texas
bluffs would include in Oklahoma more than half a million
acres of land south of the river having on it churches,
cemeteries, schoolhouses, voting boxes and farms, much
of it having been in cultivation for almost a' hundred
years.
The fixing of the boundary -at the cut bank would in'lude in Oklahoma. far more than fifty fhbusand acres of

OKLAHOMA v. .TEXAS.
606

617

Argument for Texas.

land between the lire so fixed and the ordinary stage of
the water, much of it being in cultivation and-pasture,

much of it covered with timber, and at least a portion
coniaining deposits of oil.
By prescription, resting on the practical construction
and application of the Treaty of 1819 by Governments
and States concerned and their inhabitants, the-boundary
line along the south bank of Red River has been fixed as
far north as the edge of the water at its usual and ordinary
stage. There has been a consistent and exclusive occupation of, and claim of ownership by Texas or under Texas
titles, to the land on the south side of the river up to low
water mark, and a failure on the part of any person claiming under an Oklahoma or United States title to occupy
or claim-any of said land until oil was discovered in the
vicinity of the river in 1918.
There whs a joint construction of the treaty by the
United States and the Republic of Texas in marking the
boundary along the Sabine at the edge of the water at its
ordinary stage.
In dealing with lands in the Indian Territory, Congress, the President of the United States, the Secretary
of the Interior, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the
Geological .Survey of the United States, and 'judicial officers of United States courts in Texas, by almost innumerable acts, proclamations, rulings and maps considered or
described these lands as running to Red River, or running down, or up or along Red River, or down the middle
of Red River, and in no instances do any of these indicate
a claim to, or assertion of jurisdiction by the United States
over, land on the south bank of the river, but the contrary.
By their pleadings, complainant and defendant agree
that Texas is now asserting and exercising, and has for a
long time asserted and exercised, civil, criminal and political jurisdiction north of the south bank of Red River.

OCTOBER TERM,' 1922.
Argument for Texas.

260 U. S.

The Republic of Mexico, in its grants of lands on Red
River, called for the south margin of the stream.
The eaxly historical works and maps of Texas show the
boundary at, or on the north side of Red River, and none
show.that it stopped short of the river on the south side.
From 1836, .the first year of the Republic of Texas,
Texas has by its legislative enactments claimed to-the
middle of Red River (and hence certaxly to the edge of
the water) in laying off its land districts and counties.
Ferries across Red River were licensed and taxed by
Texas as far back as 1859, and toll-bridges authorized and
regulated since 1890.
Texas ha9 collected taxes on the land in controversy,
but the officers of Oklahoma have not attempted to do so.
During the last -ninety-two years Mexico and Texas
have issued grants to most of the land in controversy.
The courts of Texas have consistently held for more
than forty years that the -State has jurisdiction- to the
middle of Red River, .and hence to low water mark on the
south side, and have exercised that jurisdiction.
Indiana v. Kentucky, 136 U. S. 479; Virginia v. Ten-nessee, 148 U. S. 503; Louisiana v. Mississippi,202 U,. S.
1; .Marylandv. West Virginia, 217 U. S. 577.
The general habits and characteristics of Red River.
are shown by witnesses and public documents. The testimony establishes without contradiction that there- is a
constant flow in Red River as high up as the mouth of,
Cache Creek, which empties into Red River some thirty
miles east of the receivership area; ,and beyond, question
that Red River has a normal and practically constant flow
to a point considerably west of the receivership area.
Along the most western fifty or seventy-five miles of
the boundary involved the river flows, from six to nine
months of the average year. The sand plain of the river,
which is covered only in times of rises, varies in w'dth so,

greatly that the same rise will differ materially in 'aiglit at

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

619

Argument for Texas.

different points. The ordinary rises at some points where
the sand plain is wide rarely exceed five or six feet, while,
at points where this plain is narrower, the rise may be as
high as twenty feet. The usual time for rises is in May
and June, and any substantial rises at other times are
unusual; these May and June rises are usually known as
Spring rises," and many witnesses testified that Spring
corn and other crops can be and are planted and harvested
below high water mark after the -period referred to has
passed.
At many places Red River flows where it did as far
back as old inhabitants can remember. With the exception of the crossings, where the river leaves the curve
which is playing out on one side and crosses the sand plain
to the beginning of the curve on the opposite side, its
habit is to hug the bends and remain in substantially, the
same position with the exception of more or less erosion
and accretion.
It is admitted by practically all witnesses that the
changes in Red River from Denison, Texas, east, are by
the usual processes of erosion and accretion with certain
well-defined exceptions of avulsion where the river has
cut across the necks of oxbow bends. It is also substantially agreed that, along what is termed the middle portion of the boundary in question, the processes of erosion
and accretion are almost. entirely responsible for the
changes which have taken place, and that along the most
eastern two-thirds of the boundary involved, according
to the scientific witnesses of United States and Oklahoma,
the river is, in the main, a normal stream. It is contended, however, by the United States and Oklahoma that
along the most western one-third of the boundary inyolved the river is iiot normal in its processes; that the
changes occurring along this most westerly one-third are
much more rapid than those occurring further east; that
this rapidity of change is caused by the decreased water

620

'OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Texas.

260 U. S.

flow, the increased amount of sand carried by. the stream,
the wider sand plain in which the river flows, the steeper
gradient of the river, and the.unusual and violent floods.
The rule of law, defining the result of erosion: and accretion on the.one hand and axulsion on the other, rests upon
the ability to identify the land affected. If the river suddenly changes its course leaving a tract of land as it was
before with an identity established, the ownership can
be traced and remains as before. If, on the other hand,
the land affected cannot be identified,.but has been built
up by particles, the ownership of which cannot be identified, the -land affected becomes the property of the person
against whose land it is formed. Neither the rapidity of
the process nor the- size of the area affected is the determining factor. Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S. 3593 Jeffries
v. East Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S. 178; Missouri v. Nebraska, 196 U. S. 36; Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S.
173, 175; McCormack v. Miller, 239 Mo. 469; Yutterma
v. Grier, 112 Ark. 366.
.The-facts in Nebraska v. Iowa, supra, in regard to the
Missouri River, were almost identical with those claimed
by the United States and Oklahoma to exist on th e western one-third of the boundary in question, and the results
growing from those -conditions bring the land affedted
within the law applicable to erosion and accretion, as
decided in that and other cases cited, and not to that applicable to Avulsion.,
Erosion and accretion is' the usual process, -avulsion is
unusual and extraordinary, and, in the absence of definite'
testimony to the 'contrary, it must be presumed 'that
changes occurred by the former process. 1 Farnhamo on,
Waters, 321; Nebraskav.'iowa, 143 U. S. 366.
Following the rule of rivers, avulsion-on Red Riv&'ris
rare, and occurs almost exclusively on the eastern onethird of the boundary involved. It is the habit of Red
River to make its changes by erosion and accretion.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Argument for Texas.

If the so-called island building process takes place at
all, it is in rare instances and is not the habit of the river.
There is hardly a case of a real island in Red River.
The sand dunes vary in stability. There is no uniform
regularity about their lines or formations, and they are
frequently destroyed or changed by winds or high water.
The changes which occur in Red River, exclusive of the
few instances of avulsion, are between river bends on
opposite sides, between the point where the river leaves
the outer rim of.the curve on one side and goes across to
the.beginning of the curveon the opposite side.
The situation in the Big Bend (including the oil area)
is typical of the processes of the river, and the changes in
that territory since the making of the Treaty of 1819 have
been slight and have arisen from erosion and accretion.
Among the issues tendered by the United States and
Oklahoma in this case are, that the valley lands of Red
River, at least from Denison westward, are in the main
less than 100 years of age; that substantially all the valleys from approximately where the Big Wichita River
enters Red River westward to the 100th meridian are of
less'age; they declare that the Big Bend Valley, in which
is located an oil field, is positively less than 100 years of
age.
Anotlier issue offered by them is that all the valleys of
Red River from about the mouth of the Wichita westward, and particularly the Big Bend Valley, and most of
the valleys from the mouth of the Wichita to Denison,
were not formed by accretion, in accordance with the
usual law of moving waters; but that they were formed
by a new theory of valley building, to wit: The Island
Theory of Valley Building, which they rely upon in this
case.

They also say that the main channel of Red River ran
against the Texas bluffs in the Big Bend area 100 years
ago.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Texas.

260 U. S.

On the other hand, the state of Texas contends-that all
the.-great Red RiverValleys are more than 100 years-of
age; that the channel' of Red River did not run against
the Te6xas bluffs 100 years ago; but, on the contrary, that
it was-running against the concave walls on the Oklahoma
side, where ithas beenrunning for a period of time,which
cannot be -computed in years,- in accordance with' the
natural laws governing rivers. And further,: it contends
that the great valleys of Red:River were built by the:ordi:
nary and normal process of accretion, in accordance with
the universal obedience of moving waters to natural laws.
The United States, and Oklahoma attefipt to prove
their, case by' scientific: testimony; the, State, of -Texas
meets the issue with the .testimony of living, witnesses,
who have, known the river- in, various sections for more
than fifty years, and, in turn, by scientific testimony flatly
contradicting the conclusion reached by the government
scientists.The -United States and Oklahoma and their scientists
claim that Red River, )articularly in the oil field section,
does not obey the usual and natural laws of rivers in
locating and maintaining their cha'nels and building their
Valle ys; while, on the 'other hand, the State of Texas and
its scientists clain that Red River does obey all the usual
2
and natural laws of moving waters and rivers.
Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. Orville Bulington, Mr,. C. B. Felder,Mr. Leslie Humphrey and Mr. A. H.
CarrianWere on the brief, for Mrs. Lillis Morgan et al.,'
Texas patented land owners, interveners.
Mr. S.-P. Freeling for complainant.IIr. C: L, Bass- filed a brief on behalf of the ,Ba~s,
Pet oleum Company, intervener.
Mr.K. C.- Barkley filed a brief on behalf of the General
Oil Company and the National Oil & Refining Company,
interveners.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

623,

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
A principal object of this suit, originally brought in this
Court; is to settle a controversy over that part of the
boundary between the States of Texas and Oklahoma
which follows the course of the Red River from the 106th
degree of west longitude to the easterly limit of Oklahoma.
This boundary is part of an old one between the territory
of the United-States and the Spanish possessions to the
southwest which was agreed on and defined in the third
article of the Treaty of 1819. 8 Stat. 252. As to the line
in question that defihition is still controlling; it has been
reaffirmed on several occasions, but never changed. The
controversy arises chiefly out of diverging views of what
the definition means- and how it is to be applied. The
full' treaty provision reads as follows:
"Article 3. The boundary line between the two countries, west of the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulph of
Mexico, at the mouth of the river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north, along the western bank of that river, to the
32d degree of latitude; thence, by a line due north, to the
degree of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Nachitoches, or Red River; then following the course of the Rio
Roxo westward, to the degree of longitude 100 west from
London and 23 from Washington; then, crossing the said
Red River, and running thence, by a line due north, to
-the river Arkansas; thence, following the course of the
southern bank of the Arkansas, to its source, in latitude
42 north; and thence, by that parallel of latitude, to the
South Sea. The whole being as laid down in Melish's
map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, inproved to the first of January, 1818. But, if the source
of the Arkansas river shall be found to fall north or south
of latitude 42, then the line shall run from the said source
due south or north, as the case may be, till it meets the

624

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260"V. S.

said, parallel of latitude. 42, and thence, along the said
parallel, to the South Sea: All the islands in the Sabine,
and the said Red and Arkansas rivers, throughout the
course thus described,' to belong to the United States; but
use of the waters, and the .navigation of the Sabine
to the sea, and of the'said, rivers Roxor and Arkansas,
throughout the exient of the 'said boundary, on their respdctive banks, 'shall/-be common to the respective inhabitants' of -both nations.'
" The two high contracting parties- agree to cede and
renounce all their rights, claims, "and pretensions, to the
territories described by the said line i that is to say: the
United States hereby cede to his Catholic Majesty, and
renounce forever, all their rights, claims; and pretensions,
to the 'erritries lying west and' south of the'abovedescribed line; and, in like manner his Cath6lic Majesty
cedes to the said United States, all his rights, claims, and
pretensions, -to any teri tories east and norh of the Said
line; and for himself' his heirs, and successors, renounces
-all claim to the' Said territories forever."
In'the early stages of the suit the'chief point'of difference between the parties was that Oklahoma and the
United States were claiming the south bank of the river
as the' boundary, while Texas was contending for the
thread, or
' ° middle
of'the
stream. That difference was dis,
.4 4o
posed of in an opnion delivered April 11, 1921,wherein
this Court recognized that in the earlier case of 'United
States v. Texas, 162-U. S. 1, it had been, adjudged that the
boundary, as fixed by'the treaty, is along the south bank:
256 U.-S. 70. The purport of that opinion was embodied
in 'an interlocutory decree of June L, 1921, which also
made provision for taking additional evidence and for a
further hearing to determine what constitutes the south
bank, where along that bank the boundary is, and the
proper mode of locating it on the ground,-these being
matters on Which the parties were 'unable to agree. 256

OKLAHOMA v. TEA_S.

625

Opinion of the Court.

606

U. S. 608. Additional evidence filling several printed
volumes was afterwards taken, and the further hearing
was had near the close of the last term.
On the questions of what constitutes the south bank,
and where along.the same the boundary is, the parties are
still far apart. Oklahoma and the United States contend
that the bank and boundary are at the foot of a range
of hills or bluffs which fringes the south side of the valley
through which the river runs, while Texas insists that
they are " at low water mark" on that side of the river,meaning, as is said in the brief, " the edge of the water at
that usual and ordinary stage in which it is found during
most of the year." This is now the principal issue and
to it the evidence and arguments are largely directed. Its
solution involves a consideration of -what was intended by
the treaty provision and of the physical situation to which
the provision is to be applied.
The treaty provision names three rivers,-the Sabine,
the Red and the Arkansas. It expressly locates the
boundary along the "western bank" of the Sabine anfd
the "southern bank" of the Arkansas, and describes the
intermediate section as leaving the Sabine at a designated
point and running due north until it ".strikes" the Red,
then " following the course" of the Red westward to the
100th Meridian, then "crossing" the Red and running
due north to the Arkansas.. Thus, while the boundary is
in exact words fixed. along a designated bank of the Sabine
and the Arkansas, it is not expressly so fixed- as respects
the Red. This difference in terms, if not otherwige overcome, might well be taken as signifying a difference in
.purpose. But that it has no such signification is otherwise made plain. We say this, first, because the direction
for "crossing" the Red at the 100th Meridian on a line
running north strongly implies that the preceding course
is somewhere on the southerly side of the river; secondly,
because the declaration that "the use of the waters, and
45646°-23----40

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Qpinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

the navigation of the Sabine to the sea, and of the said
rivers Roxo [Red]- and Arkansas, throughout the extent
of the said boundary, on their -respective banks," shall
be common to the respective inhabitants of both nations,
distinctly shbws that a bank boundary is intended along
the Red just as along-the Sabine and the Arkansas; and,
thirdly, because available historical data relating to the
negotiations which culminated in the treaty show indubitably that those who framed and signed it on behalf of
the United States' and Spain intended to establish, and
understood they were establishing, a bank boundary along
all three rivers.' 4 American State Papers, Foreign Relations, pp. 621-622; 4 Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, pp.
255-256, 260-261, 266-270; United States v. Texas, 162
U. S. 1, 27. The words "throughout the extent of the
said boundary, on their respective banks," are the last
by which the treaty provision denotes the rblation of the
boundary to-the rivers, and, as those words are otherwise
supported, they point with controlling force to what was
in the mind, of the high contracting parties. It follows
from-fese considerations that the-meaning of the treaty
provision is just what it would be if the Red River section
of the boundary were 'expressly described as along the
south bank.
We therefore are concerned with an instance in which
the bank of a river, and not the river itself, has been made
the boundary between -two nations,--now between two
States -ofthe Union.
In rny jurisdictions it is settled that there isa material difference between taking the bank of a river as a
boundary and taking thl river itself; and this rule has
been recognized and applied by this-Court from an early
tiine in the 'adjudication of controversies over, state
bbundaries....
During the Revolutionary period Virginia ceded to the
United States all her territory north west of the river

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
6)06

Opinion.of the Court.

Ohio." Afterwards Kentucky and Indiana were admitted into the Union as States, with the southerly or initial
line of that cession as the boundary between them. A
controversy over that boundary was brought before this
Court in Handly's Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374. The
question presented was whether the boundary was along
low water mark .or at the line reached by the river when
.at medium height. In an opinion delivered by Chief
Justice Marshall the Court held the boundary was along
low water mark, but was careful to say: "In pursuing
this inquiry, we must recollect, that it is not the bank of
the river, but the river itself, at which the cession 6f Virginia, commences." Mr. Justice Story participated in
the decision of that case and concurred in the opinion.
Subsequently, when holding the Circuit Court for the
District of Maine, he had occasion to interpret two conveyances of land adjacent to a stream in that State. One
tract was described as bounded by the stream from one
point to another, and the other as"bounded by the bank
of the stream from one point to another. The learned
Justice was of opinion that the two bounding lines were
essentially unlike, and he held as to the first tract'that
the conveyance included the flats below the bank at least
to low water mark, and as to the second that the conveyance limited the grant to the batik and excluded the flats
below. Thomas v. Hatch, 3 Sumner, 170.
A controversy over the boundary between Georgia and
Alabama was before this Court in Howard v. Ingersoll,
13 How. 381. The boundary had been defined in a cession by Georgia to the United States as beginning on the
western bank of the Chattahoochee River where it crosses
a stated line and running thence up the river "along the
western bank thereof" to the great bend. (See 1 American State Papers, Public Lands, pp. 113-114.) The nature of the controversy was such that it called for an interpretation and application of the words just quoted.

628

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

At the locus there was-an abrupt and high bank on the
western, or Alabama, side which was washed by the river
in periods of ordinary high water. In periods of low
water;which comprised two-thirds of the year, a sloping
strip of from thirty to sixtyyards of dry land lay between
the abrupt-bank and the water. The flowing stream was
about two hundred yards wide in periods of ordinary high
watei and about thirty yards in periods of low water" At
that point the water never reached the top of the abrupt
bank,'but at other points, where the-bank was lower, the
water in exceptional times of flood overflowed the bank
and temporarily submerged adjacent lands. The case
was tried in an Alabama court, which ruled that the
boundary was at the line of .ordinary low water. 'That
-ruling was sustained-by the Supreme Court of the State,
17 Ala. 780, and the case was brought here on writ of
error. Another case involving the same questions, and
brought here' from the Circuit Cour for the District of
Georgia, was heard at the same time, but a description of
the first suffices for present purposes. This Court, upon
much consideration, held that the boundary was" not at
the line of ordinary low water, but along the water-washed
bank or elevation which bounds the river bed and confines
the water within definite outer limits, save in the excepit is so far at 'flood that it overflows
mhe
tional instances
its restrainin banks and spreads over adjacent lands.
The ruling and the grounds on which it was put are indicated in the following excerpts from the opinion:
(P. 415.) 'MWhen ihe commissioners used the words
bank and river, they did so in the popular sense of both.
-When banks of rivers were 'spoken of, those boundaries
-were meant which contain their waters at their highest
flow, and in that condition they make what is called the
bed of the river. They knew that rivers have banks,
shores, water, and a bed, and that the outer line on the
bed of a river, on either side of it, may be distinguished

-

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Opinion of the Court.

upon dyery stage of its water, high or low; at its highest
or lowest current. It neither takes in overflowed land
beyond: the bank, nor includes swamps or low grounds
liable to be overflowed, but reclaimable for meadows or
agriculture, or which, being too low for reclamation,
though not always covered with water, may be used for
cattle to range upon, as natural or uninclosed pasture.
But it may include spots lower than the bluff or bank,
whether there is or is not a growth upon them, not forming a part of that land which, whether low. or high, we
know to be upland or fast lowland, if such spots are
within the bed of the river. Such a line may be found
upon every river, from its source to its mouth. It requires no scientific exploration to find or mark it out.
The eye traces it in going either up or down a river, in
any stage of water. With such an understanding of what
a river is, as a whole, from its parts, there is no difficulty
in fixing the boundary-line in question."
(P. 417.) "The call is for the bank, the fast land which
confines the water of the river in its channel or bed in
its whole width, that is to be the line. The bank or the
Slope from the bluff or perpendicular of the bank may not
be reached by the water for two thirds of the .year, stillthe water line impressed upon the bank above the slope
is the line required by the commissioners, and the shore
of the river, though left dry for any time, and but occasionally covered by wate in any stage of.it to the bank,
was retained by Georgia as the river ilp to that line.
Wherever it *may be found, it is a part--of the State of
Georgia, and not a part of Alabama'-- Both bank and bed
are to be ascertained by inspection, and the line is where
the action of the water has permanently marked itself
upon the soil."
(P. 418.) "Our _interpretation
is that the
western line of Georgia . . . is a line to run up the

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

river on and along its western bank, and that the jurisdiction of Georgia in the soil extends over to the line which
is washed by the water, whereverit covers the bed of the
rivet within its banks. The permanent-fast.land bank is
referred to as governing the line."
The members of the Court all agreed that the call
"along the westernbank." distinguished the case from
that ,f IRandly' Lessee v. Anthony and that the Alabama court had erred in treating the ordinary low water
as the boundary intended; but three members, while concurring in the judgment of reversal to that extent, differed .
from the Court's ;feasoning and conclusion in other respects.
That was a private litigation and seven years later the
samequestions--this time cov-ering the full length of the
boundary-were presented to this.Court by the two States.
Alabama v. Georgia, 23 how. 505. Alabama claimed the
"Iusual or common low-water mark ".as the boundary and
Georgia contended for "the western bank at high-water
mark, using high!water mark in the sense of the highest
line of the river's bed; or, in other words, the highest line
of that eb'd, where the passage of water is sufficiently
frequent to be marked by a difference in soil and vegetable gro'vth"' Alabama asserted and Georgia admitted
that the banks of the river, though abrupt and high at
some lplaces were low and relatively flat-at others and
that atfthe latter, when the river was high, the water
overfowed the outer limits of its bed and spread over
adjacent lands,-at some places as imuch as a half mile.
The controversy thus presented:'was disposed of in an
opinion having the approval of the entire Court. The
Court said:
(P. 511) "In maxing such construction, it is necessary
to keep'in mind that there Was by the contract of cession
a mutual relinquishment of claims by the contracting
parties, th'e United States ceding to Georgia all its right,

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Opinion' of the Court.

title, &c., to the territory lying east' of that line, and
Georgia ceding to the United States all its right and title
to-the territory west of it."
(P. 514) "With these authorities and the pleadings of,
this suit in view, all of us reject, the low-water mark
claimed by Alabama as the line that was iritended-by the
contract of cession between the United States and Georgia.
And all of us concur in this conclusion, that by the contract of cssion, Georgia ceded to the United States all of
her lands west of a line beginning on the western bank
of the Chattahoochee river where the same, crosses the
boundary line between the United States and Spain, running up the said Chattahooche river and along the western
bank thereof.
"We also agree and decide that this'language implies
that there is ownership of soil and jurisdiction in Georgia
in the bed of the river Chattahoochee, and that the bed bf
the river is that portion of its soil which is alternateli
covered and left bare, as there may- be an increase or
diminution in the supply of water, and which is adequate
to contain it-at its average and mean stage during the
ertireyear, without reference to'the extraordinaryfreshets
of the winter .or spring,-or the extreme droughts of the
summer or autumn.
The western line of the cession on the Chattahoochee
river must be traced on the water-line of the acclivity'of
the western bank, and along, that bank where that is
defined; and in such places on the river whdre the western
bank is not defined, it must be continued up the river on
the line of its bed, as that is made by the average and
mean stage of the water, as that is expressed in the conclusion of the preceding paragraph of this opinion."
Upon the authority of these cases,. and upon principle
as well, we hold that the bank intended by the treaty provision is the water-washed and relatively permanent elevation or acclivity at the outer line of the river bed which

632

.OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

.260 U.S.

separates the bed from the adjacent upland, whether -vlley or hill and serves to confine the waters -within 'the
bed and to preserve the course of the-rive'r, and that -the
boundary intended is oniand a1dhg the bank at the-averAge
or mean leyel attained by-the waters in the periods when
they, reach and wash the bank without overflowing it.
When; we spealk of the bed we iihlude all of the area which
is kept practically bare of vegetation by the wash' of the
waters -of-the river frc6m year to year in their onward
course,.although parts -.of it are left dry 'for months at a
time; and we exclude the' lateralvalleys which have the
characteristics of relatively fast' land and -usually are
covered by' upland grasies and vegetation; although" temporarily overflowed in exceptional instances When_ the
river is at flood.
The conclusion that the b oundary -intended is on and
along the bank and not at low Water mark or any -other
point within the ,river bed' has full'confirmation in available historical data respecting the negotiations which attended the framing and signing of the treaty. 4 Aijierican
State Papers, Foreign Relations, pp. 621-622; 4 Memoirs
of-John Quincy Adams, pp. 255-256, 260-261, 266-270.
Texas places some reliance on-the concluding words of
the treaty provision, "but the use of the waters, and the
navigation of the Sabine to the sea, and of the said-rivers
Roxo [Red] and Arkansas, throughout the extent 'of-the
said boundary, on their respective banks, shall be common
to 'the respective inhabitants- of both 'nations." As
already observed, these words -show that'the boundary
intended is "on" the bank: No doubt' they reserve and
secure a right of access to the water, at all stages,=adequate
to the enjoyment of the permitted use; but they affdrd
no basis forregarding the boundary as below the bank or
within the river bed., ' Dunlap v. -Stetson, 4 Mason, 349,
366. This part of the treaty provision-is quite unlike the
old compact considered -in
.Marylandv. West Virginia, 217

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 577, which gave to the citizens of Virginia full
property in the shore of the Potomac, and so carried the
jurisdiction and title to the water's edge. See Handly's
Lessee v. Anthony, 5 Wheat. 374, 385. In an earlier
opinion disposing of other phases of this suit it was determined that the section of the Red River adjacent to
this boundary is not navigable. 258 U. S. 574.
Texas refers to the proceedings in 1840 and 1841
whereby the United States and the Republic of Texas
jointly traced and marked 'so.much of the treaty boundary
as lies along the western bank of the Sabine, and claims
that what was done makes for a view different from that
here expressed. We do not so understand the proceed-.
ings. General Hunt, who represeited the Republic of
Texas in that undertaking, took the position that portions
of the river bed often immersed could be treated as the
bank and that low-water mark should be regarded as the
boundary. Mr. Overton, who represented the United
States, dissented and said: " The term bank does not
imply, I conceive; a line of the character proposed by you,
but it rather means that natural barrier which confines
the waters, and compels them to flow within a well-defined
channel, although the surface of the river may fluctuate
in elevation between its banks at various seasons of the
year. The same conception of the meaning of this term
precludes on my part the idea that it would be just to
claim the we4en margin of any inundations caused by
the river overflowing its banks, because in such cases the
usual 'well-defined barrier is temporarily surmounted."
Mr. Overton's Nfdew prevailed and, as nearly as can be told
now, the work proceeded on the view that the boundary
was along the mean water line on what he defined as the
bank. H. R. Ex. Doe. 51.
With what was intended by the treaty provision in
mind, we turni to the physical situation to which the provision is to be applied.,

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

2dO U. S.

This section of the Red River flows eastward in a serpentine course through a vialley bordered on either side by
a range of bluffs or hills. The distance along the river is
539- miles -and on a direct line 321 miles. The valley
widens irregularly-from about -two miles on the west to
fifteen or more on the east. . The bed over which the water
flows is composed of light, loose -sand and is 4f varying
breadth, the maximum being one and one-fourth miles
and the average one-third of a mile. On either side are
stretches of valley land which vary in both width and
length by reason of the-winding of the river and the
irregiilarities in the face of 'the bluffs. This land is fairly
covered with grasses and other upland growth and often
is studded, with trees, Many of the trees are old and
among them are elm, pecan and other kinds of hard wood.
A slight depression or a; succession of depressions usually
lies along the foot of the 'bluffs. The river oi" a channel
may have been there in years that are gone, but, if so, no
one knows when. -Almost uniformly the valley land is
separated from the sand bed of the river by a clearly defined water-worn bank, designated by witnesses and
counsel as a cut bank. This bank ranges in height from
two to ten or more feet, the height generally increasiiig
from west to east and the lower parts usually being where
the bed is wide. On the valley side of the bank is vegetation and on the river side bare sand. The cut-banks effectively confine the water to the sand bed ave: in exceptional instances, when the river is at flood and overflows
adjacent lands.for a few days. There is some overflowing
almost every year and in one year out of twelve or fifteen
the overflow reaches back to the bluffs in many places.
When the water is in substantial volume it flows over
th6 whole of the sand' bed and washes both banks, but
when the volume is relatively low much of the bed is dry.
The latter is the prevailing condition,-and this because
the source and upper reaches of the river are. within -a

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

Opinion of the Court.

region where the rainfall is light, seasonal only and quickly
carried into the stream. Along the western part of the
boundary the bed is entirely dry in long stretches for
weeks it a time; and when the water is flowing, but low,
iV is found in shallow channels which divide and shift
about over the bed. Witnesses accustomed to crossing
there speak of finding the flowing channel near one side
of the bed in the morning and in the middle or near, the
other side in the evening. Only in pronounced bends' are
the channels relatively stable. Along the eastern part of
the boundary the volume of water:.always is sfibstantial,
but there again it is inclined to divide into separate ciaiinels and to cross and recross the bed frequently. Along
both parts when the water is low, as is the rule, the
channels in which it moves have low marginal elevations,
but these are composed of mere sand, have no permanency
and yield readily to the action of the water and the winds.
Material changes in them are habitual, not exceptional.
This survey of the physical situation denionstrates that
the banks of the river are neither the -ranges of bluffs
which mark the exterior limits of the valley, nor the low
shifting elevations within the sand-bed. And that this is
the natural and reasonable view of the situation is illus-.
trated by a long course of public and private action.
The valley land always has been dealt with as upland.
The United States surveyed and disposed of that on the
nortlh side under its public land and Indian laws; and
Texas surveyed and disposed of that on the south side
under her land laws." Both treated the -cutbanks as the
river banks and carried their surveys to those banks, but
not beyond. Patents were issued for practically all the
land. Individuals freely sought and dealt with it as upland. Much of that on the south side was disposed of. by
Texas fifty years ago, some of it seventy: Thousands of
acres on that side were improved, occupied and cultivated
under these disposals, and a larger acreage was occupied

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

and used under them for pastures. Through the long
period covered by this coubrse of aciion there nvei-was
any suggestion that this valley land was part of the river
bed, nor that the shiftiig elevations of sand within the'
sand bed were the river's banks, nor thatthe land 'on the
South side belonged t6o thUijnited States. Xot unil some
landon the soutlh slde and part of the river bed were discovered to be valuable for oil was this unbroken course of
action and -opinion drawn in question. However much
the oil discovery may. affect values, it has no bearing on
the questions of boundary and title.
Our conclusion is that the cut bank along the southerly
side of the sand bed constitutes the south bank of the
river and that the boundary is on and along that bank
at the mean level of the water'when. it washes the bank
without overflowing it. .
The boundary as it was in 1821, when the treaty became effective, is the"boundary of today, subject to the
right application of the doctrines of erosion and accretion and of avulsion to. any intervening changes. Of
those doctrines this Cdourt 'recentl said:
It is settled beyond the pos sblity of dispute that
where running streams are the boundaries between States,
tIhe same rule applies as between 'private proprtors,
namely, that when te bed and channel are changed by
the natural and graduaI processes known as erosion and
accretion, th'eboundary follows the-varying course of t'he
stream; while If the s.tream from any cause, natural or
artificial, s'udderly leaves its old bed and forms ^a newone, by the process known as an avulsion, the resulting
change of channel works no change of boundary, which
remains in the middle of the old ch'annel." 'rkansas v.
Tennessee, 246 13. S. 58, '173.
Oklahona and the United States question the applicability of the doctrine of erosion and accretion to this
river, particularly he part in ,western Oldahoma,-and

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
Opinion of theCourt.

606

this because of the rapid and material changes effected
during rises in the river. But we think the habit of this
river is so like that of the Missouri in this regard that the
ruling relating to the latter in Nebraska v. Iowa, 143 U. S.
359, 368, is controlling. It was there said, p. 368, et seq.:
"The Missouri River is a winding stream, coursing
through a valley of varying width, the substratum of
whose soil, a deposit of distant centuries, is largely of
quicksand.

.

.

". The large volume of water pouring

down at -the time of these rises, with the rapidity of its
current, has great and rapid action upon the loose soil of
its banks. Whenever it impinges with direct attaek upon
the bank at a bend of the stream, and that bank is of the
loose sand obtaining in the valley of the Missouri, it is not
strange that the abrasion and washing away is rapid and
great. Frequently, where above the loose substratum of
sand there is a deposit of comparatively, solid soil, the
washing out of the underlying sand causes an instantaneous fall of quite a length and breadth of the superstratum
of soil into the river; so that, it may, in one sense of the
term, be said that the diminution of the banks is not
gradual and imperceptible, but sudden and visible. , .
No engineering skill is sufficient to say where the earth in
the bank washed away and disintegrating into. the river
finds its rest and abiding .place. The falling bank has
passed into the floating mass of earth and water, and the
particles of earth may rest one or fifty miles below, and
upon either shore. There is, no matter how rapid the
process of subtraction or addition, no detachment of earth
from the one side and deposit of the same upon the other.
The only thing which distinguishes this river from other
streams, in the matter of accretion, is in the rapidity of
the change caused by the velocity of the current; and this
in itself; 'in the very nature of things, works no change in
the principle underlying the rule of law in respect thereto.
"Our conclusions are that, notwithstanding the rapidity of the changes in the course of the °8hannel, and the

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

.washing from the one side and on to the other, the law of
accretion controls on the Missouri River, as elsewhere;
and that not- only in respect to the rights of individual
land :owners ,but also in: respect -fo the boundary lines
between: States."
Common experience suggests that there probably have
been changes in this stretch of the Red River since 1821,
but they cannot be merely conjectured.- The party asserting-matdria1 changes should.carry the burden of provin them, whether they be recent' or old. Some changes
are shown here and conceded. Others are asserted on' one
side and denied on the other.
A controverted one is ascribed to the so-6alled Big Bend
Area, which is within the oil field. That area is "now on
the south side of-the' river and coniected7 with .the bluffs
on that side. Oldahbma and the United States assert
that-ih 1821 a c-hannel of 'the river ran between it and
the bluffs and that the river ias, since abandoned that
channel. - Texas denies this and insists that the situation
in i821 was pr ctically as now. Stimulated by Ihe large
values involved, the parties have- exhausted the avenues
of research and speculation in presenting testimony
thought, to bear on this question. The testimony, particularly othe ex-perts, is conflicting. It is So voluminous
that it does not admit of extended statement- or discussion here. We can orly refer'to important~features and.
.,
g ve our conclusions.:There are no surveys or records depicting the situation
in 1821,; nor.are there- any- human witnesses who knew'
this part of, the --river- then., 1'But- there are inanimate
witlesses, such -as old trees, which tell 'agood del' 'At
that place theriver makes a pronounced but gradual bendto the north and back to the south.' The area in quesfi6nA
is on, the inner -side of ,the bend. It is larger now than
sixty years ago, but- how much is- uncertain. The'enlargement' is the' result of intervening 'accretions. The

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

639

Opinion of the Court.

habit of the river is to erode the outer bank of a behd
and to accrete to the opposite.bank. Three surveys executed by Texas in 1856 and covering less than the whole
area disclosed the presence at that time of over 1700
acres. On the outer part are physical evidences of the
formation being comparatively recent. On the inner
part are like evidences of the formation being old, among
them being the presence of living trees more than a century old. One of the trees, a pecan, attained ah age of
170 years. A part of the area was cultivated and the
remainder used for pasturage as early as 1877. At that
time there were more trees than now. Many *ere taken
by early settler for firewood, fencing posts and building
logs, some logs being over three feet through. To overcome the inference arising from the presence of the old
trees, which were well scattered, testimony was presented
to show that in 1821 these trees were all on islands, which
afterviards were consolidated amongst themselves and
with the land on the south side. We think this testimony
is essentially speculative and not a proper basis for judgment. In this area, as elsewhere in the valley, a succession of depressions is found at the foot of the bluffs, and
some testimony was produced to show that in 1821 the
river, or a part of it, flowed there. It may be that the
river was there long ago, but the testimony that it was
there in 1821 is far from convincing. Texas has been
exercising jurisdiction over the area and asserting proprietorship of the soil for more than half a century and
has surveyed and disposed of it all, the earliest disposals
being in 1856. Some of the later surveys seem to conflict with those first made, but all name the river bank as
a boundary. In those of 1856, and possibly others, it
was the controlling call. See Schnackenberg v., State,
229 S. W. 934; Cordell Petroleum Co. v. Michna; 276 Fed.
483. The jurisdiction and title of Texas stood unchallenged until shortly before this suit. Our conclusion is

640

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds, J., dissenting.

260 U. S.

that the claim that the river, .or any part of it, ran southof.1his area;-in i821' is nbt sustained. So the boundary
-follows the cut bank around, the northerly -limit of "the
J f
-area.
Burke'Bet Island and Goat Island, both near the- Big
-Bend,Area, are:, claimed by Texas on- the -theory that in
1821 they.- were part of the land on 'the south side.-' We
think the, evidence,: al considered, falls short of establish-ingtie claini and tends rather, to show that neither island
was ever part of -the permanent fast land on that side.
:Theclaimis: accordingly rejected.
at"now-appears to ,be- an-island opposite niile ,post.
575 and near the line,-between Hardeman and Wilbarger
Counties;in Texas, is .laimed by that State to have been
part of the land on the south side up to 1902 and then
severed from it by: avulsive action in time of flood. The
eyidencesustains -theclaim. -So the boundajr follows the
ndFth bank 6fithe "island. .
,
* There'ar instances in which -the riversince' 1821 has
int'm, of &doodleft- its former chann el and cut a new, one
trough a neck 'of and -t ereby causing land theretofore
on one side of the iver to be oii the other, Such avulsive
acii does not carr the boun dar with it, but leaves it
where it -as before. There is no cbntroversy about these
cut-offs
and.the evidene indicates atht they readify can
SWh-

be 'rec6nized.

-

....

-

The"matter of rufnin Jocating and-marking e boundary-upoii -the ground in accordance with the principles
stated hereim will be r6ferred to-three commissioners to be
appoinied by-the C6ut,
' iheir actiof .to be subjet .to its
approva].

-

"

- - -

:-

....

The. parties may submit within thirty days -a fornm of
decredfol carry these conclusions into effect.
R-M.JSTICE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.
-

-The parties to the :compact of 1819' (ratified :1821) dis-

tinctly- avowed the purpose," to settle and-terminate'all

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

.McReynolds, J., dissenting.

their differences and pretensions, by a Treaty, which shall
designate, with precision, the limits of their respective
bordering territories in North America." And when all
of its provisions are'given proper weight, I think, that
instrument fixes the international boundarywith reason-:
able precision at low water mark on the south side of the
Red River-no at the margin of the "cut baik?'
"It is a geneial principle of construction with respect
to treaties that they shall be liberally construed, so as to
carry out the apparent intention of the. parties to secure
equality and reciprocity between them. As they are contracts between independent nations, in their construction
words are to be taken in their ordinary meaning, as understood in the public law of nations, and not in any artificial
or special sense impressed upon them by local law, unless
such restricted sense is clearly intended. And it has been
held by this court that where a treaty admits of two constructions, one restrictive of rights that may be claimea
under it and the other favorable to them, the latter is to'
be preferred." Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 271.
Under United States v. Texas, 462 U. S. 1, and Oklahorna v. Texas, 256 U. S.70, we must interpolate "southern bank"' into the description of the contested boundary
and treat this as though itread, "then following the
course of the [southern bank of the] Rio Roxo westward,
to the degree of longitude 100 *est from London," etc.
Thus amended, we should now interpret the compact with
a view to effectuate the intention of the parties.
A bank is the rising ground, or area, bordering a stream.
To describe a boundary merely as following the course of
the river bank gives it no definite-location. Something
more raust be known before it can be laid down on the
ground, e. g., that it runs with the low, ordinary or high
water mark. To ascertain this something-more, when the
application of a treaty is involved, the purpose and allprovisions of the compact, the character of the country and
any other facts indicative of intention, may be considered.
404V-03--41

OCTOBER'TERM, 1922.
McReynolds, J., dissenting.

260 U. S.

The Treaty of 1819 declares--" The use of the--waters,
-and-the navigation of -,the,.Sabine to the sea, and of the.,said-rivers Roxo and Arkansas, 4throughout the extent of
:the said, b6undary,, oif,'their respective banks7 :shall be
common, to the respe~iveinhabitants of both 1nation's"
,Prts of these riVers are -navigable. For hundreds of
*miles the Red Riverpasses over a sandywaste bdtveen
irre-dla'." cut'bafhk Y' sometimes a mile apart (one-third
mile on the average), and the waters are mainly useful
for domestic purposes, for"live stock and for irrigation.
-During most of the year -the, sfream is only a few' yards
-wideand,flows alongshallow channels, -commonly-at some
distance from the southern "'cut bank?? - Manifestly, if
"the,boundary is-on the margin of that bank the Spanish
,-inhabitants were generally cut, off from the stream and:
,could -not use the:,waters without 'crossing or occupying
-territory of~the United States. By its express terms the.
treaty reserved to those' peoplethe right to use, and navi-gate the-waters-and I cannot think-that by mere implication it imposed a very serious barrier thereto..
A1gain, if the. boundary run's with -the southern "cut
-bank" of the Red River, 'of-; what effect are the words,
"fall -th- 'islands in ,the Sabine, "and- the said Red and
:Arkansas rivers, throughouf the course thus described, to
b-elong to the Unied States '"?- ,.That boundary being ad:
.mitted,.allislands would necessarily lie within the United
States-and- their reservation was "unnecessary.I -But if low
water marks the bouidary- then the reservation becomes
important. Without it grave- disputes might arise as to
the true line where islands"lie south of the main stream.
See Georgiav. South-Cardlina,257 U.S. 516.
. ,With the boundary, fixed at low water mark; the Spanishi inhabitants obtained 'free access to the stream at
-""-;The boundary .ollows

only a portion of each river-the -upper
reaches of- the Arkaiiss,' the middle part of the Red and the-loiver
section of. the Sabine. No rights were gi&en'Ao Spanish subjects in
'respedt of the. ters bf the rivefs 'except along the boundary. '

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
606

McReynolds, J., dissenting.

all seasons and could use its waters;-as their welfare required; the reservation of the islands to the United States
is important; the. parties obtained full reciprocal rights;
and the unfortunate consequences incident to ownership
by the United States of a long narrow barren strip between a foreign country and the stream are avoided.
"Even when a state retains its dominion over a. river
which constitutes the boundary between itself and another state, it would be extremely inconvenient; to extend its dominion over the land on the other side, which
was left bare by the receding of the water. And this inconvenience is not less, where the rising and falling is
annual, than where it is diurnal. Wherever the river
is a boundary between states, it is the main, the permanent river, which constitutes that boundary; and the'..
mind will find itself embarrassed with insurmountable
difficulty, in attempting to draw any other line than the
low-water mark." Chief Justice Marshall in Handly's
Lessee v. Anthony (1820), 5 Wheat. 374, 380, 381. Note
that this cause was decided before ratification of the
treaty in 1821.
The point for decision in Howard v. Ingersoll (1851),
13 How. 381, 397, 411, 412, 413, concerned the boundary
between Georgia and Alabama, along the Chattahoochee
River. "Its determination [p. 397] depends upon what
were the linits of Georgia and her ownership of the whole
country within them, when that State, in compliance with
the obligation imposed upon it by the revolutionary war,
conveyed to the United States her unsettled territory;
and upon the terms used to define the boundaries of that
cession."
The pertinent article of the cession is copied)
below. 1 The Court also said, pp 411, 412"The State of Georgia cedes to the United States all the right,
title, and claim, which the said State has to the jurisdiction and soil of
all the lands situated within the boundaries of the United States,
south of the State of Tennessee, and west of a line beginning on 'the

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds,' J., dissenting.

260 U.S.

"We further.' learn'that the adjustment with South
Carolina, left in- Georgia the --Chattahoochee River from
its source -to,the 31st degree of north-latitude, as Georgia
had claimed her limits to be, since the king's patent to
Sir' James''Wright, in 1764.
"In 'other -words 'that the Chattahoochee, from its
source to thatpo!t, was at all times after that patent
within Georgia with the right of soil and jurisdiction when
its unsettled territory -was ceded to: the United - States.
This fact -being, so, it gives us a key from the laws of
nations to aid us in the interpretation of its ,cession- as to
the boundary between Georgia and Alabama, which' must
prevail,' as it would~in allother cases, where there may be a
transfer by one nation of a; part of its -territoryto another,
with a river for its boundary, without an, express Stipulation for'the relinqusfiment of the rights of soil and juris'
diction over the -bed of such river.
"The rule jure gentium, to' which we refer, is not now
for the first time iinder he consideration of this court.
We are relieved, thien, from its discussion, by citations
from Vattel and other writers upon the laws of nations,
to-show What it-is; but it will be found in the 22d chapter
of Vattel. Among, the writers after him it is not controverted by any one of them. Besides, it is according to
what had been anciently the practice of nations, substantiated'by an adherence to it down to' our own times. , In
Handly's Lessee v. A thony, 5 Wheat. 379, this couirt said,
western bank of the Chattahoche6 River, where the -same crosses the
boundary-line between':-th& United States; and Spain, running thence
up the said River Chattahoochee and along the western bank -thereof,
to the great bend thereof, next above the place where a certaincreek
or river called_ Uchee, (being the first considerable stream on the
-westem-side-abovekeu-asetas'-andCox t.a-to.ns,) empties intothe.
said Chattahoochee River;- thence in a direct line to Nicajack on the
Tennessee River; thence, crossing the said last-mentioned river, and
thence running-up the said Tennessee' River, and along the' western
bank thereof to the southemboundary-line of the State of Tennessee."

OKLAHOMA v. .TEXAS.
606

McReynolds, J.,- dissenting.

by its organ, Chief Justice Marshall, 'when a great river is
the boundary between two nations or States, if the original property is in neither,- and there be no conveniion
about it, each holas to the middle of the stream. But
when, as in this'case, one State is the original-proprietor,
and grants territory on the. one side only, it retdins the
river within its domain, and the newly-created State extend to the river- only. The river, however, is its
boundary.
"Georgia was certainly the original proprietor of the
River Chattahoochee to 31 degrees north, when her territory west of it was ceded to the United Stafes, and that
cession must be understood to have, been made under the
rule, unless by terms in her grant to the United States
it was taken out of it, with the view to give to th.e new
State which was to be 'formed out of the cession, a coequality of soil and jurisdiction in .the river which was to
separate them."
And applying'what it deemed the, applicable rule, the Court held (p. 418): The boundary in question is "a line
to run up the [Chattahoochee] river on and along its
western bank, and that the jurisdiction. of Georgia in the
soil extends over to the line which is washed by the w4ter,
wherevei it covers the bed of the river within its banks.
The 1iermanent fast land bank is referred to as governing
the line. From the lower edge of that bank, the bed of
the river commences, and Georgia. retained the bed of. the
river from the lower edge of the bank on the west side.
And where the bank is fairly marked by the water, that
water level will show at all places where the line is."
The well established rule, approved and attempted to
be applied in Howard v. Ingersoll, has no application to
the present controversy where independent nations undertook to settle a long standing boundary dispute. Moreover, the treaty contains important and,- I think, con-

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1622.
McReynolds, J., dissenting.

260 TJ. S.

trolling provisions not found in the Georgia grant. Although much relied on, that case does not decide* the
point here presented-it arose out of wholly different circmstances and the opinion rests upon a rule of inter pretationi declared to be generally inapplicable to compacts of settlement between independent nations.
T Handly's Lessee V. Anthony (1820), supra/,the CoUrt
ruled that under the grant by Virginia of all her right to
the te rritory "situate, lying'and:being to the northwest
of the river Ohio," the boundary was at low water of the
north side. The considerations which led to that 'conclusion, I think, are' sufficient to require a-like result here.
More6ver, -the Treaty of,1819 contains provisions not
foud in the cession- of the Northwest-Territory Which
point othe lowv water mark of ihe-Red River.
That the Spanish goveriment. wittingly assented- to a
boundary by which'(a narrow strip of foreign territory
was-interposed between its citizens and waters essential to
their welfare seems highly improbable. The convenience
of the -opulation must have:been in contemplation. Nor
do I find adequate reason for thinking that the United
States desired this strip of barren' land-then without
value to their citizens-Av4ith tihe consequent obligations
and serious difficulties. In 1819 troublesomepro-itiif'icident to marking the boufidary between this country and
Canada were pending Considering 'them, it- is easy -to
understand why the - United -States' desired to fix the'
boundary at the low water mark of Red River, reserving
the islands to themselves.: -But, obviously, owvnership of
the -barren strip south of that 'line would entail unfortunate consequences to themi and interfere with the Oiderly
development of Spdnish lteyritoiy 'Surely, neither gov-.
ernnment expected such areult.'
"'In case of doubt,' siys -attdl, 'every country, lying
upon a river, is presumed to have no other limits but the
river ,itself; because nothing is more natural, than to take

BANKERS TRUST CO. v. BLODGETT.
606

647

Counsel for Parties.

a river for a boundary, when a state is established on its
borders; and wherever there is a doubt, that is always to
be presumed which is most natural and most probable.'"
Handly's Lessee v. Anthony, supra, 379, 380.

BANKERS TRUST COMPANY ET AL., EXECUTORS OF McMULLEN, v. BLODGETT, TAX COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 169. Argued January 3, 1923-Decided January 22, 1923.
1. A state law which, in order to reach property which has escaped
taxation, taxes the estates of decedents for a period anterior to
date of death, but allows proportionate deductions where a personal representative shows that taxes were paid, or property was
not owned, by his decedent within the period, does not deprive
the creditors and distributees of the estates of their property without due process of law. ' P. 650. Gen. Stats. Conn. 1918, § 1190,
sustained.
2. The delinquency of a decedent in not paying taxes may be penalized under the state taxing power by inflicting upon his estae a
penalty measured by the discretion of the legislature P. 651.
3. The constitutional prohibition of ex post facto laws is inapplicable to a retroactive tax penalty. P. 652.
96 Conn. 361, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Superior Court of Connecticut, entered upon direction of the Supreme Court
of Errors, in a proceeding to review a tax assessment.
Mr. William H. Comley for'plaintiffs in error.
MWr. Frank E. Healy, Attorney General of the State of
Connecticut, Mr. William E. Egan and Mr. Carlos S. Holcomb appeared for defendant in error.

