174

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

the traffic as a through movement to the point of ultimate
destination is shown by the original and persisting intention of the shippers which was carried out.
Reversed.
MR.'JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, dissents.
R
ZUCHT, BY HER NEXT FRIEND, ETC. v. KING
ETAL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, FOURTH SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF, TEXAS.

No. 84.-Argued October 20, 1922-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A city ordinance is a law of a State within the meaning of Jud.

.1
l
'Code, ยง 237. P. 176.
2. It is the duty of this Court to decline jurisdiction whenever it
appears that the constitutional question upon which jurisdiction
depends was not, at the time of granting the writ, a substantial
question. P. 176.
,
3. City ordinances making vaccination a condition to attendance at
public or private schools and vesting broad discretion in health
authorities to d.etermine when and under \what circumstances the
requirement shall be enforced are consistent with the Fourteenth
Amendment and, in view of prior decisions, a contrary contention
presents no substantial constitutional question. P. 176.
4. The question whether city officials have" administered a valid
ordinance in such a way as to deny the plaintiff the equal protection of the laws, is not one of those upon which the judgment of
a state court may be brought here by writ of error. P. 177.
Writ of error to review 225 S.W. 267, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the court below affirming a

judgment of a trial court which dismissed the bill in a
suit for injunction, mandamus and damages.
hand there are many instancei where the grant by tariffs of extensive transit or reconsignment privileges have rendered what otherwise would be independent local movements, a part of the through
interstate shipment. See In Matter of Substitution of Tonnage at
Transit Points, 18 I. C. C. 280; The Transit Case, 24 I. 0.C. 340.

ZICHT v. KING.
174

Opinion o"the Court.

Mr. Don A. Bliss for plaintiff in error.
Mr. R. L. Ball and Mir. A. W. Seeligson, for defendants
inerror, submitted. Mr. T. H. Ridgeway, Mr. Raymond
Marshall, Mr. B. W. Teagarden and Mr. C. W. Trueheart
were also on the brief.'
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Ordinances of the City of San Anton.o, Texas, provide
that no child or other person shall attend a public school
or other place of education without having first presented
a certificate of vaccination. Purporting to act under
these ordinances, public officials excluded Rosalyn Zucht
from a public school because she did not have the required
certificate and refused to submit to vaccination. They also
caused her to be excluded from a private school. Thereupon Rosalyn brought this suit against the officials in a
court of the State. The bill charges that there was then
no occasion for requiring vaccination; that the ordinances
deprive plaintiff of her liberty without due process of
law by, in effect, making vaccination compulsory; and,
also, that they are void because they leave to the Board
of Health discretion to determine when and under what'
circumstances the requirement shall be enforced without
providing any rule by which that board is to be guided
in its action and without providing any safeguards against
partiality and oppression. The prayers were for an injunction against enforcing the ordinances, for a writ of
mandamus to compel her admission to the public school,
and for damages. A general demurrer to the bill of
complaint was sustained by the trial court; and, plaintiff
having declined to amend, the bill was dismissed. This
judgment was affirmed by the Court of Civil Appeals for
the Fourth Supreme Judicial District, 225 S.W. 267; a
motion for rehearing was overruled; and an application

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

for a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Texas was
denied by that court. A petition for a writ of certiorari
filed in this Court was dismissed for failure to comply
with Rule 37. 257 U. S. 650. The case is nbw here on
writ of error granted by the Chief Justice of the Court
of Civil Appeals. It -is assigned as error that the ordinances violate the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that as administered they denied to plaintiff equal protection of
the laws.
The validity of the ordinances under the Federal Constithtion was- drawn in question by objections properly
taken below. A city ordinance is -a, law of the State
within the meaning, of ยง 237 of the Judicial Code as
amended, which provides a review by writ of error where
the validity of a law is sustained by .the highest court of
the State in which a decision in th6 suit could be had.
Atlantic Coast Line R. 1. Co. v. -Goldsboro, 232 U. S.
548, 555. But, although the validity of a law was forinally, drawn in question, it is our duty to decline jurisdiction whenever it appears that the constitutional question present6d is not, and was n-ot at the time of granting
the writ substantial in character. Sugarman v. United
States, 249 U. S. 182, 184. Long'before this suit was
instituted, Jacobson; v. Massachusetts, 197 U. 5. 11, had
settled that it is within the police power of a State to
prQvide for compulsory vaccination. That case and
others had also settled that a.State may, consistently with
the Federal Constitution, delegate to a municipality authority to determine under what conditions health regulations shall become operative. Laurel Hill Cemetery v.
San Francisco,216 U. S.358. And still others had settled
that the municipality may vest in its officials broad discretion in matters affecting the application and enforcement
of a health law. Lieberman v. Van De Carr, 199 U. S.
552. A long line of decisions by this Court had also set-

ZUCHT v, KING.
174

Opinion of the Court.

tled that in: the exercise of the police power reasonable
classification may be freely applied and that regulation"
is not violative of the equal protection clause merely because it is not all-embracing. Adams v. Milwaukee, 228
U. S. 572. Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373, 384. In view
of these decisions we find in the record no question as to
the validity of the ordinance sufficiently substantial to
support the writ of error. Unlike Yick Wo v. H1opkins,
118 U. S. 356, these ordinances confer not arbitrary power,
but only that broad discretion reluired for the protection
of the public health.
The bill contains also averments to the effect that in
administering the ordinance the officials have discriminated against the plaintiff in such a way as to deny to her
equal protection of the laws. These averments do present a substantial constitutional question. Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370. But the question is not of that character which entitles a litigant to a review by this Court
on writ of error. The -question does not go to the validity
of the ordinance; nor does it go to the validity of the
authority of the officials. Compare Taylor v. Taft, 203
U. S. 461; Champion Lumber Co. v. Fisher, 227 U. S.
445; Yazoo & MississippiValley R. R. Co. v. Clarksdale,
257 U. S. 10, 16. This charge is of an unconstitutional
exercise of authority under an ordinance which is valid.
Compare Stadelman v. Miner, 246 U. S. 544. Unless a
case is otherwise properly here on writ of error, questions
of that character can be reviewed by this Court only on
petition for a writ of certiorari.
Writ of error dismissed.
4564i-23-12

