596

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

SNAKE CREEK MINING & TUNNEL COMPANY v.
MIDWAY IRRIGATION COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 68. Argued October 17, 1922.--Decided January 15, 1923.

Under the law of Utah, an appropriation" of the water of a natural
stream to a beneficial use so far attaches to underground waters
feeding the stream by percolation through adjacent public lands,
that one who, as an incident to mining operations after those lands
have become private, -intercepts and collects such percolating
waters by a tunnel, is not entitled to sell to others the right to use
on distant lands the waters so collected and thus injuriously diminish the supply of the prior appropriator. P. 598.
271 Fed. 157, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
reversing a decree of the District Court, in a suit to determine conflicting claims to underground waters.

Mr., H. R. Mbcmillan, with whom Mr.Andrew Ho.wat,
-'Mr. John A. Marshall and Mr. B. S. Crow were on the
briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. A. B. Irvine and Mr. William H. Folland, with
whom Mr. Sam D. Thurman was on the briefs, for respondents.
Mr. William H. Folland, by leave of court, filed a brief
on behalf of Salt Lake City, as amicus curiae.
Mr. J. F. Callbreath,by leave of court, filed a brief on
behalf of'the American Mining Congress, as amicus
curiae.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion. of
the Couit.

SNAKE CREEK CO. v. MIDWAY CO.
596

597

Opinion of the Court.

This is a suit to determine conflicting claims to underground waters colleited and brought to the surface by a
mining tunnel in Utah. -The plaintiff (petitioner here)
is a mining company incorporated in Delaware and the
defendant an irrigation company incorporated in Utah.
Each seeks to have the right to use the waters quieted in
itself as against the other. The District Court, with
some hesitation, gave a decree for the mining company,
which the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed with a direction that one for the irrigation company be given. 271
Fed. 157. A writ of certiorari brings the case here. 256
U. S. 687.
The mining company owns and operates a mine in a
mountain along a tributary of the Provo River and, in
furtherance of its mining operations, has driven a tunnel
14,500 feet into the mountain from a portal near the
stream. The tunnel intercepts and collects waters percolating through the bosom of the mountain and conveys
them to the portal, whence they now flow into the stream.
The tunnel was begun in 1910 and these waters are intercepted and collected along its course after it -gets well
into the mountain. The mining company owns a tract
of land surrounding the portal and we assume it has a
right of way for the tunnel beyond that tract, although
this does not appear. It has. not used and does not now
use any of the waters in connection with its tunnel or
mine, but asserts an exclusive right to them and has arranged, and-is intending, to sell to others the right to
use them for irrigating distant laids.
The irrigation company is a corporate agency of a community of farmers and holds, controls and administers
for -their mutual advantage the water rights which enable
them to irrigate and cultivate their lands, a]' of which
are naturally arid. Long prior to the driving of the tunnel, and, while the -lands through which it extends were

OCTOBER TERMI 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

public lands of the United States, the irrigation company
or its -stockholders appropriated all the waters of the
stream for irrigation and other beneficial uses; and under
that appropriation these waters long have been applied
and devoted to such uses on the lands of the stockholders some distance down stream-from the portal of the
tunnel.
The waters intercepted and collected by the tunnel are
percolating waters which before it was driven found'their
way naturally,-but not in a defined channel,--through
the rocks, gravel and soil of the mountain into open
springs near the stream and thence by surface channels
into the stream. At 'all seasons this was one of the
stream's sources of supply, and in the late summer and
early' fall one of its most dependable sources. The
amount of water so naturally finding its way underground into the springs and thence into the stream has
been materially diminished by the tunnel,-the-diminution conforming substantially to the discharge at the portal. All the natural flow of the stream as it was before
the tunnel was driven is required to satisfy the prior appropriation of the irrigation company or its stockholders
and to irrigate the lands of the latter, to which if long
has been applied; and, unless the waters so intercepted
and collected by the tunnel be permitted to flow from its,
portal into the stream in such way that they can be used
under the prior appropriation, a material part of the
lands heretofore reclaimed and irrigated thereunder will
be without water and their cultivation must be discontinued.
Several questions were presented to and decided by the
Circuit Court of. Appeals, but only one merits discussion
here. It is whether under the law of Utah the waters
which the tunnel intercepts, collects and conveys to its
portal belong to the mining company or are within the
appropriation made by the irrigation company or its

SNAKE CREEK CO. v. MIDWAY CO.
596

Opinion of the Court.

stockholders before the lands through which the tunnel
extends became private lands.
The parties, while agreeing that the Utah law is controlling, differ as to what that law is. On the part of the
mining company it is contended that when the tunnel site
was acquired and the tunnel driven, Utah had adopted
and was applying the common-law rule respecting underground waters; that by that rule such waters, whero not
moving in a known and defined channel, are part of the
land in which they are found and belong absolutely to
its owner; and that, if the law of Utah in this regard has
since been changed, rights vested before the change are
not affected by it. On the part of the irrigation company it is insisted that the common-law rule never was
adopted or in force in Utah; that her law always has regarded waters percolating underground, where within the
public lands, as open to appropriation for irrigation or
other beneficial uses, subject only to a reasonable use of
them in connection with the land in which they exist by
whoever may come to own it, and that her law likewise
has regarded an appropriation of the natural flow of a
surface stream as reaching and including its underground
sources of supply within the public lands, subject only to
the qualification just indicated.
Both courts below experienced some embarrassment in
solving this question of Utah law,-the District Court
observing that the Supreme Court of the State, although
having, the question before it a number of times, "has
never definitely announced its adherence" to either view,
and the Circuit Court of Appeals that the early decisions,
although "not always harmonious," "seem to have favored the English rule," while the later decisions have
given effect to the other view. That there was some basis
for the embarrassment is plain. Particularly was .this
true when the District Court made its iuline. Thereafter,
and before the ruling by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court;

260 U. S.

situation was partly clarified by two decisions in the state
court,' and it now has been further clarified by two still
2
later decisions in that court.
•Utah is within the semi-arid region of the West, where
irrigation has been practiced from the time'of the earliest
settlements and is -indispensable to the cultivation of the
lands. She was made a Territory in 1850 and became a,
State January 4, 1896. While she was a Territory and
most. of the lands-within her borders were part -of the public domain, Congress passed three acts which require
notice.
The Act of July 26, 1866, c. 262, 14 Stat. 251,, provided,
in its ninth section: "Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of water for mining, agricultural,
manufacturing, or other purposes, have vested, and accrued, and the same are recognized aid acknowledged.by
the local customs, laws, and the-decisions of courts, the
possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and protecfed in the same." The Act of July 9,
1870, c. 235, 16 Stat. 217, declared, in its seventeenth- sectiox, that "all patents granted, or pre-emption or homesteads allowed, shall be subject to any vested and-accrued
water rights" recognized by the provision of 1866- _ And
the Act of March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, after providing for the sale of desert lands in small tracts to persons
effecting the reclamation thereof by an actual appropriation and use of water, declared that "all surplus water
over and above -such actual appropriation and use together with the water of all lakes, rivers and other sources
of water supply upon the public lands and not navigable,
shall remain and be held free for the appropriation and use'
of the public for irrigation, mining and manufacturing
-'Stookey v. Green, 53 Utah, 311; Rasmussen v. Moroni Irrigation
Co., 56 Utah, 140.'
'Peterson v. Lund, 57 Utah, 162; Home v. Utah Oil Refining Co.,
,
59 Utah, 279.

SNAKE CREEK CO. v. MIDWAY CO.
596

Opinion of the Court.

purposes subject to existing rights." This Court has said
of these enactments that "the obvious purpose of Congress was to give its assent, so far as the public lands
were concerned, to any system, although in contravention of the common law rule, which permitted the appropriation of the waters for legitimhte industries."
By an Act of February 20, 1880, the legislative assembly
of the Territory declared (Laws 1880, c. 20, § 6): "A right
to the use of water for any useful purpose, such as
irrigating lands, . . . is hereby recognized and acknowledged to have vested and accrued, as a primary
right, . . . under any of the following circumstances:
First-Whenever any person or persons shall have taken,
diverted and used any of the unappropriated water of any
natural stream, water course, lake, or spring, or other natural source of supply. . .
It was in the presence of these enactments, congressional and territorial, and prior to any decision thereon in
Utah, that the irrigation company or its stockholders made
the appropriation in question.
The first case in Utah involving rights asserted under
an appropriation such as is described in these enactments
was Stowell v. Johnson, 7 Utah, 215. The controversy
was between one who relied on such an appropriation from
a surface stream and another who owned lands along a
lower section of the stream and was relying on the common-laW.doctrine of riparian rights. The Supreme Court
of the Territory sustained the appropriation and. distinctly
held that the connon-law doctrine was not applicable to
the conditions in the Territory and never was in force
there. On the latter point the court said (p. 225): "Riparian rights have never been recognized in this Territory,
or in any State or Territory where -irrigation is necessary;
for the appropriation of water for the purpose of irrigation is entirely and unavoidably in conflict with the common-law doctrine of riparian proprietorship. If that had

'602

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of-the Court.

260 U. S.

been recognized and applied in this Territory, it would
still be a desert; for a man owning ten acres of land on a
stream of water capable of irrigating a thousand acres of
land or more, near its mouth, cbuld.prevent the settlement
of all the land abbve him. For at common law the
riparian proprietor is'entiiled to have the water flow in
quantity and quality past his land as it was wont to do
when he acquire;l title thereto, and. this right is utterly
irreconcilable with the use of water for irrigation. The
legislature of this Territory has always ignored this claim
.of riparian proprietors, and the practic6 and usages of the
inhabitants have never considered it applicable, and have
never regarded it." This ruling has been reaffirmed but
never recalled or qualified.
The next case was' Sullivan v. Northern Spy Mining
Co., 11 Utah, 438. It involved an asserted appropriation
of underground water, not in a known or defined channel.
At the time of the appropriation the land where'the water
was found was public land. Afterwards the land was
located and patented under the public land laws. The
appropriator continued, as before, to take and use the.
Water, and the owner of the land challenged the appropriation and sued to recover damages as for a trespass.
In stating the question for decision, the territorial court
said: "The federal government, as proprietor of the public lands, early recognized the necessity of permitting per,ons in. this arid region. to acquire an interest in water
sources on the public lands distinct from the lands themselves. It had always been the settled law that the owner
of land was likewise the.owner of all waters situate thereon
or percolating therein. This may be said to have beei
the universal rule in the United States, prior to the settlment of California. Local decisions, arising from the
necessities of the people, soon altered it there, and in 1866
Congress passed an act," etc. "The question is, then, is
the right of defendant to use water;.under the facts stated,

SNAKE CREEK CO. v. MIDWAY CO.
596

603

Opinion of the Court.

one that is recognized by the local customs andlaws?"
The court reviewed the enactments we have set forth
above, said they should hot be narrowly construed, and
held (p. 443) : "In our opinion, wherever-the industry of
the pioneer has appropriated a source of water, either on
the surface of or under the public lands, he and his successors acquire an easement and right to take and use
such -vater to the extent indicated by the original appropriation, and that a private owner who subsequently acquires the land takes it burdened with this easement, and
we also hold that this easement carries with it such rights
of ingress and egress as are necessary to its proper enjoyment." But, -otwithstanding this very definite pronouncement, the court, in concluding its opinion, added (p.
444): "This right of an appropriator is, of course, subject
to the rule of law which will permit the owner to sink an
adjoining well on his own premises although he should
thereby dry up that of the first appropriator." This addendum was inconsistent with the principal decision and,
so far as appears, was not necessary to a full disposal of
the ease. With this comment it may be put out of view,
for the court afterwards declared it dictum.'
Shortly after the decision in that case came the constitution of the State, which says (Art. 17, § 1): "All existing
rights to the use of any of the waters of this State for
any useful or beneficial purpose, are hereby recognized
and confirmed."
The next case to engage the court's attention was Crescent Mining Co. v. Silver King Xining Co., 17 Utah, 444.
It presented-a controversy between two mining companies.
over percolating water interceptea knd collected by a tunnel. One company had driven the tunnel into two patented mining claims of which it was the owner and had
been permitting the water to flow from the portal into a
Stookey v. Green, 53 Utah, 3fl, 317.

•604

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

so-called lake. The water Was not a natural source of
supply for the lake, nor had it been in any way appropri,ated before the mining claims were.patented and the tunnel driven. After it began flowing through'the tunnel
-and thence into.the lake the other company attempted to
appropriate it at the lake by diverting it therefrom and
using it.The company.owning the tunnel challenged that
appropriation and proceeded to use the water. for purposes which prevented it from flowing into the lake. The
other company then brought the suit, claiming that by its
appropriation it had acquired a right to have 'the water
flow from the tunnel into the lake uninterruptedly and.
continuously. The court held that underground waters
collected by a tunnel from the private'lands of its owner
were not open to subsequent appropriation by others,' and
that the company owning the land and tunnel and bringing the waters, theretofore unappropriated, to the surface
had the better right to use them. 'This, without more,.
determined the controversy; but in the-opinion much was"
said which, had it been essential to a decision of the case,
might well -be taken as commiting the court to tle common-law rule respecting underground waters, But it was
not essential, and the court has since recognized that the
real decision was as we have just stated.'
For several years after the ruling in that case the decisions were largely'in a state of flux,-the opinions disclosing pr*onounced differences among the judges and tendi mg
at times in favor of the common-law rule and at other
times against it. A notable case of that period was before
the court on two successive appeals. Herrimam Irrigation
Co. v. Butterfield 'Mining Co.; 19 Utah, 453; Herriman
Irrifation Co. v. Keel, 25- Utah, 96. Like the present
case, it involved a controversy between an irrigation comStookey v. Green,> 3Utah, .M,1 318; Home v. Utah Oil Rofining"
.Co.,-59 itah, 279.-

SNAKE CREEK CO. v. MIDWAY CO.
596

605

Opinion of the Court.

pany having an early appropriation of the natural flow of
a surface stream and a mining company having a subsequent patent for adjacent lands pierced by a tunnel which
encountered und eftround waters and conducted them to
its portal whence they flowed into the stream. As here,
the mining company had arranged to sell .to others the
right to use the waters elsewhere. Two matters were in
dispute,-first, whether the underground waters constituted one of the stream's natural sources of supply, and,
secondly, if they. did, whether the mining company was
entitled to take and sell them as against the irrigation
company which had appropiiated the natural flow of the
stream when the lands pierced by the tunnel were public
lands. On the first appeal the judgment of the trial court
was reversed and a new trial directed because of incomplete and erroneous-findings of fact' but the plain purport of the opinion, which had the approval of all the
judges, was that if in fact the waters collected by the
tunnel constituted one of the stream's natural sources of
supply at the time its natural flow Was appropriated by
the irrigation company, which was when the lands were
part of the public domain, that company had the better
right to those waters. On the second appeal the decision
turned chiefly on questions of fact; but the.judges, in separate opinions, entered into an extended discussion of the
question of law with which we here are, concerned. One
judge thought the common-law rule was in force, and another that it had been rejected and that the decision on
the first appeal had proceeded on that view. The remaining judge left his attitude on the question in some uncertainty. The case settled no principle and is without force
as a precedent. Other cases during the same period are
cited by counsel and particular expressions in the opinions
are relied on as making for one view or the other; but it
suffices here to say of these cases that they do not show
any settled rule of decision.

606

OCTOBER TERM, -1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

The later decisions have all tended in one direction and
have resulted in 'establishing th6 rule for which the irrigation company contends, and which the Circuit Court
of Appeals applied. These decisions frankly deal with the
prior situation as we have described it, reaffirm the principles announced in the early cases of Stowell V. Johnson
and Sullivan v. Northern Spy Mining Co., point -out the
dicta and uncertainty in the opinions d6livered_-in 'several
cases, hold that the common-laWv rule is not =applicable
to the conditionsin Utah, and show that it neverwas definitely adopted or followed there. Mountain Lake Mining
Co. v. Midwy IrrigationCo., 47 Utah, 346;. Bastian v.
Nebeker, 49 Utah, 390; Peterson V. Eureka Hill Mining
CQ., 53 Utah, 70; Stookey v. Green, 53 Utah, 311 Rasmussen--4 . Moroni IrrgatiOnCo., 56 Utah, 140; Peterson
v. ihd, 57 Utah, 162;. Home v. Utah Oil Refining Co.,
59 Utah, 279.
We conclude, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit
Court 'of Appeals was right.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

did not take part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case. -

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER..
IN EQUITY.
No. 18, Original.

Argued April 25, 26, 27, 1922.---Decided January
15, 1923.

1. The b6undary line between the States of Texas and' Oklahoma
along the Red River, as deltermined by the Treaty of 1819 betweern
-the United States and Spain, is along the s6utherly bank of, the
stream. P. 625.
2. There is a. material difference between taking the bank of a river
as ar boundary and taking the river itself. P. 626.

