UNITED STATES v. MASON & HANGER CO.

323

Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. MASON & HANGER
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 121. Argued November 24, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
A building contract, made through the War Department, provided
that the contractor should be reimbursed for such actual net expenditures in the performance of the work as might be aplSioved
or ratified by the contracting officer, including "such bonds, fire,
liability, and other insurance as the contracting officer may approve or require;" that monthly statements of costs should be
made, upon which, in case of disagreement, the decision of the
contracting officer should govern; and that statements so made
and all payments made thereon should be final and binding on
both -parties. Held, that where a payment made by the contractor as a premium on its bond to secure the performance of the
contract was thus approved and repaid as part of the cost of the
work, the decision and action of the officer were conclusive, and
that the Comptroller of the Treasury was without power to
deduct the amount from other moneys due the contractor, upon
the ground that the expense was not among those for which the
contract promised reimbursement. P. 325.
56 Ct. Chms. 238, affirmed.
APPEAL

by the United States from a judgment of the

Court of Claims. - A rehearing was granted in this case:
but, after reargument the judgment below was again
affirmed, April 9, 1923, by a per curiam decision, which
will be reported in volume 261.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered -the opinion of the
Court.
Appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims which
awards the appellee, plaintiff in the Court of Claims, the
sum of $12,064.52, composed of three sums which are respectively of the amounts of $2,500, $450 and $9,114.52.
The last two sums the United States does not contest.
The sum of $2,500 is only, therefore, in question. ThE
amount is charged to be due (as the other sums were)
upon what are called "cost plus contracts" for the construction of certain buildings at Camp Zachary Taylor,
near Louisville, Kentucky.
It is provided in Article II of the contract that "the
for such bf its
contractor shall be reimbursed .
actual net expenditures in the performance of said work
as may be approved or ratified by the contracting
officer .
(h)'Such bonds, fire, liability, and other
insurance as the contracting officer may approve or require; and such losses and expenses, not compensated by
insurance or otherwise, as are fcund and certified by the
contracting officer to have been actually sustained (including settlements made with the written consent and
approval of the contracting officer) by the contractor in
connection with said work, and to have clearly resulted
from causes other than the fault or neglect of the
contractor.

.

.

The United States contends that within the meaning of
Article II the premium paid on a bond of $250,000, that
being the amount fixed by the War Department, was not
an expenditure in the performance of the work. The
Court of Claims decided the contrary and supported its
decision by the action and approval of the War Department. And there was no hesitation on the part of the
Department. It recognized the obligation of the Government under the contracf to pay to the contractor the

UNITED STATES v. MASON & HANGER CO.
323

325

Opinion of the Court.

amount of premium, and negotiated with the surety
companies for a reduction of it in the interest of the
Government. The premium was approved by the contracting officer as required by Article II- and paid as
part of the cost of the work and was not questioned for
over two years. Its amount was later deducted from
other sums due the contractor.
* What is the import of this practical interpretation?
The Government does not contend that the words of
the contract were dictated by statute. They are "therefore, the words of the contracting officer to express and
provide for the purpose of the Government in exercise of
the duty with which he was charged, and used as a
declaration and measure of the rights and obligations of
the parties to the contract. His subsequent conduct is
necessarily to be considered a definition of them. The
officer in a sense is a party to the contract, not only representing but speaking for the impersonality of the Government. Competent, therefore, it would seem, to declare
the meaning of the contract.
We are, however, not called upon to pass upon the conflicting contentions. The contract contains other provisions that determine the liability of the Government.
Article IV of the contract provides for a monthly statement of the elements of costs upon which, if there be disagreement, the decision of the contracting officer "shall
govern." It is further provided that "the statement so
made and all payments made thereon shall be final and
binding upon both parties hereto, except as provided in
Article XIV hereof." Article XIV requires the contract
to be interpreted as a whole, not by any special clause,
and takes care to reserve the determining decision to the
officers concerned with the work, the final decision being
that of the Secretary of War. Article IV, indeed, is the
complement and elaboration of the provision of Article II
(quoted above) which provides that the contractor is to

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Counsel for Parties.

960 U. S.

be reimbursed for such of its expenditures "as may be
approved or ratified by the contracting officer."
We have decided that the parties to the contract can so
provide and that the decision of the officer is conclusive
upon the parties. Kihlberg v. United States, 97 U. S.
398; Martinsburg & Potomac R. R. Co. v. March, 114
U. S. 549; United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 588; Ripley
v. United States, 223 U. S. 695. This is extending the
rule between private parties to the Government.
,
There were such decisions, and settlement, and payments, in consequence of them, a, we have seen. Over
the effect of these the Comptroller of. the Treasury has
no power. They were the acts and duty of the officer in
charge, in the expression of which there was no ambiguity,
and were, therefore, conclusive in effect.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NORTHEASTERN CON-STRUCTION COMPANY.

-

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 122. Argued November 24, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
Decided on the authority of United States,v. Mason & Hanger Co.,
ante, 323.
56 Ct. Clms. 492, affirmed.
APPEAL by the United States from a judgment of the
Court of Claims. See the per curiam decision of April 9,
1923, to be reported in: volume 261, reaffirming the judgment after rehearing.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields 'were on the brief, for appellee.

