32

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Counsel for Parties.

260 U. S.

erty up to the division line, he does so with the knowledge"
that, in case of the erection of a party wall, that part of
his building which encroaches upon the portion of the
land subject to the easement will have to come down, if.
not suitable for incorporation into the new wall." In a
case involving local history as this does, we should be slow
to overrule the decision of Courts steeped in the local
tradition, even if we saw reasons for doubting it, which in
this case we do not.
Judgment affirmed.
INTERSTATE
COMMERCE
COMMISSION
v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. MEMBERS OF THE
WASTE MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION OF NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 245. Argued October 9, 10, 1922.-Decided October 23, 1922.

Mandamus will not lie to compel the Interstate Commerce Commission to set aside a decision upon the merits and to decide the matter
in another,, specified way. P. 34.
51" App. D. 0. 136; 277 Fed. 538, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
-District of Columbia reversing a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the ?District (which dismissed a petition for mandamus) and directing that mandamus issue.

Mr. P.,'J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr..P. H. Marshall, with whom Mr. Ernie Adamson
was on, the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. Richard W. Barrett,by leave of court, filed a brief
as amwus curiae.

I C. C. v. WASTE MERCHANTS ASSN.
32

33

Qpinion of th6 Court.

MR. JusTIcE BANDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In March, 1919, the Waste Merchants Association of
New York filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission a complaint under ยง 13 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 384, as
amended. It alleged that existing tariffs on paper stock
shipped in carload lots from New York Harbor imposed
upon carriers the duty of loading cars; that the carriers
had failed to perform this duty on shipments made by
complainants' members; that these had been obliged to
perform the service at their own expense; and that they
were entitled, under ยง 15 of the act, to allowances therefor. The prayer was that the carriers be ordered to pay,
by way of reparation, allowances for the loading service
and also other damages for violation of law and that the
carriers be ordered to observe the law in the future. The
Director General of Railroads and one hundred and
eighty-four transportation companies were made respondents; extensive hearings w'ere had; the Commission filed
a report embodying its findings of fact and conclusions;
entered an order dismissing the complaint; and on August
7, 1920, overruled a petition for rehearing based on
alleged errors in conclusions of fact and'of law and newly
discovered evidence. - Then, on behalf of the Association
members, this petition for a writ of mandamus was filed
in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. It
prayed that the Commission be directed to take jurisdiction of the claims, to allow damages and to fix the amount
thereof. Upon a rule to show cause, objection was made
to the jurisdiction of the court over the subject-matter;
and the case was heard upon demurrer to the answer,
which set up more fully the proceedings before the Commission. The Supieme Court of the District dismissed
the petition on the ground that the relators, having par'45646o-23__-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

ticipated in and obtained benefits-from the alleged violations of. law, were not in a position to complain. Its
judgment was reversed by the Court of Appeals of the
District, on the ground that upon the facts found by the
Commission complainants were clearly entitled to relief.
The case-was remanded with directions to issue the mandamus. 51 App. D. C. 136; 277 Fed. 538. It is here on
writ of error.
We have no occasion to consider the merits of the controversy before the Commission. That it did not dismiss
the complaint for lack of jurisdiction is clear. It heard
the case fully. It found that the rates charged were not
unreasonable or discriminatory in violation of the Commerce Act, nor unreasonable for the service actually performed, in violation of the Federal Control Act. It found
that the conditions complained of were an incident of the
World War; that the arrangement for loading was a
voluntary one beneficial to complainants' members; that
there was no provision in the tariffs for allowance to shippers who load cars; and that, therefore, such allowance
could not-legally be made by the carriers. The Commission dismissed the complaint because it held that the
petitioners were not entitled to relief. ,Waste Merchants
Association v. Director General, 57 I. C. C. 686.
Petitioners sought in the. proceeding to set aside the
adverse decision of the Commission on the merits and to
compel a decision in their favor. The Court of Appeals
granted the writ. This was error. Mandamus cannot
be had to compel a particular exercise of judgment or
discretion, Riverside Oil Co.v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S. 316;
Ness v. Fisher, 223 U. S. 683; Hall v. Payne, 254 U. S.
343; or be used as a writ of error, Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522. The case at bar is not like
Interstate Commerce Commission -v.Humboldt -S.S. Co.,
224 'U. S. 474, and Louisville Cement Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 246 U. S. 638, where the Coin-

C. & N. W. RY. v. NYE, ETC., CO.
Syllabus.

32

mission had wrongly held that it did not have jurisdiction
to adjudicate the controversy; nor is it like Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
252 U. S. 178, where the Commission wrongly refused
to perform a specific, peremptory duty prescribed by
Congress.
Whether a judicial review can be had by some other
form of proceeding, we need not enquire. Compare,
Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry. Co. v. United States, 257
U. S. 114, 116; Philadelphia& Reading Ry. Co. v. United
States, 240, U. S. 334, 336; Procter & Gamble Co. v.
United States, 225 U. S. 282.
Reversed.
CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. NYE SCHNEIDER FOWLER COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 24. Argued April 18, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A state statute making the initial railroad carrier liable to the
shipper for the default of its connecting carrier, is not lacking in
due process of law if the first carrier is allowed subrogation against
the second, whether the subrogation be founded on statute, common
law, or equitable considerations. P. 37.
2. A statute imposing on common carriers the duty of seasonably
considering and settling claims for loss or damage of freight, under
pain of being required to pay 7% on the recovery and reasonable
attorney's fees, to be fixed by the court, in any case where the
claimant recovers judgment for more than has been tendered him
by the carrier, is not per se objectionable under the equal protection or due process clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 38.
3. Such statutes are to be judged by their application in the particular case; where the result is fair and reasonable, they will be
sustained; aliter where it is so arbitrary, unequal and oppressive
as to shock the sense of fairness inspiring the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 43.
4. In this case, involving numerous claims for loss or injury to hogs
while in the carrier's custody, the amount of which the cafrier

