UNITED. STATES v. LANZA.
366

Syllabus.

New Hampshire, because of low water. In the cases just
cited the transit had begun in one State and was continued through another on the way to a third. This circumstance strengthened the inference that the interruption in the intermediate State, did not destroy interstate
continuity of the trip. But this is not always so, as
Bacon v. Illinois and General Oil Co. v. Crain show. In
other words, in such cases interstate continuity of transit
is to be determined by a consideration of the various
factors of the situation. Chief among these are the intention of the owner, the control he retains to change
destination, the agency by which the transit is effected,
the actual continuity of the transportation, and the occasion or purpose of the interruption during which the tax
is sought to be levied,
Of all the cases in this Court where such movable property has been held taxable, none is.nearer in its facts
than'Coe v. Errol to the case at bar' We.have pointed
out the disthiction between the two which requires a different conclusion here.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
UNITED -STATES v. LANZA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WAS]HEINGTON.

No. 39. Argued November 23, 1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
1. The second section of the Eighteenth Amendment, declaring "The
Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation," means that power to
take legislative measures to make the policy of the amendment-

effective shall exist in Congress in respect of the territorial limits of
the United States, and that, at the same time, the like power of
the several States within their territorial limits shall not cease to
exist. P. 381.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

2. The Amendment did not displace or cut down state laws consistent
with it. P. 381.
3. The Aniendment is not, properly speaking'the source of the State
prohibitory power, but, rather, its effect is to put an end ,to
restrictions on the State's power arlsing from the Federal Constitution, and to leaie the State free to enact prohibition laws applying
to all transations within her limits. P. 381.
4. When the same act is an oftense against both state and federal
governments, its prosecution and punishment by the latter after
prosecution and punishment by the former, is not double jeopardy,
within the Fifth Amendment. P. 382.
5. In the absence of special provision by Congress to the contrary,
conviction and punishment in a state, court under a state law for
making, transporting and selling intoxicating liquors, is not. a bar
to a prosecution in a court of the United States under ,the National Prohibition Law, for the same acts. P. 385.
268 Fed. 864, reversed.

EIROR to an order of the District Court, sustaining a
special plea in bar and dismissing five counts of an -idictinent.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Alfred- A.

Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the briefs, for the United States.
Mr. John F. Dore for defendants -inerror.

AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error by the United States under the
Criminal Appeals Act (c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246), to reverse
an order of the District Court for the Western District of
Washington distylissing five counts of an indictment pre-

sented against the defendants' in error April 28, 1920.
The first of these charged the defendants with manufac-

turing intoxicating liquor, the second with transporting, it,
the third with possessing it, and trie fourth and fifth

ith

havi.ig a still and material designed for its manufacture,

UNITID STATES v. LANZA.
377

• 379

Opinion of the Court.

about April 12, 1920, in violation of the National Prohibition Act (c. 85, 41 Stat. 305). The defendants filed a
special plea in bar setting out that on April 16, 1920, an
information was filed in the Superior Court of Whatcom
County, Washington, charging the same defendants with
manufacturing, transporting and having in possession the
same liquor, and that on the same day a judgment was entered against each defendant for $250 for manufacturing,
$250 for transporting, and $250 for having in possession
such liquor. The information was filed under a statute of
Washington in force before the going into effect of the
Eighteenth Amendment, and passage of the National
Prohibition Act.. (Remington's Codes & Stats., § 6262,
as amended by Session Laws 1917, c. 19, p. 46.) The
Government demurred to the plea. The District Court
sustained the plea and dismissed the five counts. United
States v. Peterson, 268 Fed. 864. No point is made by
the Government in the assignments of error that counts
four and five, for having a still and material in possession,
were not covered by the information, and judgment by
the state court.
The Eighteepth Amendment is as follows:
Section 1. After one year from the ratification of this
article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof ihto, or the
exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited.
"See. 2. The Congress and the several States shall have
concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate
legislation."
The defendants insist that two punishments for the
same act, one under the National Prohibition Act and the
other under a state law, constitute double jeopardy under
the Fifth Amendment; and in support of this position it is
argued that both laws derive their force from the saMe

380.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

authority,-the second sectioh of the Amendment,-and
therefore that in principle it is as if both punishments
were in prosecutions by the United States in its courts.
Consideration of this argument requires an analysis of
the reason and purpose of 'the second section of the
Amendment. We dealt with both sections in the National ProhibitionCases, 253 U. S. 350. The conclusions
of the Court, relevant here,; are Nos. 6, 7, 8 and, 9.
"6. The first section of the Amendment-the one embodying the prohibition-is operative throughout the en-,
tire territorial limits of the United States, binds all legislative bodies, courts, public officers and individuals within.
those limits, and of its own force.invalidates every legislative act-whether by Congress, by a state legislature,
or by a territorial assembly-which authorizes or .sanctions what the section prohibits.,
"7. The second, section of the Amendment-the one
&daring 'The Congress and the several States shall have
coneurrent power to ertforce this article by appropriate
legislation '-does not enable Congress or the several
States to defeat or thwart the prohibition,, but only to
-enforce it by appropriate means.,
"8. The, words 'concurrent power ' in that section do
not mean joint power, -or require that legislation therefinder by Congress, to be effective, shall be approved or
sanctioned by the several btates-or an- of them; nir do
they. mean that the power to enf6rce is divip d between,
Congress and the "several States along the lines which"
soparafe or distinguish foreign ' and interstate commerce
from intrastate affairs.
"9. The power confided tc ,birgi ess by that section,
while not exclusive, is territorially coextensive with the
prohibition of thi fitst section, embraces manufacture and
other ifitrastate tansactiotis as well as importation, exportation and iriterst.te traffic, and is in no wise depend-ent oft or affected by actmion or inaction on the part of the
several States or any of tlhem.'

UNITED STATES v. LANZA.
377

Opinion of the Court.

The Amendment was adopted for the purpose of establishing prohibition as a national policy reaching every part
of the United States and affecting transactions which are
essentially local or intrastate, as well as those pertaining
to interstate or foreign commerce. The second section
means that power to take legislative measures to make
the policy effective shall exist in Congress in respect of
the territorial limits of the United States and at the same
time the like power of the several States within their territorial limits shall not cease to exist. Each State, as also
,Congress, may exercise an independent judgment in selecting and shaping measures to enforce prohibition. Such as
are adopted by Congress become laws of the United States'
and such as are adopted by a State become laws of that
State. They may vary in many particulars, including the
penalties prescribed, but this is an inseparable incident of
independent legislative action in distinct jurisdictions.
To regard the Amendment as the source of the power
of the States to adopt and enforce prohibition measures is
to take a partial and erroneous view of the matter. Save
for some restrictions arising out of the Federal Constitution, chiefly the commerce clause, each State possessed
that power in full measi
"orto the Amendment, and
the probable purpose of declaring a concurrent power to
be in the States was to negative any. possible inference
that in vesting the National Government with the power
of country-wide prohibition, state power would be excluded. In effect the second section of the Eighteenth
Amendment put an end to restrictions upon the State's
power arising out of the Federal Constitution and left her
free to enact prohibition laws applying to all transactions
within her limits. To be sure, the first section of the
Amendment tQok-fx.n the States all power to authorize
acts falling within its prohibition, but it did not cut down
or displace prior state laws not inconsistent with it. Such
laws derive their force, as do all new ones consistent with

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

it, not from this Amendment, but from power originally
belonging.to the States, preserved to them by the Tenth
Amendment, and now relieved from the restribtion heretofore arising out of the Federal Constitution. This is
the ratio decidendi of ourdecision in Vigliotti v. Pennsylvania, 258 U. S. 403.
We -have here two sovereignties, deriving power from
different sources, capable of dealing with the same subjectmatter within the same territory. Each may, without interference by the' other, enact laws to secure prohibition,
with the'limitation that no legislation can give validity
'to acts prohibited by the Amendment. Each government
in determining what shall be an, offense dgainst its peace
and dignity is exercising its own sovereignty, not that of
the other.
that
It follows that an act denounced as a crime by both
national and state sovereignties is an offense against the
peace and dignity of both and may be punished by each.
The Fifth Amendment, like all the other guaranties in the
first eight amendments, applies only to proceedings by the
Federal Government, Barronv. Baltimore, 7 Pet. 243, and,
the double jeopardy therein -forbidden is a second prosecution under authority Of the Federal Government after
a first trial for the same offense under the same authority.
Here the same act was an offense against the State of
Washington, because a violation of its law, aid. also an
offense against the United States under the National Prohibition Act. The defendants thus committed two different, 6ffenses by the'same act, and'a conviction by a court
of Washington of the offense against that State is not a
convi6tion of the diffeient offense against the United
States and so is not double jeopardy.
This view of the Fifth Amendnent is supported by a
long line of decisions by this Court. In Fox v. Ohio, 5
How. 410, a judgment of the Supreme Court of, Ohio was
under review.- It affirmed a conviction under a state law

UNITED STATES v. LANZA.
377

Opinion of the Court.

punishing the uttering of a false United States silver dollar. The law was attacked as beyond the power of the
State. One ground urged was that, as the coinage of the
dollar was entrusted by the Constitution to Congress, it
had authority to protect it against false coins by p'rohibiting not only the act of making them but also the act of
uttering them. It was contended that if the State could
denounce the uttering, -there would be concurrent jurisdiction in the United States and the State, a conviction
in the state court would be a bar to prosecution. in a federal court, and thus a State might confuse or embarrass
the-Federal Government in the exercise of its power to
protect its lawful coinage. Answering this arigument, Mr.
Justice Daniel for the Court said (p. 435) "It is almost certain, that, in the benignant spirit in
which the institutions both of the state and federal systems are administered, an offender who should have suffered the penalties denounced by the one would n6t be
subjected a second time to punishment by the other for
acts essentially the same, unless indeed this might occur in
instances of peculiar enormity, or where the public safety
demanded extraordinary rigor. But were a contrary
course of policy and action -either probable or usual, this
would by no means justify the conclusion, that offences
falling within the competency of different authorities to
restrain or punish them would not properly be subjected
to the consequences which those authorities might ordain
and affix to their perpetration."
This conclusion was affirmed in United States v. Marlgold, 9 How. 560, 569, where the same Justice said that
"the same act might, as to its character and tendencies,
and the consequences it involved, constitute an offence
against both the State and Federal Governments. and
might draw to its commission the .penalties denounced
by either, as appropriate to its character in reference to
each."

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The principle was reaffirmed in Moore v. Illinois, 14
How. 13; in United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542,
550, 551; in Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 389, 390,
391; in Cross v. North Carolina,132 U. S. 131, 139; in
Pettibonev. United States, 148 U. S. 197, 209; in Crossley
v. Valifornia; 168 U. S. 640, 641; in Southern Ry. Co. v.
RailroadCommission of Indiana,236 U. S. 439; in Gilbert
v. Minnesota, 254 U. S.- 325, 330, and, finally, in Mc-Kelvey v. United States, ante, 353,
In Southern Ry. Co. v. RailroadCommission of Indiana,
supra, Mr. Justice Lamar used this language (p. 445):
" Ii support of this position numerous cases are cited
which, like Cross v. North Carolina, 132 U. S. 131, hold
that- the same act may constitute -a criminal offense
against two sovereignties, and that punishment by one
does not prevent punishment by the other. That doctrine
is .thoroughly established. But, upon an analysis of the
principle on which it is founded, it will be found to relafe
only to 'cases where the act sought to be punished is one
over which both sovereignties haye jurisdiction. This
concurrent jurisdiction 'may be either because the nature
*ofthe act is such that at the same time it produces effects
respectively within the sphere Df'state and federal regulation and thus violates the laws of both; or, where there
*is this double effect in a matter of which one can exercise control but n authoritative declaration that the
paramount jurisdiction of one shall not exclude that of
the other."
These, last Words are peculiarly appropriate to the case
presented by the two sections of the Eighteenth Amend•ment. The courL below is the only District Court which
has. held conviction in a state court a bar to prosecution
for the same act under the Volstead Law. United States
v. Holt, 270 Fed. 639; United States v. Bostow, 273 Fed.
535; United States v. Regan, 273 Fed. 727; United States
v. Ratagczak, 275 Fed. 558.

UNITED STATES v. LANZA. 377

385"

Opinion of the. Court.

Counsel for defendants in error invokes the principle
that,. as between federal and state jurisdictions over the
same prisoner, the one which first gets jurisdiction may
first exhaust its jurisdiction to the exclusion of the other.
Ponzi v. Fess'nden, 258 U. S. 254. This is beside. the
point and has no application. The.effect of the ruling of
the cou-t below was to exclude the United.States from
jurisdiction to punish the defendants after the state
court had exhausted its jurisdiction and when there was
no conflict of jurisdiction.
If Congress sees fit to bar prosecution by the federal
courts for any act when punishment for violation of state
prohibition has been imposed, it can, of course, do so by
proper legislative provision; but it has not done so. If
a State were to punish the manufacture, transportation
and sale of intoxicating liquor by small or nominal fines,
the race of offenders to the courts of that State to plead
guilty and secure immunity from federal prosecution for
such acts would not make for respect for the federal
statute or for its deterrent effect. But it is not for us
to discuss the wisdom of legislation, it is enough for us
to hold that, ,in
the absence of special provision by Congress, conviction and punishment in a state court under a
state law for making, transporting and selling intoxicating
liquors is not a bar to a prosecution in a court of the
United States under the federallaw for the same acts.
Judgment reversed with direction to sustain the
demurrer to the special plea in bar of the defendants
and for further proceedings in conformity with this
* opinion.
45646o-23-r25

