ORTEGA CO. v. TRIAY.
94

103.

Statement of the Case.

trict Court below has to punish him when he is brought
to'trial."
The judgment of the District Court is reversed, with
directions to overrule the demurrer and for further proceedings.
Reversed.
RECEIVER OF"
ORTEGA COMPANY v. TRIAY,
JACKSONVILLE TRACTION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 75. Argued October 18, 19, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. Under legislation empowering it to make reasonable and just
rates to be observed by all railroad companies and common
carriers in the State, the Railroad Commission of Florida has
power to authorize a railroad company to increase its fare. P. 108.
2. Section 30 of Article XVI of the Florida constitution, in investing
the legislature "with full power to pass laws . . . to prevent . . .
excessive charges by persons and corporations engaged as common
carriers in transporting persons and property," did not by implication withhold power to authorize increases. P. 108.
3. A covenant to operate at a certain fare, made by the vendee in
consideration of a sale of an" electric -railroad, cannot prevent a
change of fare directed by public authority, acting in the public
interest, under laws existing when the covenant was made.
Affirmed.

from a decree of the District Court refusing a
preliminary injunction and dismissing the bill, in a suit
to enforce a covenant for the operation of an electric railroad for a specified fare, and to restrain the appellee from
collecting a higher fare as allowed by a public commission.
APPEAL

Mr. Herman Ulmer and Mr. W. T. Stockton, with
whom Mr. Geo. C. Bedell was on the brief, for appellant.

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Mr. Peter O. Knight, with whom Mr. John L. Doggett
was on the brief, for appellee.
M. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The case is in narrow compass. Its purpose is to enjoin
the appellee as receiver of the Jacksonville Traction Company, grantee of the Jacksonville Electric Company as
hereinafter stated, and a corporation of Massachusetts,
from collecting more than a particular fare, five cents,
and to compel the specific performance of an alleged
contract providing for such fare.
The grounds of the suit are set forth with great detail
but may be epitomized narratively as follows: The Ortega
Company was in 1910 and prior thereto the owner of,
and operated, a line o electric railroad from the City of
Jacksonville to a point in a place designated as "Ortega,"
in' Duval County, Florida. The Ortega Company sold
the railroad to R. J. Richardson, February 12,. 1910,. in
pursuance of a contract, and March 6, 1911, Richardson
and his wife conveyed the railroad to the Jacksonville
Traction Company. Richardson was at all the times
agent of the Jacksonville Electric Company.
The conveyance, from the Ortega Company contained,
among other provisions, the following covenant: "The
Jacksonville Electric Company further covenants and
agrees that said street railroad shall be operated in such
manner that passengers for a single 'fare of five cents Imay
travel from any point reached by street cars in the City
of Jacksonville to 'the~terminus in Ortega and vice versa,
over the lines ,of the Jacksonville Electric Company, and
the line conveyed by te Ortega Company." And it was'
covenanted ,that "said single fare of five cents shall be
sufficient compensation for a continuous journey either
way, with, such transfers as may be necessary."

ORTEGA CO. v. TRIAY.
103

Opinion of the Court.

The Jacksonville Electric Company went into the possession of the railroad and operated it as agreed upon the,
basis of a five-cent fare.
At the time of the conveyance, the railroad and its
appurtenances were reasonably of the value of $33,157.37,
and the conveyance was made in consideration of the
covenant and a cash consideration of $10,000-less certain
deductions. The cash consideration was of minor import; the principal consideration was the covenant.
At the time of making the contract with the Electric
Company, the Ortega Company was engaged in the development of a large tract of land lying in Duval County
at the terminus of the Ortega line, and the Company sold
the railroad for approximately $26,000 less than its reasonable value upon the express covenant of the Electric
Company to operate the line upon a five-cent basis. The
continued violation of the covenant will deprive the
Ortega Company of property worth many thousand dollars, and will result in irreparable injury to the Company,
"the nature and character of which. injury redress at law
would be uncertain and inadequate, and the damages
resulting therefrom impossible of ascertainment."
April 18, 1911, the Jacksonville Electric Company conveyed the railroad to the Jacksonville Traction Company
and that company went into possession of the road and
operated it in accordance with the covenant.
On October 30, 1919, appellee Triay was appointed
receiver of the Traction Company and ever since has
been, and still is, acting as receiver, managing and operating the' railways and properties 6f the Traction Company, including the Ortega line.
From the time of the conveyance, to the Jacksonville
Electric Company until December 15, 1920, that Company and the Traction Company and appellee, as receiver, successively operated the road on a five-cent basis.
On the
day of January, 1920, appellee filed with the
Railroad Commission of Florida a petition asking that

106

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

the Commission assume jurisdiction of the rates and
fares of the Traction Company and authorize an increase
in them. The request was granted December 2, 1920,
and a,fare of seven cents was authorized and has since
been charged.
The Railroad Commission was created by the legislature of the State in 1897, Laws 1897, c. 4549, and was
required, (by the same law,) to "make reasonable and
just rates of freight and passenger, tariff to be observed
by, all railrad companies and all others engaged as common carriers doing business in this State." The requirement. was repeated by an act passed in 1913, and by the
latter act it was made the duty of the Commission to
make reasonable and just rules and regulations to enforce
the observance by the carriers of their tariffs.
The' only provision of the constitution of the State
dealing with the powers of the legislature is § 30 of
Article XVI, which provides as follows: "The legislature is invested with full power to pass laws for the
correction of abuses and to prevent unjust discrimination
and excessive charges by persons and corporations engaged
as common carriers in transporting persons and property,
or-performing other services of a public nature; and shall
provide for enforcing such laws by adequate penalties
or forfeitures."
By reason of the constitutional provision and limitation,
so much, the petition proceeds, of the legislative provisions above stated, as attempts to confer upon the Commission' the power to increase the- rates and charges of
appellee, is unconstitutional and void, and the order of
the Commission is void and of no effect, and impairs
the obligation of the contract between the Ortega Company and the Electric Company and constitutes a taking
of the property of the Ortega Company without due
process of law contrary to the Constitution of the United
States.

ORTEGA CO. v. TRIAY.
103

Opinion of the Court.

An injunction was prayed pending the suit, and that
appellee be compelled to operate the Ortega line at a
five-cent fare as covenanted, and that the Ortega Company be granted such further relief -as proper and agreeable to equity.
A motion to dismiss the bill for want of equity was
made upon the ground that, under the lawA and constitution of Florida, the Railrpad Commission had the power
it exercised in authorizing the Traction Company to increase the fares and charges from five cents to seven
cents; and that such power, since the adoption of the
constitution in 1885, could not be limited by private contract rights, such rights necessarily yielding to the public
welfare as expressed in the laws and constitution of the
State.
The court took that view and, quoting § 30 of Article
XVI of the constitution relied on by the Ortega Company,
rejected that company's construction of it and decided
that the Commission. could raise as well as lower rates,
and that the Supreme Court of the State had so adjudged.
The court, therefore, denied the motion of the Ortega
Company for a temporary injunction and dismissed the
bill.
There are certain admissions of appellant that are pertinent to our consideration: (1) In the absence of constitutional restrictions, a State has the power to raise or
lower rates of public utility corporations, and may exercise
it through railroad commissions. (2) The power is not
lessened or limited by the existence of private contracts.
The power is considered as part of the contract. (3)
The power exercised to either raise or lower a rate is not
in itself and without more an impairment of the obligation of a contract or the taking of property without due
process of law.
This power, and its exercise, it is contended, is not
applicable to the facts presented in the instant case

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

because, under the Florida constitution, the legislature
is prohibited from increasing rates; it can only lower
them. To support this view of the constitution, appellant presents a somewhat elaborate and involved argument terminating in the assertion that § 30 of Article
XVI of the constitution grants the legislature "power to
prevent' excessive charges by common carriers." And
this, the further -contention is, necessarily means the
power to reduce, not to increase. In one direction -only,
is the contention, may the legislature modify rates, and
"that direction is down." And it. is added, with emphasis, "the power to prevent excessive charges-:-"power
to lower excessive charges-power to reduce excessive
charges--all meafi th same thing." .
The power exercised by the Commission not being possessed, a valid contract, it is asserted, existed between the
Ortega Company and the oth'er companies; and that" the
order of the Railroad Commission increasing the rate of
fares impairs its obligation." And a federal question is
presented "for this court to determine, unhampered by
state decisions."
It is to be observed that § 30 of Article XVI of the constitution was adopted in 1885, that is, prior to the covenant relied on by the Ortega Company, and that also,
prior to the covenant, the Railroad Commission was created and power given it to "make reasonable and just
rates of freight and passenger tariffs, to be observed by all
railroads." The contention if that if the latter act be construed to give a greater power than § 30 gives, che act
is void and § 30 is' only to be considered as constituting
the obligation of the covenant and this court has the
power to construe it "unhampered by state decisions.'
The contontion is direct and we may accept the power
ascribed to us and, exercising it, we say unhesitatingly
that we concur with the District Court that under § 30
and the legislation of the State the Commission is com-

ORTEGA CO. v. TRIAY.
103

Opinion of the Court.

petent to increase as well as to decrease rates. And such,
we think, as the District Court decided, is the effect given
§ 30 and the legislation of the State by the Supreme
Court of the State, although we cannot say that in any
case there. is a precise contrast between the power to
increase as distinguish d from the power to decrease rates,
which is now the poir - in controversy. We think, however, the power to increase as well as to decrease rates is
an inevitable deduction from the reasoning of the cases.,
In State of Florida ex rel. Railroad Commissioners v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 60 Fla.. 465, it was said
that "the Railroad Commissioners have such powers only
as are expressly or impliedly conferred upon them by
statute." But, it was further said, "Authority that is
indispensable or useful to the valid purposes of a remedial
law may be inferred'or implied from authority expressly
given." Applying this it was further said that a "wide
discretion is accorded to them [the Railroad Commissioners] in the exercise of such authority."
In State of Florida ex rel. Railroad Commissioners v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 61 Fla. 799, it was decided
that the difficulty of enumerating all of the powers conferred upon the Commissioners in the interest of the
general welfare made it necessary to confer some m general terms, "and general powers given are intended to
confer other powers than those specifically enumerated."
In State of Florida ex rel. Railroad Commissioners v.
FloridaEast Coast Ry. Co., 57 Fla. 522, § 30 of Article
XVI is quoted, and it was said of it that it was "not a
grant of power to the legislature, nor is it a limitation
upon the power of the legislature, but it is an express
recognition of a power existing in the legislative department of the State government."
It will be observed' therefore, that the Board of Railroad Commissioners is constituted by the legislature and
that the powers are conferred upon the board in general

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

terms to be exercised -in the public welfare, and a wide
discretion is accorded it which is not constrained by peremptory directions. ' The'powers are quasi legislative, the
public welfare being their test and measure. State ex rel.
Swearingen v. Railroad Commissioners, 79 Fla. 526, 532.
There is nothing in the Words " excessive charges" in:
§ 30 of Article XVI, nor. in their context, that requires
the -regulation of the charges to be downward and not
,upward, if the charges auth6rized be not excessive.
Necessarily, therefore, we affirm the action of the District Court; but 'while this' denies the relief the Ortega,
Company. prays against appellee, we do not wish to be
understood as adjudging that the Company may not be
entitled to some remedy for the non-observance of the
contract by the Traction Company. 'See Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Crowe; 156 Ky. 27.
Affirmed.
BRATTON ET AL. v. CHANDLER ET AL., INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COPARTNERS UNDER THE
FIRM NAME OF CHANDLER & WALDEN, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 239. Argued October 10, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
1. A statute must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not
only' the, conclusion that- it is unconstitutional, but also grave
doubts upon that score. P. 114.
2. The law of Tennessee providing for licensing real estate brokers
and salesmen and creating a real estate commission, where it
require and procure" proof of the
authorizes the commission to ",
honesty, etc., of any applicant, before issuing him a license (Laws
1921, c. 98, § 8), does not contemplate that such-proof may be
procured by the commission secretly, without giving. the applicant
notice or opportunity to learn its nature and-source and to meet
it. P. 114.

Reversed;

