146

,OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant.

260 U. S.

STATE OF OHIO EX REL. SENE.Y, PROSECUTING
ATTORNEY Or-TJTCAS COUNTY, OHIO,v.-SWIFT
&,COMPANY ET,AL.APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued October 16' 1022.-Decided November 13, 1922.
Where.a litigant appeals Jo the Circuit:Court of Appeals in a case
involving the jurisdiction of the District Court and other questions,
but confines ,the controversy there to the jurisdictional -question
alonc, the judgment- of the Circuit Court of Appeals sustaining its
own .jurisdiction and 'affirming the District Court is final, and this
Court i~ vithoui power to review it.-Jud. Code, §§ 128, 238;
Judiciary Act of '1891.,, P.: 148.
Appeal to review 270 ,Fed-. 141, dismissed.

'APPEAL from a' decree of the Circuit Court

of Appeals,

sustaining its jurisdiction and affirming a decree of the
District: Court that' dismissed the appellant's complaint
upon'the mierits afti removal ofthe suit from a state
court.

Mr. Allen J. Sqney, 'ith whom Mr. Roy R. Stuart was
on the briefs, for appellant.
The State of Ohio and not the, prosecuting attorney is
the real party in, interest. Valentine Anti-Trust Law,
§ 6400; Smith Cold Storage Law, §§ 1155-13;,1155-19;
General, Code of Ohio, §§ 2916, 11241.
These Anti-Trust and Cold Storage Laws are both
penal statutes. The federal courts do not enforce such.
Montgomery v. PostalTelegraph-CableCo., 218 Fed. 471;
Texas v. Day Land Co., 41 Fed. 228, 230.
The action is brought in the name.of the prosecuting
attorney, solely for the benefit of the State. State ex rel.
v. Railroad Co., 36 Oh. St. 434.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in its opinion, notwithstanding it concluded that there was diversity of citizen-

SENEY v. SWIFT & CO.
146

Opinion of the Court.

ship, found, as: a matter of both fact and law, that the
State of Ohio was the real party in interest and hence the
plaintiff.
The judgment was not final in the Circuit Court of
Appeals because jurisdiction was not dependent entirely
on diverse citizenship. Jud. Code, § 128. Sections 128,
239 and 240, Jud. Code, when read together, give ample
authority to this Court to decide in this case on the
appeal the question that is raised here :-Is the State of
Ohio party plaintiff or is Allen J. Seney party plaintiff?
Jurisdiction of this Court to review the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is determined by an'examination
of the petition for removal. Southern Pacific Co. v.
Stewart, 245 U. S. 562.
Mr. H. TV. Fraserfor appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Styling himself the plaintiff, and declaring that he proceeded officially on behalf of the State, Allen J. Seney,
prosecuting attorney, instituted the original proceeding:
against Swift & Company and The Northern Refrigerating Company, in the Court of Common Pleas for Lucas
County, Ohio. He charged that those companies were
parties to certain agreements and transactions in respect
of stored pork products denounced by the Valentine AntiTrust Law and the Smith Cold Storage Law, and prayed
for an order restraining delivery of the products to Swift
& Company, for a receiver, and for an injunction forbidding further unlawful acts.
In due time, alleging that the controversy was solely
between it and Allen J. Sency, prosecuting attorney, and
complete determination could be had without the presence of The Northern Refrigerating Company, Swift &
Company asked removal of the cause to the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

District, Court. Shortly stated, the petition set up the
following grounds:
1. The controversy is controlled by, and necessarily involves;,the Constitution or laws-of the United States.
2. Defendant cannot enforce, in the judicial tribunals
of Ohio, its equal -civil rights as a citizen of the United
States.
'3. The parties are citizens of different States.
Swift& Company filed the record in the District Court,
and. later presented an answer and cross petition. ITpon
the claim that the cause was not removable and the District Court lacked jurisdiction, the relator moved to remand to the state court on the record as it then stood,.
and neither party offered affidavits or other evidence in
support of or in opposition thereto. This motion being
overruled, he refused to litigate the merits. Thereafter,
evidence was introduced to show that the pork was in
interstate transportation, resting under a storage-intransit privilege, and had never been intended for sale in
Ohio..I A final judgment dismissed the complaint. The
court based its conclusion in part upon findings of an
adequate, affirmative defense..
The relator appealed to' the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where he relied wholly upon the jurisdictional question.
That court said, "The only question now in controversy
in this court is wliether the court below acquired jurisdicofr removal," but ruled that the final
tion
decr-e appealed from involved something more than
jurisdiction, and ststained the appeal. It considered the
three specified groinds for removal,' held the first and
secdid unsubstantial, the third sufficient, and affirmed
the trial court. 270 Fed. 141. Thereupon, this appeal
was taken and the relator again seeks to present the single
question upon which he relied'below.
After final judgment in the District Court, other defenses being waived, the cause might have come here by
direct' -appeal upon the jurisdictional question only

SENEY v. SWIFT & CO.
146

Opinion of the Court.

(Wilson v. Republic Iron & Steel Co., 257 U. S. 92, 96);
but other matters were involved which could have been
reviewed. ie chose to go to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and there assailed the removal and nothing more.
The District Court's jurisdiction depended upon the
substantial grounds alleged in the petition for removal.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Stewart, 245 U. S. 359, 363, 364.
Without traversing the facts alleged therein, the relator
has always maintained that none of such grounds was
good. The Circuit Court of Appeals adopted his views
as to Nos. 1 and 2 (supra) but declared the third--diversity of citizenship-a substantial one. Generally, at least,
suitors may not maintain a position here which conflicts
with that taken below-- and the only point now open, in
any view, is that the claim of diverse citizenship lacks
substantiality. Wilson v. Republic Iron & Steel Co., 257
U. S. 92, 97, 98. The court below, upon full consideration, rejected this contention.
Section 128, Judicial Code, provides that circuit courts
of appeals shall exercise appellate jurisdiction over final
decisions of district courts in all classes of cases except
those wherein appeals and writs of (,-'or may be taken
directly to the Supreme C6urt. 1
See. 128. The circuit courts of appeals shall exercise appellate
jurisdiction to review by appeal or writ of error final decisions-in the
district courts, including the United States district court for Hawaii
and the United States district court for Porto Rico, in all cases other
than those in which appeals and writs 6f error may be taken direct
to the Supreme Court, as provided in section two hundred and thirtyeight, unless otherwise provided by law; and, except as provided in
sections two hundred and thirty-hine and two hundred and forty the
judgments and decrees of the circuit court of appeals shall be final in
-all cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the
opposite parties to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens of
the United States or citizens of different States; also in all cases arising under the patent laws, under the trade-matk laws, under the
copyright laws, under the revenue laws, and under the criminal laws,

and in admiralty cases.

150

OCTOBER TERM 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Section 238, Judicial Code, provides that appeals and
writs of error may be taken from final judgments of the
district courts directly to the Supreme Court when jurisdiction of the court is in issue, in prize causes, cases involving the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States, etc.2
The Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, from
which these sections take their origin; has been uniformly
construed as intended to distribute jurisdiction among the
appellate courts, prevent successive appeals, and relieve
the'docket of this Court. If appellanti in the way now
•attei pted, can secure twb revieWs of a cause wherein he
hs 'presented to the court belo* 'no' controverted question except ' th e jurisdictional one' a ftindarhental purpose,
of the statute will be frustrated. Robinson v. Caldwell,
165 U. S.359, 362; Loeb v. Colunbia Township Trustees,
179 U. S.472,' 478;' Union & Planters' Bank v. Memphis,
189 U, S.71, 73, 74; Carolinaclass Co. v. South Carolina,
240 U. Sg. 305, 318; El Banco Popular, etc. v. Wilcox, 255
U. S.72, 75; The Cailo Poma, 255 tI . 219, 221; Alaska
Pacific Fisheriesv. Alaska, 249 U. S.53, 60, 61.
And we accordingly hold, that -whenever the -suitor
mighthave come here directly from the District Court
upon-the sole question which he chose to controvert in the
"Sec. 238. Appeals and writs of error may be taken from the district courts, including the United States district court for Hawaii and
the United States district court for Porto Rico, direct to the Supreme
Court ini the following cases' In any case in which the jurisdic{ion of
the court is in ,issue, in Which case the question of jurisdiction alone
shall be ortified to the Supreme Court-from the court below for deci.-ion; from the final sentences and decrees in prize causes; in any
case that involves the construction or application of the Constitution
of the:United States; in any case in which the constitutionality of any
law of the United States or the validity or construction of any treaty
made under its authority is drawn in question;-i hd-in any ease in
whioji the constitution or law of a State is claimed to be in contravcnh n of the Constitution of the United States.

151

THE SAO- VICENTE.
Statement of the Case.

146

Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgment of the latter
becomes final, and we cannot entertain an appeal therefrom.
The suggestion of counsel that this Court must have.
denied the writ of certiorari heretofore applied for because
not well founded. Such writs
of the pending appeal, -is
are only granted under special circumstances, adequitely
specified in former opinions. Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co.
v. Wolf Brothers & Co., 240 U. S. 251, 257, 258.
Dismissed.
THE SAG VICENTE.
CERTIORARI

'tO

1

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 279-283. Argued October 3, 1922.--Decided November 13, 1922.
A consul general is not competent, merely by virtue of his office, to
appear and claim immunity on behalf of his government and its
property, in admiralty proceedings. P. 154.
Certiorari to review 281 Fed. 111, and 115, dismissed.

THESE were writs of certiorari, issued upon petition of
the Consul General o .Portugal, for the purpose of bringing up admiralty proceedings described in the opinion.
The writs were directed to decrees of the Circuit Court
'The docket titles of these cases are: No. 279, Transportes Martimos do Estado, Claimant of S. S. "Sao Vicente," v. Tietien & Lang
Drydock Company. No. 280, Transportes Maritimos do Estado,
Claimant of S. S. "Murmugao," v. Maxwell Rose, doing business as
Battery Operating Company and Whitehall Stevedoring Company.
No. 281, Tran.portes Maritimos do Estado, (in personam,) v. Maxwell Rose, doing business as Battery Operating Company and Whitehall Stevedoring Company. No. 282, Transportes Maritimos. do
B.stado, Claimant of S. S. " Murmugao ", v. Thomas De Simone. No.
283, Transportes Maritimos do Estado, (in personam,) v. Thomas
De Simone. -

