COX v. HART.
423

Syllabus.

relevant criminal law applicable tb trespassers, is untenable."
The Circuit Court of Appeals construed the lease in the
same way, and we think that construction is the correct
one. As the three contentions before stated all depend on
a contrary construction they must fail.
The $4.50 rate is assailed as being a penalty or liquidated damages, and therefore condemned by a statute of
the State. We think it is neither a penalty nor liquidated
damages. It was not to be paid for any breach of contract, but as compensation for particular grazing contemplated in the lease and not covered by the rental otherwise fixed;. Whether the state statite could affect a contract made by the United States on behalf of Indian
wards need not be considered.
At the trial it appeared that the additional cattle were
admitted to and grazed on the leased area by one of the
lessees, who had special charge of the operations under
the lease; and there was a conflict in the evidence as to
whether the other lessee consented to or acquiesced in
those acts. The District Court ruled that the conflict was
immaterial and that the acts of the lessee in charge were
the acts of both. Complaint is made 'of this, but it obviously was right. Kendall v. Carland, 5 Cush. 74;
Goshorn v. Steward, 15 W. Va. 657, 664.
Judgment affirmed.

COX v. HART.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71. Argued November 16, 1922.-Decided December 11, 1922.
1. What will constitute possession of a tract of land depends largely
upon its character and condition and the use to which it is

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Counsel for Parties.

260 U. S.

adapted; enclosure, or physical occupancy of every part, is not
necessary. P. 433.
2. Plowing of a furrow around 320 acres of'unoccupied desert land,
posting of a notice of claim, leveling, clearing, seeding, irrigating
and fencing of parts, with some ditch construction, and marking of
.a boundary with stakes, held a takng of possession of the entire
tract and commencement of the work of reclaiming it, within the
intent of the'Act of March 28, 1908, c. 112, § 1; 35 Stat. 52,
anending the Desert Land Law, as hgainst an adverse claimant
who occupied part of the tract subsequently, with notice. P. 433.
3. The office of a proviso is to except something from the operative
effect or to qualify or restrain the generality, of the substantive
enactment to which it is attached. P. 435.
4. The Act of March 28, 1908, supra, restricted the right to enter
desert land to surveyed land, but contains a -proviso that any
qualified individual "who has, prior to survey, taken possession of
a tract of unsurveyed desert land," and "has reclaimed or has in
good faith commenced the work of reclaiming the same," shall
have the preference right to make entry within 90 days after the
filing of the approved plat of survey in the district land office.
Held, that the proviso includes a case in which possession and
work began -before the date bf the act Ao less than cases in which
they were subsequent. ,Pi 434.
5. Public lands lose their status as "surveyed lands" and become
"unsurveyed" when the lines and -marks of the original survey
have become obliterated'for practical purposes and when, for that
reason, 'a resurvey has! been directed by an 'act of Congress.
.P.436.'
270 Fed. 51, affirmed.

APPFAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which adjudged
the appellee to be the equitable owner of a tract of land
patented to the appellant under the Desert Land Laws,
and directed a conveyance of the legal title.
,
Mr. Charles R. Pierce,with whom Mr. John M. Sutton
was on the briefs, for appellant.

Mr. Eugene W. Britt, with whom Mr. George H. P.
Shaw and Mr. William J. Hu2saker were on the brief, for
appellee.

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

427
M

. JUSTICE. SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves conflicting claims to a tract *of 160
acres of land in Imperial County (formerly San Diego
County), State of California. The. facts, so far as necessary to be stated, are as follows:
. About th6 years 1854-1856 the body of public lands,
which jncludes the tract in contr~versy, was surveyed
under the authority of the United States. No settlements upon these lands of any consequence were made
until the year 1900. In the interval the marks of the
survey had so far disappeAred as to render it practically
-impossible to locate the lines which the survey had established. None of the section. or township corners originally
placed upon or in the vicinity of the land here involved
was in place, and it was impossible to determine by reference to that survey in what section it was located.
On July 1, 1902,iCongress provided for d resurvey of
this body of public-lands, by an act (32 Stat. 728) as
follows:
"That the Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby,
authorized to cause to be made a resurvey of the lands in
San Diego County, in the State of Califor'nia, embraced in
and consisting of the tier of townships thirteen, fourteen,
fifteen, and sixteen south, of ranges eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen east, and the fractional
township seventeen south, of ranges fifteen and sixteen
east, all of San Bernardino base and meridian; and all"
rules and regulations of the Interior Department requiring petitions from all settlers of said townships asking
for resurvey and agreement to abide by the result of the
same so 'far as these lands are concerned. are hereby
abrogated: Provided,That nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to impair the ptesent bona fide claim
of any actual occupant of, any of said lands to the lands
so occupied."

430

OCTOBER TERM,. 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

The resurvey thus authorized was made and the approved plats filed in 1909.
. On March 28, 1908, Congress passed an act to limit and
restrict the right of entry and assignment under the
desert land law and to authorize an ectension of the time
within which to make finaI proof (35 Statt. 52). Section 1
of that act is as follows:
" That from and after the passage of this Act the
right
to make entry of desert lands under the provisions of the
Act approved March thid, eighteen hundred and seventyseven, entitled 'An Act to provide for the sale of desert
lands in certain States and Territories,' as amended by the
Act approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninetyone, entitled 'An Act to repeal timber-culture laws, and
fox other purposes,' shall be restricted to surveyed public
lands of the character contemplated by said Acts, and no
such entries of unsurveyed lands shall be allowed or made
of record: Provided, however, That any individual qualified to make entry of desert lands under said Acts who
has, prior to survey, taken possession of a tract of'unsurveyed desert land not exceeding in area three hundred'and
twenty acres in compact form, and has reclaimed or has in
good faith commenced the work of reclaiming the 'same,
shall have the preference right to make entry of such tract
under said Acts, in conformity with the public land surveys, within ninety days after the filing'of .the approved
plat 'of survey in. the district land office."
The appellee" (plaintiff below), during the year 1906,
being- then of age and qualified, ,began the work of reclaiming a tract of three hundred and twenty acres, including the lands here in controversy. Previously, and
shortly before she was of age, her father, acting in her
behalf, had caused a furrow to be plowed around the entire three hundred and twenty acre tract, and had posted
a notice claiming it for the appellee. During the year
1906 appellee caused about eighty acres of that portion of

COX v. HART.
427

Opinion of the Court.

the tract lying east of the lands in controversy to be levelled, cleared and seeded to barley, and ditches for irrigating the same .to be constructed. All the lands at that
time were unoccupied desert lands, within the meaning of
the land laws of the United States. The barley was irrigated several times during the year. After the crop had
matured and during the year 1906 the appellee fenced the
land upon which it had been grown, and also during the
year seeded to barley about 5 acres of the 160 acres in
controversy. This crop however did not mature. Early
in November, 1906, the appellee constructed a head ditch
along the east line of the specific tract in controversy and
did soine work in preparation for the irrigation* of the
south half thereof, and also put up stakes upon the south
half to mark the lines. She also caused borders to be
made along the east line in preparation for the construction of a head ditch. This was the state of things on November 8, 1906, when the appellant put up a tent house
upon the land, established a residence and claimed the
one hundred and sixty acre tract. Appellant saw the
plowed furrows along the east and south sides of the land
and was notified by appellee's father that that one hundred' and sixty acre tract was included within appellee's
three hundred and twenty acre claim. Appellant remained on the tract until he was ejected, in March, 1909,
as the result of a judgment obtained by appellee against
him in a. state court. Hart v. Cox, 171 Cal. 364. Appellint during his occupany ,constructed a ditch one-half
mile in length and did some other work on the land.
Appellant, in July, 1907, filed an application for the
land in the local land iffice, but his application was rejected for the reason that the description was defective.
Later in the same month appellee filed an application for
the entire three hundred and twenty acre tract, but her
application was rejected.
In March, 1909, after the resurvey had been completed,
appellant filed a new application and shortly thereafter

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1922. :
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.'

and within ninety, days after the filing of -the survey plat,
appellee also -filed a new application, both applications
describing the lands with reference- to the resurvey. Decision was rendered in the local land office in favor of appellant. The Commissioner of the General Land Office reversed this decision but the Secretary of the Interior reversed.the Commissioner aid affirmed ihe local land office
in favor of appellant. SUbsequently, on October 24, 1918,
a patent was issued to the-appellant for the land in controversy.
Appellee thereupon bro.ght suit against the appellant
ii" the United States District-Court for the Southern'District of California, and prayed -a decree declaring that appellant held the land in trust and requiring appellant to
convey the legal title to her. That court rendered a decree in favor of appellee and the case was carried by
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where, after hearing, the decree of the District Court
wa affirmed. 270 Fed. 51. The''case is here upon appeal
from the Cireuit Court of Appeals.
The rights of the parties turn -upon the meaning and
effect of-thd proviso tp § 1 of the Act of March 28, 1908,
heretofore quoted. That proviso is, in substance, that
where a qualified entryman has prior to survey'taken possession of a tract not exceeding thlee hundred and twenty
acres of unsiurveyed desert land- and has reclaimed or in
good faith commenced the work of reclaimingthe same he
shall have the preference right to make entry of such tract
within ninety- days after the. filing of the plat of survey
in the local'land office. Two questions are, therefore, presented for solution:
(1) Did appellee take possession of "the lands and reclaim o r in good faith commence the work of reclaiming
the 'same prior to the attempted appropriation by appellant?
(2) Were the lands at the time unsurveyed desert
lands, to which upon the facts the statutory preference

COX v. HART.
427

433

Opinion of the Court.

right to make entry attached? Appellant denies that the
lands were unsurveyed and contends, moreover, that, in
any event, appellee is not within the terms of the proviso
since whatever she did was prior to the passage of the act
which is not to be given retrospective operation.
1.'Prior to appellant's occupation on November 8,
1906, apjpellee had entered upon and exercised and was
then exercising the acts of dominion herein set forth over
the 320 acre tract under a claim of right. When appellant
entered upon the land all these evidences of appellee's
claim and possession were open and -visibleand in addition
appellant was specifically notified that the claim included
the land in controversy.
Wliat will constitute possession of land largely depends
upon its character, condition and the use to which it is
adapted. Here appellee went upon the land for the purpose of reclaiming it from its desert character. The whole
of it obviously could not be reclaimed at once. The
building of ditches, the securing of a water supply, the
plowing and preparation of the land and the planting of
crops were all steps requiring time. Residence upon the
land was not required as a prerequisite to securing title
under the desert land laws. Having in view all the conditions we are of opinion that the facts sufficiently establish
,appellee's actual possession of the entire tract at the time
appellant sought to make his appropriation. Ellicott v.
Pearl, 10 Pet. 412,.442; Ewing v.Burnet, 11 Pet. 41, 53;
Hart v. Cox, 171 Cal. 364; Booth & Graham v. Small &
Small, 25 Iowa, 177, 181; Illinois Steel Co. v. Bilot, 109
Wis. 418, 443, 446. It is not'necessary to constitute actual possession that there should be an enclosure or any
physical or visible occupancy of every part of the land.
As well said by the Supreme Court of Iowa in Booth &
Graham v. Small & Small, "supra:
"Possession of land is the holding of and exclusive exercise of dominion over it. It is evident that this is not,
45646°-23-28

434

OCTOBER -TERM,_ 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

and cannot be, uniform in every case, and that there may
be degrees in the exclusiveness even of the exercise of
ownership. The owner cannot occupy literally the whole
tract,--he cannot have an actual pedis possessio of all,
nor hold it in the grasp of his hands. His- possession
must be indicated by other acts. The usual one is that
of inclosure. But this cannot always be done, yet he may
hold the possession in fact of uninclosed land, by the exerto
.cise of such acts of ownership over it as are necessary
capable, and acquire"
enjoy the ordinary use of which it is
the profits it yields in its present condition,--such acts,
being continued and uninterrupted, will.amount to actual
possession, and, if under color of title, or claim of right,
will be- adverse." That appellee, -in addition to taking
possession of the entire 320 acres before appellant's occupancy, had in good faith commenced the work of reclaiming the same does not admit of doubt. Indeed she had
actually reclaimed more than one-fourth of the entire
area, which included five acres of the tract in controversy.
2. It remains -to determine whether the lands at the
time appellee took possession of them were unsurveyed
lands and whether appellee was entitled to the preference
right granted by the proviso heretofore quoted.
We first dispose of the contention that, even if the lands
were unsurveyed, it cannot be held that appellee was
within the terms of the proviso because that would be to
give the proviso a retroactive effect and there is nothing to
show that Congress so intended. The rule is, of course,
well settled that unless the contrary plainly appear a
statute operates prospectively only. Does the application
of the proviso here proposed contravene this rule?
Prior to the Act of March 28, 1908, 35 Stat. 52, unsurveyed lands, as well as surveyed lands, came within the
purview of the Desert Land Laws (19 Stat. 377). That
act, however, from and after its passage restricted "the
right to make entry of desert lands . . . to surveyed

COX v. HART.
427

Opinion of the Court.

public lands" -and expressly declared that "no such entries of unsurveyed lands shall be allowed or made of record." Then follows the proviso now, being considered.
The office of a proviso is well understood. It is to except
something from the operative effect, or to qualify or restrain the generality, of the substantive enactment to
which it is attached. Minis v. United States, 15 Pet. 423,
525. Although it is sometimes misused to introduce independent pieces of legislation. GeorgiaRailroad & Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; 181; White v. United
States, 191 U. S. 545, 551. Here, however, the proviso is
plainly employed in its primary character. The effect of
the substantive enactment was to forbid the entry of
unsurveyed lands. But the law theretofore had been
otherwise and one purpose of the proviso evidently was
to exclude from the operative effect of the new rule cases
which might have arisen under the prior law,-that is
cases of persons who had taken possession of and undertaken to reclaim unsurveyed lands at a time when the law
conferred the right to do so. Any such person, no less
than one who acted subsequently, is within the words of
the proviso. He is literally "a person who has, prior to
survey, taken possession," etc. The proviso so construed
impairs no vested right and brings into existence no new
obligation which affects any private interest. No reason
is perceived why the words employed should not be given
their natural application and so applied the case of appellee is included. 'Indeed, this does not give the proviso
a retroactive operation. The language in terms applies to
one who at the time of ihe enactment occupied a particular status, viz: the status of a person who has done the
things enumerated. A statute is not made retroactive'
merely because it draws upon antecedent facts for its operation. Regina v. Inhabitants of St. Mary, Whitechapel,
12 Q. B. Rep. 120, 127; United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight As'soiation, 166 U. S. 290, 342.

436,

OCTOBER !TERM, 1922.
Opinion- of the, Court.

260 U. S.

Passing this point, however, it is, contended that the
lands in question were in fact surveyed. It is true the
lands had been surveyed in 1854-1856, but the lines of
that survey by' the -year 1900 had disappeared to such a
degree that fc'r practical purposes they had-become nonexistent. A survey of public lands, does not ascertain
boundaries; it creates them. Robinson V'.Forrest,29 Cal.
317, 325;. Sawyer v. Gray, 205 Fed. 160, 163. Hence the
running of lines in the field. and the laying out and platting
of townships, sections and legal subdivisions are not alone
sufficient to constitute a survey. Until all conditions as to
filing in the proper land office and all requirements as.t6
approval have been complied withhe lands are, to be
regarded as unsurveyed and not -subject to disposal as surveyed lands. United States v. Morrison, 240 U. S. 192,
210; United States v. Curtner,38 Fed. 1, 10. It follows
that although the survey may have been physically made,
if it be disapproved by the duly authorized administrative
officers the lands which are the subject of the survey are
still to be classified as unsurveyed. In other words, to
justify the application of the term "surveyed .to a'body
of public land something is required beyond the completion'of the field work and the consequent laying out of the
boundaries,' and that something is'the filing of the plat
and the appro.vhl of the work of the surveyor. If, pend-

ing such apprval, or, still more, if after disapproval of
the survey, the lands in'contemplation of law are unsurveyed, it is difficult to see why the same result may nof
.follow when the survey originally approved and platted
is subsequently annulled or abandoned bebause the Iinis
and marks established have becomie obliterated. - A purpose to annul or abandon such survey we thihk may be
disclosed by an act 6f Congress directing, a resuvey
plainly based upon the fact of such obliteration.
Turning now to the record in the case under consideiation it appears that the lines ahd marks of the ,original

COX v. HART.
427

Opinion of the Court.

survey of 1854-1856 had for all'practical purposes ceased
to be. This is apparent not only from a consideration of
the record but is in accord with repeated declarations of
the land department., See In re Peterson, 40 L. D. 562,
566, 570, where it is said not only that all the corners
which had been established north of the fourth standad
parallel were missing, but that the survey itself was
"grossly' inaccurate," that in making the resurvey an attempt to retrace the old original survey had failed "and it
is now a physical impossibility to identify on the ground
sections 16 and 36, according to the original surveys ...
All vestiges of that survey have been wiped away." See
also &tephensonv. Pashgian, 42 L. D. 113, 114. In the
land office. contest between the parties hereto for the land'.
in controversy the Secretary of the Interior, although
ruling in favor of appellait, stated that the description of
the land by reference to the lines of the old survey "was
an impossible condition." Hart v. Cox, 42 L. D. 592, 594.
Both courts below reached the same conclusion.
The District Court said: "The evidence of the survey
of 1856 upon the ground in that vast area, covered by said
act had become useless, by reason of the fact that the lines
of the survey were obliterated, and all that was left were
some prominent monuments. This act [the resurvey act]
recognized that the survey of. 1856 was of no practical use
and that the lands were, for all practical purposes, unsurveyed lands. It was impracticable to dispose of these
lands by congressional subdivision according to the survey
of 1856."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, after referring to the
original survey and the fact that no settlement was made
until nearly fifty years later, said:
"It was then found that the marks of the'survey had
so far been obliterated that it was practically impossible
to locate the lines thereof." Cox v. Hart, 270 Fed. 51.
From ,the foregoing.it results and we hold that the
Resurvey Act of 1902 was in effect and intent a legislative

.438

OCTOBER TERM,- 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

declaration 'that the lands therein described were, when
the act was passed and for all purposes of settlement and
sale, unsurveyed lands. With the disappearance of the
physical evidences the old, survey survived only as an
historical event. As a tangible, present fact it ceased to
exist and a new survey became necessary to regstablish
the status of the area over which it had extended as surveyed lands of the United States.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
HEITLER v. UNITED STATES.
PERLMAN v. UNITED STATES.
GREENBERG v. UNITED STATES.
McCANN v. UNITED STATES.
QUINN v. UNITED STATES.
-.ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
-THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

N6s.:-185-189. - Motion to transfer to Circuit Court'of Appeals submitted December 11, 1922.-Decided. January 2, 1923.
1. Under the Act of Septdmber 14, 1922, e. 305, 42 Stat. 837, a case
brought here from the District Court upon: the mistaken assumption that it presents a substantial -constitutional question, but

which involves other questions within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, of Appeals, should be' transferred to that court.
I
'"
, ,
P.439.
2. This statute should be construed liberally. P. 440.

Cases transferred.

APPLIdATIONs to transfer these cases, heretofore dismissed for want of j'urisdiction (post, 703), to the Circuit
Court, of Appeals. For the. opinion of the District Court,
see 274 Fed. ,401.

