151

THE SAO- VICENTE.
Statement of the Case.

146

Circuit Court of Appeals, the judgment of the latter
becomes final, and we cannot entertain an appeal therefrom.
The suggestion of counsel that this Court must have.
denied the writ of certiorari heretofore applied for because
not well founded. Such writs
of the pending appeal, -is
are only granted under special circumstances, adequitely
specified in former opinions. Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co.
v. Wolf Brothers & Co., 240 U. S. 251, 257, 258.
Dismissed.
THE SAG VICENTE.
CERTIORARI

'tO

1

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 279-283. Argued October 3, 1922.--Decided November 13, 1922.
A consul general is not competent, merely by virtue of his office, to
appear and claim immunity on behalf of his government and its
property, in admiralty proceedings. P. 154.
Certiorari to review 281 Fed. 111, and 115, dismissed.

THESE were writs of certiorari, issued upon petition of
the Consul General o .Portugal, for the purpose of bringing up admiralty proceedings described in the opinion.
The writs were directed to decrees of the Circuit Court
'The docket titles of these cases are: No. 279, Transportes Martimos do Estado, Claimant of S. S. "Sao Vicente," v. Tietien & Lang
Drydock Company. No. 280, Transportes Maritimos do Estado,
Claimant of S. S. "Murmugao," v. Maxwell Rose, doing business as
Battery Operating Company and Whitehall Stevedoring Company.
No. 281, Tran.portes Maritimos do Estado, (in personam,) v. Maxwell Rose, doing business as Battery Operating Company and Whitehall Stevedoring Company. No. 282, Transportes Maritimos. do
B.stado, Claimant of S. S. " Murmugao ", v. Thomas De Simone. No.
283, Transportes Maritimos do Estado, (in personam,) v. Thomas
De Simone. -

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Petitioner.

260 U. S.

of Appeals which dismissed for want of jurisdiction
appeals from the decrees of the District Court.
Mr. F. Dudley Kohler for petitioner.
The Sao Vicente and Murmugao were owned and operated by the independent sovereign Government of Portugal and they and their owner were immune from suit
in the United States court.
The immunity of th'e petitioner's vessels is not affected
by the fact that they carried commercial cargo. The
Pampa, 245 Fed. 137; The Carlo Poma, 259 Fed. 369;
The Maipo, 252 Fed. 627; 259 Fed. 367; Briggs v. Light
Ships, 11 Allen, 157;.- The ParlementBelge, L. R. 5 P. D.
197; The Porto Alexandre [1920] P. D. 30; The Scotia
[1903] A. C. 501.; The Jassy [1906] P. D. 270; The Constitution, L. R. 4 P. D. 39.
The petitioner did not waive its rights to immuniy-or
its objections to the jurisdiction of the United States
courts.
There can be no implied waiver of objection to the
jurisdiction of our courts by a sovereign.
The filing of bonds or stipulations in these cases cannot
be regarded as a waiver of objection to jurisdiction of our

courts.

The decisions of the District Court and ttie Circuit
Court of Appeals in these actions are 'and permit apositive violation of the sovereignty of an independent foreign sovereign Government with which the United States
is at peace;' and are in conflict with the decisions of this
Court and with the general principles of the law as laid
down by the federal courts.
The procedure by appeals to the Court of Appeals and
then by writ of certiorari was proper practice and the
petitioner is properly before the Court.
Mr. John M. Woolsey, Mr. E. Curtis Rouse and Mr.
Meyer Kraushaar,with whom Mr. Robert S. Erskine, Mr.

THE SAO VICENTE.
151

Opinion of the Court.

J. Dexter Crowell and Mr. Emanuel Celler were on the
briefs, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE McRYNoLDs

Court.

delivered the opinion of the

-

The above entitled causes are here on writs of certiorari, issued upon the sole petition of George S. Duarte,
who described himself therein as the duly accredited Consul General of the Republic of Portugal in the United
States of America, without more. The petition sets out
the proceedings below; declares, "The Portuguese Government does not intend to avoid its just obligations to
citizens of the United States, but it claims that if there is
any question between it and such citizens they are matters
for Adjudication by the Diplomatic Departments of the
two Governments and it does object to the violation of its
.sovereignty contrary to all rules of international law and
international comity;" and alleges, as one reason for
granting the writ, that "an important question of international law and comity is involved." There is nothing
to show that the Consul General had authority or right
to take any action concerning the matters in question,
except as may be inferred from his official position. Considering the possible international aspect of the controversy, we granted the petition,, and appropriate writs
issued. Counsel have been heard, both orally and by
briefs.
Nos. 279, 280 and 282 are separate proceedings in rem,
commenced in the United States District Court, Southern
District of N ew York, against The Sao Vicente and The
Murmugao, to recover for materials, supplies; work and
labor furnished to them. In each cause, after arrest of the
steamer, the Transportes Maritiinos do Estado, intervening for- its interest, appeafed before the court and made
-claim, averring that it was in possession when the process
issued,. and was the true and bona.fide owner. It asked

154

OCTOBER TERM,
Opinion 'of the CoUrt.

922.
260 U. S.

to defend-accordingly; gave bond for, costs and value; and
secured the vessel's discharge.' Thereafter, the Stea-m6r
answered denying the allegations of the libel, and as a
distinct and complete defense alleged that it was owned
and operated by the Transporteg Maritimos" do Estado, a
Department of the Government of Portugal not subject
#0 suits in c6urts of the United Sta tes. This special de'
fefise was declared insufficient and final deciees Were duly
entered. Appeals to the Circuit qourt of Apljeals- were
dismissed (The Carlo Pond, 255 U. S. 219), that-court
being of opiion that the only contrdverted-p o int -was the
jurisdiction of the' trial Court. ' - 281 Fad."111 and 115.
Nos. 281' and 283 arseparate proceedings / personamI,
commenced hi the- aie' District "Court :against- Transportes iaritimos do Estado, alleged to be a foieigA corporation organized uhder the laws of theReliiblic. of
Portugal, to recover for services, goods, wares and merchandise-furnished to 'is steamers The Cunene and The
Santo Antao. The Murmugao was attached' The respondents answered, 'made'general denials, and, as a'distin6t and complete defense, 'alleged The Cunene and 'The
Santo Antao were owned and operated by a Department
of the sovereign Government of Portugal, and that the
court was therefore without jurisdiction. This :defense
was held insufficient. Appeals to the Circuit Court of
Appeals were, dism'Iissed upon the view thatthey involved
only the question of jurisdiction.
We are of the opinion that the writs of certiorari*were
improvidently awarded and must be dismissed. The Consul General was not party to any of the proceedings below,
and is not competent, merely by virtue of his office, to
appear here for his Government and claim immunity from
process in thenanner attempted. In The Anne, 3 Wheat.
435, 445, a prize proceeding for condemnation, a claim
was interposed in behalf of the Spanish Consul, for restitution 'of the vessel because of asserted violation of the

THE SAO VICENTE.
-151

Opinion of -the Court.

neutral territory of Spain. Speaking through Mr. Justice
Story, this Court said:
"And this brings us to the second question in the cause;
and that is, whether it was competent for the Spanish
consul, merely by virtue of his office, and without the special authority of his governmnent, to interpose a claim in
this case for the assertion of the violated tights of his
sovereign? We are of opinion, that his office confers on
him no such legal competency. A consul, though a publi6
agent, is supposed to be clothed with authority only for
commercial purposes. He has an undoubted right to interpose claims for the restitution of property belonging to
the subjects of his own country; but he is not considered
as a minister, or diplomatic agent of his sovereign, intrusted, by virtue of his office, with authority to represent
him in !iisnegotiations with foreign states, or to vindicate
his prerogatives. There is no doubt, that his sovereign
may specially intrust him with such authority; but in
such case his diplomatic character is superadded 'to his
ordinary powers, and ought to be recognized by the government within whose dominions he assumes to exercise it.
There is no suggestion or proof- of any such delegation of
special authority in this case; and therefore, we consider
this claim as asserted by an incompetent person, and on
that ground, it ought to be dismissed."
And see United States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649,
678; In re Baiz, 135 U. S. 403, 424; Ex parte Muir,"254.
U. S. 522, 532; The Pesaro,255 U. S. 216, 218.
Dismissed.

