346

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U.S.

this. It really is a stronger case, because, as we have
said, here the declaration was consistent with a won
under the law of the State or of the United States as the
facts might turn out. The amendment "nmerely expanded or amplified what was alleged in support of the
cause of action already asserted . . . and was not
affected by the intervening lapse of time." Seaboard Air
Line Ry. v. Rennr, 241. U. S. 290, 293. "The facts constituting the tort were the same, whichever law gave them
that effect." Seaboard Air Line Ry.v. Koennecke, 239
U. S.352,354. See also St. Louis, San Francisco& Texas
Ry.Co. v. Smith, 243 U. S. 630. Of course an argument
can be made on the other side, but when a defendant has
had notice from the beginning that the plaintiff sets up
and is trying to enforce a claim against it because of
specified conduct, the reasons for the statute of limitations do not exist, and we are of opinion that a liberal
rule should be applied.
We shall not discuss at length other points that technically are open but that did not induce the granting of
the writ', such as the sufficiency of the evidence that the
parties were engaged in interstate commerce, the instruction as to assumption of risk, &c. We see no sufficient
reason for disturbing the judgment and it must stand.
Judgment affirmed.'
ST. LOUIS COTTON COMPRESS COMPANY v.
STATE OF ARKANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 120. Argued November 23, 24, 1922.- LDecided December 4, 1922.
1. In determining the constitutionality'of a pecuniary exaction made
under a state statute in the guise of taxation, this Court is not
bound by the characterization of the exaction by the State Supreme
Court as an "occupation tax." P. 348.

ST. LOUIS COMPRESS CO. v. ARKANSAS.
346

347

Opinion of the Court.

2. A state law exacting of persons insuring their property situate in
the State a so-called tax of 5% of the amounts paid by them as
premiums to insurers not authorized to do business in the State, is
void as applied to insurance contracted and paid for outside the
State by a foreign corporation doing local business. P. 348. Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578.
147 Ark, 406, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
in an action brought by the State to recover 5% of
amounts paid by the Compress Company to fire insurance
companies, not authorized to do business in the State, for
insuring its property in Arkansas.
Mr. George B. Rose, with whom Mr. Wendell P. Barker,
Mr. W. E. Hemingway, Mr. D. H. Cantrell and Mr. J. F.
Loughborough were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Win. T. Hammock and Mr. F. G. Lindsey, with
whom Mr. J. S. Utley, Attorney General of the State of
Arkansas, and Mr. Elbert Godwin were on the brief, for
defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMss delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit by the State of Arkansas against a corporation of Missouri authorized to do business in Arkansas.
It is brought to recover five per cent. on the gross premiums paid by the defendant, the plaintiff in error, for
insurance upon its property in Arkansas, to companies not
authorized to do business in the State. A statute of the
State purports to impose a liability for this amount as a
tax. Crawford & Moses, Digest,(1921) ยง 9967. The answer
alleged that the policies were contracted for, delivered and
paid for in St. Louis, Missouri, the domicil of the corporation, because the rates were less than those charged by
companies authorized to do business in Arkansas. It also
alleged that long before the taxing act was passed the

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.Opinion of the Couit.

260 U.S.

defendant had made large investments in -Arkansas in'
real and personal property essential to the conduct of its
business, which it had held and operated ever since, The
plaintiff demurred. The lower Court overruled the demurrer, but the Supreme Court sustained it, holding-that
the statute denied to the defendant no rights guaranteed
to it by the Fourteenth Amendment. .Judgmeht Was
entered for the praitiff ind the case was brought by writ
.
of error to this Court.,
The Supreme Court justified the imposition as an occupation tax-that is, as we understand it, a tax upon the
occupation of the defendant. But this Court although
bound by the construction that the Supreme Court may
put upon the statute is not bound-b the characterization
of it so far as that characterization-may' bear upon the
qiestion of its" constitutional effect. St. LouiSi -Southwestern Ry. Co.,v. Arkansas, 235 U,.S. 350, 362. The
short question is whether this so-called tax is saved -because of dhe name given to it by the statute whe2 t has
been decided in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. ,$. 578, that
the imposition of a round.sum, called a fine, for doing the
same thing, called an -offence, is invalid underothe Foirteenth Amendment.. It is argued that there is a distinctipn because the Louisiana statute prohibits (by jnplication) what this statute pr'mits. -But that distinction,
apart from some relatively, insignificant collateral consequences, is merely,in the amount of the detriment imposed.
upon doing the act. The name given by the State to the
imposition is not conclusive. Child Labor Tax Case, 259
U. S.20. Lipke v. Led erer, 259 . S.557. In Louisiana..
the detriment was $1000. Here it is -five per cent. upon
the premiums-which is three per cent. more than is
charged for insuring in authorized companies. Each is a
prohibition to the extent of the payment required. The
Arkansas tax manifests no less plainly than the Louisiana
fine a purpose to discourage insuring in companies' that

DAVIS v. GIPEN.
346

Statement of the Case.

do not pay tribute to the State. This case is stronger
than that of Allgeyer in that here no act was done within
the State, whereas there a letter constituting a step in the
contract-was posted within the jurisdiction. It .is true
that the State may regulate the activities of foreign corporations within the State but it cannot regulate or interfere with what they do outside. The other limit upon
the State's power due to its having pernitted the plaintiff
in error to establish itself as alleged, need not be considered here. Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400,
414; Cheney Brothers Co. v. Massachusetts,246 U. S. 147,
157; Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 140.
Judgment reversed.
DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
AND AGENT UNDER SECTION 206 OF TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1920, v. GREEN, ADMINISTRATRIX OF GREEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 132. Argued November 28, 1922.-Decided December 4, 1922.
1. A railroad company is not liable under the Federa4 Employers'
Liability Act for an injury inflicted by the wanton, wilffil a(, of
an employee, out of the course of his employment. P. 351.
2. Where the case was tried upon the warranted assumption that the
parties were engaged in interstate commerce 'at the thne of the injury, the defendant cannot be deprived on review of rights under
the federal act upon the ground that such employment was not
adequately proved. P. 352.
125 Miss. 476, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Mississippi, affirming, with a reduction, a judgment recovered by the present respondent in a consolidated action
for the death of her husband.

