16

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

NORTH CAROLINA RAILROAD COMPANY v. LEE,
ADMINISTRATRIX OF LEE
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 33. Argued OctoberT 6, 1922.-Iredcided October 16, 1922.
1. A railroad corporation whose line, while leased to another, was
taken over by the Government under the Federal Control Act,
cannot, consistently with -that act, be held for personal injuries
occasioned by an accident during federal control, under a local rule
making lessor railroads liable for the negligence of their lessees.
P. 17.
2. Under the Federal Control Act, the Government operates a railroad not as lessee, but under -a right in the nature of eminent
domain. P. 17. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S.

5S4, folldwed.
Reversed.

CERTIORARI to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of =North Carolina affirming a judgment against the
.present petitioner in an action for death by negligence.
Mr. S. R. Prince, with whom Mr. H. O'B. Cooper, Mr..
John N. Wilson and Mr. L. F. Jeffries were on the briefs,
for petitioner.
Mr. R. C. Strudwick, with whom Mr. JohnA. Barringer
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BrNDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Southern Railway includes a line in North Carolina which is held under a. Ainety-nine year lease. On
that line an employee was killed in March, 1919-apparently while engaged in intrastate Qommerce. His administratrix brought, in a court of the State, this action for
damages, alleging that the line was then being operated

N CAROLINA R. R. v. LEE.
NORTH

16

Opinion of the Court.

by the Southern as lessee, and that the lessee's negligence
in operation caused the injury. Only the lessor, the
North Carolina Railroad Company, was made defendant.
-Its liability was asserted under a local rule by which a
railroad corporation is liable for injuries resulting from a
lessee's negligence in operation. Logan v. North Carolina R. R. Co., 116 N. Car. 940. The defendant set up
the fact that, at the time of the ' accident, the Southern
system was being operated solely by the Director General
of Railroads under the Federal Control Act, March 21,
1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451. On that ground it requested a
ruling that the plaintiff could not recover. This request
was refused; and the court instructed the jury that, if the
Government was operating the railroad, it was doing so
in the capacity of a lessee and that the defendant "would
still be responsible for the acts and conduct of the Government at the timeit was operating" the same. The verdict
was for the plaintiff; and the judgment entered thereon
was affirmed by the Supreme Court of North Carolina
without opinion. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
255 U.'S. 567. Thereafter, the liability of carriers during
federal control was considered in Missouri Papific R. R.
Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S. 554.
The Government operated this railroad not as lessee,
but under a right in the nature of 'eminent domain. -It
operated through the Director General, not through the
Southern Company as agent. The Ault Case holds that
the Director General alone was made subject, by ยง 10 of
the Federal Control Act, to the "liabilities as common
carriers, whether arising under State or Federal laws or
at common law." To permit an action for injuries suffered during federal control to be brought either against
the Southern Company as lessee, or against the North
Carolina Company as lessor, would be inconsistent with.
the provisions of that act. This is now recognized by the
45646c.--23----2

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Supreme Court of North Carolina. Lane v. Southern
Ry. Co., 182 N. Car. 774; Barbee v. North CarolinaR. R.
Co., 182 N. Car. 775.
.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. WONG SING.'
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.
No. 44. Argued October 11, 1922.-Decided October 28, 1922.
1. Under the Revenue Act of February 24, 1919, e. 18, ยง 1006, 40
Stat. 1130, in order that a person may be liable criminally as a
purchaser of narcotic drugs it is not necessary that he be of the
class who must register and pay special taxes. P. 20.
2. The act, as so construed, is constitutional, within the revenue
power. P. 21.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court quashing an
indictment upon demurrer.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
No appearance for defendant in error.

MR JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Error 'to review the action of the District Court in
dismissing an indictment against defendant in error. The
indictment was in two counts. The first count charged
that Wong Sing feloniously had in his possession, and
under his control, at a specified date, certain derivatives
and preparations of morphine and -cocaine for the purpose of sale and distribution, he 'not being registered
under the provisiQns of the Act of Congress, approved

