GASTON, ETC., LTD. v. WARNER.
199

201

Counsel for Parties.

diction and its judgment was void. In re Gee Hop, 71
Fed. 274; In re Yamashita, 30 Wash. 234.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of
Washington is therefore

Affirmed.
GASTON, WILLIAMS & WIGMORE OF CANADA,
LTD. v. WARNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 59. Argued October 13, 1922.-Decided November 13, 1922.
The Canadian owner of a British ship of a Canadian port made a
contract in New York.with W, a citizen of that State, authorizing
him to offer the vessel for a specified price and agreeing to pay
him a specified commission for securing a purchaser. W introduced
purchasers with whom the owner agreed for a charter and sale at
that price, the ship to be delivered and the price paid at New
York; but, it subsequently appearing that the owner was bound
by contract with, and regulations of, the British Government not
to sell without that Government's consent, which could not be
obtained, the contract of sale was rescinded. Held, That W's contract, made with6ut reference to nationality or location of the ship
or to foreign law, was governed by, and valid under, the law of
New York, and that the owner's disability to consummate the transaction was not a defense to W's action for his commission, even if,
under the British law, the contract of sale was void. P. 203.
272 Fed. 56, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals, which affirmed a recovery by the respondent in his

action against the petitioner for commission on the sale of
a ship.
Mr. Cletus Keating for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph P. Nolan for respondent.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

MR. JUsTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The parties to this action -on December 11, 1916, in
New York City, entered into a contract, the essential
terms of which appear in the following letter from petitioner to respbndent:..
"Referring to our conversation this afternoon, I beg
to advise that you are authorized to offer the steamer
Eskasoni' for sale for four hundred and seventy-five
thousand dollars, $475,000.
"Details as to terms of payment, transfer of steamer,
etc., can be talked over when you have purchasers."
Respondent -was a citizen of the State of New York
and a resident of New York City. Petitioner was a
foreign corporation, organized and existing under the
laws of the Dominion of Canada. The steamship referred to was a British steamship of St. Johns, Newfoundland, owned-by the petitioner. It was agreed that
the respondent should receive- two and one-half per cent.
commission. for securing a purchaser for the ship. Respondent undertook the employment and subsequently
introduced to petitioner two prospective purchasers, with'
whom petitioner entered into -a written contract for the
chaoer and sale of the shipfor the sum mentioned. Five
thousand dollars was paid down on account, :out of which
respondent received two hnd one-half • per cent., or $125.
Subsequently it appeared that the petitioner was bound
by a contract with the British Government to domply
with the instructions and rules of that government in the
operation of its vessels, and whereby it agreed not to
'charter any vessel to anyone to whom that government
should objebt. Among the governmental regulations
then in force V'as one which provided that:.
% "A person shall not, without permission in writing from
the Shipping Co-lptroller,. directly or. indirectly,-and

GASTON, ETC., LTD. v. WARNER.
201

Opinion of the Court.

whether on his own behalf or on behalf of or in conjunction with any other person, purchase, or enter into or offer
to enter into any agreement or any negotiations with a
view to an agreement for the purchase of any ship or
vessel."
Any act in contravention of this regulation was declared to be an offense.
Permission to make the sale in question was never
obtained and the petitioner was notified by its Consul
that such permission would be withheld by the British
Government. The petitioner thereupon refused to consummate the sale and returned to the purchasers the
$5,000 which they had paid.
The respondent brought an action against petitioner
in the District Court of the United States, Southern
District of New York, to r6cover the balance of his commission, which resulted in a judgment in his favor. On
error from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, that court affirmed the judgment of the lower
court, and the petitioner brings the case here on writ of
certiorari.
The District Court declined to charge, as requested by
petitioner, that, if the jury believed the evidence to the
effect that the contract under British law was illegal and
void, this would constitute a good defense to the action.
.Onthe contrary, that. court instructed the jury in effect
that the invalidity of the contract- under British law
would constitute no defense to the action, and directed
a verdict for the respondent, .which was returned in the
sum of $11,750; and judgment was entered accordingly.
The contract, as stated, was made in New York, and it
does not apper that the contradting.parties in making it.
had in view any other law -than that of the place .where
it was made. * It is, therefore, to .be governed as to its
validity and operation by the. law of the Stat of New
York. Bulkley v. Honol.d, 19 How. 390,.392; Scddder v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

Union National Bank, 91 t. S. 406, 412. Tested by that
law the contract is valid. By the terms of the contract
respondent was "authorized to offer the steamer 'Eskasoni ' for sale for four hundred and seventy-five thousand
dollars." Nothing was said as to where the ship then
was, -what flag' she carried nor what law was to govern
the transaction. The contract of charter and sale provided for the payment of the consideration in several
installments in New York City and for the delivery of
the ship to the purchasers at that port.
When, in pursuance of this contract, respondent procured, purchasers for the ship at the stated sum, with
whom petitioner entered into contract, the transaction, so
far a -the respondent was concerned, was completed and
he became entitled to the payment of the stipulated commission. :The fact that the contract of charter and sale
was subsequently canceled because petitioner was unable
to secure the consent of the British Government to the
sale could have no effect upon the respondent's rights.
Ther contract with respondent, as well as the contract of
charter and sale, was made and was to be performed
within the State of New York, and being valid under the
law of that State, the' respondent is not to be deprived of
his compensation sfmply because petitioner found itself
unable to consummate the latter contract by reason of its
inability to perform a, condition made necessary by the
provisions of the law of another country. See Aber v.
PennsylvaniaCo., etc., 269 Pa. St. 384.
Even if the contract of' sale was void-by British law, all
other questions aside, respondent's connection with it was
not such as to deprive him of his commission. His action
was not to enforce that contract, but his own. Irwin v.
Williar,-110 U. S. 499, 509-510.
We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals and it is
Affirmed.

