22

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

JACKMAN v. ROSENBAUM COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENN-

SYLVANIA.
No. 3. Argued October 4, 1922.-Decided October 23, 1922.
1. The fact that a practice is of ancient standing in a State is a
reason for holding it unaffected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
'P. 3L
2. Under a statute of Pennsylvania, following an old custom whereby
Adjoining lots are subject to party-wall servitudes, plaintiff's wall,
which was built to the line, was torn down by the adjoining owner
(being unsuitable for incbrporation in a new one), and a party
wall of reasonable width was erected on the line. Held, that due
process of law did not require that he be repaid for necessarily
incident damages. P. 30.
263 Pa. St. 158, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,- affirming a judgment for the defendant in an
action brought by the plaintiff in error for damages resulting from the destruction of a wall of his building and
its replacement by a party wall, by the defendant, proceeding under a statute of Pennsylvania of June 7, 1895,
P. L. 135, ยง 9.'
'This act provides, for h bureau of building inspection in cities of
the second class.
Anyone about to erect a party wall shall .apply to the bureau,
describing his property and, furnishing plans and specifications of the
party. wall he desires to erect. The bureau then fixes a time for a
meeting on the ground, notice of which shall be served on the
adjoining owner., At'the time appointed, the superintendent of the
bureau, "or some suitable person by him appointed," shall have the
line between the two parties surveyed and also '" the land upon
which the said party wall is to be erected, with the breadth and
length of the same, and which *v ll shall be equally onehalf upon the
land of each of the adjoining "owners, unless the adj6ining ovners shall

JACKMAN v; ROSENBAUM CO.
22

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. H. F. Stambaugh, with whom Mr. Ernest C. Irwin
and Mr. John M. Freeman were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.

The declaration of the court below that the Act o, 895
is a valid exercise of the police power, does not preclude
this Court from determining for itself whether the act,
as interpreted by the state court, violates the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The act deprives an owner of his property without due
process of law, because it affords him-no hearing on the
question whether his property shall be occupied, and
grants no compensation for property actually taken.
',The right given by the act to an owner to occupy. a
portion of his neighbor's land is absolute. The decision
rests entirely with him, no matter how unsuitable or
ruinous the proposed party wall may be to the adjoining
owner, or how strong and just the latter's protest. If the
first owner elects to build a party wall, the requirement
of the statute is satisfied. There is no hearing on this
object that said wall as proposed is thicker than necessary for the
purpose of anr ordinary'building. If such objection shall be made,
then the sulperintendent, or the person by him appointed, shall determine how niuch of said wall shall be placed upon each of said lots and
shall decide the same within forty-eight hours after the said objection has been made, and his decision shall be final and conclusive upon
all parties."
The party first applying shall'erect the wall at his own cost,
which, and the proportions to be paid by each owner, shall be determined by the superintendent, or his. agent; the adjoining owner
shall not thereafter use the wall for any new"structure until he has
paid his proper proportion, as fixed.
The question of necessary alterations and repairs in existing walls
shall also be referred to and determined by the superintendent and he
may order an old- party wall torn down and a new one erected and
fix the proportion of the cost which ,each of the adjoining owners
shall pay. The courts are given power to restrain the adjoining
owner from making any new use of the wall until his proportion of
the costs,; as fixed by the superintendent, has been paid.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1922
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

question, and no official or court may hear or determine
what is fair and just.
If the adjoining owner objects that the proposed wall
is "thicker than necessary for the-purpose of any ordinarty
building ", the superintendent has the discretion to determine "how much of said wall shall be placed upon each
of said lots.", The act does not direct him tQ determine
what would be one-half the thickness of a,wall necessary
for any ordinary building. He can allow any portion up
to one-half of the party wall to be placed upon the adjoining lot. As to what is "any ordinary building," and how
much of the wall he shall allow to be put over ,the line, the
statute prescribes no rule or standard to b6 applied by him
in fixing the rights of the parties. Under the statute, his
decision is "final and conclusive."
There is plainly a permanent occupation and appropriation of a substantial portion of the adjoining owner's
land, for which the act provides no compensation. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U_- S. 226; -McCoy v. Union Elevated R. R;- Co., 247
U. S. 354, 363; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co.,
69 U. S. 557, 565; Fayerweatherv. Ritch, 193 U. S. 276279, 298; Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417.
The police power does not authorize the taking of
'private property without compensation.
Under the act, as construed by the court below, no
question of necessity for the taking, or of the suitability
of the proposed party wall; or of the economy to be
gained by its construction, or of the relative benefit to
the owner who builds and the detriment to his neighbor,
can be raised.
This power is as absolute as the power of eminent
domain. The taking is at least for the life of the building which the first owner wishes to build, and is of a substantial portion of the adjoining property. In the case

JACKMAN v. ROSENBAUM CO.
22

25

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

at bar the foundation is projected 7/2 feet onto the plaintiff's land, extending throughout the entire length of his
lot, and downward 33 feet below the curb.
If the statute authorizes this, it equally authorizes
occupation of a larger strip-a quarter or a half of the
adjoining lot. -Party walls may be built on both sides of
the lot and have an equal width.
In Wilkins v. Jewett, 139 Mass. 29, a provincial statute, providing that anyone building in Boston might set
half his partition wall on his neighbor's land, was held
to be not in force in Massachusetts because of -its unconstitutionality. See also Traute v. White, 46 N. J. Eq.
437; Schmidt v. Lewis, 63 N. J. Eq. 565; Brooklyn Park
Commissionersv. Armstrong, 45 N. Y. 234; Philadelphia
v. Scott, 81 Pa. St. 80.
This is not a case where the doctrine sic utere tuo
justifies the taking or restriction of property rights without compensation. Matter of Cheesebrough, 78 N. Y.
232; Vreeland v. Forest Park Comm., 82 N. J. Eq. 349;
McKeon v; Railroad Co., 75 Conn. 343; Matter of Rapid
Transit, 197 N. Y. 81; Bent v. Emery, 173 Mass. 495;
Parker v. Commonwealth, 178 Mass. 199; Mt. Hope
Cemetery-v. Boston, 158 Mass. 509.
Even when property is destroyed as a nuisance, and by
state officials, the right to a jury trial on the question
whether or not it actually constituted a nuisance is preserved to the owner. Frank v. Talty, 72 Ga. 428; Verder
v. Ellsworth, 59 Vt. 354; Loesch v. Koehler, 144 Ind. 278;
Miller v. Horton, 152 Mass. 540.
Without plaintiff's consent, the defendant came upon
plaintiff's property, which was being operated as a theatre
and rented at the rate of $40,000 a year. The building
was rendered untenantable, became vacant and remained
so for many months. The defendant tore out one side of
the building, erected a dust screen twelve feet back from
the line, and destroyed the plumbing, electric wiring,

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1922;
Argunient for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

decorations, etc., on that side, causing damage which it
-cost nearly $20,000 to repair.
Under the police -power;, the use of property can be
regulated or restricted for the benefit- of the community
at large only, but not in the interest of a private individual or class. Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U. S. 137.
The statute not only authorizes an owner to determine
the use .which his neighbor can make of his property,
but authorizes him to occupy it himself and prevent the
neighbor from using it as he wishes. It confers on one
owner jhe power virtually to control and dispose of the
property rights of another. It creates no standard whatever bywhich this-power may be exercised, i. e., no standard to determine the kind of a party wall, or the conditions
under which it may be erected, or the amount of the
neighbor's land which it may occupy. As this Court said
in the Eubank Case, supra, the statute "enables the convenience or purpose of one set of property owners to control the property rights of others." Cf. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S.'196; Dobbins'v.. Los
Aigeles, 195 U. S. 223; Oregon Railroad & Navigation
Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510.
The act is not a regulation in the interest of the public
*safety, health, morals or convenience.
-An authoritative statement of the history of party-wall
legislation and-its purpose in England appears in Gibbons, Law of Dilapidations & Nuisances, 1st ed., (1838):
"The object of the statute is to prevent fire, and for
that purpose it provides for the more effectual separation
of houses by party walls, and was certainly not intended
to encourage close and contiguous buildings. . . . This
enactment strongly shows that it was not theintention
of the legislature to authorize an encroachment by one
person on the land of another; and the only case to which
the Fourte6nth. Section can'apply is where two houses,
having a common party wall, are pulled down and rebuilt,
and a new party wall built." (P. 110.).

JACKMAN v. ROSENBAUM CO.
22

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In speaking of the statute 14 Geo. III, c. 78, Gibbons
says (2d ed., p. 262), that "It did not confer any authority to one man to build half the side wall of his house on
his neighbour's land." Cf. Traute v. White. 46 N. J.
Eq. 437.
The early statutes in Pennsylvania likewise regulated
the safety of party walls built by mutual agreement and
did not authorize one owner to occupy the land of
another without consent.
Section 9 of the Act of 1895 contains no6 requirement.
as to the strength, thickness or materials to be used in
party walls,*or that the builder do anything to make the
wall safe. The same is true of the earlier Act of 1872,
P. L. 986. These statutes merely authorize one owner
to build a wall partly upon the land of his neighbor.
Other legislation regulates the strength and character
of walls generally to be built in the City of Pittsburgh;
but there is no requirement in any statute that a party
wall be of a different or better construction or material
than any other kind of wall. Cf. Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531.
The act, as construed by the court below, is an unreasonable exercise of the police power. No commonlaw right to erect a party wall partly upon another's land,
without his consent, is recognized in Pennsylvania or
elsewhere. Hoffstot v. Voight, 146 Pa. St. 632; .Shell v.
Kemmerer, 13 Phila. 502; Whitman v. Shoemaker, 2
Pears. 320; Report -of the Judges, 3 Binn. 595 (1808);
Jones, Easements (1898), ยง 641; Washburn, Easemerits,
2d ed., p. 550; Sherred v. Cisco, 4 Sanford, 480; Boch v.
Isham, 7 Am. L. R. (N. S.) 8, note; Pingrey, Real
Property, ยง 250; Sanders v. Martin, 2 Lea, 213; Spalding
v. Grundy, 126 Ky. 510; List v. Hornbrook, 2 W. Va. 340.
In England, there never has been a compulsory proceeding to erect a party wall, where no wall existed
before. 19 Charles II, c. 3; 6 Anne, c. 31; 7 Anne, c. 17;

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1922..
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

260 U. S.

11 Geo. I, c.-28; 33 Geo. II, c. 30; 4 Geo. III, c. 14; 6
Geo. III, c. 27; 12 Geo, III, c. 73; 14 Geo. III, c. 78;
Barlow -v. Nornan, 2 Wm. Blackstone, 959.
Under these acts compensation was allowed to the
adjoining owner for consequential damages caused by the
raising of a party wall. Wells-v. Ody, 32 Eng. C. L. Rep.
560; Titterton v. Convers, 5 Taunt. 465; Reg. v. Ponsford, 7 Jur. Part 1, p. 767; Metropolitan Building Act,
1855, 18 & 19 Vict., c. 122; Crofts v. Haldane, 8 B. & S.
194; Weston v. Arnold, 43 L. J., N. S. 123; Gibbons, Law
of Dilapidations and Nuisances, supra. In Thompson v.
Hill, 22 L. T. Rep. 820, and Bryer v. Willis, 23 L. T. Rep.
463, the existing party walls were not in compliance with
the building act.,
The declaration of, the court below that the act is a
settled rule of property, in Pennsylvania, does not conelude -the rights of the plaintiff under the Fourteenth
Amendment in this Court. This. Court must examine
and determine that question for itself,
The decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
relied upon, was rendered after the plaintiff acquired his
property and his rights therein had *accrued. Kuhn v.
Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349; Burgess v. Seligman,
107 U. S. 20.
A single decision of the highest court of the State is
not conclusive evidence of the law of the State and does
not establish, a settled rule of property which this Court
must follow. Barberv. Pittsburgh,Ft. Wayne & Chicago
Ry. Co., 166 U. S. 83; -Ryan v. Staples, 76 Fed. 721;
Chicago v. Robbins, 2 Black; 418.
No settled rule of property permitting an owner to
occupy the land of his neighbor, without compensation,
can b*el found in the statutes or decisions of Pennsylvania.
Heron v. Houston, 217 Pa. St. 1, is the first case where
one party sought to compel the erection of a new party
wall against his neighbor's protest. The question of

JACKMAN v. ROSENBAUM CO.
22

Opinion of the Court.

damages to the adjoining owner was never decided in the
State prior to the decision in this case.
The statutory right to build a party wall partly upon
another's land is in derogation of common-law rights and
is to be strictly construed.
If it be conceded (which we deny) that the statutes
give an owner an unassailable right to enter upon an

adjoining lot to erect a party wall, still these statutes do
not deny the adjoining owner the right to compensation.
Mr. A. Leo Weil, with whom Mr. J. Smith Christy .was

on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HoImES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The plaintiff in error, the original plaintiff, owned a
theatre building in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a wall of
which went to the edge of his line." Proceeding under a
statute of Pennsylvania, the defendant, owner of the
adjoining land, began to build a party wall, intending to
incorporate the plaintiff's wall. - The city-authorities decided that the latter was not safe' and ordered it to be removed, which was done by the contractor employed by the
defendant. The plaintiff later brought this suit. The
declaration did not set up that the entry upon the plaintiff's land was unlawful, but alleged wrongful delay in
completing the wall and the use of improper methods.
It claimed damages for the failure to restore the plaintiff's building to the equivalent of its former condition,
and for the delay, which, it was alleged, caused the plaintiff to lose the rental for a theatrical season. At the trial
the plaintiff asked for a ruling that the statute relating
to party walls, if interpreted to exclude the recovery of
damages without proof of negligence, was contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment. This was refused, the Court
ruling that the defendant was not liable for damages

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the CoQurt.

260 U. S.

necessarily resulting from the exercise of the right given
by the statute to build a party wall upon the line, and,
more specifically, was, not liable for the removal of the
,plaintiff's old wall. There were further questions as to
whether the work was done by an independent contractor
and as to negligence, on which the jury brought in a verdict for the plaintiff for $25,000; but the Court of Common Pleas held that the party employed was an independent contractor and that the defendant was entitled
to judgment non obstante veredicto. The Supreme Court
affirmed the judgment, holding among other things that
the statute imposed no liability for damages necessarily-.
caused by building suph a party wall as it permitted, and
that, so construed, 'itdid not encounter the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
263- Pa.- St. 158.
,
In-the State Court the judgment-Was justified by reference to the power of the State to impose burdens upon
property or to cut'down its value in various ways without compensation, as a-branch of what is called the police
power. - The exercise of this has- been held warranted
insome cases by what we may call the average reciprocity
of advantage, although the advantages may not be-equal
in the particular, case. Wurts- v. Hoagland, 114 U. S.
606; Falibrook Irrigation District Y.Bradley, 164 U. S.
112; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, 111.
The Supreme Court -of the State adverted also: to increased safetyJ against fire and traced the origin to the
great fire in London in 1666. It-is unnecessary to decide
upon the adequacy of these grounds. It is enough to
refer to the fact, also brought out and relied upon in the
opinion below, that the custom of party walls was introduced bythe first settlers in Philadelphia under William
Penn and has prevailed in the State ever since. It is
illustrated by statutes concerning Philadelphia going back
to 1721; 1 Dallas, Laws of Pennsylvania, 152; and by an

JACKMAN v. ROSENBAUM CO.
22

Opinion of the Court.

Act of 1794 for Pittsburgh, 3 Dallas, Laws, 588, 591, referring to the Act incorporating the borough of Reading.
2 Dllas, Laws, 124, 129.
The Fourteenth Amendment, itself a historical product, did not destroy history for the States and substitute
mechanical compartments of law all exactly alike. If a
thing has been practised for two hundred years by common consent, it will need a strong case for the Fourteenth
Amendment to affect it, as is well illustrated by Ownbey
v. Morgan,256 U. S. 94, 104, 112. See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Barber Asphalt Co., 197 U. S.430, 434.
Such words as "right" are a constant solicitatih to fallacy. We say a man has a right to the land -that he has
bought and that to subject a strip six inches or a foot
wide to liability to use for a party wall therefore takes
his right to that extent. It might be so and we might be
driven to the economic and social considerations that wQ
have mentioned if the law were an innovation, now heard
of for the first time. But if, from what we may call
time immemorial, it has been the understanding that the
burden exists, the land owner does not have the right
to that part of his 1and except as so qualified and the
statute that embqdies that understanding does not need
to invoke the police power.
Of course a case could be imagined where the modest
mutualities of simple townspeople might become something very different when extended to buildings like those
of modern New York. There was a.suggestion of such
a difference in this case. But, although the foundations
spread wide, the wall above the surface of the ground
was.only thirteen inches thick, or six and a half on the
plaintiff's land, and as the damage complained of was a,
-necessary incident to any such building, the question how
far the liability might be extended does not arise. It
follows, as stated by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
that "when either lot-owner builds upon his own prop-

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Counsel for Parties.

260 U. S.

erty up to the division line, he does so with the knowledge"
that, in case of the erection of a party wall, that part of
his building which encroaches upon the portion of the
land subject to the easement will have to come down, if.
not suitable for incorporation into the new wall." In a
case involving local history as this does, we should be slow
to overrule the decision of Courts steeped in the local
tradition, even if we saw reasons for doubting it, which in
this case we do not.
Judgment affirmed.
INTERSTATE
COMMERCE
COMMISSION
v.
UNITED STATES EX REL. MEMBERS OF THE
WASTE MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION OF NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 245. Argued October 9, 10, 1922.-Decided October 23, 1922.

Mandamus will not lie to compel the Interstate Commerce Commission to set aside a decision upon the merits and to decide the matter
in another,, specified way. P. 34.
51" App. D. 0. 136; 277 Fed. 538, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
-District of Columbia reversing a judgment of the Supreme
Court of the ?District (which dismissed a petition for mandamus) and directing that mandamus issue.

Mr. P.,'J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr..P. H. Marshall, with whom Mr. Ernie Adamson
was on, the brief, for defendants in error.
Mr. Richard W. Barrett,by leave of court, filed a brief
as amwus curiae.

