CONLEY v. BARTON.
667

Opinion of the Court.

in use prior to the patents, and, we repeat, the patents
are left without justification.
The conclusion, therefore, must be that if the methods
of the patents are different from the prior art by reason
of the "initial vapor-laden atmosphere by admitting
,vapor as steaiii" the Government does not use it; if
that be not its distinction, and the methods of the prior
art inevitably have it, the patents are no advance upon
that art and are invalid.
Judgment affirmed.
CONLEY v. BARTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE OF
MAINiE.

No. 193. Submitted January 9, 1923.--Decided January 29,4923.
The obligation of a mortgage contract under which the right of
redemption is barred after lapse of one year from entry and
taking possession by the mortgagee to foreclose,, is'not impaired
by a state law, enacted after the date of the mortgage but before breach of condition, and requiring the mortgagee, if he
would sustain such a foreclosure, to make and record, within three
months after its completion, an affidavit of the facts. P. 680.
119 Me. 581, affirmed.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Maine, affirming a judgment for the plaintiff in a suit to
redeem property from a mortgage foreclosure.
Mr. F. A. Hegarty and Mr. J. B. Fiynn .fxr plaintiff,
in error.
Mr. Frank H. Haskell for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Suit to redeem from a mortgage which was executed by
defendant in error to one George W. Towle to secure his

678

OCTO3ER TERPM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U, S.

promissory note for the payment to Towle-of the sum of
$2000and interest. The note and mortgage were dated
.
October 14, 1905.
On February 20, 1919, a breach of the mortgage was
coimitted and .the holder of it, under the laws of the
State, foreclosed it by taking possessidn of the mortgaged
premises and duly-recorded a certificate of the fact in the
Registry of Deedsof the proper county.
The bill as originally drawn was based upon an alieged
effort to redeem the mortgaged premises by payment of
the amount due upon the-not6-and-mortgage before the
time: of redemption expired, in which effort, plaintiff
alleges he failed by the absence of Conley from his residence and place of business.
Plaintiff (defendant in error), however, amended his
bill to read as follows: "-The" plaintiff further alleges that
more than three months have elapsed since the expira-.
ti on of one'year from-the time when the legal representatives" of the mortgagee of the mortgage described in the
plaintiff's bill, took possession of the mortgaged property
fo.)the p.urpose of foreclosing said mortgage but neither
the mortgagee-nor the holder of record of said mortgage,
nor the legal- representative or legal representatives, of
either the mortgagee or holder of record of said mortgage
nor any other person, has'signed and sworn to an affidavit
as required in cases. of foreclosure of mortgages of real
estate by Section 4 of ChApter 95 of the Revised Statutes
of Maine as amended by Chapter 192 of the Public Laws
"of A. D.-1917, and no such ffidavit has been .recorded in
the Registry of Deeds where the certificate of said foreclosure is recorded, as required by said statute, and these
facts were not known to the plaintiff at the time of filing
his said bill as said three mpnths had not elapsed at the
time of filing said bill."
Plaintiff in, error;. answering -the amendment, alleges
that c. 192 of the.Public Laws of 1917 "has no applica-

CONLEY v. BARTON.
677

Opinion of the Court.

tion and, no relevancy to the plaintiff's [defendant in
error's] rights or cause of action herein," and that if it
be claimed that such chapter grants any additional timebeyond the one year as covenanted in the mortgage
deed, the act "would be contrary to the provisions of
Section 10 of the Constitution of the United States and
to the covenant of -the mortgage deed itself, and, therefore, void and of no effect." An estoppel was also pleaded.
The mortgage contained a provision by which the mortgagor ,covenanted with the mortgagee that the right to
redeem the mortgaged premises should be forever foreclosed in one year next after the commencement of foreclosure by any of the methods then provided by law, and
one of the methods provided *was entry into possession
of the mortgaged premises and holding the same by consent in writing of the mortgagor, or the person holding
under him.
It is, however, provided by c. 192 of the Public Laws,
of 1917, that possession so obtained (or by any other of
the three modes provided)" and continued for one year"
will "forever foreclose the right of redemption," provided however, "that an affidavit signed and sworn to by
the mortgagee or by the holder of record of the mortgage,
or their legal representatives, is, within three months after
the expiration of one year- from the taking of such possession, recorded in the registry, of deeds where the certificate of foreclosure is recorded; . .
On February 20, 1919, a breach of the mortgage having
been committed, the holder of the mortgage assigned it
to the plaintiff in error, Conley, but two years before that
time the act providing for the filing of the affidavit as
above stated, was passed and its effect is the principal
controversy in this case. Defendant in error urges it to
sustain his right to redemption; plaintiff in error asserts
that it is inapplicable, and contends that if held applicable, it is invalid as impairing the obligation of his contract, the mortgage.

680 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion df the Court.

260 U. S.

The-trial court-decided that the provision was applicable and valid. These conclusions were affirmed by the
Supreme Court. 119 Me. 581. "There can be no doubt,"
the Supreme Court said, "that the amendment by its
terms relates to all foreclosures begun after its passage
ificluding foreclosures of prior existing mortgages." In
'reply to the contention that the statute impairs the obligation of the contract constitutedby the mortgage "by
extending the foreclosure period for three months after
the expiration of the year," it was said: "But the statute
does not extend the foreclosure period. In effect it im-poses a condition which the mortgagee must perform or
be held to have waived his foreclosure. He may perform
the condition at once on the expiration of the year or at
his option at any time within- three months.. If the affidavit is seasonably recorded the foreclosure is complete
at the efid of the year. If not; it is invalidated."
By a rescript by one of the Justices the case is given a
clearer definition. .Chapter 192 of the laws, it was decided, requires a mortgagee within "thirty days" after
completion of foreclosure to record in the Registry of
Deeds an affidavit setting forth the. facts and that the
affidavit is made the-condition upon which the validity of
the foreclosure- depends. And further, that it applied to
mortg4ges dated before 1917 and which contain a oneyear foreclosure covenant, which the court denominated
"the familiar form." The conclusion was tha4, such
"foreclosure clause ".was. "not such a contract as is contemplated and frotected by the constitution." And fur-ther that the act related to the remedy for the enforcement of rights, and that while an act may not so far affect
the remedy as tojimpair the obligation of a contract, the
test in such case "is whether. the -value of the contract is
lessened and whether a substantial and efficacious remedy,
remains." It was decided that. the act sustained the test.
The basic principles thad d&trmind this case, are elementary. The obligation of a c6ntract can not be irn-

CONLIEY v. BARTON.
677

Opinion of Ilie Court.

paired by a law passed after the contract was, entered into,
and the remedy for enforcciment of the coiftract inay be
so far a part of it as to be within the principle that protects it. But the remedy may not have that intimacy of
relation and a regulation or change of. it may not impair
ifs efficiency or lessen the obligation of the contract.
It is recognized that the legislature may modify or
change existing remedies or prescribe new modes of procedure without imnpairing the obligation of. contracts if a
substantial or efficacious remedy remains or is given, by
means of which a party can enforce his rights under the
contract. Oshkosh WFaterivorks Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S.
4:37; Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 IT. S. 118. These cases are
cOmplementary. In the-firsi, an alteration of the remedy
was sustained; in the second, the remedy was adjudged
so intimate in its relation to the contract as to be within
its obligation and immunity from change. rThe first, is
the reliance of defenclant in error; the second of plaintiff
in error. Our inquiry, therefore, is, which determines the
case at bar?
'The statute in execution of the 1urpose of tie State,
enjoins a duty upon the mortgagee, the effect of the nonperformance of which the mortgagor may avail of. In
other words, the duty not perorme(l, the attempt at foreclosure is null and void, anid necessarily, therefore, it is
j.( impediment to re(delmlption (if th( mortgage by the
mortgagor. It loes not withhold possession of the premises for a single (lay, nor does it defeat the eflicacy of possession as foreclosure. And we have seiin, qlie Supreme
(Court of the Strate, passing upon it, decided that compliance with it does inot involve any delay. T'l e mortgagee
may perform the condition at once or at his option any
time within t hrye moniths. It, therefore, mnly imposes a
(1)I1litin, easily coml)lied witlh, whic.h the law-, for its
)uriml)Oses, re(luir'es. Anid thie eonditioe was required, and
its purpose dlared
lbg iefor( plarintill in error's atemipt. at. foreclosire.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

682

Statement of the Case.

260 U. S.

We think it would be extreme to hold that this is out-"
side -of the power of the State over remedies; and the law
of the State has precedents of justification in Vance-v.
Vance, 108 U. S. 514; Curtis v. Whitney, 13 Wall. 68.
Dccree affirmed.
LEITH ELLIS & COMPANY v. DAVIS, AS AGENT,
,
&c.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
•CIRCUIT.

No. 246. Argued January 18, 19, 1923.-Decided January 29, 1923.
1. Section 206- (a) of the Transportation Act, providing that actions
1gainist th6 agent designated by the President shall be brought
not later than two years from the passage. of the act, did not
set aside a shorter limitation provided in existing bills of lading.

P. 688.
2. A stipulation in a bill of lading that actions for loss, damage
or delay shall be instituted only within two 'years and one day
after delivery of the goods, or in case of failure to make delivery,
then within two.years and one day after a reasonable time for
delivery has elapsed, is reasonable -and valid. P. 689.
'3. A decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission that such a
stipulation was unreasonable, held not binding in this case. P. 689.
" 4. Th jonableness of such a limitation is a matter of law.

P.'684"
5' When not affected by Gtpfute, a limitation prescribed by contradt RiMe the above, applies to the action which is prosecuted
to fudgment and is not -xtended by the bringing of a previous
action.

-P. 6S9.

6. An apeement limiting the time f6Tr bringing actions against the
carrieI ' for loss, daI'age or delay" of goods shipped, applies to
claims tnat the goods delivered were short of the weight specified
in the bills of lading. P. 689.
276 Fed. 400, affirmed.'

ERROL. to a judgment affirming a judgment of the District Court dismissing the petition in an action by the

