OCTOBER TEPRM; 1922.
Statement of"the Case.

260 U. S

UNITED STATES v. LANE ET A.
UJNTED- STATES v. GULF REFINING COMPANY
I
OF LOUISIANA.
UNITED ' sTATES v. SOUTHWESTERN _GAS &
ELECTRIC COMPANY ET AL.,
UNITED STATES v, GULF REFINING COMPANY
OFLOUISIANA.,
UNITED ST ATES v. GREENE ET AL.
APPEALS FROM, THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 'FOR THE
IFTH: CIRCUIT.

UNITED STATES v. LOUCKS ET AL.i+,

-

I

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT-,OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH, CIRCUIT.
Nos. 160, 163, 162, 161, 192 and 191. Argued January 2,' 3, 1923.Decided January 22, 1923'.
,
Lots patented under the 'public land laws according to a plat showing them bordering on a lake, extend to the water as a boundary
and embrace pieces of land found between it and the meander line
of the survey, where the failure to include such pieces withih the
meander was not due to fraud or mistake but was consistent with
a reasonably accurate survey, considering the areas included and
excluded, the difficulty of surveying them when the survey was
made and their value at that time. P. 664.
274 Fed. 290, and 145, affirmed.

APPEALS and certiorari to review decrees of the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversing decrees of the District Court
favorable to the United States in suits asserting title to
,several parcels of land in Louisia.Aa.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck was on the briefs; for the United
States.

UNITED STATES v. LANE.
662

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. S. L. Herold, with whom Mr. J. A. Thigpen, Mr.
R. P. Lee, Mr. Hampden Story, Mr. J. D. Wilkinson and
Mr. R. L. Batts were on the briefs, for appellees in Nos.
160, 163, 162 and 161, and respondents in No. 191.
Mr. Elias Goldstein, with whom Mr. I. C. Walker, Jr.,
Mr. S. M. Cook, and Mr. Hampden Stoiy were on the
brief, for appellees in No. 192.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These suits involve claims of title on the part of the
United States, hereinafter called the plaintiff, to various
parcels of land lying along the border of Ferry Lake, a
navigable body of water in Caddo Parish, Louisiana.
Answering these claims, the defendants in the respective
cases averred that plaintiff, long before the bringing of
the suits, had conveyed by patents to private persons
certain fractional subdivisions bordering on the lake; that
these fractions were represented on the official plat of
the government survey, made by one Warren in 1839 and
duly approved and filed, as bounded on the lake side by
the waters of the lake; that in each of the cases the land
in controversy was[ a small tract, lying along the edge of
the lake and constituting part of the particular fractional
subdivision so conveyed; and that consequently, plaintiff
had divested itself of whatever title it originally had.
Certain alternative defenses, based upon the alleged
ownership of the lands .by the State of Louisiana, were
pleaded, but, in view of the conclusions we have reached,
it is itot necessary to consider them. The District Court
entered decrees for the plaintiff which the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed (274 Fed. 145, 290), and the cases
are here upon appeal except the Loucks case, which comes;
on certiorari. The foregoing averments of fact contained
in the answers are established by the record.

664

OCTOBER TERI ;1922.:
Opinion of "the Court.

260 U. S.

In 1916-1917, nearly eighty 'years 'after the -Warren
survey-the lands in the meantime having become valuable for their deposits of oil and gas-:-a -new survey was
made under, the direction of the General Land Office.
This survey shows that the line run by'Warren, purporting to meander the shole of the lake, did not in all istances coincide precisely with the/water's edge.' In the,
four cases first named in the title, the parcels of land
lying:between the, meander line and the lake are, of sniall.
extent. The meander line throughout its length approximately conforms to the sinuosities of the shore, sometines; however, runmng for short distances inland and
sometimes for short distances into and through the water.
In the -first mentionedsuit the Warren survey indicates a
fradtional-subdivision containing 26.80 acres, the new survey -' dds 5.67 acres. In the second :Suitthe Warren' survey-indicates 23 acres, the new sIurvey adds 12.72 acres.
In the thi"d suit the Warren survey indicates 155 acres,
the new survey adds"27.87--adres. 'Iii the fourth 'suit the
Warredn stirvekr indicates 114.80 ar6s, :and the nlewi survey
adds 11.49 acres.'
Thb lands in question are all'in township twenty; the
first mentioned being in section 3, the second in' section
10, the- third. in section 13 and the - last in section -24.'
Folloying the meander line of the' Warren survey the
distance from the -first of these tracts to'the last is'aboiit
large tractI
five miles. Leaving' out, of- considration the
involVed in Prbducers Oil Co. v. Hanzen, 238 U. S. 325,
and the ,large tract involved in Jeems BaygoI Fishing &
Hnting Club v. United.States, ante, 561,'the aggregate
of 'th& various parcels lying outside the meander 'line is
about 70 acres, and the aggregate' of -the various 'areas of
water included within the meander line is about :44 acres.
-The
facts bring the cases fairly within the rule announced
byithis Court in Mitchell v. Smale,.140 U. S. 406, and not
within the exception, whichl was followed in the Jeems

UNITED STATES v. LANE.
662

Opinion of the Court.

-Bayou Case. So far as the instant cakes are concerned,
there is nothing in the circumstances to suggest the conelusion that any fraud was committed or palpable mistake
made by Warren. At the time of his survey the lands
were of such little value, the locality so wild and remote,
and the attendant difficulties so great that the expenditure of energyand money necessary to run the lines with
minute regard to the sinuosities of the lake would, have
been quite out of proportion to the gain. We are of
opinion that the survey of 1839, except as to the two
large tracts just mentioned, is not open to challenge.
The precisely accurate survey of 1916-1917 would probably never have been made but for the greatly increased
value of the lands due to the discovery of oil and, gas
therein. It is unr~ecessary to do more than quote the
language of this Court in Mitchell v. Smale, supra, 413:
"The pretence for making such surveys, arising from
the fact that strips and tongues of land are found to project into the water beyond the meander line run for the
purpose of getting its general contour, and of measuring
the quantity to be paid for, willalways exist, since such
irregular projections do always, or in most cases, exist.
The difficulty of following the edge or margin of such projections, arid all the various sinuosities of the water line,
is the very occasion and cause of running the meander
line, which by its exclusions and inclusions of such irregularities of contour produces an average result closely approximating to the truth as to the: quantity of upland
contained in the fractional lots bordering on the lake or
stream, The official plat made from such survey does
not show the mander line, but shows the general form of
the lake deduced therefrom, and the surrounding fractional lots adjoining nd bordering on the same. The
patents when issued refer to this plat for identification of
the lots conveyed, and are equivalent to and have the
legal effect of a declaratioZ that they ext6nd to and are

666

OCTOfBER TERIM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

-

260 U. S.

bounded by 'the lake or -stream.- Sucb lake or"'st'eam
itself, as a natural objectbr monurilent, is virtually aid
_truly one of the €cs' of' 'the descriptioh 6r bbundary of
th6 premises ' conveyed; and ailthe legal consequences of
, dh a boundary, in the mtter of ripariai 4ights and
title
-to land- under w.ter, regularly follow."'
''Whilethe facts'are somewhat'different and-'the extent
of the 'Omission somewhat 'greater,we think the general
rul should, likewisbe be 'applied in the remainihgtwo
cases." The Warren' survey- aid plat here indicate an'Area
of'abdut 271 abres in th-eractional subdivisions 'coinveyed.
The lands added byt the nhew survey constitute a compact
bord' "of 97.64 acre.-65. 77' acres of which are involved
'inthe Gieene case and "14.13 acres in the Loucks easehaving'the outline .Qfa long and ratfher irregular citYsdent,
with-the outer - curve' next to'the water. The inner
boundary, ruihing betweefi the 'two points of the crescent, is made up of 'a series of straight lines, with intervening angles .onidrfilihg to the outlying curve 'only to
a-roughly approximhte degree. -'The length- of the' frac
is'
nearly 4,000 feet and the ektrem width -about''1,200
feet., Running back from the shoi'e there 'are nuiuiero s
ravines, creating, m-and 'aongdthe 6uter rin of the traet.
,aseries of alernatiini points and identations.' ThW'evidence justihies the condusion tht 2n'1839, ,endesp6ecially
-inl-time of high water reaching bick into'the ravin"s;'the

-establishment" of a' line precis e' oinelidit ''with' the
water's .edge ',would have been a-'-mat-te- of expense and
difficulty wholly dispropor-tionate -to''fh then value'of the
om6itted acreage. As inthe four....s first cis',cussec( the_
Warren plat of the survey referrd t-in the patent repre-sentsthe'lake as the boundary.- The urvey;'takenr as a
whole, with the 'exception of two la~ge tracts already
meitioned,' follows with a fair' 'degiee of accuradr the
eontour'of' the lake -and the evident purpose -*as to in'lude in it all the land to the Water's edge., - Considering

FOLEY v. UNITED STATES.
662

Syllabus.

"

the circumstances in respect of the character and value of
the lands, the wildness and remoteness of the region and
the difficulties surrounding the work of .the surveyors,

the failure to run the lines with more particularity was
not unreasonable and we are constrained to agree with
the lower court in holding that the waters of the lake and
not the traverse line constitute the boundary.

The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals in all the
cases are, therefore,

Affirmed.

FOLEY, ADMIINISTRATRIX OF GATHMANN, vi
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL VROM1 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 203. Argued January 12, 1923.-Decided January 29, 1923.
1. G wrote to the Navy Department, with respect to his invention
for drying materials, that, in consideration of the Department's
building a testing apparatus at its own e-xpense, he gave it the
option of using the method, if it found it to its advantage, by
paying so much for each pound of material so dried. The Department accepted the proposition, saying that it had ordered an
experimental apparatus on G's plan, which would be tested and,
if it worked satisfactorily to the Bureau of Ordnance, would pay
him as proposed. After the test, the Bureau notified G that the
test proved unsatisfactory and was abandoned. Held:
(a) Not a contract that the Department would use the method, but
an option, or at most a conditional obligation subject to be terminated by the Department when the test proved unsatisfactory.
P. 675.
(b) By remaining silent and inactive for five years after receiving
notice from the bureau that the relations between them were
terminated, G acquiesced.. P. 675.
2. Patents 763,3S7 and 763,3S8, issued to Gathmann, for a miethod
of drying materials, with the aid of a "vaporous atmosphere"
were either anticipated, or not infringed, by the "closed-circuit
method" used by the Government in this case for drying smokeless
powder. P. 676.
56 Ct. Clms. 303, affirmed.

