532

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

-STOCKLEY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT ;OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.-

No. 74. Argued November 20, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. Sectioh 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891; c. 561, 26 Stat. 1099, applicable'to homestead and other entries, provides that, after the lapse
of two years from the date of the issuance of " the receiver's receipt upon the final entry," when no contest or protest against
the validity of the entry shall be pending, the entryman shall be
entitled to a patent conveying the land entered, and the same shall
be issued to him. Held:
(a) That the limitation began to run when a homesteader submitted
his final proofs, paid the fees and commissions then, due, and obtained the receiver's receipt therefor, although the proofs were not
passed upoii and no register's certificate was issued. P. 537.
(b) The original meaning of the statute- in this regard cannot be
altered to suit an altered practice of the Land Department whereby
examination of proofs and issuanie of register's certificate are
postponed when receiver's receipt issues, instead of issuing the
certificate and th6 receipt together, as was customary when the
statute-was enacted. P. 538.
(c) The statute applies even though the receipt was issued contrary
to the instructions of the Comnissioner of the General Land Office.
P. 541.

(d) When the period of the statute has run in favor of a homestead
entry, the question whether the land was mineral in character is
no longer open. P. 543.
2. Where an order of the Pxesident withdrew a body of public lands
from all forms of appropriation "subject to existing valid claims ";
an existing-preliminary homestead entry, attended by compliance
with the requirements of the homestead. law up to the time of the
order, was within the exception, and when followed, aftei' the
withdrawal, by the issuance of aireceiver's receipt upon final entry,
and the lapse of two years thereafter, was protected under the
Act of 1891, supra, from attack under a subsequent protest alleging that the land entered was mineral. P. 543.
271 Fed. 632, reversed.

STOCKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
532

&rgument for the United States.

AYrra from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which ordered
that possession of a tract of land be restored to the United
States with damages for oil and gas extracted from it.
Mr. S. L. Herold, with whom Mr. R. L.. Batts and Mr.
D. Edward Greer were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for the United
States.
The receipt issued in this case was not a receiver's
receipt upon final entry within the meaning of the proviso in § 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1099.
This question was not involved in Lane v. Hoglund,
244 U. S. 174, and Payne v. Newton, 255 U. S; 438.
It is irm.portant to note the limitations imposed by the
General Land Office on the register and receiver by
instructions of December 15,. 1908, allowing receipt of
applications and proofs touching claims antedating the
withdrawal, but forbidding receipt of the purchase money
or issuance of final certificate, pending investigation, during which entries and proofs were to be susp nded.
The proviso in § 7 can never become operative and the
two-year period does.not begin to run until after the
register and receiver in :fact pass upon the final proofs
and issue a receiver's receipt, if the proof is found regular
in all respectS.
Obviously, the first inquiry'-is to ascertain the commonly accepted meaning of the words "receiver's receilt" when Congress passed the Act of March 3, 1891,
and the prevailing practice of the Land Office at that time
in the issuance of patents.
The duties of the register and receiver are -rescribed
by statute and regulations, and call for the exercise of
judgment. Circular of October 21, 1878, Copp's Pub.
Land Laws, 1415; Instruction September 17, 1883, 2

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

260 U. S.

L. D. 199. This Court has recognized that they -mustexercise judgment and discretion. In.Parsons v. Venzke,
164 U. S 89, 92, it is said: "Whenever the local land
officers approve the evidences of settlement and improvement and receive the cash price they issue a receiver's
receipt.'
Curiously enough, the 'homestead laws make no specific proyisions for the issuance of a receiver's receipt; nor
do they define-its effect. The language of Rev. Stats.
§§ 2291, 2238, points to. the fact that the certificate (and
not the receiver's receipt) is the basis upon which patent
issues. And thiis at once suggests that when Congress
used the words" receiver's receipt upon the 'final enitry,"
in the proviso in § 7 of the Act of 1891, it did.s& upon
the supposition that a receiver's receipt was a receipt for
the purchase price which was issued simultaneously, with
the certificate of entry. This, it would seem, was the
prevailing practice. Circular October 1, 1880, Copp's
Pub. Land Laws, 247, 292. The courts not infrequently
use the terms "receiver's receipt-", and "certificate of entry" as equivalents. Receiver's receipt: Parsons v.
V.enzke, supra; United States v. Detroit Lumber Co., 200
U. S. 321. Certificate of entry: Witherspoon v. Duncan,
4 Wall. 210;, Guaranty Savings Bank v. Bladow, 176
U. S.-448.
-

Two years before the passage of the Act of 189.,- Congress used the words "receiver's receipt" as denoting a
receipt issued after' the final proofs have been examined
and approved, and as representing the last act to be done
before sending the pape~s to Washington for patent. Act
of March 2, 1889, § 6, 25 Stat. 854.
The receipt upon which Stockley relies was issued without either the register or 'the receiver passing upon the
final proofs. .
,The similarity be tween a receiver's ,receipt and. a certificate on final- entry -isstrikingly shown by the very
section under consideration.

STOCKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
532

Argument for the United States.

It is of course well settled that when the -fullequitable
title passes, the public lands become subject to state taxation; but until this occurs, the States are powerless to
tax. Under. the circumstances disclosed by this record,
the lands never have been subject to state taxation.
Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Wisconsin Central
R. R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496; Bothwell v.
Bingham County, 237 U. S. 642.
The oral testimony shows that at the time the Act of
1891 was passed, a receiver's receipt was never issued,
until the final proofs had been examined and approved.
On Jiuy 1, 1908, a radical change in this practice took
place.
The rules under which the receipt in question was
issued plainly show that it is not to be regarded as a final
receipt.
The- difference in the fotm of a receiver's receipt in
vogue at the time the Act of 1891 was passed, and the
ieceipt issued to Stockley, en~phasizes. the radical difference in the nature of the two.
The Land Department has given the act in question an
administrative interpretation in harmony with our contention. 29 L. D. 539; 44 L. D. 1.15; 46 L. D. 496; 47
L. D. 135.
Whether the Commissioner had the power to issue the
instructions of December 15, 1908, is a matter of -no
moment. He did issue them, and as a result the register
and the receiver were fbrbidden- to pass upon the final
proofs. The two-year period begins to run, not from the
date when the receiver's receipt on final entry should.
have been issued, but from the date of its actual issuance.
If the register and the receiver should of their own volition refuse to take any action until compelled by mandamus, obviously the two-year period would begin to o'un
not from the time the receipt on final entry should have
issued but from the time it is issued in obedience to the
'writ.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

MnR.,JUSTICE SUT-dERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit in -equity brought by the United States,
as plaintiff, hgainst,the appellants, as defendants, by which
a decree was sought adjudging the plaintiff' 'to be the"
owner of a-tract of land in the Parish of. Caddo, Louisiana,
enjoining al interference therewith, and requiring the
defendants. to account for- the value of oil- and gas extracted by them therefrom.
.The United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana, upon the report of a master, found for
the plaintiff, and entered a decree in accordance with the
prayer of the bill ordering a restoration of possession and
awarding danages against some of the defendants, including Stockley, for about $62,000.
case comes to this-Court by appeal from the decree
of the ' ircuit Court of Appeals affirming the decree of the
District Court. ' 271 Fed. '632.
The defendants denied plaintiff's title and alleged that
the land, was the property of the defendant Stockley by
virtue of his compliance with the homestead laws of the
United States.
The conceded facts are that in 1897 Stockley took-possession of 'the land and on November 13, 1905, made a
preliminary .entry thereof as a homestead. He complied
with the provisions: of the Homestead laws, submitted
fnal proof, including the required-non-mineral affidavit,
paid the commissions and fees then due, and on January
16,-.1909,. 'obttined the receiver's receipt therefor. Prior
to that time, viz, on December 15, 1908, 'a large body of
-public lands, embracing within its boundaries the land in
question, was withdrawn by an order -of the President of
the United States from all forms of appropriation.- The
withdrawal order was expressly made "subject to existing
valid claims." The receiver's receipt, omitting unnecessary matter, is in the following words:
-The-

STOCKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
532

Opinion of the Court.

"Received of Thomas J. Stockley . . . the sum of
Three Dollars and One Cents, in connection with id.
Final, Serial 0188, for: [lands described] 71.25 acres. . "
On March 17, 1910, Stockley leased the property in
question to the defendant the Gulf Refining Company,
which company subsequently drilled wells and developed
oil. The rights of the other defendants are wholly dependent upon the title asserted on behalf of Stockley.
On July 16, 1910, after the report of a special agent confirming Stockley's claim of residence upon and cultivation
and improvement of the lands, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office ordered the case "clear-listed and
closed as to the Field Service Division." Subsequently,
and more than three years after the issuance of the receiver's receipt, viz., on February 27, 1912, a contest was
ordered by the Commissioner of the General Land Office
before the local register andxeceiver upon the charge that
the land was mineral in character, being chiefly valuable
for oil and gas, and that when Stockley made his final
proof he knew or, as an ordinarily prudent man, should
have known this fact. After a hearing, the register and
receiver decided in favor of Stockley, but the Commissioner of the General Land Office reversed the decision
and ordered the entry canceled. The Secretary of the Interior affirmed the Commissioner with a modification allowing Stockley to obtain a patent for the surface only,
under theprovisions of the Act of July 17, 1914, c. 142,
38 Stat. 509.
The defendants contended that the Commissioner of the
'General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior
were without authority to entertain this contest because
prior thereto full equitable title had vested in Stockley
and he had become entitled to a patent by virtue of the
provisions of § 7 of the Act of March 3, 189l, c. 561, 26
Stat. 1095, 1099. That section, so far as necessary to be
stated, provides:

538

•38O0TOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the 'CoiiArt.

260 U. S.

"That after the lapse of two years from the date of the
issuance of the"receiver's receipt upon the final entry of
any tract of laid ' under the homestead, timber-culture,
desert1-nd, or pre-emption laws, or under this act, and
when there shall be no pending. contest or protest against
the validity of such entry, the entryman shall be entitled
to a patent conveying the land by him entered, and the
same shall be issued to him; but this proviso shall not be
construed to require the delay of two years from the date
of said entry before the issuing of a'patent therefor."
The court below rejected def6ndants' contention, holding that the receipt 'issued to Stockley was not a "receiver's receipt upon the final entry "'for the reason that,
in the -view of. that court, a-final entry could not become
effective until the issuance of the certificate of the register.
In other words, it was the opinion of the lower court that
in order to constitute a final entry within the meaning
of the statute above quoted, there must be an adjudication upon the proofs and the issuance of a final certificate,
evidencing an approval thereof.
We think the language of the statute does not justify
this conclusion.' It must be assumed that Congress was
familiar with the operations and practice of the Land Department and knew fhe difference between a receiver's
receipt and a register's certificate. These papers serve
different purposes. One, as its name imports, acknowledges the receipt of the money paid. The other certifies
to the payment and declares that the claimant on presentation of the certificate to the Comnissioner of the General Land Office shall'be entitled to a patent.
The evidence shows that prior to the passage of the
statute, and thereafter uhtil 1908, the practice was to
issue receipt and certificate Simultaneously upon the submission and acceptance of the final probf and payment of
the fees and commissions. In 19081this practice was
changed, so that the receipt was issued upon the submis-

STOCKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
532

539

Opinion of the Court.

sion'of the final proof and making of payment, while the
certificate was issued upon approval of the proof and this
might be at any time after the issuance of the receipt.
The receiver and register act independently, the former
alone being authorized to issue the receipt and the latter
to sign the certificate. The receipt issued to Stockley was
after submission of his proof and payment of all that he
was required to pay under the law. No certificate was
ever issued by the register.
It is contended-by the Government that the receiver's
receipt named in the statute shofild be restricted to a receipt issued simultaneously with the register's certificate
after approval of final proofs, and that, after the change
of 1908 in the practice of the Department, a receipt issued
before such approval does not come within the meaning
of the statute. Such a receipt, it is contended, obtains
no validity as a "receiver's receipt upon the final entry"
until after the proof has in fact been examined and approved.
We cannot accept this conception of the law. A change
in the practice of the Land Department manifestly could
not have the effect of altering the meaning of an act of
Congress. What the act meant upon its passage, it con-'
tinued to mean thereafter. The plain provision is that
the period of limitation shall begin to run from the date
of the "issuance of the receiver's receipt upon the final
entry." There is no ambiguity in this language and,
therefore, no room for construction. There is nothing to
construe. The sole inquiry is whether the receipt issued
to Stockley falls within the words of the statute. In
Chotard v. Pope, 12 Wheat. 586, 588, this Court defined
the term entry as meaning: "That act by which an individual acquires an inceptive right to a portion of the unappropriated soil of the country, by filing his claim in the
office of an officer known, in the legislation of several
States, by the epithet of an entry-taker, and corresponding

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

very much in his functions with the registers of landoffices, under the acts of the United States." It was in
this sense that the term "final entry" was used in this
statute. Having submitted to the proper officials proof
showing full compliance with the law, and having paid all
the fees and commissions lawfully due, Stockley had done
everything which the law required on his part and became
entitled to the immediate issuance of the receiver's receipt, and this receipt was issued and delivered to him.
No subsequent receipt was contemplated or required.
From the date of the receipt the entry may be held open
for the period of two years, during which time its validity
may be contested. Thereafter the entryman is entitled
to a patent and the express command of the statute is that
"the same shall be issued to him." Lane v. Hoglund,
244 U. S.174; Payne v. Newton, 255 U. S. 438.
That Stockley's acts constituted final entry is borne out
by rulings of the Land Department. Thus in Gilbert v.
Spearing,4 L. D. 463, 466, Secretary Lamar said:
"When the homestead application, affidavit and legal
fees are properly placed in the hands of the local lark[
officers, and the land applied for is properly subject to
entry, from that moment the right of entry is complete
and in contemplation of law the land is entered.'
See also Iddings v. Burns, 8 L. D. 224, 226.
We are not at liberty to add to or take from the language of the statute. When Congress has plainly described the instrument from whose date the statute begins
to ran as the "receipt upon the final. entry," there is no
warrant for construing it to inean only a receipt issued
simultaneously with the certificate or one issued after the
adjudication on the fitial proof,,which might be-and in
this instance wa--postponed indefinitely. It iwas to
avoid just such delays for an,unreasonable length of
time-that is, for nibre -than two years--that the statute
was enacted. Laie v. Hoglund, supra, and Land Depart-

STOCKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
532

Opinion of the Court.

ment decisions cited. The purpose and effect of the statute are clearly and accurately stated by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office in Instructions of June 4, 1914,
43 L. D. 322, 323, in the course of which it is said:
"There is no doubt that Congress chose the date of the
receiver's receipt rather than of the certificate of the register as controlling, for the reason that payment by the
claimant marks the end of compliance by him with the
requirements of law. It would be manifestly unjust to
make the right to a patent dependent upon the administrative action of the register, subjecting it to such delays
as are incident to the conduct of public business and over
which the claimant has no control. Payment, of which
the receiver's receipt is but evidence, is, therefore, the
material circumstance that starts the running of the statute, inasmuch as a claimant is and always has been entitled to a receipt when payment is made."
It is urged, however, that in any event the receiver exceeded his authority in issuing the receipt, since the Commissionei of the General Land-I)ffice, on December 15,
1908, had instructed the register and receiver, among
other things, as follows:
"Applications, selections, entries, and proofs based
upon selections, settlements, or rights initiated prior to
the date of withdrawal may be received by you and
allowed to proceed under the rules'up to and including
the submission of final proofs. You must not, however,
in such cases receive the purchase money or issue final'certificates of entry, but must suspend the entries and proofs
pending investigation as to the validity of the claims with
regard to the character of the land and compliance with
the law in other respects."
These instructions were issued, as shown upon their
face, in view of the Presidential withdrawal order of the
same date. We suggest, without deciding, that, inasmuch
as the withdrawal order was expressly made subject to

542

OCTOBER TEIAM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

existing valid claims, and Stockley's claim was obviously
existing and valid, this instruction of the Commissioner
was itself without authority, since, as applied to Stockley,
it was in conflict with the withdrawal' order. This has"
nothing to do with the question as to whether the lands
were, in fact, mineral in character, Which is another and
different matter dealt with later. However, Stockley, as
already shown, did' in fact, make final entry and the receiver did, in fact, issue and deliver his receipt thereon
The case, therefore, falls' within the terms of the statute
and must be governed by it, unless the receipt .be'held
for naught 'on the ground that it was issued contrary to
the Commissioner's instructions. But the very object of
the statute was to preclude inquiry upon that*or any
other matter, except as provided by the statute, after the
-expiration of two years from the date of the receiver's
receipt. In United States v. Winona & St. Peter R. R.
Co., 165 U. S. 463, 476, this Court had' under consideration § 8 of the same act (26 Stat. 1099), limiting the time
within which suits by the United States might be brought
to Anlnul patents. That section, it was said, recognizes
"that when its proper officers, acting in the ordinary
course of their duties, have conveyed away lands which
belonged to the Government, such conveyances should,
after the lapse of a prescribed time, be conclusive against
the Government, and this notwitistanding any errors,
irregularities or improper action of. its officers therein."
It was said further: "Under the benign influence of this
statute it would matter not what the mistake or error of.
the land department was, what the frauds and misrepresentations of the patentee were, the patent would become
conclusive as a transfer, of the title, providing only that
the land was public land of the United States and open to
sale and conveyance through the land department."
In United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater Power Co.,
209 U. S. 447,450, this section of the act was again under

STOCKLEY v. UNITED STATES.
532

M4

Opinion of the Court.

consideration. A patent was attacked as void for the
alleged reason that the land which it purported to convey
had been reserved for public purposes, and upon that
ground the application of the statute was denied; but this
Court said:
" It is said that the instrument was void and hence was
no patent.. But the statute presupposes an instrument
that might be declared void. When it refers to 'any patent heretofore issued,' it describes the purport and source
of the document, not its legal effect. If the act were confined to valid patents it'would be almost or quite without
use."

To hold that the receipt here under consideration falls
outside the terms of the statute would be to defeat the
purpose of the statute and perpetuate the mischief which
it sought to destroy. Prior to the decision in the case of
Jacob A, Harris,42 L. D. 611, 614 (quoted with approval
in Lane v. Hoglund, supra), it had been held that the
statute did not affect the conduct or action of the Land
Department in taking up and disposing of final proof of
entrymen after the lapse of the two-year period (In re
Traganza, 40 L. D. 300), but this view was sharply challenged and overruled in the Harris Case, where it was
said:
"Passed, primarily, to rectify a past and to prevent
future abuses of the departmental power to suspend
entries, the proviso is robbed of its essential purpose and
practically repealed by the decision in the Traganza case."
The effective character of the receiver's receipt being
established, the question, after the lapse of the two-year
period, as to whether the land was mineral bearing, was
no longer open. Inquiry upon that ground was then foreclosed, along with all others. Payne v. Newton, supra.
The bar of the statute likewise prevails, notwithstanding the executive withdrawal of December 15, 1908. The
validity of that order is, of course, settled by the decision

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.'S.

in Unitd-States v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, but,
as already stated, there is excepted 'from the operation
of the order "existing valid claims." Obviously this
means something less than a vested right, such as would
follow from a completed final entry, since such a right
would require no exception to insure its preservation.
The purpose of -the exception evidently was to save from
the operation of the order claims which' had been lawfully
initiated and which, upon full compliance with the land
laws, would ripen into a title. The effect of a preliminary
homestead entry is to confer upon the entryman an exclusive right of possession, which continues so long as
the entryman complies in good faith with the requirements of the homestead law. Stearns v. United States,
152 Fed. 900, 906; Peyton v. Desmond, 129 Fed. 1, 12.
Since it is conceded that Stockley made such an entry in
1905 and his compliance with the requirements of the
homestead law prior to the withdrawal order is not questioned, it follows that he had, when that order was issued,
an existing valid claim, within the meaning of the exception. The action of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, therefore, in directing 'a contest against
•Stockley's entry three years after the issuance to him of
the receiver's receipt was unauthorized and void.
7 The decree of the Circuit Cburt of Appeals is reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court
with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint.

