GALVESTON WHARF CO. v. GALVESTON.
469

473

Syllabus.

was ruled it was adequate to justify the court's decree.
It was ruled. The effect is not lessened because the court
ruled as well on the constitutional questions. As we have
seen, the court said that the "plausible case" made by
plaintiff "by the allegations of its petition" was " not
supported by either the evidence in the case or finding
of the trial court." Whether this conclusion received or
needed aid from the force the court considered should be
assigned to the establishment of the sewer district as furnishing an indisputable presumption of notice, is not ab-solutely clear. Nor is it clear whether the court considered that notice of the meeting of the Board of Public
Service and opportunity to be heard before the Board
satisfied the constitutional requirements urged by
plaintiff.
However, we are not called upon to resolve the uncertainty, if any there be, in the grounds of the court's ruling
upon the constitutional questions. It is enough for our
action that the court considered plaintiff estopped to contest the validity of the sewer or the validity of the tax
which was imposed by connecting its premises with the
sewer. In that conclusion we concur.
Decree affirmed.
GALVESTON WHARF COMPANY ET AL. v, CITY
OF GALVESTON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 19. Argued December 7, 1922.-Decided January 2, 1923.
1. The power of eminent domain cannot be contracted away; and
a contract of that kind is not within the protection of the Contract
Clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 476.
2. A bill relying on the contrary hypothesis does not state a substantial federal question within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
P. 476.
Affirmed.

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
bill for want of. jurisdiction.

M'r. J. W. Terry for appellants.
Mr.,,Frank S. Anderson, with whomMr. James W.
Wayman was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District !Court
dismissing a bill in equity for want of jurisdiction, on the
ground that the bill states no federal question.. The
ground appears by the decree and also by the certificate
of the Judge. Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, (the Judicial
Code), § 238,' 36 Stat. 1087, 1157; .amended by Act of
January 28, 1915, c. 22, 38 Stat. 8%k, 804.
The bill alleges a contract embodied by consent in a
decree of April 1, 1869, that compromised a suit brought
by the city against the present plaintiff, the Galveston
Wharf Company; -the appellant, concerning flats in Galveston Bay. It is enough to state the general features
of the arrangement. The title of the Wharf Company
to certain lands was established, but it was provided
that the City should become owner of one-third of the
Wharf Company's stock, which was to be increased to
that end, and of an undivided one-third of the Wharf
Company's pioperty, in trust for the present and future
inhabitants of Galveston-all to be inalienable- except
by a four-fifths vote of all the qualified voters. This
:was confirmed by the'Legislature in 1870. There was a
later 'contract of March 9, 1905, not now material except
that it again confirmed the decree of 1869, and has been
performed iVp to the date of the bill.
But in May, 1920, the City, which is self-governing,
'amended its charter by giving itself power to purchase,

GALVESTON WHAIA
473

CO. v. GALVESTON.

475

Opinion of the- Court.
.11

condemn and operate t e various means and instrumentalities of public servicd such as gas and electric lighting
plants, dock and wharf railway terminals, docks, wharves,
and other things named, including the property jointly
owned by the Galveston Wharf Company and the City,
for the purpose of owning and operating any such public
service and distributing it, with provision as to the mode
of exercising eminent domain. By another amendment
details were arranged in case the City should acquire the
joint property by purchase or condemnation and by still
another the City was authorized to compel a partition of
the same property when authorized by a majority of its
qualified voters, and to that end to prosecute a suit. It
is alleged that the purpose of a partition would be a sale
of one-third of the property upon a majority vote of the
citizens, whereas the contract required a vote of fourfifths; and that a condemnation equally would impair the
obligation of contracts and would deprive the plaintiff
of its property without due process of law, contrary to
the Constitution of the United States. The plaintiff further shows large expenditures to improve the property at
its own cost and points out other property that it says
can be taken more fairly if the City wishes to start municipal wharves.
Without going into greater detail we will assume that
the alleged contract was made and b ound the City, and.
that its terms will be departed from if the City should
exercise the new power. The bill alleges that the proper
officers will declare the amendments adopted, and that
unless restrained the City " will attempt to partition said
property or condemn the same, or both," and prays for
an injunction against attempting to enforce the amendments in any manner so far as the above mentioned property is concerned. The case was heard upon the pleadings and documentary evidence but it is unnecessary to-state them further since the decree went upon the ground

476

-OCTOBER TERMl922.Opinion of the Court.

260 U. S.

that the bill did- not state a~case within the jurisdiction

of the Court.
We are of opinion 'that the decree was right. If the
bill can be- taken to allege sufficiently any ,threat and in:tent of the defendant it does not show that the City will
go-,beyond an exercise of the right of eminent -domain.
The allegation is, WilR attempt to partition or condemn.
If questions can be raised abdt the constitutionality of
the ordinance authorizing partition, the City may confine
itself-to- condeniation, and will, so far. as appears. But
there is nothing to ptzvent the exercise of eminent domain by the legislative puwer.. West River Bridge Co. v.
Dix, 6 How. 507. Long Island Water Supply Co. v.
Brooklyn, 166 U.' .S: 685. .Pennsylvania Hospital v.
Philadelphia,245"U. S. 20. These cases not only dispose
of the objection based upon the contract but afso show
.the, difference between an attempt to transfer property
from one private person to another and the taking it for
public administration by.a pubic body. 166 U. S. 694.
There is no quetion about the principle and therefore
there is no substantial federal question raised by the bill.
This seems to us so piain that we have not thought it
neces§ary to consider wether the suit was prematurely
brought.'
Decree affirmed.

