490

OCTOBER TERM, -1922.
Syllabus.

260 U. S.

is that a lien shall- not be imposed. .-We are of opinion
that the libelants got no lien uponthe Clio, and a fortton
that the Morganza was, free. The denial of a writ of
certiorari imports no eipression of opinion upon the
merits oE the case, as the bar has been told many times.
Therefore it-is unnecessary to consider whether the libelants' argument is supported by the decisions to which
they refer. The Yankee, sub nom. Rswer_ & Iarbors
Improvement Co. v Latta, 243 U. S. 649. The ,Oceana,
sub nom., Morse -Dry Dock,.& Eepair Co. v. ,Conron
Broiher's Co., 245 U S. 656. .. ..
As the libelan't disclaum the contentionthat thpe United
States is liable even if the vessels would not havre been
siibjeot to a lien it is unnecessary to answer the4fourth
question. It is enough ihat the -first. n second are
answered,3No.
Answer to questions 1 and 2, No.
OSAKA SHOSET KAISHA ET AL. v. PACIFIC
EXPORT LUMBER -COMPANY
C)MRTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF , APPEALS-- FOR THE
NINTH, CIRCUIT.

-Noi 129. Submitted Novomber 23, 1922.--Decided January 2, 1923.
1. Whether the ship is subject to a lien to secure damages resulting
from-breach of a maritime affreikhtment contract, is a question of
imaritime law not controllable by a-state stdtute. _R 495.
2. Acceptance of part of the designated cargo under a contract of
affreightment creates -no, lien upon the ship for damages resulting
from refusal to take all. P.1495.
3. The maritime lien or privilege adhering to a -iessel is a secret one
which ma operAte to -tte-prepidie' of genere creditors and purchasers without notice, and is therefore stncti:jurs, not to be extended by construction;analogy or inference. JP 499.
4. The lien,, created by law presupposes mutbiaility and reciprocity
as between-ship and cargo. P 499.
272 Fed. 799, reversed. -"

OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA v. LUMBER CO. 491
490
CERTIORARI

Argument for Respondent.

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,

affirming a decree of the District Court for the libelant
(the present respondent) in a proceeding in rem, to enforce a claim of maritime lien.
Mr. William H. Hayden for petitioners. Mr. Frank
Adams Huffer and Mr. Gerald H. Bucey were also on the
briefs.
Mr. Erskine Wood for respondent.
The moment a ship enters upon the performance of
her charter by taking even a small part of the cargo on
board, she binds herself to the performance of her contract just as if she were a living being. Her taking on
part of the cargo is her signature to the contract, so that
whereas prior to that act, only her owner was liable in
personam, after that act she herself becomes liable in
rem; in other words, a maritime lien in favor of the
charterer has arisen against her.
Our opponents, building up their case on the maxim
that the ship is bound to the cargo and the cargo to the
ship, say that it is impossible there should be a lien on
the Saigon for leaving part of the lumber behind, because
the ship had no lien on this left-behind cargo, and that
unless there is such reciprocity of liens there can be no
lien at all..
The point is an interesting one that has never been
passed upon by this Court, though we think the current
of authority as it may be followed through the history
of maritime law is in our favor. Consulato de la Mer,
e. 209; Benedict, 4th ed., ยง 131; Marine Ordinances, Louis
XIV," Maritime Contracts," ยง XI, Tit. I.
We concede that the old continental maritime law that
a ship was liable for breach of an executory contract of
affreightment, has been modified in this country to the
extent that she is no longer liable in rem when the contract remains wholly executory. But, we contend, that is
the extent of the modification; and where a ship partly

'.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

260U. S.

executes 'the contract, as by taking on part of her cargo,
she herself is liable for all breaches of the contract. The
,
argument on this point may be summarized thus:
1. Under the old continental codes ships -were liable
in rem for breaches of ,contracts made -by_ the managing
,owner on their behalf,, including executory contracts. of
-affreightment.
2. Even if this were not true, such was certAinly'the
law of this country as Iannouncecdin the earlier decisions*'
of our admiralty courts, up to the ime o Thee Freeman,
18 How 182, and The' Yankee Blade, 19 How. 82i'
3. The Yankee Blade and The Freeman did not realy
settle the point, but they did contain dicta that a vessel
was not iiab l for breach of a contract of affreightment
which was purely executory.
4. In deference to these dicta the lower courts 'have
decided that purely executory contractS dondt bind the
vessel.
5. But this is the liit'of t e exten to which the old
law has been modified, and the lower courts, as if jealous
to preserve that old law, in so far as the dicta will allow,
have -man'y times held that where the vessel partly executes the contract, as by taking on part of the cargo, she
herself becomes liable in rem for'all breaches of the contract.
6. The statement by counsel that the-liens must, be
reciprocal, that the ship is bound to the ,cargo and the
cargo.to the ship, relates to the case where the caigo has
been delivered to -the ship, and is true so far, as it goes.
But it in no way contradicts the theory that the lien on
the ship may go further. , It is in no way inconsistent with
the theory that she is liable -for breaches of her partly
executed contracts, even where she has no corresponding
lien in, return. There are many cases of liens on ships
with'no reciprocal lien in their favor. As witness breach
of her contract to'carry a passenger. The Reliecca, i

OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA v. LUMBER CO. 493
490

Argument for Respondent.

Ware, 188; The Paragon,Fed. Cas. No. 10,708; The Tribune, 3 Sumner, 144; The Flash, 1 Abb. Adm. 67; The
Pacific, 1 Blatchf. 569; Oakes v. Richardson, 2 Lowell,
173; The Williams, 1 Brown Adm. Rep. 208; The Hermitage, 4 Blatchf. 474; The Ira Chaffee, 2 Fed. 401; The
Monte A, 12 Fed. 331; The X.. F. Warner, 22 Fed. 342;
The Director;26 Fed. 708; The Missouri, 30 Fed. 384;
The quilio, 34 Fed. 909; The Starlight,42 Fed. 167; The
Oscoda, 66 Fed. 347; The Eugene, 83 Fed. 222; 87 Fed.
1001; The Helios, 108 Fed. 279; The Oceano, 148 Fed.
131; The Margaretha,167 Fed. 794; Wilson v. Peninsula
Bark & Lumber Co., 188 Fed. 52; The Thomas P. Sheldon, 118 Fed. 945; The S. L. Watson, 118 Fed. 952; Stone
v. The Relanpago, Fed. Cas. No. 13,486.
It is to be noted, in considering this reciprocal relation
of liens, that the lien of a vessel on her cargo is of an
entirely different nature and origin from the lien of the
cargo oxfthe vessel. The lien of the cargo on the vessel
is of a higher order. It is a jus in re and follows the ship
into whosoever hands the ship goes. The lien on the
cargo, upon the other hand, is not a jus in re but a mere
possessory lien and is lost the moment the cargo leaves
ner possession. The lien on the cargo is nothing more
than the right to hold the goods until the freight is paid.
It is hardly necessary to point out that where a vessel
enters upon the performance of her contract of affreightment by actually taking on a portion of her cargo, she has
signified by as definite and conspicuous an act as it is
possible for her to perform. that she is undertaking a contract and is herself bound, for its performance. You
could hardly have a more definite rule or test than that.
And the lien arising would be no more "secret" than a
lien for seamen's wages, salvage, general average, collision,
materials, supplies, repairs, necessaries, bottonry loans,
pilotage, wharfage, or any other of the liens which a ship's
activities may give rise to.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1922..
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

It would surely be a great- miscarriage of justice to
allow, this Saigon Maru, after deliberately refusing to
receive part of the cargo, to then say that we had no lien
on her because she had no lien on that part of the cargo
which she herself had wrongfully -refused.. This would
be to permit her to profit by her own wrong. We can gee
no more reason for denying the lien under the state statute in this case, on the ground of lack of uniformity than
for denying it in those quite numerous death cases where
the state statutes have been invoked to give a lien where
the maritime law gave none.
[Argument was made on the construction as well as the
applicability of the statute; the amount of deckload; the
seaworthiness of the vessel; and the measure of damages.]
MR-JUSUTIc

delivered the opinion of the

MCRE) NOLDS

Court.
March 19, 1917, through its agent at Tacoma, Wash.,
Osaka Shosen Kaisha, incorporated under the laws :of
Japan and owner of the Japanese pteamer "Saigon1Varu,"
then at-Singapore, chartered the whole of that vessel,
including her deck, to respondent Lumber Company to
carry a full cargo of lumber from the Columbia or Willamette River to Bombay., In May, 1917, th~e yes.sel began to load at Portland, 'Ore. Having taken ,on a full
under-deck cargo and 241,559 feet upon-the, deck, the
captain refused to accept more. After insisting that the
vessel was not 'loaded! to capacity and ineffectively demanding that she receive an'additional 508,441 feet; respondent libeled hei, setting. up the charter party and the
captain's refusal; and claimed substantial damages.' Theowner gave bond; the vessel departed and safely delivered
her cargo.
The Lumber Company-maintains that it suffered maIterial loss by the ship's refusal to accept a full load; that
I

OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA v. LUMBER CO. 495
490

Opinion of th6 Court.

she is liable therefor under the general admiralty law and
also under the Oregon statute (Olson's Laws of Oregon,
ยง 10,281), which declares every vessel navigating the
waters of the State shall be subject to a lien for the damages resulting from non-performance of affreightment
contracts.
Petitioner excepted to the libel upon the ground that
the facts alleged showed no lien or right to proceed in rem.
The trial court ruled otherwise and awarded damages
upon the evidence. 267 Fed. 881: The Circuit Court of
Appeals approved this action. 272 Fed. 799.
Little need be written of the claim under the state statute. The rights and liabilities of the parties depend upon
general rules of maritime law not subject to material
alterations by state enactmehts. The Roanoke, 189 U. S.
185; Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Union
Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308.
Both courts below acted upon the view that while the
ship is not liable in rem for breaches of an affreightment
contract so long as it remains wholly executory, she
becomes liable therefor whenever she partly executes it,
as by taking on board some part of the cargo. In support of this view, it is said: Early decisions of our circuit
and district courts heldthat under maritime law the ship
is liable in rem for any breach of a contract of affreightment with owner or master. That The Freeman, (1856),
18 How. 182, 188, and The Yankee Blade (1857), 19 How.
82, 89, 90, 91, modified this doctrine by denying such liability where the contract remains purely executory, but
left it in full force where the vessel has partly performed
the agreement, as by accepting part of the indicated cargo.
The Hermitage, 12 Fed. Cas. No. 6410; The Williams, 29
Fed. Cas. No. 17,710; The Ira Chaffee, 2 Fed. 401; The
Director, 26 Fed. 708; The Starlight, 42 Fed. 167; The
Oscoda, 66 Fed. 347; The Helios, 108 Fed. 279; The
O'ceano, 148 Fed. 131; Wilson v. PeninsulaBark & Lumber Co., 188 Fed. 52, were cited.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.'

260 U. S.

We think the argument is unsound.
Prior to The Freeman and The Yankee Blade, this
Court had expressed- o opinion on the subject; but, so
far as the reports showi the lower courts had generally
asserted liability of the ship for breaches of affreightment
contracts. "It is grounded upon the authority of the
master to contract for the employment of the vessel, and
upon the general doctrine -of the' maritime" law, that the
vessel, is bodiy answerable for such contracts of the master mde for her benefit." The Flash, 1 Abb. Adn. 67,
70; The Rebecca, I Ware, 188; 'The Ira Chafee, supra.
Since 1857. some of 'the lower courts have -said that the
ship becomes liable for breaches'of affreightment contracts
With her owner or master whenever partly executed by
her;,but it is forcibly maintained that in none of the cases
was the point directly involved. The Hermitage, The
Williams, The Ira Chaffee, The -Director,The Starlight,
The Oscoda, The Helios, The Oceano, Wilson v. Peninsula
Bark & Lumber.C#., supra.'
The Freean and The Yankee Blade distinctly rejected
the theory of the earlier opinions. They are inconsistent
with the doctrine that partial performance may create a
privilege 'r lien upon the vessel. And -in so far as the
lower courts express approval of this doctrine in their
more recent opinions, -they fail properly to interpret what
has been said here.,
While, perhaps, not essential to the decision, this Court,

through Mr.Justice Curtis, said in The Freeman: "gn
der 'the maritiine -law of the United States the vessel is
bound 'to the cargo, and the cargo to the vessel, for .the
performance of a, cntract of affreightment; but the law
creates.no lien on a vessel as a security for the performance of' a contract to transport. cargo, until some lawful
contract of affreightment is. made, and a cargo shipped
under it."
In The Yankee Blade, Mr. Justice Grier, speaking for
the Court, declared:
..
.

OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA v. LUMBER CO. 497
490

Opinion of the Court.

"The maritime 'privilege' or lien is adopted from the
civil law, and imports-a tacit hypothecation of the subject of it. It is a 'jus in re,' withouit actual possession
or any right of possession. It accompanies the property
into the hands of a bona fide purchaser. It can be executed and divested only by a proceeding in rem. This
sort of proceeding against personal property is unknown
to tae common law, and is- peculiar to the process of
courts of admiralty. The foreign and other attachments
of property in the State courts, thoughby analogy loosely
termed proceedings in rem, are evidently not within the
category. But this privilege or lien, though adhering to
the vessel,. is a secret one; it may operate to the prejudice
of general creditors and purchasers without notice; it is
therefore 'stricti juris,' and cannot be extended by construction, analogy, or inference. "'Analogy,' says Pardessus, (Droit Civ., vol. 3, 597,) 'cannot afford a decisive
argument, because privileges are .of strict right. They
are an exception to the rule by which. all creditors have
equal rights in the .property of their debtor, and an exception should be declared and described in express
words; we cannot arrive at it by reasoning from one case
to another.'
"Now, it is a doctrine not to be found in any treatise
on maritime law, that- every contract by the owner or
master of a vessel, for the future employment of it,
hypothecates the vessel for its performance. This lien
or privilege is founded on the rule of maritime law as
stated by Cleirac, (597:) 'Le batel est oblig6e Ala marchandise et la marchandise au batel.' The obligation is
mutual and reciprocal. The merchandise is bound or
hypothecated to the vessel for freight and charges, (unless released by the covenants of the charter 7party,) and
the vessel to the cargo. The bill of lading usually sets
forth the terms of the contract, and shows the duty assumed by the vessel. Where there is a charter-party, its
4564

-23-----32

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

260 U.S.

covenants will define- the duties imposed on, the ship.

Hence itis said, (1 Valin, Ordon. de Mar., b. 3, tit. 1,
art.11,) that'the ship, with her tackle, the freight, and
the cargo, are respectively bound (affect~e) by' the covenants of the charter-party.' 'But this duty of the vessel,

to the. performance of which the law binds her by hypothecation, is to deliver the cargo at the time and place
stipulated in the bill of lading or charter-party, without
injury or deterioration. If the ,cargo be not placed on
board, it is not bound to the vessel, and the vessel:cannot

be in default for. the non-delivery, in good order, of goods
never received on board. Consequently, if the master or
owner refuses to perform his contract, or for any-other
reasor the ship does not receive cargo and depart on her
voyage according to contract, the charterer has no privilege or maritime lien on the ship for such breach of the
contract by the owners, but must resort to his personal

action for damages, as in other cases.
"And this court has decided, in the case of The Schooner
Freeman v. Buckingham, 18 Howard, 188, 'that the law
creates no lien on a vessel as a security for the performance of a contract -to transport cargo, until some lawful
contract of affreightment is made, and a cargo shipped
under it.'"
In Bulkley, Claimant of the Barque Edwin, v. Naumkeag-Steam Cotton -Co., 24 How. 386, 393, the barque
was libeled to recover-damages for not delivering part of
the cotton-707. bales7--which the master had agreed to
carry from Mobile to Boston. With most of the cargo
on board the vessel Was towed below the bar, there to
receive the remainder from lighters. A lighter carrying
100 bales sank, and the cotton was lost or damaged. The
barque delivered 607 bales at Boston in good condition.
The owner of the vessel claimed exemption for her upon
the ground that she never received .the 100 bales. This
Court said: "In the present case the cargo was delivered

OSAKA SHOSEN KAISHA v. LUMBER CO. 499
490

Opinion of the Court.

in pursuance of the contract, the goods in the custody of
the master, and subject to his lien for freight, as effectually as if they had been upon the deck of the ship, the
contract corfessedly binding both the owner and the shipper; and, unless.it be held that the latter is entitled to
his lien upon the vessel also, he is deprived of one of the
privileges of the contract, when, at the same time, the
owner is in the full enjoyment of all those belonging to
his side of it."
Later opinions approve the same general rule.
"The doctrine that the obligation between ship and
cargo is mutual and reciprocal, and does not attach until
the cargo is on board, or in the custody of the master,
has been so often discussed and so long settled, that it
would be useless labor to restate it, or the principles
which lie at its foundation. The case of the Schooner
Freemanv. Buckingham, decided by this court, is decisive
of this case." The Lady Franklin,8 Wall. 325, 329.
"It is a principle of maritime law that the owner of
the cargo has a lien on the vessel for any injury he may
sustain by the fault of the vessel or the master; but the
law creates no lien on a vessel as a security for the performance of a contract to transport a cargo until some
lawful contract of affreightment is made, and the cargo to
which it relates has been delivered to the custody of the
master or some one authorized to receive it." The Keokuk, 9 Wall. 517, 519.
The maritime privilege or lien, though adhering to the
vessel, is a secret one which may operate to the prejudice
of general creditors and purchasers without notice and
is therefore stricti juris and cannot be extended by construction, analogy or inference. The Yankee Blade,
supra. The contract of affreightment itself creates no
lien, and this Court has consistently declared that the
*obligationbetween ship and cargo is mutual and reciprocal and does not attach until the cargo is on board or in

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.-

260 U. S.

the master's custody. We think the-lien created by the
law must be mutual and reciprocal; the lien of the cargo
owner ipon. the _ship is nimited by the corresponding and
reciprocal rights of the shipowner upon theocargo. See
The' Thomas P. Sheldon; 113 Fed.779 782; 783.
TheF theory. that- patiiL acceptance of the designated
cargo under a - contract of affreightment creates a privilege or lien upon; the ship for damages resulting from
failure to take all, is inconsistent with the opinions of this
Court and, we think, without support of adequate authority. In The S. L. Watson, 118 Fed. 945, 952, the court
well said:.
-"The.rule of admiralty, as always stated, is that the
cargo is bound to the ship and the ship to the cargo.
Whatever cases may have been decided otherwise disregarded the universal fact that no lien arises, in admiralty
except in oconneiction with some visible occurrence relating
to the vessel or 'cargo or to a persdn injured. This is
necessary in. order that innocent parties dealing with
vessels may not be the losers by secret liens, the existence
of, which they' have' no possibility of detecting by any
relation to -any visible fact. It is in harmony with this
rule that no lien lies in behalf of a vessel against her cargo
for dead freight, or hgainst -vessel for supplies contracted
fo', but not: actually put aboard. The Kiersage, 2 Curt.
-421, Fed. 'Cas. No. 7,762; Pars. Ship. &Adm: (1869), 142,
143. It follows out the same principle that',Mr. Justice
Curtis states in The Kiersage; 2 Curt.' 424, Fed. Cas. No.
7,762, that admiralty liens are stricti juris, and that they
cannot' be extended argumentatively, or by analogy or
inference., He'says, 'They must be given by the law
itself,: and the case must be found described in the law'"
Reversed.

