CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.

114; .Msouri
X
Pafc
Bailway v. fumes, 115 U. S. 512;
St. Louis v. TWeber, 44 Missouri, 54:7; Germania Life Ins. Co.
v. Commonwealth, 85 Penn. St. 513; .Xissouri v. Welton, 55
Missouri, 288.
The opinion of the court below on this branch of the case is
elaborately argued, and is conclusive. We concur in the reasoning of it as well as in the language employed, and refer to
it as a correct expression of the law upon the subject.

-Decree affirmed.

CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
HEOR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRIOT OF COLORADO.
No. 103.

Submitted November 24, 1891.-

Decided January 4,1892.

A statement, in the bond of a municipal corporation, that it is issued under
the provisions of the act of the general assembly of Colorado of February 21, 1881, and in conformity with its provisions; that all the requirements of law have been fully complied with; that the total amount of
the issue-does not exceed the limits prescribed by the constitution of
that State; and that the issue of the bonds had been authorized by a vote
of a majority of the duly qualified electors of the county, voting on the
question at a general election duly held, estops the county, in an action
by an innocent holder for value, to recover on coupons of such bonds,
from denying the truth of these recitals.
When there is an express recital upon the face of a municipal bond that the
limit of issue prescribed by the state constitution has not been passed,
and the bonds themselves do not show that it had, the holder is not
bound to look further.
Lake County v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674, and Dixon County v. Field, 111 U. S.
83, affirmed and distinguished from this case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Hr. Thomas .Macon, for plaintiffs in error, cited: .AoOlure
v. Township of Oxford, 94 U. S. 429; Town of Coloma v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Buchanan v. Litch4/eld, 102 U. S. 278;
NAorthern Bank v. Porter Township, 110 U. S. 608; Dixon
County v. Field,111 U. S. 83; Lake County v. Graham, 130
U. S. 674.
ATr. Willard Teller, for defendant in error, cited: I nox
County v. A&pinwall, 21 How. 539; Bissell v. Jefersonville,24
How. 287; Mecer County v. Hacket, 1 Wall. 83; Gel cke v.
Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175 ; feyer v. Muscatine, 1 Wall. 384; Van
Eostrup v. Madison City, 1 Wall. 291; Supervisors v. Schenck,
5 Wall. 772; Grand Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wall. 355; St.
Joseph Township v. Rogers, 16 Wall. 644; Coloma v. Eaves,
92 U. S. 484; Venice v. Mfurdock, 92 U. S. 494; .3foultrie
County v. Rockingham Bank, 92 U. S. 631; .Aaroy v. Oswego,
92 U. S. 637; County of Henry v. IVicolay, 95 U. S. 619; Township of Bock Creek v. Strong, 96 U. S. 271; San Antonio v.
Arehaffy, 96 U. S. 312; Cromwell v. County of Sac, 96 U. S.
51; Wilson v. Salamanca, 99 U. S. 499; County of _Macon v.
Shores, 97 U. S. 272; County of Daviess v. Huidekoper, 98
U. S. 98; Hackett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86; Orleans v. Platt,
99 U. S. 676; Lyons v. XJunson, 99 U. S. 684; Block v. Commissioners, 99 U. S. 687; Buchanan v. Litchfeld, 102 U. S.
278; Walnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683; flarter v. Kernochan,
103 U. S. 562; Panav. Bowler, 107 U. S. 529; H'irkbride v.
_La Fayette, 108 U. S. 208; Dallas County v. Athflenzie, 110
U. S. 686; Dixon v. Field, 111 U. S. 83; 1'orthern Bank v.
PorterTownship, 110 U. S. 608; Oregon v. Jennings, 119 U. S.
74; Comanche County v. Lewis, 133 U. S. 198; Lake County
v. Graham, 130 U. S. 674.
ME.Jus'ricE L&Mhn delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action by Andrew Potter, a citizen of Massachusetts, against the board of county commissioners of Chaffee
County, Colorado, on a large number of interest-bearing coupons attached to certain bonds issued by that county, in 1882,
for the purpose of funding its floating indebtedness.
The following is a -copy of one of the bonds and coupons:

CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

"No..-.
$1000.
"United States of America, County of Chaffee, State of
Colorado.
"Funding Bond.
"(Series A.)
"The County of Chaffee, in the State of Colorado, acknowledges itself indebted, and promises to pay to -

-

or

bearer, one thousand dollars, lawful money of the Unite4t States,
for value received, redeemable at the pleasure of said county
after ten years, and absolutely due and payable twenty years
from the date hereof, at the office of the treasurer of said
county, in the town of Buena Vista, with interest thereon at
the rate of eight per cent per annum, payable semi-annually
on the first day of March, and the first day of September in
each year, at the office of the county treasurer aforesaid, or at
the banking-house of Kountze Brothers, in the city of New
York, at the option of the holder, upon the presentation and
surrender of the annexed coupons as they severally become
due.
"This bond is issued by the board of county commissioners
of said Chaffee county, in exchange at par for valid floating
indebtedness of the said county, outstanding prior to August
31, 1882, under and by virtue of, and, in full conformity with,
the provisions of an act of the general assembly of the State of
Colorado, entitled ' An act to enable the several counties of the
state to fund their floating indebtedness,' approved February
21, 1881, and it is hereby certified that all the requirements
of law have been fully complied with by the proper officers in
the issuing of this bond. It is further certified that the total
amount of this issue does not exceed the limit prescribed by
the constitution of the State of Colorado, and that this issue of
bonds has been authorized by a vote of a majority of the duly
qualified electors of the said county of Chaffee, voting on the
question at a general election duly held in said county, on thd
seventh day of November, A.D. 1882.
"The bonds of this issue are comprised in three series designated ' A,' ' B,' and ' C,' respectiyely; the bonds of series ' A'

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

being for the sum of one thousand dollars each, those of seiies
5B' for the suni of five hundred dollars each, and those of
series 1C ' for the sum of one hundred dollars each. This bond
is one of series 'A.'
"The faith and credit of the county of Chaffee are hereby
pledged for the punctual payment of the principal and interest
of this bond.
"In testimony whereof, the board of -county, commissioners
of the said county of Chaffee have caused this bond to be
signed by their chairman, countersigned by the county treasurer and attested by the county clerk under the seal of the
county, this first day of December, A.D. 1882.
"C hairmanBoard of County-Commissioners.
"Attest:

-

-

, County Clerk.

"[COUTY SEAL.]

"Countersigned:

,

County Treasurer."

(Coupon.)

"The County of Chaffee, in the State of Colorado,
will pay the bearer - dollars at the office of the county treasurer, in the town of Buena Vista, or at the banking-house of
Kountz Brothers, in the city of New York, on the first day
being six months' ihterest on funding bond
of 7-,
E. B. JoNEs, County Treasurer."
"No.-, .Series -.
The plaintiff, as the holder of a large number of the coupons
of each series, alleged in his*declaration that all the proceedings required by the statutes of the State to be taken in the
,matter of the issue and registration of the bonds had been
taken before the bonds were-put on 'the market, that the bonds
were therefore legal in all respects as valid obligations of thecounty, and that, as the bonafide holder for value of the interest coupons, he had presented them for payment at the place
required and payment had been refused. Wherefore he prayed
judgment for the amount of said coupons, with interest, in all,
$9648.

CHAFFEE

COUNTY v. POTTER.

Opinion of the Court.

The defences set up in the answer were:. That the bonds
had not been authorized by a vote of the qialified voters of
the county, and no bonds had been authorized to be exchanged
for the warrants of the county, and the board, therefore, never
had any jurisdiction to issue them; that the bonds, and each
of them, were issued in violation of § 6, art. 11, of the constitution of the State, and the debt which they assumed to fund
was contracted in violation of said provision of the constitution; and that the bonds were issued by the board of county
commissioners without any consideration valid in law, as plaintiff well knew when he received the coupons sued on.
A demurrer to the answer on the ground that it was not a
sufficient defence to the action, was sustained by the Circuit
Court, and, the defendants electing to stand by their pleading,
judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff for the full
amount of his claim, with interest. 33 Fed. Rep. 614. This
writ of error is prosecuted to review that judgment.
The ground upon which the Circuit Court based its decision
and judgment was that the county should be estopped, by the
recitals in the bonds, from pleading the defences set up in the
answer.
The act of the legislature, under the authority of which the
bonds were issued, is set out in the margin.. It is the same
1 SECTIOx 1. It shall be the duty of the county commissioners of any
county having a floating indebtedness exceeding ten thousand dollars, upon
the petition of fifty of the electors of said counties [county,] who shall.
have paid taxes upon property assessed to them in said county in the preceding year, to publish, for the period of thirty days, in a newspaper published within said county, a notice r~questing the holders of the warrants
of such county to submit, in writing, to the bolrd of county commissioners,
within thirty days from date of the first publication of such notice, a stat6ment of the amount of the warrants of such county, which they will
exchange at par, and accrued interest for the bonds of such county, to be
issued under the provisions of this act, taking such bonds at par. It shall
be the duty of such board of county commissioners, at the next general
election occurring after the expiration of thirty days from the date of the
first publication of the notice aforementioned, upon the petition of fifty of
the electors of such county who shall have paid taxes upon property
assessed to them in said county in the preceding year, to submit to the vote
of the qualified electors of such county who shall have paid taxes on prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion ,of the Court.

act under which certain bonds were issued by Lake County,
Colorido, which bonds were under consideration in Lake
erty assessed to them in said county in the preceding year, the question
whether the board Qf county commissioners shall issue bonds of such
county, under the provisions of this act, in exchange, at par, for the warrants of such county issued prior to the date of the first publication of the
aforesaid notice; or they may submit such question at a special election,
which they are hereby empowered to call'for that purpose, at any time after
the expiration of thirty days from the date of the first publication of the
notice aforementioned, on the petition of fifty qualified electors as aforesaid;
and they shall publish, for the period of at least thirty days immediately
preceding such general or special election, in some newspaper published
within such county, a notice that such question will be submitted to the
duly qualified electors as aforesaid, at such election. The county treasurer
of such county shall make out and cause to be delivered to the judges of
election, in each election precinct in the county, prior to the said election,
a certified list of the taxpayers in such county who shall have paid taxes
upon property assessed to them in such county in the preceding year: and
no person shall vote upon the question of the funding of the county indebtedness unless his name shall appear upon such list, nor unless he shall have
paid all county taxes assessed against him in such county in the preceding
year. If a majority of the votes lawfully cast upon the question of such
funding of the floating county indebtedness shall be for the funding of such
indebtedness, the board of county commissioners may issue to any person
or corporation holding any county warrant or warrants issued prior to the
date of the first publication of the aforementioned notice coupon bonds of
such county in exchange therefor, at par. No bonds shall be issued of less
denomination than one hundred dollars, and if issued for a greater amount,
then for some rpultiple of that sum, and tire rate of interest shall not exceed
eight per cent per annum. The interest to be paid semi-annually, at the
office of the county treasurer, or in the city of New York, at the option of
the holders thereof. Such bonds to be payable at the pleasure of the
county, after ten years from the date of their issuance, but absolutely due
and payable twenty years after date of issue. The whole amount of bonds
issued under this act shall not exceed the sum of the county indebtedness at
the date of the first publication of the aforementioned notice, and the amount
shall be determined by the county commissioners, and a certificate made of
the same, and made a part of the records of the county; and any bond
issued in excess of said sum shall be null and void; and all bonds issued
under the provisions of this act shall be registered in the office of the state
auditor, to whom a fee of ten cents shall be paid for recording each bond.
SEC. 2. All bonds which may be issued under the provisions of this act
shall be signed by the chairman of the board of county commissioners,
countersigned by the county treasurer of the county, and attested by the
clerk of said county, and bear the seal of the county upon each bond, and

CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

County v. Graaham, 130 U. S. 674.

The bonds in that case

were quite similar to those now under consideration, differing
shall be numbered and registered in a book kept for, that purpose by the
county treasurer, in the order in which they are issued; each bond shall
state upon its face the amount for which the same is issued, to whom issued
and the date of its issuance.
I
SEc. 3. The county commissioners shall be authorized to prescribe the
form of such bonds and the coupons thereto, and to provide for the halfyearly interest accruing on such bonds actually issued and delivered; they
shall levy annually a sufficient tax to fully discharge such interest, and for
the ultimate redemption of such bonds they shall levy annually, after nine
years from the ante of such issuance, such tax upon all the taxable property in their county as shall create a yearly fund equal to ten (10) per cent
of the whole amount of such bonds issued, which fund shall be called the
redemption fund. And all taxes for interest on and for the redemption of
such bonds shall be paid in cash only, and shall be kept by the county treasurer as a special fund, to be used in payment of interest on and for the redemption of such bonds only; and such taxes shall be levied and collected
as other taxes.
SEc. 4. It shall be the duty of the county treasurer, when there are sufficient funds in his hands to the credit of the redemption fund, to pay in full
the principal and interest of any such bonds, immediately to call in and pay
as many of such bonds, and accrued interest thereon, as the funds on hand
will liquidate, as hereinbefore provided. Such bond or bonds shall be paid
in the order of their number; and when any bonds or coupons issued under
this act are taken up, it shall be the duty of such treasurer to certify his
action to the board of county commissioners, who shall cancel the same, so
that they can be plainly identified, and cause a record to be made of the same;
and when it is desired to redeem any of such bonds, the county treasurer
shall cause to be published for thirty days, in some newspaper at or nearest
the county seat of the county, and in a newspaper published in the city of
Denver, a notice that certain county bonds by numbers and amounts will be
paid upon presentation, and at the expiration of thirty days such bonds shall
cease to bear interest.
SEc. 5. All persons voting on the question as hereinbefore provided shall
vote by separate ballot, which shall be deposited in a box to be used for that
purpose only, and on which ballot shall be printed the words, "For funding
county debt," or "Against funding county debt;" and if, upon canvassing
to [the] vote (which shall be canvassed in the same manner as the vote for
county officers), it shall appear that a majority of all votes cast upon the
question so submitted are for funding the county debt, then the county commissioners shall be authorized to carry out the provisions of this act, and
the canvassing board shall certify the vote, and it shall be made part of the
county records. The judges of election shall make and certify to the clerk
of the county a separate list of the names of the electors voting upon the

OCTOBER TERMf,

1891."

Opinion ° of the Court.

only, as regards their recitals, in this, that the bonds here contain the additional recital that "the total amount of this issue
does not exceed the limit prescribed by the constitution of the
State of Colorado," and do not show upon their face, as did
those in that case, how many bonds were issued, or how large
each series was.
The provision of the constitution of 1876, referred to, both
in this case and in that, (art. 11, sec. 6,) is as follows:
"No county shall contract any debt by loan in any form,
except for the purpose of erecting necessary public buildings,
making or repairing public roads and bridges; and such indebtedness contracted in any one year shall not exceed the rates
upon the taxable property in such county following, to wit:
counties in which the assessed valuation of taxable property
shall exceed five millions of dollars, one dollar and fifty cents
on each thousand dollars thereof; counties in which such'valuation shall be less than five millions of dollars, three dollars on
each thousand dollars thereof; and the aggregate amount of
indebtedness of any county, for all purposes, exclusive of debts
contracted before the adoption of this constitution, shall not at
any time exceed twice the amount above herein limited, unless
when, in manner provided by law, the question of incurring
such debt shall, at a general election, be submitted to such of
the qualified electors of such county as in the year last preceding such election shall have paid a tax upon property assessed
to them in such county, and a majority of those voting thereon
shall vote in favor of incurring the debt; but the bonds, if any
be issued therefor, shall not run less than ten years; and the
aggregate amount of debt so contracted shall not at any time
exceed twice the rate upon the valuation last herein mentioned;
Provided, That this section shall not apply to counties having
a valuation of less than one million of dollars."
We held in that case that the county was not estopped from
question of the funding of the county indebtedness in the order in which
the ballot of the elector so voting is received, and each ballot shall be numbered in the order in which it is received, and the number recorded and [on]
the said list of voters opposite the name of the voter who presents the ballot.-Laws 1881, p. 85, §§ 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.

CHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.
Opinion of the Court.

pleading the constitutional limitation, because there was no
recital in the bonds in regard to it, and because, also, the bonds

showing upon their face that they were issued to the amount
of $500,000, the purchaser, having that data before him, was
bound to ascertain from the records the total assessed valuation
of the taxable property of the county, and determine for himself, by a simple arithmetical calculation, whether the issue
was in harmony with the constitution; and that the bonds,
having been issued in violation of that provision of the constitution, were not valid obligations of the county. Our decision
was based largely upon the ruling of this court in Dixon County
v. Field, 111 U. S. 83. To the views expressed in that case we
still adhere; and the only question for us now to consider,
therefore, is: Do the additional recital in these, bonds, above
set out, and the absence from their face of anything showing
the total number issued of each series, and the total amount in
all, estop the county from pleading the constitutional limitation
In our opinion these two features are of vital importance in
distinguishing this case from Lake County v. Grakham and
Dixon County v. Field, and are sufficient to operate as an
estoppel against the county. Of course, the purchaser of bonds
in open market was bound to take notide of the constitutional
limitation on the county with respect to indebtedness which it
might incur. But when, upon the.face of the bonds, there was
an express recital that that limitation had not been passed,
and the bonds themselves did not show that it had, he was
bound to look no further. An examination of any particular
bond would not disclose, as it would in the Lake County Case,
and in Dixon County v. Field, that, as a matter of fact, the
constitutional limitation had been exceeded, in the issue of the
series of"bonds. The purchaser might even know, indeed it
may be admitted that he would be required to know, the
assessed valuation of the taxable property of the county, and
yet he could not ascertain by reference to one. of the bonds
and the assessment roll whether the county had exceeded its
power, under the constitution, in the premises. True, if a
purchaser had seen the whole issue of each series of bonds and

364

OcTOBE9 TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

then compared it with.the assessment roll, he might have been
able to discover whether the issue exceeded the amount of
indebtedness limited by the constitution. But that is not the
t.est to apply to a transaction of this nature. It is not supposed
that any one person would purchase all of the bonds at one
time, as that is not the usual course of business of this kind.
The test is-What does each individual bond disclose? If
the face of one of the bonds had disclosed that, as a matter
of fact, the recital in it, with respect to the constitutional limitation, was false, of course the county would not be bound
by that recital, and would not be estopped from pleading the
invalidity of the bonds in this particular. Such was the case
in Lake County v. Grahamn and Dixon County v. Field, But
that is not this case. Here, by virtue of the statute under
which the bonds were issued, the county commissioners were
to determine the amount to be issued, which was not to exceed
the total amount of the indebtedness at the date of the first
publication of the notice requesting the holders of county
warrants to exchange their warrants for bonds, at par. The
statute, in terms, gave to the commissioners the determination
of a fact, that is, whether the issue of bonds was in accordance
with the cons.titutioii of the State and the statute under which
they were issued, and required them to spread a certificate of
that determination upon the records of the county. The recital
in the bond to the effect that such determination has been
made, and that the constitutional limitation had not been.
exceeded in the issue of the bonds, taken in connection with
the fact that the bonds themselves did not show such recital
to be itntrue, under the law, estops the county from saying
that it is untrue. Town of Colomca v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484;
Toion of Venice v. furdock, 92 U. S. 494; .Marcyv. Township
of Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Wilson v. Salamanca, 99 U. S. 499
Buckanan v. Litclhfield, 102 U. S. 278; NortherT Bank v.
Porter Township, 110 U. S. 608.
The rule respecting the binding force of recitals' in bonds is
well stated in Town of Coloma v. Eaves, as follow : "Where
legislative 'authority has been given to a municipality, or to its
officers, to subscribe for the'stock of a railroad coihpany, and

CJHAFFEE COUNTY v. POTTER.

•366

Opinion of the Court.

to issue municipal bonds in payment, but only on some precedent
condition, such as a popular vote'favoring the subscription, and

where it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that
the officers -of the municipality were invested with power to
decide whethef the condition precedent has been complied with,
their recital that it .has been, made in the bonds issued by them
and held by a bonafje purchaser, is conclusive of the fact, and
binding upon: the municipality; for the recital is itself a decision
of the fact by the appointed tribunal." 92 U. S. 491.
-InBuchanan v. itefheld, while holding that the
bonds were
in excess of the amount that could be legally issued, and- that
the recitals in the bonds were not sufficient to estop the municipality from pleading a want of .authority to issue them, the
court say: "As, therefore, neither the constitution nor the
statute prescribed any rule or test by which persons contracting
with municipal corporations should ascertain the extent of their
'existing indebtedness,' it would seem that if the bonds in
question had contained recitals which, upon any fair construction, amounted to a representation on the part of the constituted
authorities of the city that the requirements of the constitution
were met -that is, that the city's indebtedness, increased by
the amount of the bonds in question, was within the constitutional limit -then the city, under the decisions of this court,
might have been estopped from disputing the truth of such
representations as against a 7onajUe holder of its bonds. The
case might then, perhaps, have been brought within the rule
announced by this court in Town of VCoZoma v. Eaves." And
again: "Had the bonds made the additional recital that they
were issued in accordance ith the constitution, or had the
ordinance stated, in any form, that the proposed indebtedness
was within the constitutional limit, or had the statute restricted
the exercise of the authority therein conferred to those municipal corporations whose indebtedness did not, at the time, exceed
the constitutional limit, there would have been ground for
holding that the city could not, as against the plaintiff, dispute
the fair inference to be drawn from such recital or statement,
as to the extent of its existing indebtedness." 102 U. S.
290, 292.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

We think this case comes fairly within the principles of those
just cited; and that it is not governed by Dixon County v.
.Fieldand Lake County v. Graham,but is distinguishable from
them, in the essential particulars above noted.
Judgment affirmed.
MRt. JUSTICE GRAY dissented.

DOON TOWNSIP v. OUMMINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 883. Submitted January 6,1891. -Decided

January 4,1892.

By virtue of Art. 11, sec. 3 of the constitution of Iowa of 1857, which
ordains that "no county, or other political or municipal corporation, shall
be allowed to become indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to
an amount in the aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of the
taxable property within such county or corporation-to be ascertained
by the last state and dounty tax lists, previous to the incurring of such
indebtedness," negotiqble bonds, in excess of the constitutional limit,
issued by a school district, and sold by its treasurer, for the purpose of
applying the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the outstanding
bonded indebtedness-of the diArict, pursuant to the statute of Iowa of
1880, c. 132, are void as against one who purchases them from the district with knowledge that the constitutional limit is thereby exceeded.

THE original action was brought by Theron Cummins,-a citizen df Illinois, on coupons attached to negotiable bonds issued
by the defendant, a district township of Iowa, under the statute bf Iowa of 1880, c. 132, the material provisions of which
are copied in the margin.'
1 SEC. 1. Any independent school district or district township now or
hereafter having a bonded indebtedness outstanding is hereby authorized to
issue negotiable bonds at any rate of interest not exceeding seven per cent
per annum, payable semi-annually, for the purpose of funding said indebtedness, said bonds to be issued upon a resolution of the board of directors
of said district: provided, that said resolution shall not be valid unless
adopted by a two-thirds vote of said directors.

