OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of th6 Case.

single purpose of a hearing in bane in that court, as upon a
motion for a new trial, and is no part of the record on error.
No bill of exceptions was, or, as we have already adjudged,
could have been allowed by the Circuit Court -to the rulings
and instructions at the trial, because the conviction of the
defendant was before the passage of the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 511, and while the laws did not provide for
or permit a bill of exceptions in such a case as this. Neither
the assignment of errors, nor the plea of in nullo est erratum,
can give this court jurisdiction of errors not appearing on the
face of the record. 'Inre Claassen, 140 U. S. 200.
Judgment afflrmed.
SIMMONS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1296. Argued December 11, 1891.-Decided December 21,1891.
When it is made to appear to the court during the trial of a criminal case
that, either by reason of facts existing when the jurors were sworn, but
not then disclosed or known to the court, or by reason of outside influeuces brought to bear on the jury pending the trial, the jurors or any
of them are subject to such bias or prejudice as not to stand impartial
between the government and the accused, the jury may be discharged,
and the defendant put on trial by another jury; and the defendant is not
thereby twice put in jeopardy, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the, United States. The judge presiding at a trial, civil or criminal, in any court of the United
States, may express.his opinion to the jury upon the questions of fact
which he submits to their determination.

THIS was an indictment on section 5209 of the Revised Statutes for aiding and abetting one Claassen in embezzling and

misapplying the funds of a certain national bank in the city
of New York. The defendant pleaded not guilty.
On January 26, 1891, the case came on for trial upon the
issue thus joined; a jury was empanelled and sworn-; Goodnow, one of the jurors, stated on his voir dire that he had no
acquaintance with the defendant and had never seen him to

SIMMONS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

his knowledge; the case was opened to the jury; and on that
and following days witnesses were examined on behalf of the
United States.
Before the coming in of the court on Friday, February 6,
the district attorney received, and exhibited to the defendant's
counsel, and to the judge, an affidavit of one Ward to the
effect, that during four months in 1884 the juror Goodnow
and the defendant occupied adjoining rooms in a building in
the city of New York, and were often seen conversing together
in the halls of that building. The court thereupon adjourned
the trial until Monday, February 9.
In the afternoon of February 6, the district attorney received
from the defendant's counsel a letter, commenting upon the
statements in.Ward's affidavit and denying their truth, asserting that Ward had had a quarrel of long standing with the
defendant, and stating that he bad sent a copy of the letter to
the daily papers; and the substance of this letter was published in the morning papers of February 7.

On the coming in of the court on February 9, the district
attorney read affidavits to the foregoing facts, together with
Ward's affidavit, the letter of the defendant's counsel and the
publication in the newspapers; and thereupon moved the court
"to withdraw a juror, for the reason that, taking all the circumstances into consideration, there is a manifest necessity for
the act, or the ends of public justice would otherwise be defeated."
In opposing this motion, the defendant's counsel admitted
the making of Ward's affidavit, its communication to the
counsel on both sides and to the court, and the writing andpublication of the letter; but submitted an affidavit of the
defendant denying that he had ever known Goodnow or had
ever to his knowledge seen him before the trial, as well as an
affidavit of the counsel explaining his action, and stating that
he wrote and published his letter because he had been informed
that the reasons for the adjournment of the court had been
made public by the district attorney.
The judge gave his decision upon the motion as follows:
"I am of the opinion that the facts presented make it neces-

OCTOBER TERM:, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

sary to discharge the present jury from further consideration
of this caae, in order to prevent the defeat of the ends of justice, and to preserve the rights of the people and also to preserve the rights of the accused to be tried by a jury, every
member of which can render a verdict free from constraint.
It is' manifest that the knowledge respecting the statement
made by Ward, conveyed to the jury by the publication of
the letter of the defendant's counsel, makes it impossible that
in the future consideration of this case by the jury there can
be that true independence and freedom of action on the part
of each juror which is necessary to a fair trial of the accused."
And after Goodnow and other jurors, being asked by the
judge, had answered that they had read the publication in the
newspapers, he added: "Therefore such a publication under
the peculiar circumstances attending it affords, in my opinion,
a sufficient ground to discharge the jury at this time." The
judge thereupon ordered a juror to be withdrawn and the jury
discharged. The defendant excepted to this order, and moved
for an acquittal because of such -discharge of the jury, and
excepted to the denial of his motion.
On February 12 the' case came on for trial before another
jury, and a motion of the defendant to file a plea in bar on the
ground of former jeopardy was opposed by the district attorney and denied by the court; and to this denial the defendant
excepted.
The case was then tried, and was submitted by the judge to
the jury on March 10 under instructions beginning as follows:
"I have the right, under the laws of the United States, to
give you my opinion on questions of fact, but I refrain from
doing so because I am well satisfied of your capacity to understand what has been testified to in all these days that we have
been here engaged. I shall confine myself to stating to you
the law by which you are bound, simply calling your attention
to the questions of facbt which are to be decided by you, for, as
you know, juries decide questions of fact, and not the court."
On the next day the jury came into court and asked to be
discharged from further consideration of the case. To this
-request the court, after ascertaining by inquiry that the jury

SIMMONS v.

NITED STATES.

Argument for Plaintif In Error.

required no further instructions in matter of law, replied as
follows: "This case has occupied a long time. It is a case of
importance, and the discharge of the jury at this time would
involve another trial. It seems to me that that should not be
had unless in a case of necessity. I see in this case no such
necessity. I cannot understand the failurb to agree arises
from any difference of opinion based upon the insufficiency of
the evidence in this case. Whenever in the opinion of the
court the testimony is convincing, it is the duty of the court
to hold the jury together. Therefore I must decline your
request to be discharged."
The defendant excepted to the judge's statement to the jury
that he regarded the testimony as convincing, and, being found
guilty and sentenced to imprisonment for six years in a penitentiary, tendered a bill of exceptions, which was allowed by
the judge, and sued out this writ of error.
Mr. John Jay Joyce (with whom was .Mr. Samuel Shellabarger)for plaintiff in error.
I. The right of the trial court to discharge the jury before
verdict is to exist in cases of "extreme and absolute necessitv" (People v. Goodwin, 18 Johns. 18T; . C. 9 Am. Dec.
203), "inevitable necessity" (Mitchell v. State, 42 Ohio St..383,
393), "legal necessity" (Nrolan v. State, 55 Georgia, 521), "imperative necessity" (.McCorkle v. State, 14 Indiana, 39), only if
"some inevitable occurrence shall interpose and prevent the
rendering of a verdict" (United States v. Shoemaker, 2 McLean, 114). The discretion of the court in reference to such
a discharge is a "legal discretion, and to be exercised according to known rules" (_MoJee's Case, 1 Bailey (So. Car. Law)
651; S. C. 21 Am. Dec. 499; Xount v. State, 14 Ohio, 295;
S. C. 45 Am. Dec. 542), "a discretion to be used only under
very extraordinary and striking circumstances." United State8
v. Coolidge, 2 Gall. 364. Such a discretion cannot be absolute
and irreviewable, for then there would be no protection against
its wildest abuse, and it is a rule in criminal proceedings that
nothing be done within the discretion of the court to the prejudice of the defendant, (United Statem v. Shoemaker, 8up2a,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and in fact in almost all of the cases cited below in treating of
"jeopardy," the very character of the discussion shows, even
where jt is not directly asserted, that the court, of error exercised. the right to review the action of the court below in dischargihg the jury; see also United States v. Shoemaker, wbi
supra, where it is said "the first trial might be considered an experiment to draw forth the evidence in the case and. ascertain
if it be insufficient whether, on another trial, it might not be
made strong enough to convict - nor could this right be safely
exercised under the discretion," i.e. an unlimited discretion of
,the court. What shall govern this discretion? And as to the
pbsition of the accused "a right which depends on the will
of the magistrate is no right at all." O'Brian v. Commonwealth, 9 Bush, 333.
The true rule is that the finding of the facts on which the
discharge of the jury is based by the court below is final, but
the determination whether such facts constitute a case of
necessity is a question of law and open to review when such
upon the record.
facts
"Theappear
great majority of the authoritative text writers hold
that when the jury, being full, is sworn and added to the other
branch of the court, and all the preliminary things of record
are ready for trial, the prisoner has reached the jeopardy, from
the repetition of which our constitutional rule protects him.
1 Bishop Crim. Law, §§ 1015, 1019; Cooley Const. Lim.
(6th ed.) 399; Bigelow on Estoppel (5th ed.) 89. See also
.Mitchell v. State, 42 Ohio St. 383, 393, and cases there cited;
ffolan v. State, 55 Georgia, 521; Lovett v. State, 80 Georgia,
255; State v. Callendine, 8 Iowa, 288; State v. Tatman, 59
Iowa, 471; Josepihine'8 Ca8e, 39 Mississippi, 613; Teat v. State,
53 Mississippi, 439; People v. Barrett,2 Caines, 100; Eing v.
PeoZe, 5 Hun, 297; Commonwealth v. Cook, 6 S. & IR. 577;
Commonwealth v. Fitzpat ick, 121 Penn. St. 109; .Jfilands v.
Commonwealth, 111 Penn. St. 1; XCorkle v. State, 14 Indiana, 39; Adams v. State, 99 Indiana, 244; Powell v. State, 17
Texas App. 345; People v. Gardner, 62 Michigan, 307;
O'Brian v.- Commonwealth, 9 Bush, 333; Commonwealth v.
,Hart,149 Mass. 7; Lee v. State, 26 Arkansas, 260; People v.

SIMIONS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Cage, 48 California, 323; State v. 2cEee, I Bailey (So. Car.)
Law, 651.
II. It is not denied that in the Federal courts the trial
judge in submitting a case to the jury may express his opinion
upon the facts.
But it will be found from an examination of the authorities
that the tendency is to confine the right of the court in this
respect within well-defined limits, and that in criminal cases,
especially, such an expression of opinion must be closely coupled
with words giving the jury to understand that they are not to
be bound by it, but that the determination of all matters of
fact was within their province alone.
-M'. Attorney General appeared for the defendant in error,
but the court declined to hear argument.
MR. JusTicn- GnLY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the coart.

The general rule of law upon the power of the court to discharge the jury in a criminal case before verdict was laid down
by this court more than sixty years ago, in a case presenting
the question whether a man charged with a capital crime was
entitled to be discharged because the jury, being unable to
agree, had been discharged, without his consent, from giving
any verdict upon the indictment. The court, speaking by Mr.
Justice Story, said: "We are of opinion that the facts constitute no legal bar to a future trial. The prisoner has not been
convicted or acquitted, and may again be put upon his defence.
We think that, in all cases of this nature, the law has invested
courts of justice with the authority to disoharge a jury from
giving any verdict, whenever in their opinion, taking all the
circumstances into consideration, there is a manifest necessity
for the act, or the ends of public justice would otherwise be
defeated. They are to exercise a sound discretion on the subject; and it is impossible to define all the circumstances which
would render it proper to interfere. To be sure, the power
ought to be used with the greatest caution, under urgent circumstances, and for very plain and obvious causes; and, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

capital cases especially, courts should be extremely' careful
how they interfere with any of the chances of life in favor of
the prisoner. *But, after all, they have the right to order the
discharge; and the security which the public have for the faithful, sound and conscientious exercise of this descretion rests, in
this, as in other cases, upon the responsibility of the judges, under
their oaths of office." United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579.
A recent decision of the Court of Queen's Bench, made upon
a full review of the English authorities, and affirmed in the Exchequer Chamber, is to the same effect. Win8or v. The Queen,
L. R. 1 Q. B. 289, 390; S' C. 6 B. & S. 143, and'T B. & S. 490.
There an be no condition of things in which the necessity
for the exercise of this poweri is more manifest, in order to prevent the defeat of the ends of public justice, thanwhen it is
made to appear to the court that, either by reason of facts
existing when the jurors were sworn, but not then disclosed
or. known" to the court, or by reason of outside influences
brought to bear on the jury pending the trial, the jurors or
'any of them are subject to such bias or prejudice as not to
stand impartial between the government and the accused. As
was well said by Mr. Justice Curtis in a case very like that
now before us, "It is an entire mistake to confound this discretionary authority of the court, to protect one part of the
tribunal from corruption or prejudice, with the right of challenge allowed to a party. And it is, at least, equally a mistake to sdppose that, in a, court of justice, either party can
have a vested right to a corrupt or prejudiced juror, who is
not fit to sit in judgment in the case." United States v. .Morris,
1 Curtis C. C. 23, 31.
Pending the first trial of the present case, there was brought
to the notice of the counsel on both sides, and of the court,
evidence on oath tending to show that one of the jurors' had
sworn falsely on his voir dire that he had no acquaintance
with the defendant; and it was undisputed that a letter since
.written and published in the newspapers by) the defendant's
counsel, commenting upon that evidence, had been read by
,that juror and by others of the jury. It needs no argument'
t~d prove that the judge, upon receiving such information, was

McELVAINE v. BRUSIH
Syllabus.

fully justified in concluding that such a publication, under the
peculiar circumstances attending it, made it impossible for that
jury, in considering the case, to act with the independence and
freedom on the part of each juror requisite to a fair trial of
the issue between the parties. The judge having come to that
conclusion, it was clearly within his authority to order the jury
to be discharged, and to put the defendant 6n trial by another
jury; and the defendant was not thereby twice put in'jeopardy,
within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The only other exception argued is to the statement made
by the judge to the second jury, in denying their request to be*
discharged without having agreed upon a verdictthat he regarded the testimony as convincing. But at the outset of his
charge he had told them, in so many words, that the facts
were to be decided by the jury, and not by the court. And
it is so well settled, by a long series of decisions of thig court,
that the judge presiding at a trial, civil or criminal, in any
court of the United States, is authorized, whenever he thinks
it will assist the jury in arriving at a just conclusion, to express
to them his opinion upon the questions of fact which he submits to their determination, that it is only necessary to refer to
two or three recent cases in which the judge's opinion on matters of fact was quite as plainly and strongly expressed to the
jury as in the case at bar. Vtiksurg &c. Railroadv. Putnam,
118 U. S. 545; United State8 v. Philadelpkia& Reading Railroad, 123 U. S. 113; L-ovejoy v. United States, 128 U. S. 171.
Judgment aflrmed.

McELVAIINE v. BRUSH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1125. Argued December 7,1891.-

Decided December 21, 1991.

The provisions in the New York Code of Criminal Procedure, (§§ 491, 492,>
respecting the solitary confinement of convicts condemned to death, are
not in conflict with thd Constitution of the United States, as they are
construed by the Court of Appeals of that State.

