OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

proof of the fact might have been allowed to be made. Rickman v. Painter,11 West Va. 386; 1 Story Eq. Jur. ยง 81.
Upqn the whole, we see no reason for a reversal of the decree,
and it is therefore
Afirmed.

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
WESTERNE

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 1048. Argued December 16, 1891 - Decided January 4,1892.

The full and unconditional pardon of a person convicted of larceny and sentenced to imprisonment therefor completely restores his competency as
a witnessalthough it may be stated in the pardon that it was given for
that purpose.
On the trial of a person -indicted for murder, it appeared in evidence that
the killing followed an attempt to rob. The court admitted, under objections, evidence tending to show that the prisoner had committed other
robberies in that neighborhood, on different days, shortly before the
time when the killing took place, and exceptions were taken. Held, that
the evidence was inadmissible for any purpose.

THE case is' stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. J .May for plaintiffs in error. I1-M. A. R. Garland
filed a brief for same.
.Mr.
Assitant Attorney General Maury for defendants in
error.

Mi. JUSTICE HiLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were jointly indicted, in the court
below for the crime of murder, alleged to have been committed
on the 6th day of April, 1890, at the Choctaw Nation, in the
Indian country, within the Western District of Arkansas; the
first count alleging that the person murdered, John Dansby,
was a negro, and not an Indian; the second, that the defendants were white men, and not Indians. The court, in its charge

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to the jury, said that the second count differed from the first
"by alleging that Eugene Standley, alias Eugene Stanton (he
is charged in that way in both counts) and John Boyd were
white men and not Indians. The proof, without. any controversy, shows that Standley is an Indian; therefore you will
confine your finding, if it should be a verdict of guilty, to the
first count in the indictment, if the proof shows that fact with
reference to Standley and you should find him guilty. If it
shows such other facts as are necessary to give the court jurisdiction, as are alleged in the first count of the indictment, then
your finding will be on that count, provided you should find a
verdict of guilty. If you should find a verdict of not. guilty
it may be general in its character, and it would be responsive
to both charges."
The defendants were found guilty of murder as charged in
the first count. A motion for a new trial having been overruled, the defendants were condemned to suffer the punishment of death.
The proof was conflicting.upon many points, but there was
evidence tending to show the following facts: In the night of
April 6, 1890, the defendants, Boyd and Standley, with John
Davis alia8 Myers, came to a ferry, on Cache Creek, in the
Indian country, a short distance from Martin Byrd's at whose
house, at the time, were John Dansby, the deceased, Joseph
Byrd, a brother of Martin Byrd, and Richard Butler. The
defendants and Davis, or one of them, called to the ferryman,
Martin Byrd, to come and set them over the creek. Byrd
protested that he did not like to do work of that kind after
dark, but finally consented to get the key of the boat, and
take them across the creek. He went to his house, avowedly
to obtain the key; and, after remaining away some time, returned, accompanied by Dausby, Joseph Byrd and Richard
Butler, each with weapons. When Martin Byrd reached the
ferry boat, and was about to unlock the chain by which it was
held fast - Boyd being at the time in the rear end of the boat,
while Davis and Standley were sitting upon the bank of the
creek - Davis said to him, "Lay down that chain, and throw
out your rusty change." Upon Byrd saying, " Don't you want

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to cross?" Davis, holding his pistol upon Byrd, replied, with
an oath, "No, it's your money we're after." Dausby started
towards Byrd, and was shot in the back by Boyd. When
Davis presented his pistol at -Martin Byrd, the latter, dropping
upon his knees, drew a pistol. The ball from Davis' pistol
passed over Byrd's head, but Davis was shot by Byrd, -and
died instantly. The firing immediately became general. Butler shot Boyd in the back, Standley shot at Joseph Byrd, but
was himself slightly wounded by a shot from the latter's pistol.
Boyd, although badly wounded, went up the creek some little
distance, but, being followed, was secured and carried to Martin Byrd's house, as a prisoner. He remained there until he
was arrested by an officer upon the charge of having murdered
Dansby. Standley escaped, and it was some time before he
was arrested. Dansby lived a few days only, and died at
Martin Byrd's house, from the wounds inflicted upon him on
the above occasion.
Upon the part of the defendants there was evidence tending
to show a case, in some respects, materially differenut
They
contended - to use the words of their counsel-" that while
Boyd was sitting in the boat and Standley and Davis on the
bank, the ferryman.and his party came around with Winchester rifles and revolvers, and before they suspected anything
had levelled their guns on him and Davis, and told them to
give up their pistols; that they had the description of some
men that had robbed Judge Taylor; that he handed up his
pistol, which they took, and Davis drew his out, but whether
to comply or to resist he does not know; that they- fired on
Davis and killed hin; that he turned, and, as he did so, was
shot in the shoulder and fell, the ball remaining under the
point of the shoulder blade; that they ran after Boyd, and
while they were gone he picked up Davis' pistol and ran off
and hid."
The principal witness for the prosecution, at the trial, was
Martin Byrd. When presented as a witness, the defendants
objected to him as incompetent, by reason of the fact that he
had been convicted of the crime of larceny and sentenced to
the penitentiary, the record of such conviction being offered

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

in support of the objection. The government thereupon produced a pardon from the President of the United States, as
follows:
"Benjamin Harrison, President of the United States of
America, to all to whom these presents may come, greeting:
"Whereas, Martin Byrd, in the United States District Court
for the Western District of Arkansas, was indicted, charged
with larceny, convicted May 10th, 1884, and on the 19th day of
May, 1884, was sentenced to one year's imprisonment in the
Detroit House of Correction, Detroit, Michigan; and whereas
the said Martin Byrd has been discharged from said prison, he
having served out the term for which sentenced, and was accredited for good behavior while in prison; and whereas the
district attorney for the Western District of Arkansas requests
the pardon of said Martin Byrd, in order to restore him to
competency as a witness in a murder trial to be had July 1st,
next, in said District Court at Little 7Rock, in which request
the judge of said District Court unites: Now, therefore, be it
known that I, Benjamin Harrison, President of the United
States of America, in consideration of the premises, divers
other good and sufficient reasons me thereunto moving, do
hereby grant to the said Martin Byrd a full and unconditional
pardon.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto signed my name
and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the city of Washington, this 27th day of June,
A.D. 1890, and of the Independence of the United States the
one hundred and fourteenth.
"(The place of the seal.)
BENjAmN HARRISON.
"By the President: JAMEs G. BLAINE, Sec. of State."
This pardon removed all objections to the competency of
Martin Byrd as a witness. The recital in it that the district
attorney requested the pardon in order to restore Byrd' s competency as a witness in a murder trial to be had in the District Court at Little Rock, did not alter the fact that the
pardon was, by its terms, "full and unconditional." The dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ability to testify being a consequence, according .tothe principles of the common law, of the judgment of-conviction, the
pardon obliterated that effect. The competency as a witness
of the person so pardoned was, therefore, completely restored.
United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150; Ew parte Wells, 18
How. 307, 315; Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333, 380; 4 Bl.
Com. 402.
The principal assignments of error relate to the admission,
against the objection of the defendants, of evidence as to several robberies committed prior to the day when Dansby was
shot, and which, or some of which at least, had no necessary
connection with, and did not, in the slightest
degree, elucidate
the- issue before the jury, namely, whether the defendants
murdered John Dansby on the occasion of the conflict at the
ferry. This evidence tended to show, and, for the purposes of
the present discussion, it may be admitted that it did show',
that, in the night of March 15,1890, Standley, under the name
of Henry Eckles, robbed Richard 0. Brinson and Samuel R.
Mode; that in the afternoon of March 17, 1990, he and Boyd
robbed Robert Hall; that in the night of March 20, 1890,
Standley, under the name of John Haynes, together with

Davis, robbed John-Taylor; and that, in the evening of April
5, 1890, Davis, Boyd and Standley robbed Rigsby's store. in
relation to these matters, the witnesses went into details as
fully as if the defendants had been upon trial for the robberies they were, respectively, charged by the evidence with
having committed. The admissibility of this evidence was
attempted to be sustained, in part, upon the ground that Martin Byrd and his crowd, having the right to arrest the parties
guilty of the robberies, were entitled to show that the robberies had been, in fact, committed by the defendantg. While
the evidence tended to show that Martin Byrd had 'information, prior to April 6, 1890, of the Taylor robbery, and of
Taylor having offered a reward for the arrest and conviction
of the guilty parties, there is nothing to show that he or his
associates had ever heard, before the meeting at. the ferry,
of the robberies of Brinson, Mode, Hall and Rigsby. It is
said that the evidence in chief as to what occurred at the

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

time of the shooting, left the identity of the defendants, or at
least of Standley, in some doubt, and that the facts, connected
with the robbery of Rigsby, showing that the defendants and
Davis were all engaged in it, and were together only the
night before Dansby was shot, tended not only to identify
Standley arid Boyd, but to show that they came to the ferry
for the same purpose with which they went to Rigsby's house,
namely, to rob and plunder for their joint benefit; and, consequently, that each defendant was responsible for Dansby's
death if it resulted from the prosecution of their felonious
purpose to rob.
The rule upon this subject was thus expressed by the court
in its charge to the jury: "If a number of men agree to do
an act which, from its'rature or the way it is to be done, is an
act that will put human life in jeopardy, then the putting of
human life in jeopardy, or the destruction of human life, is a
necessary and a natural and a probable consequence of the
act agreed to be done by the party, and upon the principle
of the law I haye already announced to you, it is but equal
and exact justice that all who enter upon an enterprise of
that kind should be responsible for the death of an innocent
person that transpires because of the execution of the enterprise then entered upon, and because that enterprise is one
that would naturally and reasonably produce that result."
Again: "Now the law defines the character of crimes that,
if a number of persons enter upon the commission of them
they may be affected by a result. of this kind. It says robbery
is one of them. Why? Robbery has the very element that
enters into it, to distinguish it, to make it a crime, as that
of violence upon the person, and it is but a probable and
natural and reasonable consequence of an attempt to commit
that crime that a human life will be destroyed., The very
demand of a man who robs - 'Your money or your life!'
-implies that human life is in jeopar4y; so that when a
number of persons agree to and enter upon the commission of
the crime of robbery, and a person is killed, who is an innocent person, in the execution of that purpose to rob, all the
parties who have so entered into the agreement and enter

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the execution of the purpose to rob are equally responsible. The pistol or gun fired is the pistol or gun of each
and every one of them. There are other crimes of a like
character, and the law, I say, draws this distinction, and
bases it upon a just ground. It says that any crime which,
from its nature and the way it is usually committed, will necessarily or probably or reasonably endanger a human life, is
a crime that, if a number of persons agree to commit, and.
enter upon the commission of, will involve them all in the
consequences that ensue. The commission of robbery is a
crime that may cause the death of an innocent person."
These principles, of the soundness of which we entertain no
doubt, were enforced by the court in its charge by numerous
illustrations drawn from adjudged cases and text-writers of
high authority. This being done, it proceeded: "INow it becomes necessary for the court to remind you of what figure
these other crimes that have been proven cut in the case.
This crime of the robbery of Rigsby may be taken into consideration by you in passing upon the questiof of the identity of
the defendants. It is a competent fact for that purpose. You
will remember that the evidence shows that goods were-found
upon the person of one of these parties who was present at
this ferry when the killing of Dansby took place, that were
sworn to by IRigsby as having been taken by the three parties,
the man Davis or -Myers and these two defendants, from his
store. That would be evidence that might be taken into consideration with the statements of these colored witnesses who
were present at the time, and undertook to point out and identify these defendants; that may be taken into consideration
for that purpose. If you believe in the theory that there was
an attempt made t6 arrest upon the part of these parties, and
that the attempt wasn't made by these defendants, together
with Davis, to commit a robbery upon them, then the fact that
the robbery of Rigsby had transpired, and the robbery of Taylor and these other robberies that have been proven before,
may be taken into consideration to show that crime had been
committed, that would give the citizen the right to make an
arrest provided there was reasonable ground to believe, in your

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment, at the time, that the parties they were seeking to
arrest were the ones that had committed those crimes. They
may be taken into consideration for that purpose. You are
not to consider these other crimes as make-weight against the
defendants alone. That is to say, you are not to convict the
defendants because of the commission of these other crimes.
They were admitted for the specific purposes that I have
named. They are not to influence your minds so as to induce
you to more readily convict them than you would convict them
if the crimes had not been proven against him. That is the
figure they cut. That is the reason they were admitted as
testimony before "you."
The charge made no reference to the robberies committed
upon Brinson, Mode and Hall, except as they may have been
in the mind of the court, when it referred to "these other
crimes." Whatever effect, prejudicial to the defendants, the
proof of the robberies upon Brinson, Mode and Hall produced
upon the minds of jurors, remained with them, except as it
may have been modified by the general statement that the
defendants were not to be convicted "because of the commission of these other crimes." The only other crimes referred
to in the charge (other than the alleged murder of Dansby)
were the Rigsby and Taylor robberies. The jurors were particularly informed as to the purposes for which the court admitted testimony in respect to those two 'robberies; but they
were left uninstructed, in direct terms, as to the use to which
the proof of the Brinson, Mode and Hall robberies could be
put in passing upon the guilt or innocence of the particular
crime for which the -defendants were indicted. It is true, as
suggested by counsel for the government, that no exception
was taken to the charge. But objection was made by the defendants to the evidence as to the Brinson, Mode and Hall robberies, and exception was duly taken to the action of the court
in admitting it. That exception was not waived by a failure
to except to -the charge.
If the evidence as to crimes committed by the defendants,
other than the murder of Dansby, had been limited to the
robberies of Rigsby and Taylor, it may be, in view of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

peculiar circumstances disclosed by the record, and the specific
directions by the court as to the purpose for which the proof
of those two robberies might be considered, that the judgment
would not be-disturbed, although that proof, in the multiplieq
details of the facts connected with the Rigsby and Taylor robberies, went beyond the objects for which it was allowed by
the court. But we are constrained to hold that the evidence
as to the Brinson, Mode and Hall robberies was inadmissible
for the identification of the defendants, or for any other purpose whatever, and that the injury done the defendants, in
that regard, was not cured by anything contained in the
charge. Whether Standley robbed Brinson and Mode, and
whether he and Boyd robbed Hall, were matters wholly apart
from the inquiry as to the murder of Dansby. They were
collateral to the issue to be tried. No notice was given by the
indictment of the purpose of the government to introduce
proof of them. They afforded no legal presumption or inference as to the particular crime charged. Those robberies may
have been committed by the defendants in March, and yet
they may have been innocent of the murder of Dansby in
April. Proof of them only tended to projudice the defendants
with the jurors, to draw their minds away from the real issue,
and to produce the impression that they were wretches whose
lives were of no value to the community, and who were not
entitled to the full benefit of the rules prescribed by law for
the trial of human beings charged with crime involving the
punishment of death. Upon a careful scrutiny of the record
we are constrained to hold that, in at least the particulars to
,which we have adverted, those rules were not observed at the
trial below. However depraved in character, and however
full of crime their past lives may have been, the defendants
were entitled to be tried upon competent evidence, and only
for the offence charged.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded, witA
directionsto grant a new trial.

