OCTOBER -TER]M, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

consular certificate to that effect, and thus estop himself from
maintaining the fact which he alleges in his libel, that she
is not imported merchandise.
The vessel in this case was not seized for forfeiture. If she
had been, that seizure would be one to be followed by a suit
for forfeiture, instituted by the United States, and thus she
would be brought within the jurisdiction of a court of the
United States.. But she is not to be prosecuted in court by an
affirmative proceeding instituted by the United States to recover the duties upon her as an imported article, which are
claimed by the United States; and thus the only way in
which she can be brought under the jurisdiction of a court of
the United States is by the institution of the libel in question.
The writ of prohibitionis denied.

EAMES v. KAISER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNWITED

STATES

FOR TE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 125. Argued and submitted December 16, 1891. -Decided

January 11, 1892.

C. & Co. commenced suit against K. in Texas and caused his property to be
attached on the ground that he was about to convert it or a part of It
into money for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors.
K. sued C. & Co. to recover damages for the wrongful issue and levy of
those attachments. On the trial of the latter case, proof was -made tending to show fraud- on the part of K. by putting his property into notes
and placing them beyond the reach of his creditors, and, among other
things he testified as a witness in his own behalf, that on the day of the
levy or the next day a large amount owed to him was put into negotiable
notes. On cross-examination he was asked what he had done with the
notes. Plaintiff's counsel objected, and the objectiox was sustained.
Held, that this was error.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This action was originally commenced in the District Court
of Tarrant County, Texas, by Samuel Kaiser against K. B.

EAMES v. KAISER.
Statement of the Case.

Claflin & Co., alleged to be a firm composed of plaintiffs in
error and H. B. Claflin, and L. Levinson & Co., another firm,
composed of L., Michael, and Max Levinson, 11 averred to be
citizens of New York, to recover damages for the wrongful,
issue and levy of two writs of attachment against Kaiser, one
in favor of H. B. Claflin & Co., and the other in favor of
L. Levinson & Co. These attachment suits were commenced
in the Circuit Court, and the affidavits upon which the writs
issued alleged that Kaiser "was about to convert his property,
or a part thereof, into money for the purpose of placing it
beyond the reach of his creditors."
A citation was served by copy, with a certified copy of the
petition, by the delivery thereof to a member of es'hI of the
defendant firms in New York on July 17 and 18, 1883, under
arts. 1230 and 1234 of the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas.
Sayles's Tex. Civ: Stats. vol. 1, p. 418.
September 20, 1883, the defendants filed a plea to, the jurisdiction and also moved to quash the process; and with said
plea and the motion to quash, filed general and special demurrers and a general denial. On the same day, defendants
filed petition and bond for the removal of the suit to the
Circuit Court of the United States, and it was accordingly
removed on the 21st of September. The original attachment
suits of Claflin & Co. and L. Levinson & Co. were pending in
the Circuit Court, and in the case commenced by Claflin & Co.,
Kaiser had pleaded his damages in reconvention, and after this
suit was removed into the Circuit Court, Claflin & Co. moved
that Kaiser be required to elect which suit for damages he
would prosecute, and the motion being granted, Kaiser elected
to prosecute this independent action. On the 21st of January,
1884, Kaiser moved the court to quash, the plea of Claflin &
Co. and Levinson & Co. to the jurisdiction, and strike out their
motion to quash, and on the 28th of that month the motion
was sustained as to Claflin & Co. and overruled as to Levinson
& Co., the court being of opinion that the plea and motion had
been waived by Claflin & Co.'s motion to require plaintiff to
elect; and thereupon the plea to the jurisdiction was quashed,
and the motion to set aside the service was stricken out, as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

Claflin & Co. Thereafter Claflin & Co. filed an amended
answer containing demurrers and a general and special denial.
Kaiser demurred in his turn and denied the averments of the
amended answer by a supplemental petition.
The. cause, having been tried, resulted in a verdict for the
plaintiff, assessing his damages at $20,057.23, principal, and
interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum from November
17, 1882, being $8293.49, making a total of $28,350.72; and
judgment was entered upon the verdict. A motion for a new
trial was made and overruled.
.The bill of exceptions stated, among other things, "that on
the trial of the above cause the plaintiff Kaiser, being upon the
stand as a witness for himself, and having testified that his
stock on July 1, 1882, was of the value, .at cost, of 22,807 dollars, and that he bought in July and August, 1882, 51,747 dollars' worth of additional goods; having also testified that from
July 1 to November 17, 1882, the latter being the date of the
levy of attachments upon his merchandise, he had sold at retail
12,000 dollars' worth of goods; that he had sold at wholesale
to Sapowski Bros., whose credit in New York was not so good
as Kaiser's, 33,000 dollars' worth of goods, at wholesale; to
Keersky, 5162 dollars' worth; to May, at wholesale, 1207
dollars' worth; that on the day before his stock of merchandise was attached the said Sapewski Bros. owed him 13,815
dollars, plaintiff having drawn on him for large sums in favor
of other creditors, and that said indebtedness was put in the
shape of negotiable notes on the day said attachment was
levied, or on the next day, was then, on cross-examination by
defendants' counsel, asked what he had done with said notes;
to this question the plaintiff's counsel objected on the ground
that what had transpired after said attachment was levied was
immaterial and irrelevant; this objection was sustained by the
court and the defendants excepted."
Other exceptions were also taken not material to be stated
here.
X.r. -M.I. Crawford and -Yr. Sawnie Robertwon, for plain-

tiffs in error, submitted on their brief.

hAAES v. KAISER.
Opinion of the Court.

_3& -A. fH. Garland for defendant in error.
fAay was with him on the brief.
lit. CHmpF TUsTIoE FULLER

-yr.H. T.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The affidavit on which the attachment writ in favor of Claf]in & Co. issued, averred that Kaiser was "about to convert
his property, or a part thereof, into money for the purpose of
placing it beyond the reach of his creditors," and this action
was predicated upon the falsity of that averment.
The record discloses that proof was adduced upon the trial
tend ing to show an intent on Kaiser's part, at the time of the
suing out and levy of the attachment, to defraud his creditors
by secreting his property, by putting it into the shape of
notes, and by fraudulently placing them beyond the reach' of
his creditors; and it also appears from the evidence in chief
of Kaiser, as a witness in his own behalf, that on the day-of
the levy of the attachment, or the next day, an amount of
$13,815, owed to him, "was put in the shape of negotiable
notes." The Circuit Court refused to allow Kaiser to be asked
on cross-examination what he did with these notes. In this
ruling there was error. Upon the issue involved, the defendants were entitled to a wide latitude in cross-examining the
party charged with fraudulent conversion when testifying for
himself. If the particular indebtedness to Kaiser was turned
into notes, and the notes were converted into money before
the attachment issued, or simultaneously, that fact sustained
the charge of the conversion of the property into money, and
with the other evidence justified the inference that this was
for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors.
Defendants were not called upon in propounding the question
to the' witness to state what they expected to prove by him,
which it would have been ordinarily quite impossible for them
to do, but inasmuch as he had testified in his own favor that
the notes were obtained at or about the' time of the attachment, the defendants were entitled to push the inquiry further
and elicit from the witness all the circumstances surrounding
the obtaining and the final disposition of that paper.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

Indeed as the evidence tended to show an intent on Kaiser's
part, at the time of the suing out of the attachment, to defi'aud
his creditors by putting his property into the shape of notes
and placing them beyond their reach, proof of Kaiser's acts of
a similar nature, occurring immediately after the attachment
writ issued, would have been admissible if in casual relation
with what the whole evidence showed was one transaction.
Of course, this would not be so as to independent and isolated
action after the issue of the writ, but when happening in immediate connection with what preceded, and as part of one
whole, the evidence would be admissible; and we are clear
that, tested by the record before us, the question was legitimate and proper on cross-examination, and the objection
should not have been sustained.
The judgment is therefore rever8ed and the cause remanded
to the Circuit Court, 'witA a direction to grant a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE BLATcOFORD took no part in the decision of this
case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v,.
WASHINGTON TERRITORY eme rel. DUSTIN{.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHIINGTON.

IWo. 24. Ar7gued March 24, 1891. -Decided

January 4,1892.

Mandamus will not lie to compel a railroad corporation to build a station
at a particular place, unless there is a specific duty, imposed by statute,
to do so, and clear proof of a breach of that duty.
A petition for a mandamus to compel a railroad corporation to perform a
definite duty to the public, which it has distinctly manifested an intention not to perform, is rightly presented in the name of the State, at the
relation of its prosecuting attorney, and without previous demand.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company (whose charter authorized it to
locate, construct and maintain a continuous railroad from Lake Superioi
to Puget Sound, "by the most eligible route, as shall be determined by
said company," within limits broadly described, and directed that its

