OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

no other averment in the petition or cross-petition of separate
interests in such parties, a finding of the gross amount to be
paid to them was sustained. In that case, also, it was held
that certain defects alleged to exist in the petition must, to be
taken advantage of, be challenged by demurrer. These cases
all indicate that proceedings under the eminent domain act
may be divided into distinct controversies between the railroad
company and each party owning or having a separate interest
in any tract; and that a controversy, thus separated, is to proceed according to the ordinary rules concerning trials, with a
certainty in verdict and a finality in judgment. They sustain
the conclusion we have heretofore expressed in this case.
The judgment will be
Reversed, and the case remanded with in8tructiofl to enter a
jidgment in terms securing to Conver the amount of the
damage8found bry the jury.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision of this case.

HEDDtN v. ISELIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 14,.

Argued January 7, 1892. -Decided January 26, 1892.

In a suit to recover back customs duties paid under protest, where the only
question tried was, whether in re-appraisement proceedings the importer
was denied rights secured to him by law; Held,
(1) It was proper to admit in evidence a protest filed by the importer
with the re-appraisers, as a paper showing what rights the importer claimed, and especially his claim that the merchant
appraiser was not qualified;
(2) A motion to direct a verdict for the defendant was properly denied,
the court having ruled in accordance with the decision of this
court in Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S. 310, and having instructed
the jury fully and properly, and there being no exception to the
charge, and a question proper for the jury.

HEDDEN v. ISELIN..
Opinion of the Court.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.MY. A88ietant Attorney General Afaury for plaintiff in
error.
. r. Franci8 Lynde Stet8on for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, in June, 1886, by William E. Iselin,
John G. Neeser and Alfred Von.Der Mul, against Edward
L. Redden, collector of the port of New York, and removed
by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York, to recover the sum of
$2124.14, with interest from June 26, 1886, as an alleged excess
of customs duties, paid under protest, on the importation of
silks by the steamer Normandie, entered June 20, 1885, and of
satins composed of cotton and silk, by the steamer Belgenland,
entered June 18, 1885. The case was tried before Judge
Wheeler and ft jury, in -December, 1886, and the jury found a
verdict for the plaintiffs for $2124.14 on which a judgment
was entered for them for that amount and costs, November 5,
1887. To review that judgment, the defendant has brought
a writ of error.
On the appraisement of the goods, they had been increased
in valuation more than ten per cent above the invoice valuation, and additional duty and a penal duty being imposed in
each case, the importers asked- for a re-appraisement, pursuant
to statute, before the general appraiser and a merchant. appraiser.
No question of the classification or rating of the goods
imported was presented ; but the importers claimed that,. in
the re-appraisement proceedings, they were denied rights which
were secureol to them by law. The court remarked, in its
charge to the jury: "The only question we have to try is,
whether there has been a substantial re-appraisement according to the law and according to the rights of these importers;"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and the court stated the questions which it submitted to the
jury as follows: "If the plaintiffs were not cut off from any
substantial right and the appraisers followed their own judgment and discietion fairly and really, then return a verdict for
defendants. If the appraisers were controlled by some outside
influence, so that they didn't act their own judgment, then
return a verdict for the plaintiffs.. Or, if the plaintiffs were
cut off-from their fair chance to be there when the appraisal
was made, from seeing their goods and pointing out the quality
to the appraisers, then return a verdict for the plaintiffs."
The first error alleged by the defendant is that the court
erred in admitting, under objection, a paper of protest filed
with the re-appraisers (luring the proceedings in respect to the
re-appraisement of the goods imported by the Normandie. A
witness, Mr. Barnett, who had represented the plaintiffs in the
proceedings and had charge of the two importations throughout testified that, at the time of the re-appraisement, he
delivered to Mr. Brower, the general appraiser, a written
paper, addressed to the latter and the. merchant appraiser, a
copy of which appears in the bill of exceptions, stating that the
importers demanded to be present during the re-appraisement
and to present personally, as well as by their employ4s and their
agents, and also by witnesses desired to be furnished, fully
informed upon the subject matter, testimony as to the true
dutiable value of the importation by the Normandie, and to
have reasonable opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and to
test and disprove testimony to be introduced against the correctness of the invoice; and alleging that the merchant
appraiser, Mr. Booth, was not qualified to act under the
statute. The defendant objected to the admission of that
iaper in evidence, as incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial;
but the objection was overruled and the defendant excepted.
We see no error in receiving the paper in evidence. It was
part of the proceedings which took place before the re-appraisers, and appears to have been presented to tihem for the
purpose of showing what rights the importers claimed, and
especially their claim that the merchant appraiser was not
qualified. It was objected to as a whole; and it was not put

,HEDDEN v. ISELIN.
Opinion of the Court.

in as evidence that the importers had the rights which they
thus claimed, but merely to show that they had protested
seasonably.
It is also assigned for error that the court ought to have
directed the jury to find a verdict for the defendant. At the
close of the plaintiffs' testimony, the defendant moved the
court to direct such a verdict. But the court declined to do
so. The defendant excepted, and then put in his evidence;
and, at the close of the evidence on both sides, he renewed his
motion for the direction of a verdict for him, on the ground
that, on the whole evidence, the plaintiffs were not entitled to
recover. That motion was denied, and the defendant exoepted.
The bill of exceptions does not state that it contains the
whole of the evidence. In denying the motion which was thus
made at the close of the plaintiff's'testimony, the court, having
heard full argument on the point on both sides, referred to a circular from the Secretary of the Treasury, which had been read
in evidence and is set forth at length in the bill of exceptions,
dated June 9, 1885, and being No. 6957, on the subject of the
re-appraisement of merchandise., and directed to the general
appraiser at New York City, and the material parts of which
are set forth at length on pages 316, 317 and 318 in the report
of the case of Auffmordt v. Hedden., 137 U. S. 310. The court
said, in its remarks denying the motion for a verdict for the
defendant, that in confornmity with the views of the Secretary,
expressed in the circular, the re-appraisers were not a court to
hear witnesses and counsel: that the importers would have '
right, on the re-appraisement, to attend, to see that the re-appraisers had their goods and to call attention to any of the
qualities of the goods; that the court expressed no opinion as
to whether the importers would have the right to see such
testimony in writing, applicable to the value of the goods, gs
the re-appraisers might take; that, on the testimony of the
witness Barnett, the jury might think that the importers were
cut off from a fair right to be there when their goods, were
examined (not when the re-appraisers were deliberating as to
the value of the goods); and that the question of fact as fo

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

whether, under that view, there had been a proper re-appraisement ought to go to the jury.
If the finding of the jury was against the weight of the evidence, the remedy was by a motion for a new trial, which does
not appear to have been made; and this court cannot exercise
a function which was that of the jury.
It appears by the record that the importers, in September,
1885, had protested to the collector, in the case of the Belgenland, against the employment of Mr. Roberts, the merchant
appraiser, on the ground that he was not a discreet and experienced merchant, familiar with the character and value of the
merchandise; that they made the protest before mentioned,
in the case of the Normandie, against Mr. Booth, the merchant
appraiser in that case; that rMr. Booth was a manufacturer of
silk goods, at Paterson, New Jersey, of the same general
description as those imported by the plaintiffs on the Normandie; that there was a competition between, such goods as
were imported by the plaintiffs by the lormandie, and those
manufactured by Mr. Booth; that Mr. Roberts had expressed
himself personally to Mr. Barnett, in conversation at different
times, in language showing strong prejudice against importers
generally of silk goods, and had specifically stated that he
thought most of them were foreigners in league with foreigners on the other side for the receipts of merchandise at the
port of New York at a price a great deal less than the goods
were worth on the other side; that it could only be through a
combination that they could get the goods in that way; and
that he thought the whole thing was a fraud.
It does not appear by the bill of exceptions that the defendant excepted -to any part of the charge of the court to
the jury; but he presented to the court seventeen separate
requests to charge the jury, in regard to which the bill of
exceptions states that "the court declined to charge otherwise
than as already charged, and denied each of such requests
except as charged;" and that the defendant excepted to each
of such rulings.
It is assigned for error that, under the charge and the rulings of the court, the jury was permitted improperly to find

ILEDDEN v. ISEL2IN.
Opinion of the Court.

that the re-appraisers did not act upon their own judgment,
but were controlled by outside influences.
The eleventh request to charge was as follows: 11That the
statute empowers the Secretary of the Treasury to establish
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the
United States, to secure a just, faithful and impartial appraisal
of all merchandise imported into the United States." The
court substantially so ruled in its remarks on the denial of the
first motion to direct a verdict for the defendant; and it ruled
nothing to the contrary in its charge to the jury. Judge
Wheeler was the judge who afterwards ruled to the same
effect in Auffmordt v. Hedde, which ruling was affirmed by
this court in that case, in 137 U. S.310. The judgment in
the case of A ufm ordt v. Hedden was entered in the Circuit
Court in July, 1887. The present case was tried in December, 1886, and judgment was entered November 5, 1887.
Our decision in A'2 fmordt v. Hedden was rendered December
8, 1890.
We see nothing in the conduct of the trial in the present
case which is contrary to the rulings of this court in A qfmordt
v. Hedden. The court, in its charge to the jury, sugtai'ied
the instructions of the Secretary of Tthe Treasury of June 9,
1885, and did not say anything to the contrary of what were
afterwards the rulings of this court in A ]Jmordt v. Heddn,
and said that the importers had no right to say that certain
witnesses should be produced before the re-appraisers, and that,
although the importers had the right to have a fair opportunity to show .their goods and to make suggestions in regard to
them, they had no right to be -there to examine witnesses or to
explore the sources of the information of the re-appraisers, or
to have counsel there, as such, to cross-examine witnesses and
argue the case. It also charged the jury that the re-appraisers
had a right to read the regulations.
The general appraiser, Mr. Brower, and the merchant appraisers, Messrs. Booth and Roberts, were examined as witnesses at the trial. The instructions in the circular of June 9,
1885, appear to have been regarded by the re-appraisers as guiding instructions in principle. But the question submitted to.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

682

Statement of the Case.

and passed upon by the jury, and found in favor of the plaintiffs, was whether the re-appraisers "were controlled by some
outside influence, so that they didn't act their own judgment."
Judgment.afflined.

CLARK v. SJDWAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No.140.

Argued Jahuary 7,1892. -Decided

January 26,1892.

Persons who jointly purchase land to hold it for a rise in value are not partners but are tenants in common, and either party can sue the other at law
for reimbursement of allowances made by him on the joint accounit, without there having first been a final settlement and the striking of a balance.
In considering the amount necessary for the jurisdicton of this court on a
writ of error, not only is the amount of the judgment against the plaintiff in error to be regarded, but, in addition, the amount of a counter
claim which he would have recovered, if his contention setting it up had
been sustained.
It was hell that the plaintiff in error had no right to complain of the action
of the court below in allowing a remittitur of $2700.75 on a verdict of
$6700.75; or in allowing the jury to fill up, in open court, the amount of
a verdict which they had. signed and sealed, leaving a blank for the
amount.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

This is an action at law, brought October 13, 1880, by
Leverett B. Sidway, a citizen of Illinois, for the use of John
R. Lindgren, against Ezekiel Clark, a citizen of Iowa, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois. The declaration claimed $8000. It alleged that
on the 12th- of August, 1872, one Cleaver and his wife, by a
warranty deed, conveyed to the plaintiff certain land in Cook
County, Illinois, subject to a trust deed executed by Cleaver
and wife to one Gallup, to secure the payment of $8000 in five
years from date, with interest at ten per cent per annum, in
which- warranty deed it was stated that Sidway assumed and

