FISK v. IIENARIE.
Statement of the Case.

FISK v. HENARIE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 118.

Argued December 3, 4, 1891.-

Decided January 4, 1892.

The act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, with regard to the removal of
causes from state courts, (corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25
Stat. 433, c. 866,) repealed subdivision 3 of Rev. Stat. § 639.
The words in that act "at any time before the trial thereof," used in regard
to removals "from prejudice or local influence" were used by Congress
with reference to the construction put on similar language in the act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, by this court, and are to receive the
same construction, which required the petition to be filed before or at the
term at which the cause could flist be tried, and before the trial thereof.

Tir court stated the case as follows:
This action was commenced in the Circuit Court of the
State of Oregon for the county of Wasco, on November 13,
1883, by James H. Fisk against Daniel V. B. Renarie, Eleanor
Martin, Peter Donahue, Thomas S. Martin, Edward Martin
and John D. Wilcox, to recover a commission of ten per cent,
amounting to $60,000, on an alleged sale of a tract of land,
known as the Dalles Military Road Grant, contdining about
600,000 acres, situated in the counties of Wasco, Grant and
Baker. The first three of the defendants were residents and
ditizens of California, and the latter three of Oregon. Service
of summons was had on the citizens of Oregon, and they appeared and answered. On February 2, 1881, publication of
the summons was ordered as to the California defendants, who
appeared and answered August 21,-1881.
The answers of the defendants controverted the allegations
on which the l5laintiff based his demand, and contested his
right to recover anything from them, or either of them, on
any sale of the lands.
On September 1, 1884, plaintiff replied to the answers, and
on the 16tb of the same month, on motion of the defendants,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the venue was changed to Multnomah County, where the
plaintiff and the Oregon defendants resided when the action
was commenced, none of the parties residing in Wasco County.
The case was after-wards tried before a jury in the Circuit
Court for Multnomah County, who, on April 15, 1885, found
a verdict under the direction of the court for the defendants,
on which there was a judgment for costs in their favor; which
judgment was on January 11, 1886, reversed by the Supreme
Court, (13 Oregon, 156,) and a new trial ordered, which, being
had, resulted, May 21, 1886, in a verdict for the plaintiff for
the sum of $60,000.
On the 18th of May, before the jury was empanelled, the
'death of Peter Donahue was suggested, and his executors, James
M. Donahue, Annie Donahue, and Mary Ellen Von Schroeder,
citizens of California, were substituted as defendants.
The case was afterwards heard on the motion of plaintiff
for judgment and two motions of the defendants for a new
trial, and for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict. On
June 3D, 1886, plaintiff's motion was denied, and defendants'
for judgment non obstanlte allowed, on the ground that the
complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, and thereupon judgment was entered for costs in favor
of the defendants, which judgment was on October 20, 1886,
on writ of error, reversed by the Supreme Court, (14 Oregon,
29,) and the cause remanded for further proceedings according
to law.
On December 18, 1886, the Circuit Court allowed the
motion for a new trial and set aside the verdict, from which
order the plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court, and the
appeal was on April 18, 1887, dismissed. 15 Oregon, 89.
Thereafterwards the cause was again tried, and the jury, being
unable to agree, were discharged without finding a verdict:
July 30, 1887, the defendants Henarie, Eleanor Martin and
the executors of Peter Donahue, deceased, applied to the state
court for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the'District of Oregon, and on the first day
of August, 1887, an order removing it was entered by the
judge of the state court.

FISK v. HENiAIE.

"461

Statement of the Case.

The petition for removal was filed on behalf of those defendants who were citizens of California in the state circuit
.court, and addressed to the judge thereof, and set up the citizenship of the petitioners; that at the time the action was
commenced and the petition was filed there was a controversy
therein between the plaintiff and the petitioners; the amount
involved; the alleged cause of action; the issue thereon; and
proceeded thus: "That said action has not been tried and is
now pending in the above entitled court. That from prejudice and local influence -your petitioners will not be able to
obtain justice in this court or in any other state court to which
the said defendants may under the laws of this State remove
said cause. That the other defendants in said action, Thos. S.
Martin, Edward Martin and John D. Wilcox, now and at all
times since the commencement of said action have been citizens and residents of the State of Oregon, residing in Portland,
therein; that your petitioners desire to remove said cause to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Oregon under the provisions of the act of Congress approved
March 3, 1887. Your petitioners further say that they have
filed the affidavit required by the statute in such cases, and
they herewith offer their bond, with surety, in the penal sum
of one thousand dollars, conditioned as by the statutes of the
United States required. Your petitioners therefore pray that
said bond may be accepted and approved, and that said cause
may be removed into the next Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Oregon, and that no further proceedings may be had therein in this court."
Henarie, one of the petitioners, verified the petition upon'
belief; and it was accompanied by the affidavit of Henarie
and Eleanor Martin to the effect that they had reason to believe and did believe, and so stated, that from 'prejudice and
local influence, the defendants, to wit, the affiants and the
executors of Peter Donahue, would not be able to obtain justice in said state court or in any other state court to which
said defendants under the laws of the State of Oregon had
the right to remove the same, on account of such prejudice
and local influence. The state court ordered the removal
under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887.

OTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The transcript was filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States, September 30, 1887, and on October 8 following, a
motion was made to remand upon the grounds: that the application for the removal of the cause was not made in time,
or before trial of the cause in the state court; that the petition
and affidavit were insufficient, in that they did not set forth
the facts and reasons showing the alleged prejudice or local
influence; that the removal papers were not served on the
plaintiff in accordance with the rules of practice in the state
courts; and that the petition and accompanying papers did
not show a cause for removal; and the motion concluded with
a denial of the existence of any prejudice or local influence
which would prevent the defendants or any of them from
obtaining justice in the state courts or at all, and asked the
court to examine into the truth of the affidavits alleging prejudice and local influence, and the grounds thereof, and thereupon to direct the action to be remanded to the court from
whence it was removed. This motion referred to the record
and certain affidavits filed in its support. The motion was
denied by the Circuit Court, October 26, 1887, (the opinion
will be found reported in 32 Fed. IRep. 417,) and on December
17 the cause was tried by a jury and a verdict rendered for
the defendants. Judgment was thereupon entered against the
plaintiff and in favor of the defendants for costs. A motion
for a new trial was filed, assigning, among other grounds, that
the court had no jurisdiction of the parties or of the subject
matter of the action, and erred in denying the motion to remand. This motion was overruled, (35 Fed. Rep. 230,) and a
writ of error sued out from this court.
Section 2 of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, entitled
"An act to amend the act of Congress approved March 3, 1875,
entitled ' An act to determine the jurisdiction of Circuit Court§
of the United States and to regulate the removal of causes
from state courts, and for other purposes;' and to further
regulate the jurisdiction of Circuit Courts of the United
States, and for other purposes;" 24 Stat. c. 373, pp. 552, 553,
is as follows:
"SEo. 2. That any suit of a civil nature, at law or in

FISK v. HENARIE.
Statement of the 'Case.

equity arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority, of which the Circuit Courts of the United States
are given original jurisdiction by the preceding sectibn,
which may now be pending, or which may hereafter' be
brought, in any state court, may be removed by the defendant. or defendants therein to the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the proper district any [. Any] other suit
of a civil nature, at law, or in equity, of 'which the Circuit
Courts of the United States are given jurisdiction by the preceding section, and which are now pending; or which may
hereafter be brought, in any state court, xmay be removed into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper district
by the defendant or defendants therein being non-residents
of that State; and when in any suit mentioned in this seotion
there shall be a controversy which is wholly between citizens
of different States, and whibh can be fully determined as
between them, then either one or more of the defendants
actually interested in such controversy may remove said 'suit
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper district. And where a suit is now pending, or may be hereafter
brought, in any state court, in which there is a. controversy
between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State, any defendant, being such citizen of another State, may remove such suit into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the proper district, at any time
before the trial thereof, when it shall be made to appear to
said Circuit Court that from prejudice or local influence he
will not be able to obtain justice in such state court, or in'any
other state court to which the said defendant .may, under the
laws of the State, have the right, on account of such prejudice
or local influence, to remove said cause: Provided, That if it
further appear that said suit can be fully and justly determined
as to the other defendants in the state court, without being
affected by such prejudice or local influence, and that no party
to the spit will be prejudiced by a separation of the parties,
said Circuit Court may direct the suit to be remanded, so far
as relates to such other defendants, to the. state court, to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Citations for Defendants in Error.

proceeded with therein. 'A t any time before the trial of any
suit which is now pending in any Circuit Court or may hereafter be entered therein, and which has been removed to said:
court from a state court on the affidavit of any party plaintiff
that he had reason to believe and did believe that, from prejudice, or local influence, he was unable to obtain justice in said
state-court, the Circuit Court shall, on application of the other
party, examine into the truth of said affidavit and the grounds
thereof, and unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of said
court that said party will not be able to obtain justice in such
state court, it shall cause the same to be remanded thereto.'
Whenever any cause shall be removed from any state court
into any Circuit Court of the United States, and the Circuit
Court shall decide that the cause was improperly removed,
and order the same to be remanded to the state court from
whence it came, such remand shall be immediately carried into
execution, and no appeal or writ of error from the decision of
the Circuit Court so remanding such cause shall be allowed."
-Mr. 7ohn H. .itchell, (with whom were _Mr. George H.
Williams and -r. George H. Durlwm on the brief,) for plaintiff in error, cited from the decisions of this court in support of
the proposition that the removal was too late: Insurance Co.
v. -Dunn,19 Wall. 214; Hess v. Reynolds, 113 U. S. 73; Alley

v. Nott, 111 U. S. 472; Scharf v. Levy, 112 U. S. 711; Gregory v. Hartley, 113 U. S. 742 ; Zaidly v. Huntington,121 U. S.
179; Holland v. Chambers, 110 U. S. 59; Core v. 'inal, 117
U.-S. 347; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v. Bates, 119 U. S.
464; Ha=ancocA v. RIolbrook, 11R U. S. 586.
.Mr. T N. Dolph, for defendanits.in error, cited in reply to
that point from the decisions of this court: Hyde v. Rube;
104 U. S. 407; ZKing v. Cornell, 106'U. S. 395; Holland v.
Chambers, 110 U. S. 59; Ayers v. Watson, 113 U. S. 594;
Bible Society v. Grove, 101 U. S. 610; Hess v. Reynolds, 113
U. S. 73; -Baltimore& Ohio Railroadv. Bates, 119 U. S. 464;
Insurance Co. v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214; Vannevar v. Bryant,
19 Wall. 41; Yulee v. Vose, 99 U. S. 539; Railroad Co. v. .Me-

FISK v.

KENTARIE.

Opinion of the Court.

Riney, 99 U. S. 147; ScAhrwder 3fanufacturing Co. v. Parker,
129 U. S. 688; ifaneock v. Holnrook, 119 U. S. 586; Babbit
v. Clark, 103 U. S.606; Alley v. Nott, 111 U.'S. 472; Scharf
v. Levy, 112 U. S.711.
MR.CHIEF Jusnc FULLER, after stating the ease, delivered
the opinion of the court.
After this case had been pending in the state courts from
November 13, 1883, to August 1, 1887; had been tried three
times before a jury in the Circuit Court, there being one verdict for defendants, one for plaintiff and one disagreement;
and been heard in various phases three times in the Supreme
Court of the State, the application was made for removal.
Was this application in time? This question is to be determined upon a proper construction of section 2 of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1887, for it is not, and could not be,
contended that the right of removal could then have been invoked on the ground of diverse citizenship. The application
was filed July 30, 1887, and by its terms purported to be made
under the act of 1887, to which act the order of the state court
referred. Indeed, if subdivision 3 of section 639 of the -Revised Statutes were repealed by the act of 1887, or, since some
of the defendants were then and- at the commencement of the
suit citizens of the same State as the plaintiff, if a removal
could be had at all, it could only be under the act of 1887.
The Judiciary Act of 1789, 1 Stat. c. 20, § 12, pp. 13, 79,
provided that a party entitled to remove a cause should file
his petition for such removal "at the time of entering his
appearance in such state court." 1 Stat. 79.
The act of July 27, 1866, relating to separable controversies, provided that "1the defendant who is a citizen of a State
other than that in which the suit is brought, may, at any- time
before the trial or final hearing of the cause, file a petition for
the removal of the cause," etc. 14 Stat. 306, c. 288.
The act of March 2, 1867, relating to removal on the ground
of prejudice or local influence, provided that the plaintiff or
defendant "may, at any time before the final hearing or trial
VOL..CXLU-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

of the suit, file a petition in such state court for the removal
of the suit," etc. 14 Stat. 558, c. 196.
The first subdivision of section 639 of the Revised Statutes
was a reenactment of the 12th section of the Judiciary Act;
the second subdivision, of the act of July 27, 1866; and the
third subdivision, of the act of March 2, 1867; and this subdivision adopted the phraseology of the act of July 27, 1866,
namely: "At any time before the trial or final hearing" of
the suit.
The act of March 3, 1875, said nothing about prejudice or
local influence, but provided in the case of diverse citizenship
that the party desiring to remove a cause should make and
file his petition in the state court "before or at the term at
which said cause could be first tried and before the trial thereof." 18 Stat. 470, 471, c. 137.
This act repealed the first and second subdivisions of section
639 of the Revised Statutes, but left subdivision 3 unrepealed.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroadv. Bates, 119 U. S. 464, 467.
In Insurance Comvany v. Dunn, 19 Wall. 214, it was held
that the word '"final" as used in the phrase "at any time
b6fore the final hearing or trial of the suit" applied to the
word "trial" as well as to the word "hearing." And it has
been often ruled that if the trial court had set aside a verdict
and granted a new trial, or if the appellate court had reversed
the judgment and remanded the case for trial de novo, it .was
not too late to apply to remove the cause under the act of
1867 and subdivision 3. Vannevar v. Bryant, 21 Wall. 41;
Jifkins v. Sweetzer, 102 U. S. 177; Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
v. Bates, 119 U. S. 464, 467, and cases cited. But these and
like decisions were inapplicable to proceedings under the act
of 1875, as the petition was thereby required to be filed "before or at the term at which said cause could be first tried and
before the trial thereof." This has been construed to mean
the first term at which the cause is in law triable -the first
term in which the cause would stand for trial if the parties
had taken the usual steps as to pleadings and other preparations; and it has also been decided that there cannot be a
removal after the hearing on a demurrer to a complaint be-

FISK v. HEWARIE.
Opinion of the Court.

cause it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. Gregory v. Hartley, 113 U. S. 742, 'i-46; Alley v. -Nott,
111 U. S. 472; Laidly v. Huntington, 121 U. S. 179.
The act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, and also as
-corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 4=33, 435,
c. 866, provided that "any defendant, being such citizen of
another State, may remove such suit into the Circuit Court of
the United States for the proper district, at any time before
the trial thereof, when it shall be made to appear to said Circuit Court that from prejudice or local influence he will not
be able to obtain justice in such state court, or in any other
state court to which the said defendant may, under the laws of
the State, have the right, on account of such prejudice or local
influence, to remove said cause."
In view of the repeated decisions of this court in exposition
of the acts of 1866, 1867 and 1875, it is not to be doubted that
Congress, recognizing the interpretation placed on the word
"final," in the connection in which it was used in the prior
acts, and the settled construction of the act of 1875, deliberately changed the language, "at any time before the final
hearing or trial of the suit," or "at any time before the trial
or final hearing of the cause," to read: "at any time before
the trial thereof," as in the act of 1875, which required the
petition to be filed before or at the term at which the cause
could first be tried, and before the trial thereof.
The attempt was manifestly to restrain the volume of litigation pouring into the Federal courts, and to return to the
standard of the judiciary act, and to effect this in part by
resorting to the language used in the act of 1875, as its meaning had .been determined by judicial interpretation. This is
the more obvious in view of the fact that the act of March 3,
1887, was evidently intended to restrict the jurisdiction of thq
Circuit Courts, as we have heretofore held. Smith v. Jyon,
133 U. S. 315; In re Pennsylvania Company, 137 U. S. 451.
We deem it proper to add that we are of opinion that the
act of 1867, or subdivision third of section 639, was repealed
by the act of 1887.
The subject matter of the former acts is substantially co'-

468.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ered by the latter, and the differences are such as to render
the intention of Congress in this regard entirely clear.
Under the previous acts the right of removal might be exercised by plaintiff as well as defendant; the application was
addressed to the state court; there was no provision for the
separation of the suit; the ground of removal was based upon
what the affiant asserted he had reason to believe and believed; and action on the motion to remand could be reviewed
on appeal or writ of error or by mandamus; while under the
latter act, the right is confined to the defendant; the application is made to the Circuit Court; the suit may be divided
and remanded in part; the prejudice or local influence must
be made to appear to the Circuit Court, that is, the Circuit
Court must be legally satisfied, by proof suitable to the nature
of the case, of the truth of the allegation that, by reason of
those causes, the defendant will not be able to obtain justice
in the state courts; and review on writ of error or appeal, or
by mandamus is taken away. In re Pennsylvania Company,
137 U. S.-451 ; -Malonev. Richmond & Danville Railroad Co.,
35 Fed. Rep. 625.
The repealing clause in the act of 1887 does not specifically
refer to these prior acts, but declares that "all laws and parts
of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act, be, and the
same are hereby repealed." The provisions relating to the subject matter under consideration are, however, so comprehensive, aswell as so variant from those of the former acts, that
we think the intention to substitute the one for the other is
necessarily to be inferred and must prevail.
In King v. Cornell, 106 U. S. .395, 396, it was held that subdivision second of section 639 was repealed by the act of 1875,
the repealing clause in which was the same as here, and Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"While repeals by implication are not favored, it is well settled
that where two acts are not in all respects repugnant, if the
latter act covers the Whole subject of the earlier, and embraces new provisions which plainly show that it was intended
as a substitute for the first, it will operate as a repeal." The
rule thus expressed'is applicable, and is decisive.

FISK v. IIENARIE.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

Many other questions of interest and importance arise upon
this record aid have been argued by counsel, bilt the conclusion at which we have arrived renders their determination
unnecessary.
We are of opinion that the application for removal came too
late. The judgment must therefore be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court, with
a direction to remand it to the state court.
A.RLA
N
MR. JUsTICE,
FrELD, dissenting.

with whom concurred MR.

JUsTicE

Mr. Justice Field and myself do not concur in the construction which the court places upon the act of 1887.
Section three of that act, requiring the petition for removal
to be filed in the state court, "at the time, or at any time
before the defendant is required by the laws of the State or
the rule of the state court in which such suit is brought to
answer or plead to the declaration'or complaint of the plain-tiff," excepts from its operation the cases mentioned in the last
clause of section two, namely, those in which a removal ii
asked upon the ground of prejudice or local influence. As to
the latter cases, the statute provides that the removal may be
had, upon a proper showing, "at any time before the trial."
This means, at any time before a trial in which, by a final
judgment, the rights of the parties are determined. Under
the act of 1887, there can be no removal, upon the ground of
prejudice or local influence, unless it be made to appear to the
Circuit Court of the United States that, on account of such
prejudice dr local influence, the defendant citizen of another
State cannot obtain justice in the state courts. The existence
of such prejudice or local influence is often disclosed by a trial
in the state court in which the verdict or judgment is set aside.
The fact of prejudice or local influence may be established by
overwhelming evidence; still, under the decision of the court,
there can be no removal if the application for removal be not
made before the first trial. We do not mean to say that when

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Field, JJ.

a trial is in progress the cause may be removed before its
termination, even upon the ground of prejudice or local influence. But, if at the time the application is made the cause is
not on trial and is undetermined, that is, has not been effectively
tried, the act of 1887, in our .judgment, authorizes a, removal,
on proper showing, upon the ground of prejudice or local influence, although there may have been a trial, resulting in a verdict which has been set aside.
The error, we think, in the opinion of the court, is in applying
to the act of 1887 the decisions under the act of 1875. The
words in the latter act limiting the time within which the application for a removal must be made -" before or at the
term at which said cause could be f-r8t tried, and before the
trial thereof" - necessarily meant, as this court has held,
the first trial, whether it resulted in a verdict or not, and
although the verdict and judgment may have been set aside;
because the express requirement was that the application for
removal must, in any event, be made before or at the term at
wliich said cause could beAJ8t tried. 'Nosuch requirement is
found in the act of 1887) in respect to cases sought to be removed upon the ground of prejudice or local-influence. While,
in respect to all cases of removal except those upon the ground
of prejudice or local influence, the latter statute provides that
the application shall be made at the time, or at any time before the defendant is -equired by the laws of the State, or the
rule of the state court in which the suit is brought, to answer
or plead to the declaration or complaint of the plaintiff, the
removal, because qf prejudice or local influence, may be applied
for "at any time before the trial thereof." This difference in,
the language of the two acts means, 'wethink, something more
than the court attributes to it. Congress could hardly have
intended to give the defendant citizen of another State simply
the time between his answering or pleading, and the calling of
his case for, the first trial thereof, to determine whether he
should apply for a removal upon the ground -of prejudice or
local influence. In our judgment, it .meant to give the right
of removal, upon such ground, at any time, when the case is
not actually on trial, and when there is in force no judgment

THOMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

fixing the rights of the parties in the suit. If a case is open
for trial, on the merits, an application for its removal before
that trial commences is made "before the trial thereof." In
our opinion, the interpretation adopted by the court defeats
the purpose which Congress had in view for the protection of
persons sued elsewhere than in the State of which they are
citizens.

THO:MPSON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO TEE CIRCUrr OURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THm
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 124.

Argued December 15,16, 1891.

Decided January 11, 1892.

The tax imposed upoi distilled spirits by Rev. Stat. § 3251, as amended by
the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 339, c. 127, attaches as soon as the spirits.
are produced, and cannot be evaded except upon satisfactory proof,
under section 3221, of destruction by fire or other casualty.
When distilled spirits upon which a tax has been paid are exported, they are
to be regauged at the port of exportation alongside of, or on, the vessel,
and the drawback allowed is to be determined by this gauge, although a
previous gauge may have shown a greater amount.
The execution of an exportation bond, under the internal revenue laws, is
only evidence of an intention to export;" and it is open to doubt whether
the actual exportation can be considered as beginning until the merchandise leaves the port of exportation for the foreign country.

Tms was an action on a bond in the penal $um of $41,000,
given by the defendant Thompson and his sureties for the
exportation of certain distilled spirits. The bond was dated
October 23, 1885, and after reciting a prior bond given on the
8th of April,'1885, by the same parties, conditioned 'for the
delivery of certain distilled spirits therein named on board
ship at the port of Newport News, Virginia,, for exportation
to Melbourne, Australia, and for the performance of certain
other things therein named, and after further reciting that it
was found desirable to deliver a portion of such spirits on
board ship at the port of New York for exportation to Bre-

