DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TARPEY.
Statement of the Case.

affirmatively on the face of the record that it had not been
acquired.
Putting, therefore, these things together, to wit, the unex-'
plained delay, the reasonable inferences from what is stated
and what is omitted, the presumptions in favor of jurisdiction
and the different constructions of which the language of the
return is susceptible, we are of the opinion that the ruling of
the Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer to the bill was correct, and its decree is

DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TA.RPEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 96. Argued and submitted November 24. 1891.-Decided December 21,1891.
The grant of public land to the Central Pacific Railroad Company by the
acts of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, and July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356, c.
216, was a grant inprcmsenti; and the legal title to the granted lan2, as
distinguished from merely equitable or inchoate interests, passed when
the identification of a granted section became so far complete as to
authorize the grantee to take possession.
Rutherford v. Greene, 2 Wheat. 196 cited and followed.
Patents were issued, not for the purpose of transferring title, but as evidence that the grantee had complied with the conditions of the grant,
and that the grant was, to that extent, relieved from the possibility of
forfeiture for breach of its conditions,.
Wisconsin Central Railroad Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 510 approved.
The provision in the statute, requiring the cost of surveying, selecting and
conveying the land to be paid into the treasury before a patent could
issue, does not impair the force of the operative words of transfer in it.
The railroad company could maintain an action for the possession of land
so granted before the issue of a patent, and could transfer its title
thereto by lease, so as to enable its lessee to maintain such an action.

THE Qourt stated the case as follows:

This is an action of ejectment by D. P. Tarpey, the'plaintiff
below, against the Deseret Salt Company, a corporation created under the laws of Utah, for certain parcels of land in
that Territory, described in the complaint as the northwest
quarter of fractional section nine (9), in township eleven (11)
vOL cxL-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

north, range nine (9) west, Salt Lake base and meridian, and
the northeast quarter and the southwest quarter of said section, in part covered with water; in all, three hundred and
eighty acres, more or less. The greater part of these lands
lie on the border of Great Salt Lake, a body of water in that
Territory of nearly ninety miles in extent, and in breadth
varying from twenty to thirty miles, which holds in solution
a large quantity of common salt. The remaining lands in the
section are covered by the lake.
In 1875 one Barnes took possession of a portion of these
lands and began the construction of improvements and the
erection of machinery to raise the water of the lake and conduct it into ponds or -excavations, partly natural and partly
made by him, for the purpose of evaporating the water by
exposing it to the sun, and thus producing salt. He commenced manufacturing salt in this way in 1876 or 187, and
continued in the business until September, 1883, when he sold
and transferred the lands and improvements to the defendant,
The Deseret Salt Company, which at once went into possession
and continued in the manufacture.
The plaintiff derives his title from the Central Pacific RailToad Company, a corporation of California, to which a grant
of land was made by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862,
embracing the premises in controversy. A-greater part of its
lands lying in Utah was leased by the company to the plaintiff,
on the 7th of August, 1885, for five years, for the annual rent
of five thousand dollars, and in consideration of certain covenants in relation to the property which he undertook to perform. By one of these covenants he stipulated to begin to
reduce the premises to possession, and to continue in that
effort until he should be in the actual possession of the whole,
and for that purpose to commence and prosecute any necessary or proper actions at law, or other legal proceedings. This
lease covered the premises in controversy.
On the 20th of October, 1868, the map of the definite location of. the line of the railroad of the company, to be constructed under the above grant, was filed in the Interi6r
Department and accepted, as required by the act of Congress.

DESERET SALT OOMPANY v. TARPEY.
Statement of the Case.

The premises in controversy constitute an alternate section of
the land within ten miles of the road, and its east, west and
north lines were surveyed by the United States ih 1871. Its
southern line, lying in the lake, had not been rua. The selection list of lands for patent by the company, filed, in the land
office at Salt Lake City, which was produced in evidence, included the surveyed lands of the section, and showed that the.
costs of selecting, surveying and conveying them had been
paid. There was no evidence of any application for any other
lands in the section, and no costs were paid or tendered for
their selection, survey and conveyance.
The plaintiff also proved the incorporation in June, 1861, of
the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California; its amalgamation and consolidation in June, 1870, with the Western
Pacific "Railroad Company, and, in August, 1870, with the
California and Oregon Railroad Company, the San Francisco,
Oakland and Alameda Railroad Company, and the San Joaquin Valley Railroad Company. In the different articles of
amalgamation a conveyance was made.by the parties of their
several interests to the new amalgamated company, as follows:
"And the said several parties, each for itself, hereby sells, assigns, transfers, grants, bargains, releases and conveys to the
said new and consolidated company and corporation, its successors and assigns, forever, all its property, real, personal,
and mixed, of every kind and description." These instruments
were all.properly recorded.
The court informed the jury of the general nature of the
grant to the company by the act of Congress of July 1, 1862,
and the amendatory act of July 2, 1864, and instructed them,
substantially, that the line of the road, which the company
was to construct under the grant, became definitely fixed upon.
its filing with the Department of the Interior its map of definite location, designating the general route of the road; and
that thereupon the beneficial interest in the land vested in the
company, by relation back to the date of the act of Congress;
and that as it was agreed that the lands in controversy were a
portion of an odd alternate section, within the twenty mile
limit of the grant, they passed to and vested in the company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

at the time of the filing of that map, unless they had been
previously Mold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the
United States, or a preemption, homestead, swamp-land or
other lawful claim had attached to them, or they were known
to be mineral lands or were returned as such; and further,
that the lease, bearing date the seventh day of August, 1885,
from that company to the plaintiff, for five years from the
first day of January, 1886, gave to him the right of immediate
possession of the lands, unless they were within some of the
exceptions of the grant.
The defendant company denied that the title to the lands in
controversy had passed to the Central Pacific Railroad Company, the lessor of the plaintiff, and requested the court to
instruct the jury that the plaintiff had not shown any grant,
or conveyance by deed or other written instrument, sufficient
to invest him with title to the lands. This instruction was
refused, and the defendant excepted. The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the possession of the lands
described in the complaint and for five hundred dollars for
their use and occupation. Judgment being entered thereon
the case was carried to the Supreme Court of the Territory
and there affirmed. From the judgment of the latter court
the case is brought here on a writ of error.
.MA.Parley L. Williams for plaintiff in error.
There was no evidence whatever showing or tending to
show that the government had issued patents for any of the
lands in question, nor was there any proof that the company
had made any. application to select or have conveyed to it any
lands in said fractional section except the northwest quarter,
:the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter, and the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter; being two hundred
and forty acres only, and the whole of the land in said fractional section which had, been surveyed; yet the recovery in
this case was for the whole tract sued for, the unsurveyed as
well as the surveyed portions of this fractional section.
As to so much of this land as was unsurveyed and for which

DESERET SALT COMANY v. TARPEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the costs of surveying have not been paid, it is submitted with
great confidence that by the true construction' of the act of
Congress granting these lands, the title remains in the goverfiment, and the defendant in error has not therefore, in any
view of the case, a title that will support ejectment. In this
connection the court is cited to the following cases in this
court. Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16 Wall. 603; Railway Co.
v. _MfcSane, 22 Wall. 444; Northern Pacifc Railroad Co.
v. Traill County, 115 U. S. 600.
This case presents a question regarding the nature of- the
rights secured to the Pacific Railroads by virtue of the grant
of lands to them that has not hitherto been passed on by this
court, and one of great moment to a large part of the public
in the region affected by these grants.
.Mr.Attorney General and -Mr. John B. Cotton for defendant in error.
MR. JusTxcE FiFnLD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only questions which appear in this case to have elicited
much discussion in the court below, relate to the title of the
Central Pacific Railroad Company to the lands granted by
the acts of Congress of July'l, 1862, and July 2, 1864, upon
the filing of a map of the definite location of its contemplated
road with the Secretary of the Interior and its acceptance by
him. Was it sufficient to enable the lessee of the company to'
maintain an action for the possession of the demanded premises ? The lessee can, of course, as against a stranger, have no
greater right of possession than his lessor. On the one hand
it is contended, with much earnestness, that upon the filing of
the map of definite location of the proposed road, and its
acceptance by the Secretary of the Interior, a legal title vested
in the grantee to the alternate odd sections, subject to various
conditions, upon a breach of which the title may be forfeited,
but that until then their possession may be enforced by the
grantee. On the other hand, it is insisted, with equal energy,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that the grant gives only a promise of a title when the work
contemplated is completed, and that until then possession of
the lands cannot be claimed.
An examination of the granting act, and the ascertainment
thereby of the intention of Congress, so far as practicable, will
alone enable us to give a satisfactory'solution to these positions.
The act of Congress of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120,
provides for the incorporation of the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, and makes a grant of land to aid in the construction, of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River
tp the Pacific Ocean. Its provisions, grants and obligations,
specially relate in terms to that company; but other railroad
companies are embraced within the objects of the act, and the
clauses mentioning and referring to the Union Pacific Railroad
Company are made applicable to them. Thus by the ninth
section the Central Pacific Railroad Company of California
was authorized to construct a railroad and telegraph line from
the Pacific coast, at or near San Francisco, or the navigable
waters of the Sacramento River, to the eastern boundary of
California, "upon the same terms and conditions in all respects" as were provided for the construction of the railroad
and telegraph line of the Union Pacific. And by the tenth
section of the act that company, after completing its road
across California, was authorized to continue the construction
of its road and telegraph line through the Territories of the
United States to the Missouri River, on the terms and conditions provided in the act in relation to the Union Pacific Railroad Company, or until its road should meet and connect with
the.road of that company. An equal grant of land, and of
like extent and upon like conditions, was made to the Central
Pacific Railroad Company of California, as was in terms made
to the Union Pacific Railroad Company. By the same law
the rights and-obligations of both must be determined.
By the third section the grant was made. Its language is
"that there b6 aid ishereby g7anted, to the said pomvoany, for
the purpose of aiding in .the construction of said railroad and
telegraph line, and to secure the safe and speedy transporta-

DESERET SALT' COMPA-NY v. TARPEY.
Opinion of 'the Court,

tion of the mails, troops, munitions of war and public stores
thereon, every alternate section of public land, designated by
odd numbers, to the amount of five alternate sections per mile
on each side of said railroad, on the line thereof, and within
the limits of ten miles on each side of said road, not sold, reserved or otherwise disposed of by the United States, And to
which a preemption or homestead claim may not have atthched, at the time the line of said road is definitely fixed:
Provided, That all mineral lands shall be excepted from the
operation of this act; but where the same shall contain timber,
the timber thereon is hereby granted to said company." The
act of July 2,1864, 13 Statr. 356, 357, c. 16, enlarged the amount
of the grant to ten alternate sections on each side of the road.
By the fourth section, as amended by section 6 of the act of
1864, it was enacted: "That whenever said company shall
have completed not less than twenty consecutive miles of any
portion of said railroad and telegraph line, ready for the service contemplated by this act, and supplied with all necessary
drains, culverts, viaducts, crossings, sidings, bridges, turnouts,
watering places, depots, equipments, furniture and all other
appurtenances of a first-class railroad, the rails and all the
other iron used in the construction and equipment of said road
to be American manufacture of the best quality, the President
of the United States shall appoint three commissioners to examine the same and report to him in relation thereto ; and if.
it shall appear to him that not less than twenty consecutive
miles of said railroad and telegraph line have bben completed
and equipped inall respects as required by this act, then, upon
certificate of said commissioners to that effect, patents shallissue
conveying the right and title to said lands to said company, on
each side of the road as far as the same is completed, to the
amount aforesaid; and patents shall in like manner issue as
each twenty miles of said railroad and telegraph line are completed, upon certificate of said commissioners."
By the terms of the act making the grant the contention of
the defendant is not supported. Those terms import the
transfer of a present title, not one to be made in the future.
They are that "there be and is hereby granted" to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

company every alternate section of the lands. NYo partial or
limited interest is designated, but the lands themselves are
granted, as they are described by the sections mentioned.
Whatever interest the United States possessed in the lands
was covered by those terms, unless they were qualified by
subsequent provisions, a position to be presently considered.
In a great number of cases grants containing similar terms
have been before this court for consideration. They have
always received the same construction, that unless the terms
are restricted by other clauses, they import a grant in prwsenti,
carrying at once the interest of the grantor in the lands
described. Schulenburg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44; Leavenworth, Lawrence & Galveston Railroad v. United States, 92
U. S. 733.
In, WTsconsin Central Railroad 'Co.v. Price County, 133
U. S. 496, 507, referring to the different acts of Congress making grant§ to aid in the construction of railroads, we stated
that they were similar in their general provisions, and had
been before this court for consideration at different times,
and of the title they passed we said : "The title conferred was
a present one, so as to insure the donation for the construction of the road proposed against any revocation by Congress,
except for non-performanee of the work within the period designated,. accompanied, however, with such restrictions upon
the use and disposal of the lands as to prevent their diversion
from the purposes of the grant."
As the sections granted were to be within a certain distance
on each side of the line of the contemplated railroad, they
could not be located until the line of the-road was fixed. The
grant was, therefore, in the nature of a "float ;" but, when
the route of the road was definitely fixed; the sections granted
became susceptible of -identification, and the title then attached
as of the date of the grant, except as to such parcels as had
been in the meantime under its provisions appropriated to
other purposes.
That doctrine is very clearly stated in the Leavenworth Case
cited above, where the language of the grant was identical with
that of the one under consideration, and the court said:

DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TARPEY.
Opinion of the Court.

"'There be and is hereby granted' are words of absolute donation and import a grant in prwenti. This court has held
that they can have no other meaning, and the land department,
on this interpretation of them, has uniformly administered
every previous similar grant. They vest a present title in the
State of Kansas, (the grantee named,) though a survey of the
lands and a location of the road are necessary to give precision to it znd attach it to any particular tract. The grant
then becomes certain, and, by relation, has the same effect
upon the selected parcels as if it had specifically described
them."
The terms used in the granting clause of the act of Congress,
and the interpretation thus given to them, exclude the. idea
that they are to be treated as words of contract or promise
rather than, as they naturally import, as words indicating an
immediate transfer of interest. The title transferred is a,
legal title, as distinguished from an equitable or inchoate
interest.
The case of .Rutherford v. Greene's Heirs, .2 Wheat. 196,
well illustrates .the nature of the title. In 1782 the State of
North Carolina passed an act providing "that twenty-five
thousand acres of land shall be allotted for and given to M ajor
General Nathaniel Greene," within the bounds of a -tract
reserved for the use of the army, to be laid off by commissioners designated in the act, as a mark of the high sense the State
entertained of the extraordinary services of that brave and
gallafi officer. The commissioners allotted the twenty-five
thousand acres, and in 1783 caused a surveyof them to be
made and returned to the proper office. One Rutherford
claimed under a subsequent entry five thousand acres of the
tract, and instituted a suit to establish his claim. The case
turned upon the validity of Greene's title, and the date at
which it commenced. It was contended by Rutherford's
counsel that the words of the act gave nothing; that they
were in the future and not in the present tense; and indicated
an intention to give in future, but created no present obligation on the State, nor present interest in General Greene.
But the court,. speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, answered,

250

2 OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that it thought differently; that ihe words were words of absolute donation, not indeed of any specific land, but of twenty.
five thousand acres in the territory reserved for the officers
and soldiers; that as the act of setting apart that quantity to
General Greene was to be performed in the future, the words
directing it were necessarily in the future tense, but that nothing could be more apparent than the intention of the legislature to order the commissioners to make the allotmc -it,and to
give, the land when allotted to General Greene. And the
court held that the general gift of twenty-five thousand acres,
lying in the reserved territory,. became by the survey a particular gift of that quantity contained in the survey; and
concluded an elaborate examination of the title by stating
that itwas clearly and unanimously of the opinion that the
aci of 1782 vested a title in General Greene to twenty-five
thousand acres of land, to be laid off within the bounds
allotted to the officers and soldiers, and that the survey made
and returfted in pursuance of that act'gave precision to that
title and attached it to the land surveyed.
It would therefore seem clear, that the title which passed
under the act of Congress by the grant of the odd sections
became by their idefitification so far complete as to authorize
the grantee to take possession and make use of the lands; and
in the exercise of that authority the grantee took possession
from time to time as the lands became identified by the location 'of the line of the road, and made sales of parcels of
the lands, and executed mortgages on other parcels with sections of the road constructed, for the purpose of raising
money to meet expenses already incurred and which might
thereafter be required for the completion of the road; and
such mortgages were authorized by Congress.
But it is contended that the nattiral import of the granting
terms of the act is qualified and-restrictdd by its fourth section,
which, as amended by the act of 1861i, provides that, upon the
completion of not less than twenty consecutive miles of the
road and telegraph ]ine in the manner required, and their acceptance by the president, upon the report of commissioners
appointed to. examine the work, patents shall issue to the con-

DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TARPEY.
Opinion of the Court.

pany conveying the right and title to said lands on each side
of the road as far as the same is completed.
The question naturally arises as to the necessity for patents,
if the title passed by the act itself upon the definite-location of.
the road, when the alternate sections granted had become idntified I We answer that objection by saying that there are
many reasons why the issue of the patents w uld be of great
service to 'he patentees, and by repeating srbstantially what
we said on that subject in Wisconsin Railroad Co. v. Price
County, 133 U. S. 496, 510. While not essential to transfer
the legal right the patents would be evidence that the grantee
had complied with the conditions of the grant, and to that
extent that the grant was relieved from the possibility of forfeiture for breach of its conditions. They would serve to
identify the lands as coterminous with the road completed;
they would obviate the necessity of any other evidence of the
grantee's right to the lands, and they would be evidence that
the lands were subject to the disposal of the railroad company
with the consent of the gover.nment. They vould thus be in
the grantee's hands deeds of further assurance of his title, and,
therefore, a source of quiet and peace to him in its possepsion.
There are many instances in the reports, as there stated,
where patents have been required and issued, although the title
of the patentee had been previously recognized and confirmed.'
_Langdeau v. Hfanes, 21 Wall. 521, 529, is an instance of that
kind. In that case there had been a previous confirmation, to
the heirs of one Tongas of a claim to a tract of land, in the
French and Canadian settlement of St. Yincents in the NWorthwestern Territory, conveyed by Virginia to the United States
in 1793. This claim was confirmed by commissioners appointed
by Congress under the act of 1804, and their decision was confirmed by the act of Congress of March 3, 1807, but no patent,
for which this last act provided upon a location and survey of
the claim, was issiied for the tract at that time. One was,,
however, issued for it in 1872, upon a survey made in 1820,
and the question was whether a new title was acquired by that
patent, or whether the old title was good from the confirmation. It was held that the old title was good from the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

firmation, if the claim was to a tract of defined boundaries, or
capable of identification; but if the claim was to quantity, and
not to a-specific tract, the title became perfect when the quantity
was segregated by the survey of 1820 ; and to explain the subsequent issue of a patent in 1872, this court said: "In the legislation of Congress a patent has a double operation. It is a
conveyance by the government, when the gqvernment has any
interest to convey; but where it is issued upon the confirmation of a claim of a previously existing title it is documentary
evidence, having the dignity of a record, of the existence of
that title, or of such equities respecting the claim as justify its
recognition and confirmation. The instrument is not the less
efficacious as evidence of previously existing rights because it
also embodies words of release or transfer from the government."
Whilst a legal title to the sections designated, as distinguished
from a merely equitable or inchoate interest, passed to the
railroad company by the act of Congress, upon the definite line
of the road being once established, by which the sections could
be ascertained and identified, the lands could not be disposed
of by the company without the consent of Congress, except as
each twenty-mile section of the road was completed and accepted
by the President, so as to cut off the right of the United States
to compel the application of the lands to the purposes for which
they were granted, or to prevent their forfeiture in case of the
company's failure to perform the conditions of the grant. The
lands were granted to aid in the construction of the railroad
and telegraph line, and it is manifest, from different provisions
of the act, that Congress intended to secure this application of
them. Whatever disposition might be made by the company
of the lands after they became, by the definite location of the
road, capable of identification, they were subject to the control
of Pongress, either to compel their application for the construction of the road contemplated, or to enforce their forfeiture if
the road was not completed as required by the act. The application of the lands to the construction would not, of itself,
operate to transfer the title; it would only remove the restriction upon the use and disposition of the title already posses ged.

DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TARPEY.
Opinion of the Court.

But it is unnecessary to consider what power of disposition
the company would possess in advance of the construction of
the road, for that road was entirely completed years before the
execution of the lease to the plaintiff in this case, in August,
1885.
It is also urged that the title of the government to the lands
in controversy was retained until the cost of selecting, surveying and conveying the whole of them was paid. In support
of this position the twenty-first section of the act of July 2,
1864, is referred to, which provides that before any land
granted by the act shall be conveyed to any company or
party entitled thereto, there shall first be paid into the Treasury of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting and
conveying the same. The object of this provision was to preserve to the government such control over the property
granted as to enable it to enforce the payment of these costs,
and, for that purpose, to withhold its patents from the parties
entitled to them until such -payment. The act of 1862, in its,
fourth section, as amended in 1864, speaks of patents issuing
"conveying the right and title." to the lands upon the completion of every section of not less than twenty miles, to the satisfaction of the President; and the twenty-first section of the
act of 1864 only directs the withholding of these evidences of
the transfer of title until payment is made for the selection,
survey and conveyance of the land. Neither the issue of the
patents nor any sale for taxes by State authority is permitted
until such payment, thereby preserving unimpaired the lien
contemplated.
We do not think the provision was'designed to impair the
force of the operative words of transfer in the grants of the
United States, or invalidate the numerous conveyances by
sale and mortgage of the lands made by the railroad company,
with the express or implied assent of the government.
Besides, in this case, the exterior limits of the section containing the lands in controversy, which are above the waters
of the lake, were surveyed in 1871, and the costs of selecting,
surveying and conveying the legal subdivisions as described
by that survey were paid at the time of selection by the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

pany. The lines of the lands under the water have not been
run, but are easily traceable by reference to the lines actually
surveyed. The possession of the lands under the lake appears
to have always accompanied the possession of the lands on its
border. No contest was made against their recovery if a right
of possession was shown to the border lands.
From the view of the interest conveyed by the grant which
we have expressed, we are satisfied that the company could
maintain an action for the possession of the premises in controversy, and that its lessee, the plaintiff herein, was possessed
of the same right. The judgment must, therefore, be
Afflmed.

KAUKAUNA WATER POWER COMPANY v. GREEN
BAY AND MISSISSIPPI CANAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT- OF OUTAGAME COUE=,
No. 65. Argued October 30, November 2,1891. -Decided

WISCONSIN.

December 21, 1891.

If ihe adjudication of a Federal question is necessarily involved in the dis:
position of a case by a state court, it is not necessary that it should
appear affirmatively in the record, or in the opinion of that court, that
such a question was raised and decided.
Proceedings under a state statute enacted before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment which, if taken before its adoption, would not have
violated the constitution, may, when taken after its adoption, violate it,
if prohibited by that amendment.
In Wisconsin the ownership of riparian proprietors extends to the centre
or thread of the stream, subject, if such stream be navigable, to the
right of the public to its use as a public highway for the passage of vessels; and the law, so settled by the highest court of the State, is controlling in this court as a rule of property.
A state legislature may authorize the taking of land upon or riparian rights
in a navigable streain for the purpose of improving its navigation, and
if a surplus of wdleris created, incident to the improvement, it may be
leased to private parties under authority of the State, or retained within
control of the State; but so far as land is taken for the purpose of the
improvement, either for the dam itself or the embankments, or for the
overfilow, or to far as water is diverted from its natural course, or from

