KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Syllabus.
An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals and the judgment
affirmed, (125 N. Y. 740,) whereupon, March 6, 1891, the Court of
Sessions ordered the judgment of conviction and sentence of death
to be executed and enforced in the manner provided by law, and
issued a second warrant to the warden. Trezza then presented his
petition for a writ of habeas corpus to the judge of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and
brings the order of that court denying its prayer to this court on
appeal.
Petitioner claimed that by his imprisonment .under the first
warrant he had been once punished for the offence for which
he had been convicted, and that solitary confinement amounted to
cruel and unusual punishment, and hence that he was restrained
in violation of the Fifth and Eighth Amendments to the 'Constitution of the United States; and he objected bIso that the warrant
was not sufficiently definite and specific.
The record has not been printed nor have briefs been filed on
either side, and appellant was not represented by counsel when the
cause came on for hearing. We have, however, carefully examined
the transcript, and find no ground upon which to arrive at a different conclusion from that just announced in the case of McElvaine.
The judgment is affirmed, and thte mandate ordered to issue at once.

KNIGHT v. UNITED STATES LAND ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE

No. 824. Argued October 23, 26; 1891.-

OF CALIFORNIA.

Decided December 21, 1891.

This court takes judicial notice of facts concerning the pueblo of San Francisco, (not contradictory of the findings of the referee in this case,)
which are recited in former decisions of this court, in statutes of the
United States and of the State of California, and in the records of the
Department of the Interior.
It is settled law that a patent for public land is void at law if the grantor
State had no title to the premises embraced in it, or if the officer who
issued it had no authority to do so; and that the want of such title or
authority can be shown in an action at law.
The power to make and correct surveys of the public lands belongs excluvOL. CXLU-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
sively to the political department of the government, and the action of
that department is unassailable in the courts, except by a direct proceeding.
In matters relating to the sale and disposition of the public domain, the
surveying of private land claims and the issuing of patents thereon, and
the administration of the trusts devolving on the government, by reason
of the laws of Congress, or under treaty stipulations respecting the public
domain, the Secretary of the Interior is the supervising agent of the
government, to do justice to all claimants, and preserve the rights of the
people of the United States.
The Secretary of the Interior had ample power to set aside the Stratton survey of the San Francisco pueblo lands, (although approved by the surveyor general of California, and confirmed by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, with no appeal taken,) and to order a new survey;
and his action in that respect is unaissailable in a collateral proceeding.
The method of running the shore line of the bay of San Francisco in the
Von Leicht survey was correct.
The well-settled doctrine that, on the'acquisition of the territory from
Mexico, the United States acquired the title to lands under tide water in
trust for the future States that might be erected out of the territory,
does not apply to lands that had been previously granted to other parties
by the former government, or had been subjected to trusts that would
require their disposition in some other way.
The patent of the United States is evidence of the title of the city of San
Francisco under Mexican laws to the pueblo lands, and is conclusive,
not only as against the United States and all parties claiming under it
by titles subsequently acquired, but also as against all parties except
those who have a full and complete title acquired from Mexico, anterior
in date to that confirmed by the decree of confirmation.

TiE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action of ejectment brought in the superior court
in and for the city and county of San Francisco, California,
by the United Land Association, a corporation of that State,
and one Clinton C. Tripp, against Thomas Knight, to recover
a block of land in that city bounded by Barry, Channel, Seventh
and Eighth Streets, and known as block number forty. The
controversy involves an interesting question of title to the
property described, the plaintiffs asserting that the premises
were below the line of ordinary high-water mark at the date
of the conquest of California from Mexico, and, therefore,
upon the admission of the State into the Union in 1850,
enured to it in virtue of its sovereignty over tide lands; and

IMGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.

163 '

Statement of the Case.

the defendant insisting that the lands are a portion of the
pueblo of San Francisco, as confirmed and patented by the
United States.
The complaint, filed on the 23d of November, 1880, alleged
that the plaintiffs were the owners in fee of the premises
desdribed, and were entitled to the possession thereof, and that
they had been wrongfully dispossessed thereof by the defend
ant, who continued to hold such unlawful possession, to their
damage in the sum of $100, and to their loss of the rents and
profits thereof in the sum of $500. Wherefore they prayed a
judgment of restitution and damages aforesaid.
The answer consisted of a general denial of all the allegations of the complaint; and the cause, being at issue, was, by
stipulation of counsel, referred to a referee, to take testirmony,
"try all the issues and report his- findings and judgment
thereon."
In obedience to the order of the court the referee tried the
case, making an elaborate finding of facts and concluding, as
matter of law, that judgment should go for the plaintiffs.
Accordingly, on the 2d of June, 1888, a judgment was entered
in the superior court in favor of the plaintiffs. That judgment
was afterwards affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State
on appeal; and, after two separate rehearings, the judgment
of affirmance was adhered to by a bare majority of the court,
three of the judges dissenting. 85 California, 448, 474. This
writ of error was then sued out.
It appears from the bill of exceptions that, on the trial of
the case before the referee, the plaintiffs, to sustain the issues
on their behalf, introduced -evidence tending to show the
location of the premises to be as alleged in the complaint, and
also a complete and good litle in themselves under a grant
from the State and certain mesne conveyances, provided the
title to the premises was originally in-the State, and provided
certain deeds (which were also introduced) from the state tideland commissioners, dated, respectively, November 24 and 27,
1875, were effectual to convey said title. For the purpose of
proving title in the State they offered parol testimony to show
that in 1851 the premises were below the line of ordinary

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

high-water mark, and that Mission Creek (which is an estuary
of the bay of San Francisco and runs alongside this block)
was, at that time, navigable for a considerable distance above
them. This evidence was objected to, on the ground that
parol evidence was inadmissible to prove the boundary lines
of the decree of confirmation of the pueblo lands, but the
objection was overruled and an exception noted.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence certain documents
relative to the confirmation to the city of San Francisco of its
pueblo lands, and also the first survey of those lands under the
decree of confirmation, which survey, made by deputy surveyor Stratton, approved by -the surveyor general of California and confirmed by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, did not include the premises in controversy.
They also produced a witness who testified that the premises
were below ordinary high-water mark, as laid down on such
survey. To the introduction of this survey as evidence, and
..
to the parol proof of the location of the premises with reference
to the line of high tide, as delineated thereon, the defendant
objected on the ground that the survey was not matter of
record, that- it did not tend to prove, as between the parties
hereto, where the line of high, tide was, being res inter alios
acta, and that it had been cancelled and superseded by another
survey subsequently made in accordance with instructions of
the Secretary of the Interior. The objection was overruled,
the survey was admitted in evidence, and the defendant duly
excepted.
The plaintiffs also produced in evidence certain maps made
by persons in official station in 1853, 1857, 1859 and 1864,
showing the line of high tide at about the same line as on the
aforesaid Stratton survey. Objections were made to these
maps as evidence, but they were overruled and exceptions
were noted.
The plaintiffs also introduced in evidence the original minutebook of the board of supervisors of the city and county of San
Francisco, and read a resolution passed by the board on the
23d of December, 1878, that no appeal should be taken from
the action of the Commissioner of the General Land Office

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Statement of the Case.

approving the Stratton survey. Objection was made to this
evidence, but it was overruled and an exception was noted.
The plaintiffs then offered in evidence the deeds from the
state land commissioners to one Ellis, (from whom they
derived their title,) together with the letter of the attorney
general of the State, advising the board to dispose of all the
tide lands not in litigation, and where they could ascertain to
whom the state title ought to go, in pursuance of the tideland acts. The deeds embrace the property in dispute. The
defendant objected to these deeds on the ground that they
were incompetent, in that the board of tide-land commissioners
had no power or jurisdiction to make them, and on the further
ground that there was nothing to show that the board was
advised by the attorney general to make such deeds. the
objectiorin was overruled, and an exception was noted. The
plaintiffs thereupon rested their case.
The defendant, to sustain the issues on his part, offered in
evidence the patent of the San Francisco pueblo lands, regularly
issued to that city on the 20th of June, 1884, and also the
plat of said pueblo lands surveyed under instructions from the
United States surveyor general by deputy surveyor Von Leicht
in December, 1883, which showed an endorsement of approval
by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, under date
of May 15, 1884, and was also endorsed as follows: "The
field-notes of the survey of the pueblo lands of San Francisco,
from which this plat has been made, are strictly in accordance
with the instructions of the honorable Commissioner of the
General Land Office received with his letter, dated November
25, 1883, as the same appear of record and on file in this
office. United States surveyor general's office, San Francisco,
California, January 17(th, 1884. W. H. Brown, United States
surveyor general for California."
It was admitted that the land in question is included within
the exterior boundaries of the patent; but the patent Was objected to as incompetent to show title"in the city of San Francisco, as against grantees of the State of the premises, for the
following reasons:
"1st. The State of California acquired her title by virtue of

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

her sovereignty on her admission into the Union, and her title
could not be overthrown by declarations of the United States
made after title had vested in her.
"2d. That as to lands acquired by virtue of her sovereignty,
the State was not the owner of a private land claim, and was
not bound to present her claims to the board of land commissioners, organized under the act of Congress entitled, 'An act
to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of
California,' passed March 3, 1851, nor is she concluded as to
her rightsby not presenting thea as provided in section 13
thereof, nor by any decision on the claim of another person.
The act did not apply to her or her property.
"3d. The only authority for the patent was a decree of the
United States Circuit-Court, which court was not vested with
jurisdiction over the State or the property of the State, although it was vested with jurisdiction over natural persons
and corporations. Neither the decree nor any proceedings
under the decree could affect the title of the State -or furnish
evidence against her.
"4th. The State was not a party to the record in the case
of The City, &c. v. The United States, nor is she affected as a
natural person or corporation would be bir a failure to attend
before the United States surveyor general and object to a survey, as provided in section one of the act of Congress approved
July 1, 1864, and entitled 'An act to expedite the settlement
of titles to lands in the State of California.' But, being a
stranger to the entire record and proceeding, the patent is not
competent evidence against her or her property.
"5th. The first survey is the final adjudication of the, land
office of the location of the premises described in the decree,
because -

"(a.) In confirming a survey under the acts of March 3,
1851, and July 1, 1864, the Commissioner acts in a special
judicial capacity, and his decisions are not appealable to the
Secretary of the Interior.
"(b.) The city refused to appeal, and this refusal appears in
the record, and there was no appeal.
"(c.) The first confirmed survey is better evidence of the

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Statement of the Case.

location in this case than the patent, and the patent is void to
the extent that it departs from it.
"(d.) The decree confirms to the city only the land above
or within the ordinary high-water mark at the date of the
conquest.
"The premises are outside that specific boundary, and, as
the surveyor general had no authority under the acts of 'Congress to survey, nor the land office to patent, land not confirmed to the claimant, the decree controls, and the patent is
void to the extent that it departs from the specific boundary
given in the decree."
The evidence was admitted, but the referee refused to find
thereon in favor of the defendant, and an exception was
noted.
The defendant also introduced in evidence the judgment roll
in a case tried in a state court between this defendant and the
city and county of San Francisco, in which a judgment was
rendered in his favor in November, 1868, quieting his title to
the premises.
That was all the evidence introduced, and upon it the referee
found the material facts of the case substantially as follows:
The premises in dispute are below ordinary high-water mark
as the same existed on the 7th of July, 1846, (the date of the
conquest of Mfexico,) and are below and outside of a survey of
the pueblo claim made by deputy surveyor Stratton; and approved by the surveyor general of California on the 13th of
August, 1868, and confirmed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, November 11, 1878, but are within a subsequent survey of the pueblo, made by deputy surveyor Von
Leicht in 1884, which was not approved by the surveyor
general of California, but was certified by him to have been
made in accordance with orders from the Secretary of the
Interior. The patent for the pueblo lands was issued on this
second survey, and recited, among other things, the proceedings had in relation to the perfecting of the pueblo title, including the decree of confirmation and the confirmatory acts
of Congress. The plaintiffs derived their title from the State
through certain mesne conveyances, regular and legal in all

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

respects, while the defendant did not -connect himself with the
title of the State.
Upon the foregoing facts the referee found as conclusions of
law that(1) The State of California upon her admission into the
Union, September 9, 1850, became seized in fee of the premises in dispute;
(2) This title subsequently became vested in the plaintiffs,
by virtue of certain conveyances described;
(3) This title of the plaintiffs was subject to defeat by the
decree of the Circuit Court confirming the claim ofthe pueblo,
but the premises being without the confirmed survey of 1878,
and outside of the specific boundary given in the decree, remained the property of the State;
(4) "The second (Von Leicht) survey was illegal because it
was not approved by the surveyor general of California, -no
appeal was taken to the Secretary of the Interior from the
decision-of the Commissioner of the General Land Office approving the piior survey; and because the second survey was
not retained in the office of the United States surveyor general
for ninety days, and no notice of the same was given to enable
parties in interest to file protests, as required by law; and because, in approving said prior survey, said Commissioner of the
General Land Office was acting in a judicial capacity and his
judgment thereon is not reversible and was not legally reversed" ; and,
(5) The description of the premises contained in the patent
being in excess of the premises described in the prior survey
and in the decree, the patent, to the extent that it covered
land of the State not confirmed to the claimant, was invalid,
and did not operate to convey the State's title to the premises
in controversy.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State was based
upon substantially the same grounds as that of the referee;
and the correctness of the propositions of law involved therein
isdrawn in question by this writ of error.
To understand precisely the exact nature of the questions
involved in this case a somewhat more detailed statement of

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATIONT.
Statement of 'the Case.

facts than is contained in the above findings of the .referee
will be found useful. These facts are not contradictory of.
those findings, and are recited in former decisions of this court,
statutes of the United States, and of the State of California,
and the records of the Interior Department, of all of which
the court can take judicial notice.
The pueblo of San Francisco has been a fruitful subject of
litigation for many years, both in the Land Department of
the government and in the state and Federal courts. For the
purposes of this case a brief history only of the litigation is
deemed essential.
The city of San Francisco, as the successor of a Mexican
pueblo of that name, presented its claim to the board of land
commissioners created by the act of Congress approved Mhfarch
3, 1851, for the confirmation to it of a tract of land to the
extent of four square leagues, situfted on the upper portion of
the., peninsula of San Francisco.
In December, 1854, the
board confirmed the claim for only a portion of the four
square leagues, and both the city and the United States appealed to the District Court of the United States. The United
States subsequently withdrew its appeal, but the case remained
in the Distript Court undisposed of until September, 1864,
when, under the provisions of the act of Congress of July 1,
1861, it was transferred to the United States Circuit Court,
which sustained the contention of the city and entered a confirmatory decree in its favor on the 18th of May, 1865. 4
Sawyer, 553, 577. The language of that decree is as follows:
"The land of which confirmation is made is a tract situated
within the county of San Francisco, and embracing so much
of the extreme upper portion of the peninsula above ordinary
high-water mark, (as the same existed at the date of the conquest of the country, namely, the seventh of July, A.D. 1846,)
on which the city of San Francisco is situated, as will contain
an area of four square leagues -said tract being bounded on
the north and east by the bay of San Francisco; on the west
by the Pacific Ocean; and on the south by a due east and
west line drawn so as to include the area aforesaid," subject
to certain exceptions and deductions not necessary to be stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Both the United States and the city appealed from that
decree- the United States from the whole decree, and the
city from so much of it as included the aforesaid deductions
and exceptions in the estimate of the quantity of land confirmed. While these appeals were pending Congress passed
the act of March 8, 1866, "to quiet the title to certain lands
within the corporate limits of the city of San Francisco."
This act is as follows:
"Be it enacted, etc., that all the right and title of the United
States to the land situated within the corporate limits of the
city of San Francisco, in the State of California, confirmed to
the city of San Francisco by the decree of the. Circuit Court
of the United States for the northern district of California,
entered on the eighteenth day of May, one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-five, be, and the same are hereby, relinquished and granted to the said city of San Francisco and its
successors, and the claim of the said city to said land is hereby
confirmed, subject, however, to the reservations and exceptions
,designated in said decree, and upon the following trusts,
namely, that all the said land, not heretofore granted to said
city, shall be disposed of and conveyed by said city to parties
in the bonafde actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on the passage of this act, in such quantities and upon
such ter'ms and conditions as the legislature of the State of
California may prescribe, except such parcels thereof as may
be reserved and set apart by ordinance of said city for public
uses: P 'ovided, however, That the relinquishment and grant
by this act shall not interfere with or prejudice any valid
adverse right or claim, if such exist, to said land or any part
thereof, whether derived from Spain, Mexico or the United
States, or preclude a judicial examination and adjustment
thereof." 14 Stat. 4, c. 13.
The appeals to this court were thereupon dismissed. The
measure of the city's title to the four square leagues of land is
to be found in the decree of confirmation and the act of Congress just recited. The question of the city's title having been
settled, it became necessary to fix the boundaries of its lands
by a survey. This duty, under the law, devolved upon the

KNIGHT v. 'U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Statement of the 'Case.

political department of the general government having charge
of the public lands. Accordingly, in 1867 and 1868, under
instructions of surveyor general Upson, deputy surveyor Stratton made a survey of the confirmed claim, and the same was
approved by the surveyor general, and subsequently, after
lying in the General Land Office, at Washington, for about
ten years, it was confirmed by the commissioner on the 11th
of November, 1878. 2 C. L. L. 1234. In making this survey
Stratton ran its lines along the line of ordinary high-water
mark of the bay of San Francisco until he came to Mission
Creek, a small stream or estuary of the bay, and then followed
the tide line up the creek, and crossing over, ran down on the
other zide. This plan seems also to have been followed with
reference to a few other small estuaries. The city protested
against this method of survey, and, through her attorney of
record, gave notice of appeal from the action of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to the Secretary of the
Interior, claiming that the proper method of running the line
along the bay was to follow the tide line of the main body of
water and cut across the mouths of all estuaries or creeks
which are arms of the bay. The board of supervisors of the
city, however, decided not to appeal from the decision of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office confirming the Stratton survey, and, declaring that the action of the attorney was
unauthorized, discharged hiim. Thereafter the board passed a
resolution, addressed to the Secretary of the Interior, in which
it was stated that, in its opinion, the Stratton survey was
entirely correct and legal, and should be approved.
Notwithstanding this action of the board, the Secretary of
the Interior sent for the papers in the case, and, upon an elaborate examination of the points involved, reversed the action
of the Commissioner of the Generaf Land Office approving the
Stratton survey, thus substantially sustaining the original protest of the city to the running of the boundary line of the grant
up the estuaries of the bay.
Upon motion for review, a subsequent Secretary of the Interior sustained the action of his predecessor, and ordered a
survey made in conformity with the views of the department.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

2 Land Dec. 346.

It was under those instructions that the

Von Leicht survey was made, upon which the patent was
issued. Subsequently an application was made to a succeeding
Secretary to have the patent recalled and cancelled, and a new
patent.issued; but it was denied, the Secretary holding that
he had no power under the law to grant the application, and
that even if he had, he should decline to exercise it, because he
considered the views of his predecessors sound and correct. 5
Land Dec. 483.
Mr. Edward R. Taylor for plaintiff in error.
.M.Wilson was with him on the brief,

.fr. Samuel

Mr. Charles N. Fox for defendants in error. -Mr.Philip
G. Galpin was with him on the brief, in which were cited:
United8
States v. 7Minor, 114 U. S. 233; Railroad Co. v. &Shurmeir, 7 Wall. 272; Jones v. Martin, 13 Sawyer, 314, 317;
Smelting Co. v.-Kemp, 104 U. S.636; Wfright v. R1oselerry, 121
U. S.488; Tubbs v. *Wihoit,138 U. S.134; Doolan v. Carr,
125 U. S. 618; Manning v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 7 Sawyer,
418, 427; West v. Cochran, 17 How. 403; Stanford v. Taylor,
18 How. 409; Willott v. Sandford, 19 How. 79; Davis v.
Wiebold, 139 U. S. 507; Attorney General v. Chambers, 4 DeG.
M. &-G. 206; Teschemacher v. Thompson, 18 California, 11;
S. C. 79 Am. Dec. 151.
Mr. Galpin also filed the following points for defendants.
I. The political department of the government known as
the Department of the Interior has no power to carry into
effect the provisions of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, except in so far as that power is conferred by. acts of Congress.
No power in that regard is given same by the act of March 3,
1851, relative to settlement of private land claims and the acts
amendatory thereof. 9 Stat. 631; 13 Stat. 332, ยง 7; 14 Stat.
218.
I.' The Department of the Interior is not authorized to
order a patent for land to any Mexican citizen or his successors
in interest, in satisfaction of the treaty, except of land that has
first been confirmed to that citizen by the judicial tribunals

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

appointed by Congress to ascertain and settle private land
claims arising under the treaty.
III. Where a tract of land limited by specific boundaries
has been so confirmed by the judicial tribunals authorized by
Congress, a patent vhich includes lands (not public lands of
the United States) outside of the boundaries given in the decree,
does not operate to pass title to such outside lands.
IV. The patent is presumptive and persuasive evidence that
its courses and distances do follow the specific boundary of the
decree; but it is not conclusive.
The contestant in ejectment may prove to the trial court if
he can, that the officer has exceeded his jurisdiction; and that
the land included in the patent is in truth outside of the grant
confirmed, and, therefore, outside the conveying power.
To deny this is to assert simply that the Department of
the Interior, without authority to adjudicate upon what land
shall be confirmed or conveyed, may issue a patent to land
not confirmed; and the conveyance passes title to the outside
land, until and unless the party affected by the overlap shall
bring suit to canc.el that part of the description, and reform
the patent. That is to say, a patent to land outside of the
jurisdiction of the officer, conclusively proves that the land is
within it. So that, if the decree confirms the peninsula of San
Francisco, the land office may patent the city of Oakland,
and the patent passes the title to the land in the latter city!
If this be so, the patent becomes more potent than the decree,
and the court becomes an appendage of the land office.
V. If the court has confirmed a Spanish grant for a certain
number of leagues to be located within certain larger exterior
boundaries, (as has often occurred in this State,) the court by
its decree has confirmed the grant to every part of the land up
to the exterior boundaries, and the whole of that land is placed
within the jurisdiction of the land office for the purpose of
surveying and patenting the *number of acres allotted to the
claimant. This duty although in a measure judicial, (where no
restriction of specific boundaries is contained in the decree,) is
chiefly ministerial,, and may be exercised anywhere within the
exterior boundaries.

OCTOBER TERM

1891.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

It results that so long as the survey and the patent are
restricted to land within the exterior boundaries, the land is
within the conveying power of the officer. It has been placed
within his grasp by the decree of the court.
VI. But if a river, the sharp crest of a mountain ridge or
the overflowing surface of the bay, impinging on the shore,
defines the exterior boundary of the grant and the decree
allots to the claimant, for instance, four square leagues in a
.square form lying next north and west of the specific boundary,
and the surveyor chooses to patent land outside of 'the exterior
boundary, and south and east of it, the land so patented, not
being public land of the United States and unconfirmed to the
claimant, is not within the conveying power of the officer.
Such is precisely this case; the land confirmed was no more
than ",
so much of the extreme upper portion of the peninsula"
"above ordinary high-water mark," and within an east and
west, southern boundary line "as will contain" four leagues.
The surveyor, knowingly and remonstrating, was compelled,
by order of the Secretary of the Interior, to cross this line and
go outside of the exterior boundary of the land confirmed.
The patent covered land which had not been the property of
the -United States after the admission of California into the
Union in September, 1850.
VII. Nor is it any answer to say that notwithstanding the
admission of California into the Union, she did not take this
property discharged of the right of the government to use it,
if necessary, in liquidation of the obligations of the treaty.
Grant that this was so; still California did take the fee without grant and without patent, by virtue of her sovereignty, in
September, 1850, subject to the right of the government to
take it from her for the purposes aforesaid. But the government has not required it for that purpose; on the contrary,
the decree of confirmation effectually removed that lien from
the title of the State. It results that land below high tide was
not within the conveying power of the Land Department, and
the title of the State was not affected by the patent.
VIII. It will be said, "that the specific line of 'high-water
mark' yields to the more general description of 'the bay:'

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

that, according to all the principles of map-making, a bay
takes the contour line of the coast, and that, as the land is
designated as lying between the ocean and the bay, the more
general description of 'the bay' controls the words 'embracing so much of the extreme upper portion of the peninsula
above high-water mark, etc., on which the city of San Francisco is situated, as will contain, etc.,' that the shore line of the
bay does not follow the line of high tide; and the latter is to
be abandoned."
It is manifest from the decree that the words "ocean" and
"bay" are words of general description. The shores of each
are described by the "line of ordinary high tide." There is
no such thing possible as bay shore line visible under water.
The result of this interpretation is, that the specific boundary
of the line of high tide is eliminated whenever the surveyor
chooses to depart from it. If such a construction is admissible
at one point, it is of necessity at all others.
He may run anywhere from point to point and from headland to headland, and include the land of the State wherever
he is disposed so to do. The result would be, possibly, that he
would touch the line of high tide only at the extreme points
which jutted into the sea, commencing at the Presidio and
ending at the Potrero.
He could have disturbed the title to the water front of the
city. An unknown, invisible and.shifting boundary of a contour line which may be run this way a mile or two, or that
way a mile or two, at the caprice of the surveyor, was not a
desirable boundary for the city; and none such was then in*tended.
IX. The real and only question presented by this record is
as to the exclusive and conclusive evidence of the patent.
When the plaintiff in ejectment has located his land beyond the
specific boundary given in the decree by evidence unassailed,
does a patent to land unconfirmed to the claimant override all
contrary proof, and conclusively establish that this patent is
valid outside the boundaries of the decree, and that this land
was confirmed to the claimant?

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE LAmA , after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The case as presented by this record involves some very interesting questions. Ever' since the decision in Pol'8 Iessee v.
IWendall, 9 Cranch, 87, it has been the settled law of this court
that a patent is void at law if the grantor State had no title
to the premises embraced in it, or if the officer who issued the
patent had .no authority so to do, and that the want of such
title or authority can be shown in an action at law. Patter8o v. Winn, 11 Wheat. 380, 384; Stoddard v. Ohtamber, 2
How. 28j, 818; Easton v. Salisbury, 21 Row. 426; 1?eichart
v. Felps, 6 Wall. 160; Jest v. Polk, 18 Wall. 112; Smelting
'Co. v. Hemp, 104 U. S. 636; Steel v. Smelting Co., 106 U. S.
447, 453; TTright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S..488, 519; .Doolan v.
Carr, 125 U. S. 618, 625, and authorities there cited.
It is sought by the plaintiffs to bring this case within that
rule; and it is, therefore, strenuously insisted thiet the patent
for the.San Francisco pueblo is void to the extent that it embraces lands below ordinary high-water mark of Mission Creek,
as that line existed at the date of the conquest from Mexico in
1846. In order to gustain this proposition the claim is put
forth that the Stratton survey was correct, and was never
legally set aside; that the Von Leicht survey, upon which the
patent was issued, was wholly unauthorized in law and void;
and that the premises in dispute being excluded by the Stratton survey, and being proved by parol evidence to have been
below the line of ordinary high-water mark, were never
legally included in the patent, and were not included in the
decreb of confirmation.
It is a well settled rule of law that the power to make and
correct surveys of the public lands belongs exclusively to the
political department of the government, and that the action of
that department, within the scope of its authority, is unassailable in the courts except by a direct proceeding. C'agin v.
Powell, 128 U. S. 691, 699, and cases cited. Under this rule
it must be held that the action of the Land Department in
determining that the Von Leicht survey correctly delineated

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

the boundaries of the pueblo grant, as established by the confirmatory decree, is binding in this court, if the Department
had jurisdiction and power to order that survey. It is claimed,
however, and the referee so determined, that no such power or,
authority existed in the Department, because it had been
,exhausted by the action of the Commissioner of the General
Land (ffice in approving and confirming the Stratton survey
in 1878. This contention is based upon the proposition that
the Secretary of the Interior had no authority to set aside the
order of the Commissioner approving and confirming the
Stratton survey, especially in view of the fact that no appeal
was taken from such order and the authorities of the city acqui.esced in. that survey. This proposition is unsound. If followed as a rule of law, the Secretary of the Interior is shorn
of that supervisory power over the public lands which is vested
in him by section 441 of the Revised Statutes. That section
provides as follows: "The Secretary of the Interior is charged
with-the supervision of public business relating to the following subjects:

. . . Second. The public lands, including

mines." Sec. 453 provides: "The Commissioner of the General Land Office shall perform, under the direction of the Secretzry of the Interior,all executive duties appertaining to the
surveying and sale of the public lands of the United States, or
in anywise respecting such public lands, and also such as relate
to private claims of land, and the issuing of patents for all
[agents] [grants] of land under the authority of the government." Sec. .2478 provides: "The Commissioner of the General Land Office, wider the direction of the Secretary of the
Interior,is authorized to enforce and carry into execution, by
appropriate regulations, every part of the provisions of this
title [The Public Lands] not otherwise specially provided for."
The phrase, "under the direction -of the Secretary of the Interior," as used in these sections of the statutes, is not meaningless, but was intended as an expression in general terms of
the power of the Secretary to supervise and control the extensive operations of the Land Department of which he is the
head. It means that, in the important matters relating to the
sale and disposition of the public domain, the surveying of
VOL.cxiii-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

private land claims and the issuing of patents thereon, and the
administration of the trusts devolving upon the government,
by reason of the laws of Congress or under treaty stipulations,
respecting the public domain, the Secretary of the Interior is
the supervising agent of the government to do justice to all
claimants and preserve the rights of the people of the United
States. As was said by the Secretary of the Interior on the
application for the recall and cancellation of the patent in this
pueblo case (5 Land Dec. 494): "The statutes in placing the
whole business of the Department under the supervision of
the Secretary, invest him with authority to review, reverse,
amend, annul or affirm all proceedings in the Department
having for their ultimate object to secure the alienation of iny
portion of the public lands, or the adjustment of private claims
to lands, with a just regard to the rights of the public and of
private parties. Such supervision may be exercised by direct
orders or by review on appeals. The mode in which the
supervision sball be exercised in the absence of statutory direction may be prescribed by such rules and regulations as the
Secretary may adopt. When proceedings affecting titles to
lands are before the Department the power of supervision
may be exercised by -the Secretary, whether these proceedings
are called to his attention by formal notice or by appeal. It
is sufficient that they are brought to his notice. The rules
prescribed are designed to facilitate the Department in the
despatch of business, not to defeat the supervision of the Secretary. For example, if, when a patent is about to issue, the
Secretary should discover a fatal defect in the proceedings, or
that by reason of some newly ascertained fact the patent, if
issued, would have to be annulled, and that it would be his
duty to ask the Attorney General to institute proceedings for
its annulment, it would hardly be seriously contended that the
Secretary might not .interfere and prevent the execution of
the patent. He could not be obliged to sit quietly and allow
a proceeding to be consummated, which it would be immediately his duty to ask the Attorney General to take measures
to annul. It would not be a sufficient answer against the
exercise of his power that no appeal had been taken to him
and therefore he was without authority in the matter."

KNIGHT, .

U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

There is authority in this court for this holding. .Magwire
v. Tyler, 1 Black, 195, was a case involving ,the right of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, under the act of
July 4, 1836, 5 Stat. 107, c. 352, reorganizing that bureau,
and of the Secretary of the Interior, under the act of 'March
3, 1849, 9 Stat. 395, establishing that department, to take
jurisdiction of surveys made in the upper Louisiana country
upon confirmed Spanish titles. One of the questions presented was whether the Secretary of the Interior could reject
such a survey and order a new one of the same claim, and
issue a patent upon the second survey. By the act of March
3, 1807, the board of commissioners appointed to pass upon the
merits of such claims was re~tuired to deliver to each party
whose claim was confirmed a certificate that he was entitled
to a patent for the tract of land designated. This certificate
was to be presented to the surveyor general, who proceeded to
have the survey made and returned, with the certificate, to
the recorder of land titles, whose duty it was to issue a patent
certificate, which, being transmitted to the Secretary of the
Treasury, (then the head of the Land Department,) entitled
the party to a patent. By the act of April 25, 1812, the
duty of the Secretary of the Treasury was transferred to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office. The act of April
18, 1814, required that accurate surveys should be made, according to the description in the certificate of confirmation, and
that proper returns should be made to the Commissioner, of the
certificate and survey, and of all such other evidence as the Commissioner might require. The court said: "These acts show
that the surveys and proceedings must be, in regard to their
correctness, within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner; and
such has been the practice. Of necessity he must have power
to adjudge the question of accuracy preliminary to the issue
of a patent."
After referring to the act of July 4, 1836, which conferred
plenary powers on the Commissioner to supervise all surveys
of public lands, "and also such as relate to private claims of
land and the issuing of patents," and also to the act of March
3, 1849., the third section of which vested the Secretary of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Interior, in matters relating to the General Land Office,
including the power of supervision and appeal, with the same
powers that were formerly discharged by the Secretary of
the Treasury, the court said: "The jurisdiction to revise on
the appeal was necessarily coextensive with the powers to
adjudge by- the Commissioner. We are, therefore, of the
opinion that the Secretary had authority to set aside Brown's
survey of Labeaume's tract, order another to be made, and to
issue a patent to Labeaume, throwing off Brazeau's claim."
1 Black; 202. See also . 0. 8 Wall. 650, 661.
A similar question arose in Snyder v. Sickle8, 98 U. S.203,
211, and was decided in the same way, the court going into an
elaborate examination of the powers of- the Secretary of the
Interior to review the action of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and reaffirming the doctrines of 3fagwire v.
Tyler.
In Buena 1i ta County v. Iowa Fall & Sioux City Railroad, 112 U. S.165, 175, a question arose whether the decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office under the
act of March 5, 1872, 17 Stat. 37, was intended to be final,
from which no appeal would lie to the Secretary of the Interior. That act provides: "That the Commissioner of the
General Land Office is hereby authorized and required to
receive and examine the selections of swamp lands in Lucas,
O'Brien, Dickinson and such other counties in the State of
Iowa as formerly presented their selections to the surveyor
general of the district inluding that State, and allow or disallow said selections and indemnity provided for according to
the acts of Congress in force touching the same at the time
such selections were made, without prejudice.to legal entries and
rights of bonac de settlers under the homestead or pregmption
laws of the United States at the date of this act." It is to be
observed that there was nothing in that act expressly giving
an appeal from the Commissioner's decision to the Secretary.
But the court said: "There is nothing in the act-which alters
the relation between the two officers as otherwise established,
or puts the decisions of the Commissioner, under that act,
upon a footing different from his other decisions."

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

The powers and duties of the .Secretary of the Interior were
no greater under the acts under consideration in the cases
to which we have referred than they are under sections 441,
453 and 2478 of the Revised Statutes. They were practically, and to all intents and purposes, the same. The general
words of those sections are not supposed to particularize every
minute duty devolving upon the Secretary and every special
power bestowed upon him. There must be some latitude for
construction. In the language of this court in the late case
of Willians v. United States, 138 U. S. 514, 524: "It is obvious, it is common knowledge, that in the administration of
such large and varied interests as are- intrusted to the Land
Department, matters not foreseen, equities not anticipated, and
which are, therefore, not provided for by express statute, may
sometimes arise, and, therefore, that the Secretary of the
Interior is given that superintending and supervising power
which will enable him, in the face of these unexpected contingencies, to do justice." See also Lee v. Johnson, 116 U. S.
48.
It makes no difference whether the appeal is in regular form
according to the established rules of the Department, or
whether the Secretary on his own motion, knowing that
injustice is about to be done by some action of the Commissioner, takes up the case and disposes of it in accordance with
law and justice. The Secretary is the guardian of the people
of the United States over the public lands. The obligations of
his oath of office oblige him to see that the law is carried out,
and that none of the public domain is wasted or is disposed of
to a party not entitled to it. He represents the government,
which is a party in interest in every case involving the surveying and disposal of the public lands.
Furthermore, the power of supervision and control exercised
by the Secretary of the Interior over all matters relating to
the disposition and sale of the public, lands, under ยง.453, Rev.
Stat., is substantially the same as his power over the Bureau
of Pensions, under ยง 471. That section provides: "The Commissioner of Pensions shall perform, under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior,such duties in the execution of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

various pension and bounty laws as may be prescribed by
the President."
There is nowhere any express power given to the Secretary
of the Interior to hear and determine appeals from the Commissioner of Pensions; and yet the power is exercised daily
without question. And such power was expressly asserted in
United States ex rel. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, and
impliedly recognized in -Miller v. Baurm, 135 U. S. 200.
The same remarks apply to the powers of the Secretary of
,the Interior, under a similarly worded section of the Revised
Statutes, (ยง 463,) to supervise and control the management of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs, which powers, so far as we are
advised, have never been questioned.
But even if there was any doubt of the existence of such
power in the Secretary of the Interior, as an original proposition, still the exercise of it for so long a period -going back
to the organization of that department- without question,
ought to be considered as conclusive as to the existence of the
power. .Hastings & Dakota Railroad v. lfkitney, 132 U. S.
357, and authorities there cited.
We conclude, on this branch of the case, that the Secretary
of the Interior had ample power to set aside the Stratton
survey and order a new survey by Von Leicht and that his
action in such matter is unassailable in the courts in a collateral
proceeding. The Von Leichf survey, therefore, must be held
as a correct survey of the pueblo claim as confirmed by the
Circuit Court. Moreover, the method of running the shore
line of the bay of San Francisco, adopted by the Von Leicht
survey, was approved by the Circuit Court itself in T'ipp v.
Spring, 5 Sawyer, 209; and on this point we entertain no
doubt.
The only remaining question in the case, as we understand
it, and as we desire to consider it, may be thus stated: Admitting that the Von Leicht survey is correct and follows the
decree of confirmation; admitting, also, that the patent followed the survey and the decree, and that the premises in
dispute are embraced in the patent: Was parol evidence admissible to show that these premises were below the ordinary

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

high-water mark-not of the bay Of San Francisco, but of
Xision Creek, a navigable arm of the bay, as that line existed
at the date of the conquest from Mexico in 184:6 ? The contention on this branch of the case is, that, if all these admissions
be taken as true, yet the land in dispute never was a portion
of the pueblo of San Francisco, because, at the date of the
conquest, it was below the ordinary high-water mark of Mission
Creek, and, therefore, upon the admission of California into
the Union in 1850, passed to the State in virtue of its sovereignty over tide lands.
To this contention we cannot give our assent; .and in the
view which we take of the question, we think there was error
in admitting evidence to show that the land was below highwater mark of the creek, and that the Supreme Court erred in
sustaining this ruling. For this and other reasons hereinbefore
stated the judgment should have been for the defendant.
It is the settled rule of law in this court that absolute
property in, and dominion and sovereignty over, the soils
under the tide waters in the original States were reserved to
the several States, and that the new States since admitted
have the same rights, sovereignty and jurisdiction in that
behalf as the original States possess within their respective
borders. Jfartin v. Tladdell, 16 Pet. 367, 410; Pollard v.
Hagan, 3 How. 212, 229; Goodtitle v. Zibbe, 9 How. 471,
478; ifumford v. Wardwell, 6 Wall. 423, 436; Weber v.
Harbor Commissioners, 18 Wall. 57, 65. Upon the acquisition
of the territory from Mexico the United States acquired the
title to tide lands equally with the title to upland; but with
respect to the former they held it only in trust for the future
States that might be erected out of such territory. Authorities
last cited. But this doctrine does not apply to lands that had
been previously granted to other parties by the former government, or subjected to trusts which would require their disposition in some other way. San Franoiscov. _e Boy, 138 U. S.
656. For it is equally well settled that when the United
States acquired California from 'Mexico by the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, 9 Stat. 922, they were bound, under the
8th article of that treaty, to protect all rights of property in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that teiritory emanating from the Mexican government previous, to the treaty. Tesehemacker v. Thompson, 18 California,
11; Beard v. _Federy, 3 Wall. 4178.
Irrespective of any such provision in the treaty, the obligations resting upon the United States in this respect, under the
principles of international law, would have been the. same.
oulzrd v. United States, 4 Pet. 511 ; United 8tates v. IPereheman, 7 Pet. 51, 87; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, 436 ; United
States v. Repentigny, 5 Wall. 211, 260.
These observations lead directly to the determination of
the force and effect of the title of the pueblo of San Francisco,
derived from the former government of Mexico, as opposed to
the title which it is insisted passed to the State of California
upon its admission into the Union by virtue of its sovereigity
over all tide lands in the State below the high-water line, even
including such as are situated within the limits of the pueblo.
If we have succeeded in showing that the tract in dispute
was part of the land claimed by the city of San Francisco as,
successor of the Mexican pueblo of that name; that it is
within the four square leagues described in the decree of the
United States Circuit Court for the district of California,
entered May 18, 1865; that that court decided and decreed
that the claim of title was valid under the laws of Mexico;
that the official survey of the United States officers is correct
and followed the decree of confirmation; and that the patent
of the governmeiit of the United States, following the survey
and decree, embraced within its calls the property in dispute;
we think it clearly follows that the patent of the government
is evidence-of the title of the city under Mexican laws, and is
conclusive, not only as against the government and against all
parties claiming under it by titles subsequently acquired, but
also as against all parties except those who have a full and
complete title acquired from Mexico anterior in date to that
confirmed by the decree of confirmation. This conclusion is
fully sustained by the decisions of this court.
The case of San Francisco v. Le Roy, 138 U. S. 656, 670,
672, is directly in point. That was a bill by Le Roy against
the cityof San Francisco to quiet his title to certain, property

KNIGHT y. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

within the limits of the city. The plaintiff below claimed at
the trial the benefit of a. deed of the land from the tide-land
commissioners of the State, which purported, for a consideration of $352.80, to release to the grantee the right, title and
interest of the State of California to the premises therein
described. The city relied on the patent of the government
based, on the confirmation of the United States Circuit Court
for the district of California.
The court held that the title of the city rests upon the
dpecree of the court recognizing the title to the four square
leagues of land, and establishing their boundaries; and that
even if there were any tide lands within the pueblo the power
and duty of the United States under the treaty to protect the
claims of the city of San Francisco as successor to the pueblo
were superior to any subsequently acquired rights of California over the tide lands. Upon the question involved the
court said:
"We do not attach any importance, upon this question of
reservation, to the deed of the tide-land commissioners, executed to Sullivan on the 3d of December, 1870, for the State
did not at that time own any tide or marsh lands within the
limits of the pueblo as finally establihed y the Land Deparm ent. All the marsh lands, so called, which the State of California ever owned, were granted to her by the act of Congress
of September 28, 1850, known as the Swamp Land Act, by
which the swamp and overflowed lands within the limits of
certain States, thereby rendered unfit for cultivation, were
granted to the States to enable them to construct the necessary
levees and drains to reclaim them. 9 Stat. c. 81, p. 519. The
interest of the pueblo in the lands within its limits goes back
to the acquisition of the country, and precedes the passage of
that act of Congress. And that act was never intended to
apply to lands held by the United States charged with any
equitable claims of others, which they were bound .by treaty
to protect. As to tide lands, although it may be stated as a
general principle -and it was so held in Weber v. Board of
Harbor Commi8sioners, 18 Wall. 57, 65-that the titles acquired by the United States to lands in California under tide

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

waters, from Mexico, were held in trust for the future State,
so that their ownership and right of disposition passed to it
upon its admission into the Union, that doctrine cannot apply
.to such lands as had been previously granted to other parties
by the former government, or subjected to trusts which would
require their disposition in some other way. When the United
States acquired California it was with the duty to protect all
the rights and interests which were held by the pueblo of San
The property rights of pueblos
Francisco under Mexico.
equally with those of individuals were entitled to protection,
and provision was made by Congress in its legislation for their
investigation and confirmation. Townsend v. Greely, 5 Wall.
326, 337. The duty of the government and its power in the
execution of its treaty obligations to protect the claims of all
persons, natural and artificial, and, of course, of the city of
San Francisco as successor to the pueblo, were superior to
any subsequently acquired rights or claims of the State of
California, or of individuals. The confirmation of the claim
of the city necessarily took effect upon its title as it existed
upon the acquisition of the country. In confirming it, the
United States, through its tribunals, recognized the validity of
that title at the date of the treaty- at least, recognized the
validity of the claim to the title as then existing, and in execution of its treaty obligations no one could step in between
the government of the United States and the city seeking their
enforcement. It is a matter of doubt whether there were any
lands within the limits of the pueblo, as defined and established
by the Land Department, that could be considered tide lands,
which, independently of the pueblo, would vest in the State.
The lands which passed to the State upon her admission to
the Union were not those which were affected occasionally
by the tide, but only those over which tide water flowed so
continuously as to prevent their use and occupation. To render lands tide lands, which the State by virtue of her sovereignty could claim, there must have been such continuity of
the flow of tide water over them, or suph regularity of the flow
within every twenty-four hours, as to render them unfit for cultivation, the growth of grasses or other uses to which upland

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

is applied. But even if there were such lands, their existence
could in no way affect the rights of the pueblo. Its rights
were dependent upon Mexican laws, and when Mexico established those laws she was the owner of tide lands as well as
uplands, and could have placed the boundaries of her pueblos
wherever she thought proper. It was for the United States to
ascertain those boundaries when fixing the limits of the claim
of the city, and that was done after the most thorough and
exhaustive examination ever given to the consideration of the
boundaries of a claim of a*pueblo under the Mexican government. After hearing all the testimony which could be adduced, and repeated arguments of counsel, elaborate reports
were made on the subject by three Secretarius of the .Interior.
They held, and the patent follows their decision, that the
boundary of the bay, which the decree of confirmation had
fixed as that of ordinary high-water mark, as it existed on the
7th of July, 1846, crosses the mouth of all creeks entering the
bay. There was, therefore, nothing in the deed of the tideland commissioners which could by any possibility impair the
right of the city to exercise the power reserved in the Van
Ness ordinance over such portions of the lands conveyed to
occupants under that ordinance as had been occupied or set
apart for streets, squares and public buildings of the city.
Such a reservation should have been embodied in the decree in
this case."
In the case of Beard v. Federy, 3 Wall. 4'78, 491, the court,
upon a question very similar to this in many of its aspects,
followed a similar course of reasoning from which we think
the conclusion we have reached is logically deducible. In that
case the court uses the following language:
"The position of the defendants is, that as against them
the patent is not evidence for any purpose; that as between
them and the plaintiff the whole subject of title is open precisely as though no proceedings for the confirmation had been
had, and no patent for the land had been issued. Their position rests upon a misapprehension of the character and effect
of a patent issued upon a confirmation of a claim to land under
the laws of Spain and Mexico.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the first place, the patent is a deed of the United States.
As a deed its operation is that of a quit-claim, or rather a conveyance of such interest as the United States possessed in the
laud, and it takes effect by relation at the time when proceedings were instituted by the filing of the petition before the
Board of Land Commissioners.
"In the second place, the patent is a record of the action of
the government upon the title of the claimant as it existed
upon the acquisition of the country. Such acquisition did not
affect the rights of the inhabitants to their property. They
retained all such rights, and were entitled by the law of nations to protection in them to the same extent as under the
former government. The treaty of cession also stipulated for
such protection. The obligation to which the United States
thus succeeded was, of course, political in its character, and to
be discharged in such manner, and on such terms, as they
might judge expedient. By the act of March 3, 1851, they
have declared the manner and the terms on which they will
discharge this. obligation. They have there established a special tribunal, before which all claims to land are to be investigated; required evidence to be presented respecting the claims;
appdinted law officers to appear and contest them on behalf of
the government; authorized appeals from the decisions of the
tribunal, first to the District and then to the Supreme Court';
and designated officers to survey and measure off the land
when the validity of the claims is finally determined. When
informed, by the action of its tribunal, and officers, that a
claim asserted is valid and entitled to recognition, the government acts, and issues its patent to the claimant. This instrument is, therefore, record evidence of the action of the
government upon the title of the claimant. By it the government declares that the claim asserted was valid under the
laws of Mexico; that it was entitled to recognition and protection by the stipulations of the treaty, and might have been
located under the former government, and is correctly located
now, so as to embrace the premises as they are surveyed and
described. As against the government, this record, so long as
it remains unvacated, is conclusive. And it is equally conclu-

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

sive against parties claiming under the government by title
subsequent. Itis in this effect of the patent as a record of the
government that its security and protection chiefly lie. If
parties asserting interests in lands acquired since the acquisition of the country could deny and controvert this record, and
compel the patentee, in every suit for his land, to establish the
validity of his claim, his right to its confirmation and the correctness of the action of the tribunals and officers of the United
States in the location of the same, the patent would fail to be,
as it was intended it should be, an instrument of quiet and
security to its possessor. The patentee would find his title
recognized in one suit and rejected in another, and if his title
were maintained, he would find his land located in -as many
different places as the varying prejudices, interests or notions
of justice of witnesses and jurymen might suggest. Every
fact upon which the decree and patent rests would be open
to contestation. The intruder, resting solely upon his possession, might insist that the original claim was invalid, or was
notproperly located, and, therefore, he could not be disturbed
by the patentee. No construction which will lead to such results
can be given to the fifteenth section [meaning the fifteenth
section of the act of 1851, for the purpose of ascertaining and
settling private land claims in California]. The term 'third
persons,' as there used, does not embrace all persons other than
the United States and the claimants, but only those who hold
superior titles, such as will enable them to resist successfully
any action of the government in disposing of the property."
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directionsfor
furtherproceedings in conformity with this opinion.
MR. JuSTioE FrLD, concurring.

I concur in the judgment of this court and in the views expressed in its opinion. As a correct solution of the questions
involved is. of vital importance to the security of titles claimed
*under confirmed Mexican grants in California, followed by a
survey made and a patent issued under the Land Department
of the government, and as I have had personal knowledge of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J;

all legal proceedings touching the claim of the pueblo of San
Francisco from their commencement, I will venture to make
some observations, in addition to those of my brethren, upon
the propositions of law advanced by the court below. Those
propositions, if maintained, would, in my judgment, unsettle
titles held under patents issued upon such confirmed grants,
and lead to great litigation in the State, to the serious detriP
ment of its interests and those of its people.
The action is ejectment for the possession of certain premises within the limits of the city and county of San Francisco,
and also within the boundaries of the tract of land confirmed
to the. city, as successor of a Mexican pueblo, as they are described in the official survey of the tract made under the
direction and authority of the Land Department, and carried
into the patent of the United States.
The tract confirmed is designated in the decree of confirmation rendered by the Circuit Court of the United States on the
18th of May, 1865, as "a tract situated within the county of
San Francisco, and embracing so much of the extreme upper
portion of the peninsula, above ordinary high-water mark, (as
the same existed at the date of the acquisition of the country,
namely, the seventh day of July,

A.D.

1846,) on which the city

of San Francisco' is situated as will contain an area of four
square leagues; said tract being bounded on the north and
east by the bay of San. Francisco; on the west by the Pacific
Ocean, and on the south by a due east and west line drawn so
as to include the area aforesaid," subject to certain deductions
not material to be mentioned here. The decree declares that
the "confirmation is in trust for the benefit of the lot holders
under grants from the pueblo, town or city of San Francisco,
or other competent authority, and as to any residue, in trust
for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city."
A survey and plat purporting to be of the tract were made
by one Stratton, a deputy of the surveyor general of the
United States for California, and was approved by the latter
officer in August, 1868. The survey, instead of following
from its commencement on the east side of the tract to its termination the line of ordinary high-water mark of the bay of

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

San Francisco, as it existed on the Ith of July, 1846, followed
such line only a part of the way. Of its departures from that
line it is sufficient to mention that, when the survey reached
the mouth of the estuary or stream entering the bay, known
as Mission Creek, it left the shore of the bay and ran up along
the bank of the creek on its right side from its entrance for a
distance of over a mile, then crossing the creek passed down
on the other side to the bay, extending back from the creek
on each side so as to exclude from the survey a large tract of
what was called marsh land.
To the approval of the survey and plat, the city and county
of San Francisco filed their protest and objections. The military
officer of the United States in command of the Department of
California also filed objections to so much of the survey as
related to the military reservation within the limits of the
tract.
Surveyor General Day succeeded the officer who had approved the survey, and he forwarded the protest and objections
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, accompanied
by his opinion that the objections were well taken in several
particulars, and recommended among other things that the
plat and survey should be amended so as to include the marsh
land lying on Mission Creek within the four square leagues,
and by the resurvey of the southern and eastern boundary of
the military reservation. The Commissioner, however, disregarded the objections and approved the survey, founding his
conclusion upon the alleged long acquiescence of the city and
county of San Francisco, from which he inferred a recognition
of its correctness and a waiver of the protest and objections.
The confirmation was, as already stated, "in trust for the
benefit of the lot-holders under grants from the pueblo, town
or city of San Francisco, or other competent authority, and as
to any residue, in trust for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city." The legislation of Congress releasing the
interest of the United States to the city was also in trust for
the benefciaries named, (14 Stat. 4, c. 13;) so that the city of San
Francisco had no interest in the lands within *the confirmed
tract other than as a trustee, except where parcels had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

acquired by purchase or conveyance from other sources than
the pueblo. All pueblo lands she held simply in that charac'ter. It was incumbent upon her, therefore, to take such steps
as were necessary to secure and perfect the title of her Cestuis

que trust. She accordingly retained counsel to protect their
interests as well as her own, and he made a formal appeal for
the benefit of both to the Secretary of the Interior fromh the
decision of the Commissioner.
Certain lot-holders were also permitted to appear before the
Secretary and argue the case, as parties interested in the title.
An appeal was also taken by the military commander of the
Department, on behalf of the United States, to correct alleged
errors in the survey of the military reservation, which kept the
whole survey open before the Secretary until it was finally determined. Any change, either by the enlargement or diminution of the reservation, necessarily affected other lines of the
survey, reducing or extending them as tihe quantity embraced
within the tract surveyed was increased or diminished.
Mr. Schurz was then at the head of the Interior Department,
and he examined at great length the action of the Commissioner and of the surveyor general upon the survey; received
a large amount of testimony upon the objections presented,
and heard arguments of counsel thereon. And he held that
the treatment of the survey by the Commissioner proceeded on
the assumption that the United States had no interest in the
matter, and that if the State and city were satisfied, the duty
of the Department was to approve the survey. This the SeWretary held to be a grave error, observing that if the excluded
tracts which the city claimed under the pr 6 test were above
high-water mark in 1846, they ought to be included in the survey, and then the southern boundary line would have to be
moved further north, excluding a corresponding quantity which
would fall into the public lands of the United States. No stipulation or agreement, therefore, said the Secretary, between
the State and the city and county could estop or relieve the
officers of the Department from the duty of executing the decree or of protecting the interests of the government, adding,
that if-the city and county should ask to withdraw the protest

KNIGHT v. U S. LAN D ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

or to have the same dismissed the government would still have
the right to make use of the objections, and of the evidence
filed in their support for its own protection as well as for properly surveying the claim in accordance with the decree. He
therefore discarded entirely the ground which the Commissioner had advanced as the principal reason for approving the
survey.
The protest and objections of the city and county referred
to tracts of marsh land lying near and south of Mission Creek.
They alleged that such lands were not overflowed by tide
water, except at the spring tides; that the line of ordinary
high-water mark upon them on the side of the bay was sharply
defined by a growth of samphire, a marine reedy plant which
grows down to such line and no further. The testimony before
the Secretary showed that the line thus defined was traced
with a blue pencil on the engraved map of the coast survey,
made by officers of the United States between 1850 and 1857,
and that the marsh lands, including the premises in controversy,
were above the line thus designated. Testimony of old residents of San Francisco, some of whom had resided there as
early as 1842 and others in 1849, and down to a period long
after 1851, and were familiar with the character of the land
fronting on the bay, corroborated from their personal knowledge the evidence of this map, as to the marsh lands excluded
from the survey being above the ordinary line of high-water
mark of the bay.
It also appeared before the Secretary, that by an act of the
legislature of California, passed March 26, 1851, the State had
granted to the city of San Francisco the use and occupation
for ninety-nine years of cerfain lands designated as beach and
water lots; and that in describing those lands it had made
one of their boundaries the natural high-water mark of the
bay, the line of such high-water mark extending to its point
of intersection with the southern boundary of the city. The
act provided that, within thirty days after its passage, the
city of San Francisco should deposit in the offices of the secretary of State and of the surveyor general, and in the office of
the surveyor of the city of San Francisco, " a correct map of
VOL. cxLr-13

OCTOBER TERM, 189L
Concurring Opinion. Field, J.

said boundary line, distinctly and properly delineated by a red
line."
Such maps were made and deposited as required, and from
that time afterwards they were referred to by all parties in
the city as determining the- true line of ordinary high-waier
mark as it had previously existed. A copy of one of them was
before the Secretary. They represented, as he held, the line of
ordinary high-water mark which had been established, sanctioned and recognized in the most solemn manner by the State
and city -for years, and was the best available evidence of ordinary high-water mark of 1.846 around that portion of the
city. That line, as traced on the maps, crossed the mouth of
Mission Creek and the 'mouths of all other creeks which in
1851 emptied into the bay of San Francisco. He, therefore,
ordered the Commissioner to direct the surveyor general to
secure a correct and authentic copy of the map, designating
the line of natural high-water mark, in accordance .with the
act of 1851, and make it the basis of a survey of so much of
the exterior boundary of the claim as it represented, and to
modify the Stratton survey in accordance therewith.
Subsequently, after Mr. Schurz had ceased to be the head
of the Interior Department and Mifr. Teller had become Secretary,, application was made to the latter officer to review the
decision of the former, and upon such application argument of
counsel was heard and a most extended consideration of the
whole matter was had. Secretary Teller observed that all
the material questions relating to the boundaries of the tract
confirmed were settled, except the single inquiry whether or
not, in running the line of ordinary high-water mark of the
ocean, and especially of the bay, the main shore or course line
of such body of water identified by its larger description should
be followed, cutting across the mouths of streams, estuaries
and creeks which, intersecting the body of the peninsula, find
their entrance into the ocean or bay, or whether such estuaries
as fall below high tide should be segregated by following up the
tide line on one side and down on the other, so as to make them
as it were a part of the sea. He said that his predecessor had
decided that the former was intended by the decree and ex-

KNIGHT v. U. S. IAKD ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

pressed its true construction, and, after mature deliberation,
he adhered to the same view.
"When we look," said the Secretary, "at the calls for
boundary there is no ambiguity, no doubtful phraseology.
Said tract being bounded on the north and east by the bay of
San Francisco; on the west by the Pacific* Ocean. The tract
bound8 upon the bcy and ocean, not upon estuaries, creeks and
streams intersecting such tract, even though they be navigable
and technically termed arms of the sea." The boundary, he
added, was not the stream, but the bay; consequently the ordinary high-water mark must be the high-water mark of the
shore as pertaining to the sea, and not the high-water mark of
the'bank as pertaining to a river or stream; so that, although
Mission Creek was alleged to have been as well a tidal inflow
as an outlet for the inland waters, it nevertheless fell within
banks instead of resting upon shores, and nmst be considered
an inland water for all purposes. He added that it was plain
that the high-water mark extended to the shore of the bay,
leaving out any reference whatever to the inland channels of
the streams intersecting the granted peninsula. He accordingly directed a substantial adhesion to the decision of his
predecessor, and overruled the application for its review.
After much difficulty with the surveying officers a survey
was made pursuant to the directions given, and was approved
by the then Commissioner of the General Land Office, and
upon that survey a patent was issued to the city of San Francisco, bearing date the 20th day of June, 1884. This patent
was forwarded to the mayor of San Francisco, and was accepted on behalf of the city and county.
When Mr. Lamar succeeded M r. Teller as the head of the
Interior Department, application was made to him to recall
the patent and issue a new one in accordance with the Stratton
survey. In support of the application it was strenuously contended, by the same parties who had resisted the action of his
predecessors, that there was a want of jurisdiction on their
part to review the decision of the Commissioner of the Land
Office. Such contention was urged upon the supposed meaning of the statute, and on the ground that the supervisors of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

the city and county of San Francisco had by resolution
dirQcted that no appeal should -be taken from his decision,
and, when it was taken by counsel retained for the protection
of the interests of the lot-holders as well as of the city, had
declared that his action was unauthorized.
The Secretary, in considering the objections, referred to the
fact that the supervisors, subsequently to those resolutions, had
requested him, before whom they admitted the case was then
pending relating to the boundaries of the military reservation,
to take up and decide the case without further delay. And
after a careful review of the question of jurisdiction, and the
proceedings preliminary to the issue of the patent, he refused to
recall the patent, holding that an order by him to that effect
would be illegal and void, and that the matter presented for
his consideration in the past proceedings of the case did not
justify any recommendation to the legal department of the
government to institute proceedings to recall, or modify, or in
any manner interfere with the patent.
I ha:ve stated with as much brevity as possible the steps
taken for the confirmation of the title of the city as successor
of the Mexican pueblo, which are set forth more in detail in
the opinions of the different Secretaries of the Interior laid
before us on the hearing, for the statement is important to a
clear perception of the character and import of the rulings of
the referee and of the court below. An extended narrative
of the proceedings would occupy a much greater space and
would show that parties claiming an interest in the lands left
out of the Stratton survey, and resisting the approval of the
official survey subsequently made, had also applied to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and to Congress
for aid to carry out their pretensions, and were met by the
declaration that to obtain a remedy for any errors alleged,
resort should have been had to the Secretary of the Interior,
as the only revisory authority over the action of the inferior
officers of the Land Department. It would also show that in
obtaining. a recognition of its claim, the city had met from
them at every step the most strenuous opposition, and that
every possible objection taken to the claim and survey since,

KNIGHT v. 'U. S. -LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

was then presented and fully coniidered by the different Secretaries of the Interior; so that with truth was it said in the
recent decision of this court in San .Frani80ov. Le Roy, 138
U. S. 656, 672, that the boundaries of the pueblo were established by the United States after the most thorough and ex'haustive examination ever given to the consideration of the
boundaries of a claim of a pueblo under the Mexican government.
The parties who carried on the long and protracted contest
in the Land Department, against the confirmation of the claim
and its survey as finally approved, asserted the acquisition of
an interest in those premises under certain deeds of the tideland commissioners, created by the legislature of California.
On March 30, 1868, that legislature passed an act to survey
and dispose of certain salt-marsh and tide-lands belonging to
the State.- It empowered the governor to appoint three persons, who were to constitute a board of tide-land commissioners, and authorized them to take possession of all the marsh
and tide lands, and lands lying under water, situate along the
bay of San Francisco and in the city and county of San Francisco, belonging to the State; to have the same surveyed and
maps of the property prepared; to sell the interest of the
State therein, and to execute conveyances to the purchasers.
Laws of California, 1867-8, c. 543.
At that time one George W. Ellis had settled upon lands
excluded from the Stratton survey, and after its passage he
applied to the board of tide-land commissioners and obtained
from it two deeds, dated in November, 1875, covering the
premises. His grantees carried on the contest, but not in their
own names, against the location and survey of the tract confirmed before the Interior Department, and in every possible
way sought to defeat, its action and secure such a survey as
would leave the lands claimed by them without the limits of
the pueblo. The interest which the plaintiffs below, the
United Land Association and Clinton C. Tripp, had or claimed
in the premises covered by the patent to the city of San Francisco was founded upon these conv6yances of the tide-land
commissioners. Relying upon a title from that source the
present action was brought.

OCTOBER TERM. 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

As stated above, it is an action of ejectment for the possession of premises within the limits of the pueblo survey and
covered by the patent to the city of San Francisco. After
issue was joined it was by consent of parties referred to a
referee.
The plaintiffs claimed title to the premises in controversy
under the deeds mentioned. The defendant relied upon the
fact that the premises were within the boundaries of the tract
patented. They were situated in what constituted in 18541
the channel of Mission Creek, above its mouth. A witness
produced by the plaintiffs testified that he knew their location
and had made surveys in their neighborhood in that year, and
that they were then below the line of ordinary high-water
mark. He did not add "of the bay;" but as the premises
were where the water of the creek formerly ran, and where,
for aught that appears in evidence, it may now run, it was to
the high-water mark of that creek to which he had reference.
The plaintiffs also gave in evidence the final decree of confirmation of the claim of the city of San Francisco rendered
by the Circuit Court of the United States, and the Stratton
survey, mentioned above, with the certificate of approval of
the surveyor general and the confirmation thereof by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office. Objection was
made to the introduction of this survey on the ground that it
was not competent evidence, not being matter of record; and
that'it had been cancelled and superseded by another survey
made in accordance with instructions of the Secretary of the
Interior. The referee overruled the objections under the
exception of the defendant, admitted the rejected survey, and,
among other things, held that in approving that survey the
commissioner was acting in a judicial capacity, and that his
judgment thereon was not reversible and was not legally
reversed.
The defendant, to show that no title ever vested in the
plaintiffs under their alleged deeds from the tide-land commissioners, gave in evidence the patent of the United States issued
to the city of San Francisco, dated the 20th of June, 1884;
also the plat of the pueblo lands finally confirmed to the city

K NIGIT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

under instructions of the United States surveyor general, ordered by the Secretary of the Interior, and approved by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, upon which the
patent issued.
It was conceded that the patent included within its boundaries the premises in question. The referee admitted the evidence thus offered of the patent and survey, with the concession
that they included the demanded premises, but refused to find
for the defendant thereon, and the defendant excepted.
The decree of confirmation, as seen above, bounds the
tract confirmed on the north and east side by ordinary highwater mark ol the bay of San Francisco. The Stratton survey and the proofs before the referee did not show that the
premises in controversy were below that water mark of the
bay, but only thiat they were below that water mark at a
point in the channel of Mission Creek, and yet the referee
held that the Stratton survey and the parol proofs in the case
showed that the premises were outside of the specific boundary
of the decree, and therefore remained the property of the
State. He accordingly gave judgment for the plaintiffs.
His rulings on the trial exhibited several errors. He gave
no effect to the general rule that in actieos of ejectment a
patent of the United States, issued upon a confirmation of a
land claim to which protection had been guaranteed by treaty,
cannot be collaterally assailed for mere error alleged in the
action of the officers of the government. He admitted in evidence, against the objections of the defendant, the rejected
survey of Stratton, in contravention of the principle that a
rejected survey of officers of the Land Department is in law
no survey, and inoperative for any purpose. It has so been
held innumerous instances and never to the contrary. In the
particulars in which the Stratton survey was modified by
direction of Secretaries Schurz and Teller, it was of no more
efficacy as a legal document than so much waste paper. He
apparently perceived that there was something bizarre in receiving as evidence a rejected survey, or a modified survey,
except in the particulars in which the modification was had,
and sought to avoid this position by holding that the action

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J

of the Commissioner in approving the survey was beyond the
reach of the Interior Department, and that it was not, therefore,
legally reversed; thus brushing aside the important functions
of that Department over the surveys of private land claims,
which it has exercised since its organization, and which has
been always recognized by the courts of the United States.
Craginv. Powell, 128 U. S. 691, 697. In answer to his erroneous
conclusions in this respect, nothing can be added to the force
of the statement in the opinion of the majority.
There were several hundred claims to lands in California,
under Mexican grants, presented for confirmation to the board
of land commissioners created by the act of 1851. They embraced many millions of acres of land, and in a large number, probably the majority of cases, where the claim was
confirmed, the survey thereof by the surveyor general for
the State, after being considered and approved or rejected by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, passed under the
supervision of and were in some respects modified by the Secretary 'of the Interior as the head of the Land Department of
the Uited States. If the position taken by the referee, that
the action on the survey of such claims by the Commissioner
was final, could be sustained, every patent issued upon a survey of a claim which had been in any respect modified or
changed by direction of the Secretary of the Interior would be
open to attack, to the frightful unsettlement of titles in the
State and to the infinite disturbance of the peace of its people.
When the patent to the city was brought before the referee,
and it was conceded that the land in controversy was included
within the boundaries embraced by the survey embodied in it,
judgment should have been rendered for the defendant. The
title under the patent necessarily antedated any possible claim
of the State of California to the lands within the limits of the
pueblo. It went back to the acquisition of the country from
Mexico. When the United States acquired California the inhabitants were entitled by the law of nations to protection
from the new government in all rights of property then possessed by them. Jurisdiction and sovereignty passed from one
nation to the other by the cession, but not private rights of

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

property; their ownership remained as under the former government. And by the term property, as applied to land, all
titles are included, legal or equitable, perfect or imperfect.
"It- comprehends," as said by this court in Soulard v. The
United State8, 4 Pet. 511, 512, "every species of title, inchoate
or complete. It is supposed to embrace those rights which
are executory, as well as those which are executed. In this
respect the relation of the inhabitants to their government is
not changed. The new government takes the place of that
which has passed away."
By the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, the United States also
stipulated for such protection, and that implied that rights
of property, perfect or imperfect, held by the inhabitants previous to the acquisition of the country, should be secured to
them, so far as such property was recognized by the laws and
constitution of the new government; and for that purpose that
the holders should receive from the new authorities such official and documentary evidence of their rights as would assure
their full possession and enjoyment. Pueblos inthat respect
stood in the same position as private individuals. All their
rights of property, legal or equitable, were alike entitled to
protection. Whatever property was ceded to the United States
from Mexico, whether marsh lands or tide lands, passed subject
to the obligation to protect existing claims to them of all parties. The State could take no greater interest than the United
States acquired; all lands she received went under her control
charged with the equitable claims of others, which the United
States were bound by the treaty and the law of nations to
protect. The marsh lands granted to her by the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, were thus affected. And the
same was true of the tide lands. Whatever lands of that nature
passed to the United States were held for the future State,
subject, however, to any trust from the former government
which might require their disposition in some other way. The
duty and power of the United States in the execution of their
treaty obligations to protect the property claims of all persons,
natural or artificial, were superior to any subsequently acquired
interest of the State or of individuals. Mexico owned the tide

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

lands as well as the uplands, and it was, of course, in her power
to make such disposition of them in the establishment and organization of her pueblos as she may have judged expedient.
And whether she did make such disposition by her laws was a
matter exclusively for the United States to ascertain and determine. As-said by the Supreme Court of California in Ward
v. .X ord, 32 California, 372: "In private proprietorship and
in sovereign right the United States succeeded the Mexican
government, and in both these respects California, so far as she
acquired any right in either, succeeded the United States and
became privy to the latter in estate in respect to all lands
within her borders, whether such as may be held in private or
in sovereign right. In this respect no distinction can be made
between the lands acquired by her through Federal grants, and
such as she took by .virtue of her sovereignty."
The obligation of protection imposed upon the United States
by the law of nations, and assumed by the treaty, was political
in its character, to be performed in such a manner and on such
terms as the United States might direct. As held by this
court in Beard v. _Federy, 3 Wall. 478, 492, they declared by
the act of March 3, 1851, to settle private land claims in California, the manner and the terms upon which they would discharge this obligation. They there established a special tribunal, or board of commissioners, before which all claims to
land in that State derived from Spanish or Mexican authority
were to be investigated; they required evidence to be presented
respecting the claims; appointed law officers to appear and
contest them on behalf of the government; authorized appeals
from the decisions rendered by the commissioners to the District Court, and from the decisions of that court to the Supreme
Court of the United States, and declared that in the determination of the claims presented, the commissioners and those
tribunals should "be governed by the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws, usages and customs of
the government from which the claim is derived, the principles
of equity and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States, so far as they were applicable." 9 Stat. c. 41, ยง 11, p.
633.. It also made provision for the investigation and deter-

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, 3.

mination of the property rights of pueblos; and designated
the officers who should in all cases survey and measure off the
land when the validity of the claim presented was finally determined. When it appeared by the action of their officers
and tribunals that the claim asserted was valid and entitled~to
recognition, and that its boundaries were ascertained, the government was to issue its -patent to the claimant.
And what was the effect and operation of this instrument?
It was not merely a quit-claim or conveyance of whatever interests the United States held in the lands embraced; it was
something more; it was, as declared in the case cited, recordevidence upon the title of the claimant from the former government. ,As there said: "By it the government declares that
the claim asserted was valid under the laws of Mexico; that it
was entitled to recognition,, and protection by the stipulatibns
of the treaty, and might have been located under the former
government, and is correctly Zoeated now so as to embrace the
premises as they are surveyed and-described. As against the
government, so long as it remains unvacated, it is conclusive.
And it is equally onclusive againstpartiesclaiming under the
government by title sub8equent." The patent being thus con:

elusive, can only be resisted by those whb hold paramount
title to the premises froni Mexico antedating the title confirmed,
that is, by persons who can successfully resist any action of the
United States in disposing of the property or in perfecting the
title of the claimant.
In the case from which I have cited the court added, in
order to impress the importance of this doctrine for the stability of titles in the State resting upon confirmed and patented
Mexican grants: "It -is in this effect of the patent as a record
of the government that its security and protection chiefly lie.
If parties asserting interest inlands acquired since the acquisition of the country could deny and controvert this record, and
compel the patentee in every suit for his land to establish the
validity of his claim, his right to its confirmation and the correctness of the action of the tribunals and officers of the United
States in the'location of the same, the pateni would fail to 'be,
as it was intended -it should be, an instrument of quiet and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, L.

security to its possessors. The patentee would find his title
recognized in one suit and rejected in another, and, if his
title were maintained, he would find his laud located in as
many different places as the varying prejudices, interests or
notions of justice of witnesses and jurymnen might suggest."
The doctrine of that case has never been departed from, but,
on thbe contrary, has always been followed and approved.
Numerous decisions of the Supreme Court of California, commencing with the 13th volume of its reports and extending
down to a late period, express the same doctrine with equal
clearness and emphasis. .Moore v. Wilkinson, 13 California.,
478, 484:; Yount v. Jfoyell, 14 California, 465; Tesehemacher
v. Tonmfpsom, 18 California, 11; Leese v. Clark, 18 California,
.535; Ward v. _uyford, 32 California, 365; Chipley v. _Farris,
45 California, 527; People v. San Francisco, 75 California,
388.
But notwithstanding the superior and conclusive character
of the title presented by the patent, and the emphatic decision
of the highest tribunal of the country, and repeated decisions of
the State Supreme Courts to the same effect, that until vacated
that instrument was conclusive against the government and
parties claiming by title subsequent, the referee found otherwise and held that the plaintiffs, who derived whatever interest they possessed twenty-nine years subsequently to that of
the city, held the better right and were entitled to judgment
for the demanded premises; and such judgment was entered
in one of the Superior Courts of the city. From that judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State,
where it was affirmed. A rehearing being granted, a reargument was had, and a second time the judgment-was affirmed
by four judges of the court, the remaining three dissenting.
From the latter judgment the case is brought to this court on
ft writ of error.

From the opinions upon both affirmances it appears that the
court below, equally with the referee, lost sight of'the principle that in actions at law a patent of the United States, upon
a confirmation of a private land claim asserted by virtue of
rights acquired under a.foreign government, is not open to

KNIGHT v.'U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concni-ring Opinion: Field, T.

collateral attack, but must be taken as correct until vacated,'
not only as to the vali dity of the claim confirmed, but*as to
the boundaries established. It is hardly necessary to say that
any attempt to pverthrow these conclusions in either particular, where the tribunal affirming the validity of the claim and
the department establishing thQ boundaries-had jurisdiction, is
collaterally attacking the patent.
That the land commissioners and the Circuit Court of the
United States had jurisdiction to hear and determine the valid-'
ity of the claims asserted by the city of San Francisco is not
open to question. The laws of the United States gave.them
such jurisdiction, and when that claim was confirmed the law
directed by what officers its b6undaries should be established
and surveyed. It was the exclusive province of those officers
to ascertain where the line of true boundary ran, subject to
the control and supervision of the Interior .Department.' To
say that those who directed and supervised the survey had not
jurisdiction to perform that duty, is to deny efficacy to the
laws of Congress.,
The court below upon the first affirmance rejected the
boundary as established and surveyed by the officers appointed
by law for that purpose, and assumed that the line of ordinary
high-water mark of Mission Creek running into the bay,. was,
as far as such line extended, the true boundary designated by
the decreeand held that land below such line was the property of the State. In other words, it assumed that the boundary of the pueblo was to follow the line of high-water mark
of the creek, and not be confined' to the high-iwater mark of
the bay. It thereupon stated that the question involved was
whether the officers of the Iand Department had power to'
patent land outside of the natural boundaries given in the
decree of confirmation.
In this sfatement the learned court fell into an error. -No
such question was involved in the case. The approved survey
upon which the patent was issued crossed the mouth of Mission Creek and included the lands above its mouth, among
them the premises in controversy. The question involved,
therefore, was whether-in an action of ejectment for the pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Conburring Opinion: Field, J.

-

session of those lands the plaintiffs could collaterally assail the
correctness of the official survey upon which the, patent was
issued, and establish another line as the true boundary, and then
recover the lands on showing that they were outside of, the
new boundary thus established. I. do not think that such a
position was ever successfully asserted in any court. If there
was error in the survey embodied in the patent it could not
have been shown in this action. , It could only have been corrected by direct proceedings for that purpose instituted by the
government or by its authority. This is elementary law, and
in vain will authorities be sought to contradict this view.
Proceeding on the assumption that a different line from the
one officially established constituted the true boundary line of
the tract confirmed, the court below declared that it was the'
duty of the surveyor to -follow such different line - though
otherwise directed by the highest officer of the Land Department, who had the sole right of control in the matter -and,
that- as the surveyor did not follow that different line, he included, according to its judgment, lands within his description
not within the decree of confirmation.
I may speak of the decree with sohe confidence as a member of the court by which it was rendered, and a distinct recollection remains with me of the circumstances under which the
-language used was adopted. The original decree of confirmation was rendered in October, 1864, and stated the land
confirmed to be "a tract situated within the county of San
Francisco, and embracing so much of the upper portion of the
peninsula; on which the city of San Francisco is situated, as
wil contain an area of four square leagues," as described in
the petition. A-motion for a rehearing was made, which kept
the case, open until the following spring, the judge who pronounced the decree being absent from California in Washing-,
ton in attendance upon the Supreme Court. On his return the
question of a rehearing was brought up, when it was suggested
by counsel that the decree needed correction, so as not to
include in the claim confirmed the beach and .water lots
cQuveyed to the city by the act of the legislature of 1851.
Reference was made to the map prepared under the directions

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

of that act,, on which a line was drawn in red ink, marking
the separation of Jands above the ordinary high-water mark of
the bay and lands below it, and it was suggested -that the insertion in the decree of the words "above ordinary high-water
mark, as the same existed at the date of the conquest of the
country, .namely, the seventh of July, 1846," would 'establish
the line as indicated on the map, and that thus in the decree
of confirmation lands granted to the city by the State would
not be affected. Upon that suggestion, made by Mr. Gregory
Yale, a lawyer of distinction at the bar, whose clients had
become alarmed at the language of the original decree, thb
change was made.
In addition to this fact it may be observed that at the time
the Circuit Court was not ignorant of the universal rule governing the measurement of waters, to which the Supreme
Court of the State makes no reference in its decision, and of
which it seems to. have been entirely oblivious, that where a
water of a larger dimension is intersected by a water of a
smaller dimension, the line of measurement of the fist crosses
the latter at the points of junction, from headland to headland.
The existence of tide lands in the intersecting water in no respect affects the result. For illustration, in the measurement
of a body of water like Long Island Sound, when the Connecticut River is met the line of survey does not follow up that
river to Hartford because the tide is felt at that place, but it
crosses the mouth of the river from headland to headland.
So, too, the measurement of Chesapeake Bay does not include
the Potomac River up to Washington because the tide is felt
at the site of the capital. It would be absurd to include in the
measurement of the bay of San Francisco the waters of the
river Sacramento as far as the city of that name, nearly a
hundred miles above the bay, because the tide is felt there; or
to embrace the river San Joaquin as far as Stockton because
the tide reaches to that place. This is so plain that it excites
surprise that any question should have been made upon the
subject. And if a river extending a hundred miles or more
could not be included in the bay, even though affected by the
tides, neither can a stream of less dimensions, though not ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: :Field,

.

ceeding over one or two miles. Not only has this rule in the
measurements of Waters prevailed on the continent of Europe
from the time of the Roman Empire, 'but it has been always
accepted as controlling in England and in the United States,
and never been, that I am aware, questioned except in the
.present case.
.When the survey here was pending before one of the Secretaries of the 'Interior, application was made to the head of the
Coast Survey of the United States for the rule adopted by that
bureau in the measurement of waters, and the answer was the
statement of the rule which I have given; and it is a iingular
fact that, as an illustration of its application, reference was had
to the bay of San Francisco and Mission Creek, and the declaration made that in the measurement of the bay.the line of
the' survey would cross the mouth of that creek. 'Admiral
Rodgers, who was at one time the head of the Coast Survey
in California, and had surveyed the line of ordinary highwater mark of the bay 6f San Francisco, filed his affidavit to
the effect that he had since 1851 been stationed in California
in charge of the United States survey of the coast thereof, including the peninsula of San Francisco; that the traced^chart
or map showing the line of ordinary high water along the
eastern side of the peninsula of San Francisco from IRincon
Point to and including Islais Creek, as surveyed by the Coast
Survey-of the United States in 1852, was prepared from the
published, surveys of the Coast Survey of the United States,
and that the line laid down on that map in blue pencil, from
Rincon Point, around jMission Bay, to and including Islais
Creek, and crossing Mission and Islais Creeks, was a true delineation of the line of ordinary high-water mark as it existed
when- he first linew it in the year,1852. He added that " in
determining a boundary line stated as the line of "ordinary
high-water mark,' on the bay of San Francisco, there can be
no other course than to'follow the stated line of ordinary high
tide on-the shore of the bay, crossing the mouths of all inferior
tidal streams or estuaries, many of which enter into San Francisco Bay at different points, and not to follow the meanders
of any such inferior tidal streams or estuaries."'

KNIGHT v. -U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

The assumption, therefore, of the court below, that the decree of confirmation called for any other line than- the one
actually surveyed and embodied in the patent was an error.
It was founded upon a misapprehension of the law governing
the surveys of waters of that kind, or from overlooking its existence. The statement in the opinion of the court as to the
requirement that the surveyor general in making the survey
of -a confirmed claim should follow the, boundaries -of the
decree as near as practicable, whenever the decree specifically
designates them, is undoubtedly correct, and it was the duty
in this case of the surveying officers of the Land Department,
under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, to ascertain what those boundaries were, and, to follow the decree in
making the survey. That they accomplished this. is conclusively established, so far as the present.action' is concerned, by
the official survey itself returned by them, and subsequently
approved by the Commissioner of the Land Office.
The question as to what was the boundary line of the tract
confirmed also became the subject of judicial inquiry in the
Circuit Court of the United States in 18'18. An action was
brought by one Tripp, who is one of the plaintiffs in this case,
for, a parcel of land constituting a portion of a block in the
city of San Francisco. The premises were situated where
Mission Creek formerly ran, and distant about a mile from its
mouth. All that part of the stream covered by,the block in
which the premises were situated had been filled in and buildings erected thereon, which were occupied as private resdences.
The plaintiff claimed title under the same conveyances of the
board of tide-land commissioners upon which the plaintiffs
-below rely in this Vase, and the same contention was made
there as here The question presented was whether, the title
to those premises passed by the tideland commissioners' deeds
or whether they were within-the limits of the pueblo claim as
confirmed, although not at that time patented. The court
said: "1Whether the waters of the bay were ever carried by
the tide over the lands is a -matter upon which the evidence is
conflicting. The cree]T was often swollen by water from the
adjacent hills so as to overflow its banks, and the tide someVOL. cXLn-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

times, though not regularly, forced back the waters of the
creek so as to cause a, similar overflow. But, from the view we
take of the case, it is immaterial whether the lands could ever
properly be termed tide lands or marsh lands, whether they
were at any perio& covered by the daily tides, or lay beyond
their reach at their highest flood. The record of the proceedings and the final decree in the Pueblo Case have been given in
evidence, and from them it appears that the premises are situated within the limits of the tract confirmed to the city of
San*Francisco." The court added: "Mission Creek never constituted any portion of the bay of San Francisco any more
than the Sacramento River constitutes a portion of the bay
of Suisun, or the Hudson River a portion of the bay of New
York. As the demanded premises lie where Mission Creek
formerly existed, or where its banks were, they necessarily fall
within the tract confirmed to the city. The boundary of that
tract runs along the bay on the line of ordinary high-water
mark, as that existed in'1846, crossing the mouth of all creeks
running into the bay, .and that of Mission Creek among
others. The boundary would have been a very singular one
had it followied the windings of that -creek and its branches
wherever the tide waters of the bay may have flowed. The laws
of Mexico relating to lands to be assigned to pueblos required
that such lands should be laid out in a square or prolonged
form, according to the nature of the country, and, so far as
practicable, have regular lines for boundaries. The decree of
the United States Circuit Court in confirming the claim of the
city follbwed this requirement, and gave the boundaries which
could be easily ascertained, and which formed as compact a
body as the situation of the country would permit." Tripp v.
Spring, 5 Sawyer, 209, 212.
As thus appears, the identical question involved in this case
was decided in that. No case was ever tried with more'care,
or greater consideration, and at the conclusion of a trial of
several days the court decided that judgment must be entered
for the defendant. -The presiding justice stated the grounds
of the decision orally, and obseived that as the questions in.
volved were deemed of great importance he would at a subse.

"KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

quent day file an opinion embodying their substance.

It is a

dommon practice with judges of the highest courts to give
opinions orally and write them out subsequently, after the
decision is rendered, and that fact in no way affects their
authoritative character. The pressure of business before the
court may often prevent any other course being pursued.
Counsel for the plaintiff then stated that special findings in
the case were desired, in order that should the case reach the
Supreme Court it might be finally determined there. Upon
that suggestion the entry of judgment was stayed, and an
adjournment of the court had, that such findings might be
prepared. On the next day the case was dismissed by stipulation of parties.
The opinion of the court, pronounced at the close of the
trial, and subsequently written out was, notw-ithstanding the
dismissal, as much authority on the questions of law presented
as though a formal.judgment had been entered, although the
judgment ordered, because not entered on account of the dismissal, could not be pleaded in bar of a future action.
The court below having assumed that another line than the
one officially established was the true one, took the extraordinary ground that the error committed in that respect by the
surveying pfficers, though acting under the express directions
of the Land Department, was jurisdictional and fatal to their
action, rendering it void, and opening the patent embodying
the survey to collateral attack. And it proceeded to cite several decisions in supposed support of this view, but which only
were to the effect that where the Land Department had no
jurisdiction over the subject matter considered, its patent could
be assailed collaterally.
In thus holding, the court failed to distinguish between
what was, upon its own statement, mere error in the action of
the Land Department, and matters which were entirely beyond
its jurisdiction. The ascertainment of the true line of the
boundaries of the claim confirmed was a matter especially
entrusted to that department by the laws of Congress, as
already stated. If the officers of that department in executing
the survey made mistakes, ran erroneous lines and included

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurring Opinion:'Field, J.

lands which they should have excluded, those facts did not
justify the assertion that they acted without jurisdiction in
making the survey, and that, therefore, their whole proceedings Were void. If all that is asserted be true they only erred
in the exercise of their jurisdiction, and the remedy for their
errors before the issue of the patent lay in an appeal to higher
officers of the department- from the surveyor general to the
commissioner, and froin his decision to the Secretary of the
Interior; - and if after the issue of the patent like objections
were urged, the remedy could be sought only by direct proceedings.
The distinction between errors committed where jurisdiction
exists to take the proceeding in Which the alleged error arises,
and where there is an 'entire want of jurisdiction over the Subject matter considered, is too familiar to be discussed. The
distinction is constantly applied with reference to the proceedings of ordinary tribunals. If they have jurisdiction of the
subject matter and the parties, their judgment cannot be collaterally assailed for mere errors committed in the proceedings
leading to it, The remedy for errors must be sought by application for a new trial or by appeal for a review to an appellate
court: The same distinction prevails with reference to the
proceedings of the special tribunal or department of the government to which is entrusted the supervision of measures for
the issue of its patent.
The cases referred to and dwelt upon as supposed to support
the opposite doctrine are not gusceptible of the meaning attributed to them. The principal cases cited are Smelting Co. v.
KenT, 104 U. S. 636; 641; WTight v. ] o8eberry, 121 U. S.
488, and Doolan v. Carr, 125 U. S. 618. They assert no new
doctrine, but law, which has always existed and been recognized, though seldom more misapplied than here. That the
United States cannot convey by patent what it never owned,
or has already parted with, no matter with what formality
*the instrument is issued, is a self-evident propQsition. The
government in that respect is under the same limitations as
an individual. That is the only purport, so far as the point
raised here is concerned, of the decision in Wight v. Roseberry,

]KNIGHT, v. U. S, LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opinion: Field, ..-

where a patent of the United States for land claimed under
the preemption laws was defeated by showing that the premises in controversy were swamp and overflowed land previously
conveyed to the State by the swamp' land act of September'
28, 1850. 9 Stat. 519. . Nor could the United Statesauthorize
a patent for land to the pueblo, or to its successor, the city, if
the former government of Mexico had, conveyed the property
to others. There are such cases within the limits of the
pueblo, and the claims have been confirmed and patented
under the Land Department to the grantees or their representatives. Whenever in the Pueblo Cae it could be shown that
grants had been made by Mexico of portions, of the land
claimed by the, pueblo to other parties, such grants were excepted from the confirmation to the city. Nor can a patent
of the United States be issued by officers of the Land Department for lands reserved from settlement and sale; and the
want of authority in the officers can be shown at law to defeat
a patent of that character.' It is in such case an attempted
conveyance of land not open to sale; as would be a patent for
land within the Yellowstone or Yosemite Park. It was of land
within the limits of a valid Mexican claim excluded from grant
to the Central- Pacific Railroad Company that the decision
in Doolan v. Carr had reference. It was there held that the
patent to the railroad company could be defeated by showing that the lands conveyed were thus excluded. There was
nothing new in the doctrine that it could be shown in an actioA
at law that the property patented was not subject to grant.
Nor can. it be questioned that if parties, not authorized by law
to supervise the proceedings to a patent, should assume that
function, that the objection might be taken when the patent
was offered in evidence. As, for instance, if the supervisors
of San Francisco should undertake to exercise the functions of
the Land Department, any one prosecuted under their patent
could assail it by showing that the power to execute such an
instrument was',vested in a different body. So, too, if the
estate which the Land Department was authorized to convey
was different from that transferred by the patent -as, for
instance, a lease-hold interest, instead of the fee - that 'fact
could be shown and the patent limited in its operation.

OCTOBER TERIW, 1891.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

In Smlting Co. v. Remp, the court treated at large of the conclusive presumptions attending a patent of the United Statds
for lands, but added, that in thus speaking of-them it assumed
"that the patent was issued in a case where the Department
had jurisdiction to act and execute it; that is to s y, in a case
where the lands belonged to the United States and provision
had been made by law for their sale. If they never were public'property, or had previously been disposed of, or if Congress
had made no provision for their sale, or had reserved-them, the
Department would have no jurisdiction to transfer them, and
its attempted conveyance of them would be inoperative and
void, no matter with what seeming regularity the forms of law
may have been observed. The action of the Department
would, in that event, be like that of any other special tribunal
not having jtrisdiction of a case which it had assumed to decide.
Matters of this kind, disclosing a want of jurisdiction, may be
considered by a court of law. In such cases the objection to
the patent reaches beyond the action of the special tribunal,
and goes to the existence of a subject upon which it was competent to act."
The attempt is futile to use these cases, or any other case, to
establish the proposition that if an error can be shown in the
action of an officer of the Land Department in - matter subject to its jurisdiction the proceeding of the officer may be
treated as a nullity and the patent issued thereon be collaterally
assailed. This view is untenable, and does not merit serious
consideration. If it could be sustained it would be subversihe
of all security in the judgments of ordinary tribunals, as well
as in those of special tribunals like the Land Department.
Nor is there any pertinency in the obsrvations as to the reservation from grant of the seashore under the law of the former
government. No claim was ever made in the Pueblo Case for
dny part of the seashore. Those terms apply in this country
only to land covered and uncovered by the daily tides. They
cannot possibly have any application to the banks of creeks or
to land under their waters. The rule of the civil law of Europe
that lands covered and uncovered by the tides at their highest
flood d aring the year constitute the shore of the sea has never

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Concurring Opmion: Field, J.

been applied to that portion of this country cededto the United
States by Mexico. The claim of the pueblo was for land above
the ordinary high-water mark of the bay, not for any land
covered and uncovered by the tides, either daily or when they
reach their highest point during the year. As said in San
Franeeio v. le Boy, 138 U. S. 656,'671, "The lands which
passed to the State upon her admission to the Union were not
those which were affected occasionally by the tide, but only
those over which tide water flowed so continuously as to prevent their use and occupation. To render lands tide lands,
which the State, by virtue of her sovereignty, could claim,
there must have been such continuity of the flow of tide water
over them, or such regularity of the flow within every twentyfour hours as to render them unfit for cultivation, the growth
of grasses or other uses to which upland is applied."
The reasons given by the court below on the second affirmance of the judgment of the referee are marked by the objections stated to its former opinion. The true doctrind as to the
effect of patents in actions at law is stated in a decision of
the court below in De Gqer v. Banning- rendered whilst
this case has been pending here, in which that court, following
a long line of previous adjudications, unbroken except by this
case, declares that upon a confirmation of a Mexican grant the
patent issued by the United States to the claimant is the only
evidence of the extent of the grant, and that if there is a conflict as to its location and-extent between it and the decree of
confirmation, the patent must control. It is the only .doctrine
whieh will insure peace and tranquillity to parties holding under
patents issued upon confirmed Mexican grants. Any other
doctrine would introduce endless confusion and perplexity as
to all such titles. If there be, in fact, any material conflict
between the boundaries given in the decree. of confirmation
and those described in the official survey, the only remedy is
to be sought by direct proceediugs instituted by the government, or by its authority. Until the alleged conflict is thus
determined and adjusted, the patent must control.
From the views expressed I am clearly of opinion that the.
Supreme Court of the State erred in affirming the judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Concurrlng Opinion: Field, J.

of the Superior Court entered upon the report of the referee;
'it should have reversed that judgment and ordered judgment
for the defendant. This conclusion is, I think, established
beyond all controversy in the opinion of the court. But it is
unnecessary to pursue thig case further. I have treated it at
-nuh length because, the title of the city has been a subject of
consideration in one form or another for now over thirty-nine
years, and the questions presented have been discussed by
counsel with marked ability and learning. The claim was
originally presentetd to the board of commissioners in 1852,
and it was decided by that board in 1854. It was then appealed to the District Court of the United States, and there
remained unacted upon for over eight years. An act of Congress then authorized it to be-transferred to the Circuit Court
of the United States, to which court it subsequently passed in
Septembbr, 1864. In October following a decree of confirmation was entered, which was modified May 18, 1865, and then
enteie4 in. its, final form. An appeal from that decree was
taken to the Supreme Court of the United States, and was
dismissed by that court in December, 1866, on motion of the
attorney general upon stipulation of parties. A survey was
made of the confirmed claim in 1868, and that survey, being
appealed from, remained unacted upon before the Commissioner
of the General Land Office for over nine years. After it was
acted upon by him an'appeal was taken from his decision to
the Secretary of the Interior, and it was before one secretary
'after another for five years, so that the patent was not issued
until 1884.
Even then the opposition to the just claim, of the city and of
parties holding under the city did not cease, but has been continued in one form or other ever since. It is to be hoped that
all annoyances and litigation from such opposition will now
be ended.
TuE CmIEF JusTIcE, Mu. JusTicE BRADLEY and AI. J"UsTicE

-GRAY did not hear the argument or participate in the decision
of this case.

