OCTOBER TERM:, 1891.
Syllabus.

when it was completed. It appears from the record that the
suit involves -land situated in California, and was commenced
in the state court against the defendants who were citizens
of Rhode Island and New York, and after summons by publication, was removed on their application to the Circuit Court.
The ground of Federal jurisdiction was diverse citizenship.
By the act of March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 826, c. 517,) establishing the Circuit Courts of Appeals, the jurisdiction of this court,
in cases dependent upon diverse citizenship, was taken away;
but by the joint resolution of March 3, 1891, (26 Stat. 1115,)
the jurisdiction was preserved as to pending cases and cases
wherein the writ of error or appeal should be sued out or taken
before July 1, 1891.
So far then as this second and independent appeal is concerned, it came too late, and as, if the case were now docketed
under that appeal, it would have to be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, we are, without passing upon the question of
laches, compelled to deny the motion.

XMotion denied.

CLA ASSEN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

OF NEW YORK.

No. 1191. Argued December 10, 11, 1891. -Decided

December 21, 1891.

An indictment on Rev. Stat. § 5209, is sufficient, which avers that the
defendant was president of a national, banking association; that by
virtue of his office he received and took into his possession certain
bonds (described), the property of the association; and that, with intent
to injure and defraud the association, he embezzled the bonds and converted them to his own use.
In a criminal case, a general judgment upon an indictment containing
several counts, and a verdict of guilty on each count, cannot be reversed
on error if any count is good and is sufficient to support the judgment.
Upon writ of error, no error in law can be reviewed which does not appear
upon the record, or by bill of exceptions made part of the record.

CLAASSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Tuns was an indictment on section 5209 of the Revised Stat
utes (which is copied in the margin 3) containing forty-four
counts, to all of which (except four afterwards abandoned by
the prosecution) the defendant demurred; and his dqmurrer
being overruled, he pleaded not guilty to all the counts. At
the trial the district attorney elected to go to the jury upon
eleven of the counts; and on May 28, 1890, the jury found the
defendant guilty of the offences charged in five of those
counts, and acquitted him upon the other six.
The 6rst of the five counts upon which the defendant was
convicted alleged that on January 23, 1890, he, being the
president of a certain national banking association known as
the Sixth National Bank of the city of New York, organized
.under the act of Congress of June 3, 1864, c. 106, and acting
and carrying on a banking business in the city of New York,
"did, by virtue of his said office and employment, and while
he was so employed and acting as such president as aforesaid,
receive and take into his possession certain funds and credits,
to wit," certain bonds and obligations of railroad and other
corporations, particularly described, of the value in all of
$672,000, "then and there being the property of the said associatibn, and which he held for and in the name and on account
of the said association, and did then and there, wilfully.and
unlawfully and with intent to injure and defraud" the said
association, embezzle the said bonds and written obligations
1 "Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk or agent of any association who embezzles, abstracts or wilfully misapplies any of the moneys, funds
or credits of the association; or who, without authority from the directors,
issues or puts in circulation any of the notes of the association; or who,
without such authority, issues or puts forth any certificate of deposit,
draws any order or bill of exchange, makes any acceptance, assigns any
note, bond, draft, bill of exchange, mortgage, judgment or decree; or who
makes any false entry in any book, report or statement of the association,
with intent, in either case, to injure or defraud the association, or any
other company, bo'dy politic or corporate, or any individual person, or to
deceive any officer of the assodiation, or any agent appointed to examine
the affairs of any such association; and every person who, with like intent,
aids or abets any officer, clerk or agent in any violation of- this section,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be imprisoned not less
than five years nor more than ten."

.OCTOBER

TERM, 1891.

Statement of the Case.

and convert them to his own use, against the peace of the
United States and their dignity, and contrary to the form of
the statute of the said United States- in such case made and
provided."
Another of these counts averred that, on January 22, 1890,
the a6fendant, being president as aforesaid, "did, wilfully and
unlawfully and with intent to injure and defraud the said
association, misapply and convert to the use, benefit and
,advantage of one James A. Simmons, certain moneys and
,funds then and there being the property of the said association, to wit, the sum of sixty thousand dollars, in the manner
and by the means following- that is to say, he, the said
Peter J. Claassen, being then and there such- president as
aforesaid, did, without the knowledge and consent of said
association or its board of directors, pro.cure the making by
one Andrew E. Colson, who was then and there the cashier of
said association, of a certain writing and check, commonly
known and called a cashier's check, bearing date the twentysecond day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and .ninety, which said check did then and
there' authorize and direct the said association to pay to the
order of the said Janles A. Simmons the sum of sixty thousand
dollars, although, as he, the said Peter J. Claassen, then and
there well knew, the said sum of sixty thousand dollars was
not then and there on deposit with the said association to the
credit of him, the said James A. Simmons, and was not then
and there due arid owing from the said association to him, the
said James A. Simmons, and the repayment thereof to the
said association was not then and there in any way secured,
and the said James A. Simmons had no manner of right and
title to the same, and he, the said Peter J. Claassen then and
there unlawfully devising and intending that he, the said James
A. Simmons, should appropriate and convert to his own use the
said sum of sixty thousand dollars from and out of the moneys
and funds of the said association, which said sum of money
was, upon and pursuant to the direction and authorization contained in the said check, thereafter, to wit, on the twenty-third
day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hun-

CLAASSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.'

dred and ninety, paid by the said association from and out of the
moneys and funds of the said association to the said James A.
Simmons, and was then and there appropriated and converted
to the use of the said James A. Simmons, against the peace of
the United States and their dignity, and contrary to the form
of the statute of the said United States in such case made
and provided."
The other three counts were precisely like this, except in the
names of the persons to whose use and benefit the funds were
converted.
A. motion for a new trial and in arrest of judgment was
heard, upon a case settled by the presiding judge, and denied
on December 24, 1890. On March 18, 1891, the defendant
was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of six years in a
penitentiary.
On March 21, 1891, he sued out a writ of error from this
court under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 51T, § 5, and the joint
resolution of the same date, No. 17, (26 Stat. 827, 1115,) and
filed in the Circuit Court an assignment of errors, setting forth
specifically, and in the manner of a bill of exceptions, errors in
the admission and rejection of evidence, and in the judge's
instructions to the jury; but assigned no error in the indictment or the sentence. To this assignment of errors the United
States pleaded in nullo est erratum,as follows: "And afterwards, to wit, on the second Monday of April in said term, the
said defendant in error, by Edward Mitchell, their attorney,
comes here into court and says that there is no error either in
the record or proceedings aforesaid or in the giving of the
judgment aforesaid. And he prays that the said Supreme
Court before the justices thereof now here may proceed to
examine as well the record and proceedings aforesaid as the
matters aforesaid above assigned for error, and that -the judgment aforesaid, in form aforesaid given, may be in all things
affirmed, etc."
The plaintiff in error, in his brief filed in this court, specified
the insufficiency of each of the counts on which he was convicted, as well as the matters stated in the assignment of errors
filed in the Circuit Court.

OCTbBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Hector . Hitchking8 (with whom was -r.
Shellabarger)for plaintiff in error.

Samuel

L The counts of the indictment upon which plaintiff in
error was convicted, are insufficient -do not charge a crime;
and the demurrers interposed to the same were improperly
overruled.
The acts named in § 5209 which are made, each respectively,
to constitute a crime are: (1) Embezzling the bank's property:
(2) Abstracting it: (3) Wilfully misapplying it: (4) Issuing
or putting in circulation its notes: (5) Issuing or putting forth
certificates of deposit, or an order or bill of exchange: (6) Making an acceptance: (7)Assigning a note, bond, draft, bill of
exchange, mortgage or judgment- these "with intent, in
either case, to injure or defraud the association," or to deceive a
bank examiner: (8) Aiding or abetting in doing either of these.
Neither of the four counts named contains any averment
which brings, or tends to bring, the defendant within any other
of the eight classes just named than the 3d. In other words,
there is nothing in either of these counts which charges, or
tends to charge, the defendant with any other act or offence
than "wilful misapplication" of the property named.
In construing this very section this court has said: "The
words ' wilfully misapplied' are, so far as we know, new in statutes creating offences, and they are not used in describing any
offence at common law. They have no settled technical meaning like the words ' embezzle,' as used in the statutes, or the
words 'steal, take and carry @way,' as used in common law.
They do not, therefore, of themselves fully and clearly set
forth every element of the offence charged. It would not be
sufficient simply to aver that the defendant 'wilfully misapplied' the funds of the association. This is well settled by the
authorities we have already cited. There must be averments
to show how the application was made and that it was an unlawful one."
Tnited States v. Britton, 107 U. S. 655, 670.
See also United States v. Cook, 17 Wall. 168, 174; United
States v. Car~l, 105 U. S. 611; United States v. Cruikshank,
92 U. S. 542.

CLAA-SSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for.Plaintiff in Error.

And in all pleadings, and especially in criminal pleadings,
all doubts are resolved against the pleader. United States v.
Zinn, 1 How. 104.
Now it has been decided that four classes of misapplications
under section 5209 are not criminal. United States v. Britton,
108 U. S. 193., It was incumbent upon the pleader to negative
these exceptions in the indictment, and to show positively and
beyond cavil or question, that the offence charged fell within
a class of misappropriation made criminal by the statute. This
was not done.
II. If this court find any of the counts on which plaintiff
was convicted, bad, it must reverse the conviction.
We may state our legal proposition in the following words
of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts: "The rule that where
the same offence is charged in different counts of an indict.
ment, the whole indictment may be submitted to the jury,
with instructious, if they find the defendant guilty upon any
count, to return a general verdict of guilty, is not applicable
in a case where one count of the indictment is bad and the
evidence applicable to such count is submitted to the jury, with
the rest, against the objection of the defendant."
In the present case the defendant made objections to each of the
counts upon which he was convicted by means of his demurrer.
This objection was, therefore, made a permanent and continuing exception of record, and -was, therefore, made in the
most significant and available way which was possible. In
the further prosecution of the trial, it was not requigite that
he should further or again object to the delivering in of evidence as to any particular count -this because he had, in the
record, objected "to delivering in evidence under, or in support
of each, and either count, and he had been, by the court, in
that regard, overruled.
The legal principle just stated is fully considered in the case.
of Commonwealth v. Boston & Maine Railroad, decided in
1882, 133 Mass. 383, 392, where the question was most elaborately considered, and the proposition which we have above
quoted is in the words of the last paragraph of the head note
in that case. See Wood v. State,-59 N. Y. 117.
TVOL. CXL-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

III. This court has full authority .tb examine into the errors,
made at the trial in the admission and exclusion of evidence,
and which are specified in the assignment of errors and in the
statement of errors heretofore set out, and for that purpose
must treat the assignment of errors as in the nature of a bill
of exceptions.
• r. Solicitor General for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

There can be no doubt of the sufficiency of the first count
on which the defendant. was convicted. It avers that the defendant was president of a national banking association; that
by virtue of his office he received and took into his possession
certain'bonds, (fully described,) the property of the association; and that, with intent to injure and defraud the association, he embezzled the bonds and converted them to his own
use. Qn principle and precedent, no further averment was
requisite to a complete and sufficient description of the crime
charged. United Slates v. Britton, 107 U. S. 655, 669; Te
Zi~ig v. Johnson, 3 M. & S. 539, 549; Starkie Grim. P1. (2d
ed.) 454; 3 Chitty Grim. Law, 981; 2 Bishop Grim. Pro.
§ 315, 322.
This count and the verdict of guilty returfied upon it being
sufficient to support the judgment and sentence, the question
of the sufficiency of the other counts need not be considered.
In criminal cases, the general rule, as stated by Lord Mansfield before the Declaration of Independence, is "that if there
is any one count to support the verdict, it shall stand good, notwithstanding all the rest are bad.". Peake v. Oldham, Cowper, 275, 276; Rex v. Benfld, 2 Bur. 980, 985. See also'
Grant v. Astle, 2 Doug. 722, 730. And it is settled law in
this court, and in this country generally, that in any criminal
case a general verdict and judgment on an indictment 6r information containing several counts cannot be reversed on
error, if any one of the counts is good and warrants the judgment, because, in the absence of anything in the record to

CLAASSEN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

show the contrary, the presumption of law is that the court
awarded sentence on the good count only. Locke v. United
State8, 7 Cranch, 339, 344; Clifton v. United State8, 4 How.
242, 250; Snyde?- v. United State8, 112 U. S. 216; Bond v.
Dustin, 112 U. S. 604, 609; 1 Bishop Crim. Pro. § 1015;
Wharton Crim. P1. & Pract. § 771.
The opposing decision of the House of Lords, in 1844, in the
well known case of O'Connell v. The Queen, was carried, as
appears by the report in 11 Cl. & Fin. 155, by the votes of
Lord Denman, Lord Cottenham and Lord Campbell against
the votes of Lord Lyndhurst and Lord Brougham, as well as
against the opinions of a large majority of the judges consulted, and the universal understanding and practice of the
courts and the profession in England before that decision. It
has seldom, if ever, been followed in the United States.
In Commonwealth v. Boston & Maine jailroad,133 Mass.
383, 392, and in Wfood v. State, 59 N. Y. 117, 122, relied bn by
the plaintiff inerror, the general rule was not impugned, and
judgment upon a general verdict was reversed because of
erroneous instructions, duly excepted to by the defendant at
the trial, expressly authorizing the jury to convict upon an insufficient count.
In the case now before us, the record does not show that
any instructions at the trial were excepted to, and the jury did
not return a general verdict against the defendant on all the
counts, but found him guilty of the offences charged in each
of the five counts now in question. This being the case, and
the sentence being to imprisonment for not less than five years
nor more than ten, which was the only sentence authorized
for a single offence under the statute on which the defendant
was indicted, there is no reason why that sentence should
not be applied to any one of the counts which was good.
The objections assigned and argued to the rulings and
instructions at the trial cannot be considered by this court.
Upon writ of error, no error in law can be reviewed which
does not appear upon the record, or by bill of exceptions made
part of the record. The case settled by the judge presiding at
the trial, pursuant to a rule of the Circuit Court, was for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of th6 Case.

single purpose of a hearing in bane in that court, as upon a
motion for a new trial, and is no part of the record on error.
No bill of exceptions was, or, as we have already adjudged,
could have been allowed by the Circuit Court -to the rulings
and instructions at the trial, because the conviction of the
defendant was before the passage of the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891, c. 511, and while the laws did not provide for
or permit a bill of exceptions in such a case as this. Neither
the assignment of errors, nor the plea of in nullo est erratum,
can give this court jurisdiction of errors not appearing on the
face of the record. 'Inre Claassen, 140 U. S. 200.
Judgment afflrmed.
SIMMONS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1296. Argued December 11, 1891.-Decided December 21,1891.
When it is made to appear to the court during the trial of a criminal case
that, either by reason of facts existing when the jurors were sworn, but
not then disclosed or known to the court, or by reason of outside influeuces brought to bear on the jury pending the trial, the jurors or any
of them are subject to such bias or prejudice as not to stand impartial
between the government and the accused, the jury may be discharged,
and the defendant put on trial by another jury; and the defendant is not
thereby twice put in jeopardy, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the, United States. The judge presiding at a trial, civil or criminal, in any court of the United
States, may express.his opinion to the jury upon the questions of fact
which he submits to their determination.

THIS was an indictment on section 5209 of the Revised Statutes for aiding and abetting one Claassen in embezzling and

misapplying the funds of a certain national bank in the city
of New York. The defendant pleaded not guilty.
On January 26, 1891, the case came on for trial upon the
issue thus joined; a jury was empanelled and sworn-; Goodnow, one of the jurors, stated on his voir dire that he had no
acquaintance with the defendant and had never seen him to

