OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

.not tax the gross receipts for. If the interstate commerce of
the country is not, or will not be, handicapped by this course
of decision, I do lot understand the ordinary principles which
govern human conduct.
We dissent from the opinion of the court.

MARTIN v. GRAY.
APPEAL FRDM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
16. 1065. Submitted December 7, 1891. -,Decided

December 21, 1891.

Nben a person, whose equity of redemption in mortgaged real estate is
foreclosed, rests inactive for eleven years, with full knowledge of the
foreclosure, and of the purchaser's rights claimed under it, and of his
own rights, and with notbing to hinder the assertion of the latter, and
then files a bill in equity to have the foreclosure proceedings declared
void for want of proper service of process upon him, this court will at
least construe the language of the returns so as to sustain the legality of
the service, if that can reasonably be done, even if it should not regard it
as too late to set up such a claim.
THE

cQurt stated the case as follows:

On September 29, 1890, appellant filed his bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the iDistrict of Kentucky, the
object of which was to set aside a commissioner's deed to defendant, executed years before, in pursuance of certain proceedings in the District Court of the United States for that
district. The facts as alleged were these:
Prior to May 2, 1879, the plaintiff, his mother, sister and
brother, were the owners, each, of an undivided one-fourth of
a lot in the city of Louisville, which lot was subject to a lease
from the four owners to Thomas Slevin, who, as tenant, had
built thereon houses of great value. On January 9, 1865,
plaintiff had given to Thomas Slevinhis note for two thousand
dollars, payable in two years, and had secured the same by a
mortgage of his undivided one-fourth of said property. Interest thereon was paid regularly until January 9., 1869, by the

X l&RTIN v. GIRAY.
Statement of the Case.

application of a part of the rents coming to plaintiff uhder the
lease, but after that date Slevin failed and refused to so apply
the rents, but claimed to set them off against goods sold to
plaintiff. On February 21, 1877, Slevin was adjudged a bankrupt in proceedings in the United States District Court, and
Stephen E. Jones was elected his assignee. On February 5,
1878, Jones, as assignee, commenced a suit in the same court'
to foreclose the mortgage, in which suit, besides plaintiff and
his wife, the other joint owners were made parties defendant.
In that suit, a decree of foreclosure was entered on May 22,
1879, and on August 11, 1879, the property was sold by R. H.
Cr:ttenden as special commissioner, and the sale having been
confirmed on September 30, 1879, a deed was made to the purchaser, the present defendant, who thereupon took possession
and has ever since collected the rents and profits.
In respect to the service of process on plaintiff, the bill
alleged as follows:
"Your orator further says that'he never appeared or answered in said cause, and no one appeared for him, as by the
orders and record therein, still remaining in the District Court
aforesaid, fully appears, nor was there any service of the subpoena upon him otherwise than that the following, return appears upon the subpoena issued in said cause and which is on
file with the papers thereof:
"' J. C. Uays, S. H. C., is hereby appointed.special bailiff to
execute the within subpoena on J. S. Martin and Mary A.
Martin, February 13, 1878.
"R. H. CRITTENDEN,
"' U S. .farskl.
"'Executed the within spa. on J. S. Martin and Mary A.
Martin by delivering a copy to each in person, February 14,
1878.
"'R. H. CRITTENDEN,
- U. S. XarshaZ.
'J. C.. H.AYs,
S'. H. C., SpeciaZ JBaiU.4P.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"And that there was no such service also appears from the
record and papers in said' cause still remaining therein; yet,
although your orator never appeared or answered in the cause
and was iever subpcenaed to answer therein, the complainant
in said cause, ' etc.
Upon these facts the bill prayed for a decree setting aside
the commissioner's deed, and for an accounting as to the rents
and profits received by the defendant. A demurrer thereto
was sustained, and the plaintiff electing to stand by the bill, a
final decree was entered dismissing it. From this decree plaintiff appealed to this court.
Xr Lwi8 ff. -DemUtzfor appellant.
.f'. B. F. Buckner and -r. JAm
MR. TusTIcE Bn.wv.,
opinion of the court.

S. Pirtle for appellee.

after stating the case, delivered the

The contention of plaintiff is that the return on the subpcena
is wholly worthless, and shows no service; and that the decree
and decr-tal sale, based on such a return alone, are null and
void. The following are the two rules in equity which regulate the n: anner of service:
IRule XIII.
"The sei vice of all subpcenas shall be by a delivery of a copy
thereqf by 'he officer serving the same to the defendant personallyj or by leaving a copy thereof at the dwelling-house or
4stial place cf abode of each defendant, with some adult person
who is a member or resident in the family.
"Rule XV.
"The service of all process, mesne and final, shall be by the
marshal of the district, or his deputy, or by some other person
specially appointed by the court for that purpose, and not
otherwise. In the latter case, the person serving the process
shall make affidavit thereof."
It is insisted that the service in this case was not made by
the marshal, or his deputy, but by J. C. Hays, wha was not a

MARTIN

1

GRAY.

Opinion of, the Court.

person appointed by the court for the service of this process,
and who made no affidavit of service.
Before considering the question of servics, a preliminary
matter is worthy of mention. This is an application to a couft
of equity,. to set aside deliberate proceedings of a court of
superior jurisdiction; and is made more than eleven years after
the matters complained of took place. There is no allegation
that the subpoena was not in fact delivered to the plaintiff, or
that he was ignorant of the proceedings in court, or of the pos
session taken and held by the defendant. While the bill alleges
that plaintiff was alt the time of the filing a citizen of Kansas,
it does not show how long.he had been such... It is averred
that the plaintiff's mother, sister and brother, joint owners
with himself of the property, were made parties defendantto
the foreclosure proceedings; and it is not averred that they
were not duly served with process, It is shown that the defendant entered into possession immediately after the sale,'and
has continued in possession, receiving the rents and profits.
From what is stated in the bill, as well as from what is omitted,
it is a fair inference that this plaintiff received the subpcena
at the time the original suit was commenced; that he Was
aware of all the proceedings in the court; that he knew of
the change in possession; and that he remained in Louisville
for years thereafter, with full knowledge that .the defendant
had the possession, claimed it under the decree, supposed he
was owner, and received the rents and profits as owner, and
yet during all those years made no complaint, and took no,
steps to assert any rights as against the decree and sale.
Now, it is a rule of equity, that an unreasonable delay in
asserting rights is a bar to relief. A familiar quotation from
Lord Camden, in Smith v. Clay, 3 Bro. Ch. 638,is that "nothing can call forth this court into activity but conscience, good
faith and reasonable diligence." Is not the delay disclosed by
this bill such laches as to defeat plaintiff's claim? For eleven
years he was inactive, and, as may be fairly inferred from the
bill, with the full knowledge of his rights, and nothing to hinder their assertion. No excuses for this are given - the bill is
absolutely silent as to any reasons, for delay.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

But if this long delay will not of itself bar plaintiff's claim,
it at least compels any reasonable construction of language
which will sustain the decree. Now, it is not averred in the
bill that service was not made by the marshal, nor that Hays
was not a general deputy. What relations he sustained to the
marshal, what position he held under him, are not disclosed
otherwise than by the return on the subpcena. While from
that it may be inferred that he was a special bailiff, with only
such powers as were given by the designation written on the
subpcena, yet it is consistent with all that appears that he was
also a general deputy, who was by the marshal designated for
this special service., More than that, it is a fair question from
the return as to who in fact made the service. The return is
signed "R. H. Crittenden,
"U. S. Marshal.
"J. 0. Hays,
"S. H. C., Special Bailiff."

and not-

R. H. Crittenden,
U. S. Marshal.
By J. C. Hays,
S. H. C., Special Bailiff.
If it were iot for the designation, above the return, it would
not be doubted that, the latter was to be construed as showing
service by the marshal, and the name of ihe special bailiff..would
be disregarded as surplusage. Giving to the designation all
the fotce that fairly belongs to it, it is a reasonable construction of the return that the service was made by the marshal
and the bailiff, either jointly or severally. And if severally,
then on the two defendants, respectively, in the order in which
they are named, which would make that on this plaintiff service by the marshal himself. Further, the District Court is
one of superior jurisdiction, in favor of the validity of whose
proceedings when collaterally attacked is every intendment.
Its jurisdiction in any case will be presumed, unless it appears

DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TARPEY.
Statement of the Case.

affirmatively on the face of the record that it had not been
acquired.
Putting, therefore, these things together, to wit, the unex-'
plained delay, the reasonable inferences from what is stated
and what is omitted, the presumptions in favor of jurisdiction
and the different constructions of which the language of the
return is susceptible, we are of the opinion that the ruling of
the Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer to the bill was correct, and its decree is

DESERET SALT COMPANY v. TA.RPEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 96. Argued and submitted November 24. 1891.-Decided December 21,1891.
The grant of public land to the Central Pacific Railroad Company by the
acts of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c. 120, and July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 356, c.
216, was a grant inprcmsenti; and the legal title to the granted lan2, as
distinguished from merely equitable or inchoate interests, passed when
the identification of a granted section became so far complete as to
authorize the grantee to take possession.
Rutherford v. Greene, 2 Wheat. 196 cited and followed.
Patents were issued, not for the purpose of transferring title, but as evidence that the grantee had complied with the conditions of the grant,
and that the grant was, to that extent, relieved from the possibility of
forfeiture for breach of its conditions,.
Wisconsin Central Railroad Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S. 496, 510 approved.
The provision in the statute, requiring the cost of surveying, selecting and
conveying the land to be paid into the treasury before a patent could
issue, does not impair the force of the operative words of transfer in it.
The railroad company could maintain an action for the possession of land
so granted before the issue of a patent, and could transfer its title
thereto by lease, so as to enable its lessee to maintain such an action.

THE Qourt stated the case as follows:

This is an action of ejectment by D. P. Tarpey, the'plaintiff
below, against the Deseret Salt Company, a corporation created under the laws of Utah, for certain parcels of land in
that Territory, described in the complaint as the northwest
quarter of fractional section nine (9), in township eleven (11)
vOL cxL-16

