SIMMITONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

4117

Syllabus.

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 84. Argued November 5, 6,1891.--Decided January 4,1892.
This being a suit to establish a deed alleged to have been executed, and not
recorded, but lost, the court holds the evidence to be entirely sufficient
to establish the existence and loss of that deed.
It being also a suit to correct an alleged mistake in boundaries, the court
holds, on the authority of Ayers v. Watson, 137 U. S. 584, that it is well
settled that, in running the line of a survey of public lands in one direction, if a difficulty is met with, and all the known calls of the survey are
met by running them in the reverse direction, this may be properly done;
and it applies this principle to the lines established by the court below,
and holds that the evidence is clear and convincing in establishing the
facts which sustain its action in that respect.
The jurisdiction of equity to reform written instruments, where there is a
mutual mistake, or mistake on one side and fraud or inequitable conduct
on the other, is undoubted; but to justify such reformation the evidence
must be sufficiently cogent to thoroughly satisfy the mind of the court.
When each and all of the individuals who organize a corporation under a
state law had knowledge, or actual notice, of a defect in the title to
lands acquired by the corporation through them, their knowledge or
actual notice was knowledge or notice to the company, and if, constructive notice bound them, it bound the company.
None of the original deeds in appellant's chain of title having been produced, (though certified copies were attached to the pleadings,) and no
independent evidence having been offered of payments -of purchase
money by defendants, Held, that, as against complainant, the recitals
in the deeds could not be relied on as proof of such payment.
The rule of caveat emptor applies exclusively to a purchaser, who must take
care, and make due inquiries, and is bound by constructive as well as by
actual notice -the latter being equivalent in effect to th&former: but,
in applying the rule, each case must be governed, in ttese respects, by
its own peculiar circumstances.
Actual and unequivocal adverse possession of land is notice to a purchaser:
it is incumbent upon him to ascertain by whom and in what right it is
held, and the unexplained neglect of this duty is equivalent to notice.
In this case the defendants had such notice as to put them on inquiry, and
to charge them with knowledge of the facts.
The commission df a trespass on real estate, and the commission of acts of
waste upon it do not constitute a possession which in itself would 'drive
VOL. CXLU-27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the owner to an action of ejectment, and prevent him from filing a bill
quid timet.
The jurisdiction of a court of equity is 'maintained in a suit to determine
title, when a part of the remedy sought is, to supply what was by mistake omitted from one of the title deeds; or to establish a lost deed,
even though in the latter case proof of the fact might have been allowed
to be made in an action at law.

TE court stated the case as follows:

This was a bill in equity filed by Joseph I. Doran, August
1, 1885, in the District Court of the United States for the distriot of West Virginia, against the Simmons Creek Coal Company, Robert D. Belcher, George W. Belcher, Chrispianos
Belcher, P. H. Rorer, 1N. L. Reynolds, and R. B. McNutt, commissioner of school lands for Mercer County, to establish a
deed alleged to have been executed by Chrispiauos Belcher to
Robert D. Belcher, and not recorded but lost, for two hundred
acres of land, more or less, with its proper metes and bounds;
to obtain the construction of a deed of the same land from
Robert D. Belcher to William H. Witten, and the correction
of an alleged mistake as to its boundaries; to set aside certain
deeds executed by George W. Belcher and others, so far as
embracing the land in controversy, as clouds .upon complainant's title thereto, and to restore complainant to and quiet him
in the possession thereof; to enjoin and restrain the commission of waste by the defendants; and for general relief.
The bill prayed that the defendant coal company and the
defendant Robert D. Belcher answer under oath all and singular the allegations of the bill as if specially thereunto interrogated. Chrispianos Belchei was not served, and the defendants Robert D. Belcher and -McNutt, commissioner, did not
answer.
The coal company answered by counsel and under its corporate seal, but the answer was not verified by affidavit. The
answers of George W. Belcher, 1N. L. Reynolds, and P. H?.
Rorer were sworn to, though they had not been required to
answer under oath. Evidence was adduced on behalf of complainant and a final hearing had, which resulted in the following decree:

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORA_.

419

Statement of the Case.

"This cause came on this 17th day of February, 1888, for
a final hearing, and was argued by counsel, and, upon mature
consideration, the court is of opinion that the plaintiff is
entitled to the relief prayed for in his bill; and it appearing
to the court that at and before the date of the deed from the
defendant Robert D. Belcher, to William H. Witten, bearing
date the 23d day of December, 1852, for two hundred acres
of land, more or less, the said Robert D. Belcher was the
owner, by purchase from Chrispianos Belcher, of 800 acres of
land, of which the said 200 acres, more .or less, was and is a
part, which said 800 acres Was bounded east by Simmons
Creek, commencing at the 2 birches mentioned in the said
deed, and running thence up said creek, with its meanders, to
the mouth of the middle fork thereof, and thence up the lefthand fork of said creek, with its meanders, to two spruce
pines and a white oak, corner to' William Miller's survey of
100 acres, and also a tract of 150 acres cofiveyed by Chrispianos Belcher and Wife to William Payne, and'which tract of
800 acres is shown on the map filed with the deposition of
the said William Miller in this cause;
"And it further appearing to the court that by reason of a
dispute in reference to the true west line of the said 800 acres
of land the said Chrispianos Belcher conveyed to the said
Robert D. Belcher by deed the said two hundred acres
of land, more or less, the same being part of said 800 acres
bounded or intended to be bounded east by Simmons Creek, as
above stated, which deed was never recorded and is lost and
cannot be found; and it further appearing to the court that
by the contract and agreement between the said Robert D.
Belcher and the said William H. Witten, under which said
deed of the 23d of December, 1852, was executed, the boundary line of the said deed from the two birches to the six
chestnuts was to be inserted in said deed as follows: ' Beginning at the two birches on.Simmons Creek, corner to Chrispianos Belcher's land, thence up and with said creek and with
William Miller's line to the mouth of the .middle fork of said
creek, as is now shown on the map of Surveyor Sinnett, made
and filed in this cause, marked "Decree Map, Feb. 17th, 1888,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and made part of this decree; thence up and with the lefthand fork of said creek, as is shown on said map, to the point
shown on said map by.the letter "E," which is a corner of a
survey of 100 acres then owned by the said William Miller,
and also of the tract of 150 cres adjoining said Miller's survey, then owned by the said William H. Witten and R. C.
Graham, both of which said tracts are laid down on said map;
and thence, with the line of the said Miller survey of 100
acres, to six chestnuts at the point shbwn on said map by the
words "six chestnuts " and the letter"
'
"And it further appearing to the court that by the mistake
and inadvertence of the drawer of said deed the calls thereof
from the said two birches to the six chestnuts do not conform
to and carry out the contract and intentions of the parties to
said deed, or to the boundary lines thereof from the two birches
to the six chestnuts, it is therefore adjudged, ordered and
decreed that the said lost deed of the said Chrispianos Belcher
to. the said :Robert D. Belcher for the said 200 acres of land,
more or less, be, and the same is hereby, set up as a muniment
of the title of the plaintiff in this cause to the said 200 acres
of land, more or less, a part of which said tract is in controversy
.in this suit, and it is to have the same force and effect as such
muniment of title as if said deed were now in existence and of"
record, with the boundary lines of said tract of land from the
two birches to the.six chestnuts as hereinabove stated; and it
is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that the said mistake in the calls of the said deed of the said fRobert D. Belcher
to the said William H. Witten, bearing date the 23d day of
December, 1852, from the said two birches to the said six chestnuts, be, and the same is hereby, correctbd and the said calls
made to correspond with the contract and intent of the parties
to said deed as follows :
"'Beginning at two birches on Simmons Creek, corner to
Chrispianos Belcher's land, and running thence up and with
said creek with William Miller's line to the mouth of the middle fork of said creek; thence up and with the left-hand fork
of said creek to two spruce pines and a white oak, corner to
said William Miller's survey of 100 acres; and thence with the

SIMMONS

CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

421

Statement of the Case.
line of said survey to six chestnuts, also a corner thereof;' and
that the said plaintiff be, and he is hereby, forever quieted in his
title, possession, control and enjoyment of the said two hundred acres of land, more or less, within the boundary'lines of
the said deed of Robert D. Belcher to said William H. Witten
therefor as it is hereby corrected.
"And it further appearing to the court that the said William
H. Witten and those claiming under him took and held the possession of the said 200 acres of land, more or less, under his said
deed from R. D. Belcher from the date thereof to the year
1884, claiming the same up to the line of Simmons Creek, as
herein stated, without question or objections by the said Chrispianos Belcher, R. D. Belcher or any other person;
"And it further appearing to the court that the defendant,
Simmons Creek Coal Company,' was at the commencement of
this suit and still is claiming a portion of the said tract of land
of 200 acres, more or less, in defiance of the rights of the plaintiff, who is the true owner thereof, under the following named
deeds of record in the county of Mercer, in this district, where
said land is situate, to wit: A deed from George W. Belcher
& wife to Newton L. Reynolds, dated the 4th day of December, 1884; also a deed from George W. Belcher & wife to
P. I. Rorer, dated February 25th, 1885; also a deed from
N. L. Reynolds to L A. Welch, dated January 13th, 1885; also
a deed from I. A. Welch & wife to A. W. Reynolds, dated
January 13th, 1885; also a deed from I. A. Welch & wife to
Simmons Creek Coal Company, dated February 28th, 1885;
also a deed, from A. W. Reynolds to Simmons Creek Coal
Company, dated February 28th, 1885; also a deed from
P. H. Rorer & wife to Simmons Creek Coal Company, dated
February 28th, 1885; also a deed from N. L. Reynolds to Simmons Creek Coal Company, .dated February 28th, 1885; and
that the said claim of said defendant and the said deeds
and each of them constitute a serious and damaging cloud
upon the title of the said plaintiff to so much of his said
land as is covered by the said claim of the said defendant
'Simmons Creek Coal Company' under said deeds and each
of them, it is therefore further adjudged, ordered and decreed,

OCTOBER TERNX, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

that the said deeds and each of them be, and they are hereby,
set aside, vacated, and annulled, and the claim of the said defendant to the said lands so set up as aforesaid under said
deeds be held for naught; and it is further adjudged, ordered
and decreed that the said defendant, 'Simmons Creek Coal
Company,' do pay to the plaintiff his costs by him expended
and incurred in the prosecution of this suit, to be taxed, and
that if necessary he may have execution therefor."
The map mitde part of the decree is given opposite. The
coal company prosecuted an appeal to this court.
XPr. A. W. Reynoldts for appellant.
1. A court of equity has no jurisdiction in this case. The
bill alleges that the defendant is in possession. Complainant's
remedy was at law. He cannot maintain a bill to remove a
cloud from his title when he is out of possession. United
States v. Vilson, 118 U. S. 86; Orton v. Smith, 18 How. 263 ;
HIipp v. Babin, 19 How. 271; Ellis v. .Davi8, 109 U. S.
485; .Killian v. Ebinghau8, 110 U. S. 568.
The deed from Robert D. Belcher to Win. H. Witten, of
December 23, 1852, cannot be corrected as between complainant and appellant, because appellant is not privy thereto,
and jurisdiction must fail on that ground. Story's Eq. Jur.
§ 165; Basine v. Calhoun, 45 Alabama 582; A&&ms v. Stevens, 49 Maine, 362; Rhodes v. Outcalt, 48 Missouri, 367.
II. The land in controversy is not part of the complainant's
200 acres, more or less, and complainant's prayer for the correction of deeds cannot be granted.
The boundary line of the 200 acres running from the two
birches, the beginning corner, to the six chestnuts, is the one
in dispute. A straight lite from the two birches, the beginning corner, to the next corner, the six chestnuts, does r t embrace the land in controversy as part of complainant. .ract.
I submit that the call is for one line, and the legal construction of the-deed will sustain but one line, a straight line from
the two birches to the six chestnuts.
The two corners being established beyond controversy, they

SIM-MONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

423

Argument for Appellant.

control course and distance, and less material calls, and the
line must be run straight from one to the other. White v. Laning,93 U. S. 514.
There is no controversy about the beginning point of the
West and Shreve survey. The difficulty is as to the true location of its second line. The question in the cause therefore
is as to the true construction of the description of that second
line. This is a question of law.
There are only three corners called for in the deed, all of
which are well known and undisputed, and are clearly represented on the map of the surveyor; and a line run straight
from each of the corners to the next corner called for in the
description, encloses 246 acres, 46 acres more than complainant's said deed calls for. I submit that a careful examination
of the cases and a correct application of the precedents established by them to the points involved in the construction of
the deed, in the light of the evidence produced by the coniplainant himself, will be conclusive in favor of the straight
line. All the objects mentioned in the call in the deed, when
identified by complainant's own testimony, are' inconsistent
with any other than a straight line from the two birches to the
six chestnuts.
Imperative calls control those that are only directory. The
six chestnuts is the imperative call in this case; Simmons
Creek and Miller's line are only directory, and intended only
as a guide by which the location of the corner is to be found.
This principle is ably discussed by the Supreme Court of
Maryland in the very recent case of _Fiend v. Friend, 64
Maryland, 321, which is very similar to this case. See also
Parks v. loomis, 6 Gray, 467; Bosworth v. Sturtevant, 2
Cush. 392; Allen v. Kingsbury, 16 Pick. 235; Henshaw v.
.Mullens, 121 Mass. 143; Jenks v. .Morgan,6 Gray, 448; Martin v. Carlin,19 Wisconsin, 454:; S. C. 88 Am. Dec. 696;
Staford v. Eing, 30 Texas, 257; S. C. 94 Am. Dec. 304, 309.
A mistake in a written instrument, and the true intention
of the parties must be proved to the exclusion of every reasonable doubt, before a court of equity will correct it. larrellv.
Jarrell,27 West Va. 743; Tucker v.-Madden, 44 Maine, 206,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

215; R/ink/e v. Royal E xchg. Ins. Co., 1 Ves. Sen. 319; .farguis of Townshend v. Stangroom, 6 Yes. 328; Harter v.
Christoph,32 Wisconsin, 245; Hilemanr v. Fright, 9 Indiana,
126; S attuck v. Gay, 45 Vermont, 87; _Minor v. Hess, 47
Illinois, 70; JTeidebusck v. Hartenstein, 12 West Va. 760; Vestern iining Co. v. Peytona Coal Co., 8 West Va. 406; Howland v. Blake, 97 U. S. 624; Jones v. Johnston, 18 How. 150.
III. The alleged lost deed never existed; and the complainant did not have title to the 200 acres, more or less, at the
time appellant acquired title to the land in controversy. There
is no presumption in favor of its existence, because the 200
acres, more or less, were wild lands, in an original state of nature,
and no one ever had actual possession of them under the alleged
lost deed. On the other hand it is a presumption of law that
if complainant had taken the testimony of Chrispianos Belcher,
the alleged grantor, Win. H. Witten, the scrivener, and the
officer before whom the deed is alleged to have been acknowledged, they would all have been against him. When a party
has in his possession or under his control evidence by the introduction of which at the trial he would be able to render certain
a fact material to his success, which is otherwise left in doubt,
and he withholds such evidence, the court will, upon a demurrer
to the evidence introduced by his adversary, presume that the
fact was against him. Hefflebower v. Detrick-, 27 West Va. 16.
IV. As a correction of the lost deed and the deed of Dec. 23,
1852, from Robert D. Belcher to Win. H. Witten, involves the
enforcement of an alleged oral agreement, within the statute
of frauds, it cannot be corrected.
V. Complainant cannot obtain a reformation of the deed
from Robert D. Belcher to Wm. H. Witten as between him and
appellant, because appellant is neither a party nor privy thereto.
A deed can only be reformed between the parties. Baskins v.
Calhoun, 45 Alabama, 582; -Adams v. Stevens, 49 21aine, 362;
_6bodes v. Outcalt, 48 Missouri, 367; Simpson v. Xontgomery,
25 Arkansas, 365; S. C. 99 Am. Dec. 228; W~arwick v. Warwick, 3 Atk. 295.
VI. The mistakes sought to be corrected in the deeds are
unilateral mistakes and cannot be corrected.

SIMMONS CREEK COAL CMPANY v. DORAN.

425

Opinion of the Court.

VII. The complainant's claims are stale. A court of equity
will entertain no such demand. Justice v. .English, 30 Gratt.
576; Snell v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 98 U. S. 85.
VIII. The appellant is a purchaser of the land in controversy for a valuable consideration, and without notice of the
alleged lost deed. There is no evidence in the case tending in
the slightest degree to show that appellant or its vendors had
notice of such a deed. There was nothing to even suggest its
existence.

.,. James H. Ferguson for appellee.
MR. CHMEF JusTmI. FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Appellant assigns as errors that the court erred in establishing the alleged lost deed from Chrispianos Belcher to Robert
D. Belcher, and in correcting the alleged mistake therein; in
setting aside the deeds under which appellant claims as clouds
on complainant's title; and in correcting the alleged mistake
in the deed from Robert D. Belcher to William H. Witten,
dated December 23, 1852.
Complainant Doran deraigns title through the lost deed
from Chrispianos Belcher to Robert D. Belcher; and deeds of
Robert D. Belcher to W. H. Witten, December 23, 1852; of
W. II. Witten, W. Scott Witten and Graham to Doran, November 5, 1881 ; of Doran to the Southwest Virginia Improvement Company, January 1, 1883; and of said company to
Doran, December 13, 1883; and it also appears that Chi~ispianos Belcher gave a deed to Doran, dated April 2, 1885, of
the 200 acres, describing the boundaries of the tract in accord
ance with Doran's contention.
The defendant claims title through a deed of Chrispianos to
George W. Belcher, dated October 18, 1884, and various mesne
conveyances set forth in the decree and hereinafter referred
to. Both parties claim, therefore, under Chrispianos Belcher.
The description of the tract of land in the deed from Robert
D. Belcher to William H. Witten is as follows: "All that

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tract of land, containing by estimation two' hundred acres, be
the same, more or less, lying in Mercer County, on Simmons
Creek, waters of Bluestone, and [bounded] as follows, to wit:
Beginning at two birches on Simmons Creek, corner to Chrispianos Belcher's land, thence up said creek with Miller's line,
S. 55° W. 120 poles to six chestnuts, corner to Miller's survey,.
and with the same S. 350 E. 310 poles to a double and single
poplar, corner to said Belcher, and with the same N. 400 E.
250 poles to the beginning."
By the decree the boundary line from the two birches to.
the six chestnuts was made to read: "Beginning at two birches
on Simmons Creek, corner to Chrispianos Belcher's land, and
running thence up and with said creek with William Miller's
line to the mouth of the middle fork of said creek; thence up
and with the left-hand fork of said creek to two spruce pines
and a white oak, corner to said William Miller's survey of 100
acres;. and thence with the line of said survey, to six chestnuts,
also a corner thereof."
-Upon the hearing, the testimony of Robert D. Belcher, to
whom, as alleged, Chrispianos conveyed, and who conveyed
to W. H. Witten; of William Miller referred to in the deed
of Robert D. to Witten; of W. S. Witten, son of W. H. Witten; of Henry Sadler and others; was introduced on behalf
of complainant, together with divers deeds and maps. The
deposition of Chrispianos Belcher, who was living in the State
of Missouri, was not taken, nor was that of W. H. Witten, in
respect of whom it was shown that his mind and memory had
been declining for some years, and that his mental and physical condition was such as to render him unable to recall business transactions with certainty and accuracy.
It appeared from the evidence that in 1842, Robert D.
Belcher and his brother Obediah purchased of James Hector
4000 acres of land situated on the waters of the Bluestone in
the county of Mercer, Virginia, now West Virginia; that they
agreed upon a division line, Obediah taking about twenty-five
hundred and Robert D. about fifteen hundred acres, and the
land was surveyed and conveyed according to the agreed division; that the land was a part of a five hundred thousand-acre

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPA.NY v. DORAN.

427

Opinion of the Court.

survey granted by the Commonwealth to Wilson Cary Nicholas, from whom Hector had purchased it; that Obediah sold
fifteen hundred acres, part of his twenty-five hundred acres, to
Chrispianos Belcher, and in the year 1844, Robert D. purchased
of Chrispianos about eight hundred acres of this fifteen'hundred acres, in consideration of one horse; that said eight
hundred acres were bounded on the east by Simmons Creek, a
tributary of the Bluestone, on the north by the lands of Obediah Belcher and others, on the west by the Wilson Cary
Nicholas survey, and on the south by the fifteen hundred-acre
tract conveyed to Robert D. by Hector.
It further appeared that after Robert D. purchased the
eight hundred acres, Chrispianos and he were informed that
there was a controversy or dispute about the west line of the
Nicholas survey, as not running as far west as Hector claimed;
that one Lybrook, a surveyor of Giles County, had some time
before run said line and so located it as to leave out about six
hundred of the eight hundred acres, and about five hundred
acres of Robert D.'s fifteen -hundred-acre tract; and that when
Chrispianos heard-of this dispute he declined to make Robert
D. a general warranty deed to that part of the eight hundred
acres so brought into question, and not having his title bond
for the land, Robert agreed to accept such deed for the portion not in dispute, and as to the balance, both were to await
the final establishment of said line. That thereupon Chrispianos madeand delivered to Robert a deed with covenants of
general warranty for the undisputed part, which was supposed
to contain two hundred acres, more or less, the metes and
bounds of which v ere, Robert testified, as follows: "Beginning at two birches on Simmons Creek, thence up said creek
with the same and leaving said creek upon the course south
55 west 120 poles to six chestnuts mentioned, and thence with
the said Lybrook line to a single and double poplar on the
said division line between Obediah Belcher & myself, and
thence with same to the beginning."
In 1852 Robert sold the two hundred acres, and also the
land the title to which had been called in question, supposed
to be about eleven hundred acres, to W. .H.Witten, and as

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Chrispianos had not conveyed the six hundred acres (part of
the eleven hundred) to Robert, he joined Robert in the conveyance of the eleven hundred to Witten.
This deed from Robert and Chrispianos was put in evidence
and bears date December 23, 1852, and thereby, in consideration of $35, the grantors conveyed eleven hundred acres, more
or less, "lying in Mercer County, Virginia, on the waters of
Bluestone and Elkhorn, and bounded as follows, to wit, viz.:
Beginning at the north of Laurel, a branch of Bluestone,
thence north 27 W. in the line of the Wilson Cary Nicholas
500,000-acres survey, and with the same about E. 640 poles to
two birches; thence continue on the said line 280 poles to a
double birch on said line; thence leaving said line north 55 E.
294 poles to six chestnuts; thence south 35 east 940 poles to
the beginning," making the triangular tract lying between the
west line of the Nicholas survey and the Lybrook line, as delineated on the decree map.
On the same day Robert made the deed to Witten, the
description in which is in controversy, intending, as he says, to
convey the two hundred acres which Chrispianos had conveyed to him; and Robert testified further that some time
after this conveyance, he and Witten were looking over some
old land papers at Obediah's house and came across the deed
from Chrispianos to Robert for the said two hundred acres of
land, and Robert then gave the deed, and money to have the
same recorded, to Witten, and had not since seen it. It was
stipulated that if Chrispianos conveyed the two hundred-acre
tract to Robert the deed was never recorded, and that diligent
search had been made and no such deed could be found.
It also appeared that ,at the time of Robert's conveyance
Miller owned or claimed to be the owner of a tract of six hundred acres lying east of and adjoining the two hundred acres*
that the line of this Miller tract ran up Simmons Creek from
the two birches called for in the deed of Robert to Witten;
that Miller got this land from Obediah Belcher, and the west
three hundred acres of it was subsequently purchased by
Henry Sadler. Miller was a brother-in-law of Chrispianos
and George W. Belcher, Obediah Belcher being his wife's

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

429

Opinion of the Court.

father and Robert D. her uncle, and according to his testimony he not only purchased from Obediah this six hundred
acres, which lay between Flipping Creek and the main Simmons Creek, and included what afterwards became the Henry
Sadler land, but also owned one hundred acres, which he purchased from Obediah and Chrispianos, lying at the head of
the west fork of Simmons Creek and north of the Witten
land, which was afterwards conveyed by Chrispianos to George
W.'s wife, Mary B., and by George W. and Mary E. to A. G.
Belcher. The west line of this six hundred acres Purchased
by Miller from Obediah commenced at the two birches on the
main Simmons Creek, and ran up to the latter's home place of
four hundred 'acres on the middle fork of the creek, the north
line being the marked line between the six hundred-acre tract
and Obediah's home tract; and the south line of Miller's one
hundred-acre survey ran from the six chestnuts to Payne's
line or Payne's corner, on the left-hand fork of the creek.
By the testimony of W. Scott Witten, it was shown that in
1852 his father, William H. Witten, was living on a tract of
four hundred acre$ of land, the title to which was in the latter,
and on which he had resided, as he claimed, for fifty years,
and witness had resided there with him ever since he was born,
in 1848; that the tract of eleven hundred acres conveyed by
Robert D. Belcher and Chrispianos Belcher to William H.
Witten, December 23, 1852, touched at its southern point the
tract on which William H. Witten then lived; that the two
hundred acres joined and were bounded in part by the elevetr
hundred acres; that William H. Witten took actual possession
of the eleven hundred-acre tract by placing tenants on it, and
paid taxes on that and on the two hundred acres, and used
the latter as a range for his cattle; that in February, 1877,
W. Scott purchased the two hundred acres at a judicial sale,
which was confirmed, but he took no deed to the land, and he
and his father thereafter claimed and exercised ownership over
it together; that witness paid the taxes on the two hundred
acres for the last fifteen years, during which it was owned by
his father and himself; that he offered the land for sale to
Powell and- Sadler before he sold it to Doran, and sold it to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the lattbr -by the lifie from the two birches of Simmons Creek,
up' said creek to its forks, and thence up the west or left-hand
fork to a white oak and pine on the southwest corner to a
tract owned by his father and Payne, and thence either S. 50
or S.55 west to the six chestnut"s; that shortly after he purchased the two hundred acres he bought an adjoining tract
and put a tenant on it, who ranged cattle for him on both
places; that the two hundred acres were in the woods as late
as March, 1886, when his deposition was taken, "except what
improvement has been put on by defendant and not enclosed;"
and that he never knew that Chrispianos Belcher or anybody
else ever disputed the title of Witten to the two hundred acres
as claimed by him up to the line of Simmons Creek, until the
25th of December, 1884.
And Robert Belcher testified that from 1844 to 1852, when
he conveyed the tract to Witten, he claimed that the east line
ran from the two birches up Simmons Creek, with the meanders
thereof, and that the north line left said creek with the course
south 05 west 120 poles to the six chestnuts, the chestnuts
being a noted corner as well as the two birches; and that he
had never heard the'line called in question until quite recently,
when the railroad ran there and the land became valuable.
The evidence is entirely sufficient to establish the existence
and loss of 'the deed of the two hundred acres from Chrispianos
to Robert D. Belcher, and the inference is a natural one that,
because of this deed, the two hundred acres were not included
in the conveyance by Chrispianos and Robert to Witten of the
eleven hundred acres. The reason for Chrispianos joining in
that deed was that the eleven hundred acres included six hundred o'f the eight hundred sold by him to Robert, and as Robert
had sold not only the eleven hundred, but the two hundred
acres to Witten, it seems reasonable to suppose that Witteli
would have required a conveyance from Chrispianos to Robert
if none such then existed.
The 'deeds to Witten of the eleven hundred and the two
hundred acres bore the same date, December. 23, 1852, and
were both drawn up by Witten in the presence of Chrispianos;
the one was acknowledged by Chrispianos and his wife and

SIMMONS CRELK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

431

Opinion of the Court.

Robert and his wife, and the oiher by Robert and his wife,.
before the same justices, on the same day, May 7,1853, and
both were ordered to be recorded at the June term, 1853, of
the county court. All this is irreconcilable with the view ,that
the title to the two hundred acres was left outstanding in Chrispianos, and confirms complainant's contention to the contrary.
In connection with the description in Robert's deed to Witten
of the two hundred acres, the description in the deed of the
eleven hundred acres must be considered. It will be remembered that the north line of the latter tract ran from the double
birch in the line of the Nicholas survey, "north 55 E. 294 poleg
to six chestnuts," and that line if projected east of the six
chestnuts would strike the left-hand fork of Simmons Creek,
at a corner of Miller's one hundred-acre survey. In the description of the two hundred-acre tract conveyed by Robert to
Witten, the line beginning at the two birches on Simmons
Creek ran up said creek with Miller's line. Miller's line ran
up that creek to its forks, and thence up what is styled the
middle fork to the line of Obediah Belcher's home place, and
thence east to Flipping Creek, but the calls.in the Witten deed
are also for the line S. 55 W. and the six chestnuts; and these
must be considered in determining how far Miller's line should
be pursued. If it be followed to Obediah's line, and the six
chestnuts are reached by a straight line west, this would disregard the S. 55 W., and embrace the land between the two
forks, never claimed by Witten, or in his possession. This parcel contains, according to the proofs, thirty-six acres, and passed
by Chrispianos' deed to George W.,and was presumably the
tract he intended to convey when he gave that. deed. Inasmuch, however, as the course of the north line in the deed from
Chrispianos and Robert to Witten of the eleven hundred acres,
given simultaneously with the deed by Robert to Witten, is
from the double birch in the west line of the Nicholas. survey
to the six chestnuts N. 55 E. 294 poles, and that is the same
as the course reversed given in the deed from Belcher to Witten,
if we reverse the calls in the latter deed, and run from the two
birches to the double and single poplar, thence to the six chestnuts, and thence N. 55 E. 120 poles.to Simmons Creek, and down

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

said creek to the beginning, all ambiguity disappears and all
the calls are satisfied.
It*is well settled that in running the line of a survey of public lands in one direction, if a difficulty is met with, and all the
known calls of the survey are met by running them in the
reverse direction, this may be properly done. Ayers v. TWatson, 137 U. S.584.

We conclude, therefore, that the court was justified in passing up the left-hand fork to Miller's survey.
The description of the tract in the deed of Chrispianos Belcher
to George W. Belcher, October 18, 1884, is as follows: "A certain tract or boundary of land, supposed to contain seventy-fivw
acres, be the same more or less, lying and being in the county
of Mercer, State of W. Va., on the waters of Simmons Creek,
a branch of Bluestone River, and being a part of a survey purchased by Obediah Belcher of Jas. Hector in the year 1842
and a portion of the tract deeded by Obediah Belcher to Christianos Belcher and bounded as follows, to wit: Beginning at
two birches on the west bank of Simmons Creek, corner to
William IH.Witten, thence with said Witten's line to six chestnuts, corner to A. G. Belcher, on a ridge; thence north 50 E.
112 poles to a white Oak and two pines on a branch of Simmons
Creek, corner to Witten and Graham-Payne tract; north 85 E.
134 poles with the Payne line to two pines and a white oak on
another branch of Simmons Creek, corner to four hundred acres
deeded by said Chrispianos Belcher to Obediah Belcher; thence
down Simmons Creek with the meanders thereof to the beginning."
As we have seen, Witten's line was the same as Miller's line,
at least to the forks of the creek, but it is contended on appellant's behalf that the true line was at straight line from the two
birches to the six chestnuts. The difficulty with this contention is, that it entirely ignores Simmons Creek, Miller's line,
and the course S. 55 W., and the distance of 120 poles, called
for in the deed to Witten. Nor is it consistent with the evidence and the reason of the thing to assume that Chrispianos,
in selling the 800 acres to Robert, undertook to make such a
line its eastern boundary, rather than Simmons Creek, a nat-

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

433

Opinion of the Court.

ural boundary in itself. The land was worth so little in 1844
that precision of that sort is hardly supposable, and there is
nothing to indicate that Chrispiano§, Robert or Witten ever
entertained the idea that the tract stopped short of Simmons
Creek. In fact, Robert and Witten, and those claiming under
them, always claimed up to the creek, down to and after October, 1884. The Circuit Court was not compelled to adopt the
straight line, and to have done so would have violated the rule,
which prefers natural and ascertained objects, and disregarded
the other calls.
The argument is made in the answer of the coal company
that because in the deed of Robert to Witten, the 200 acres is
described as beginning at two birches on Simmons Creek, "corner to Chrispianos Belcher's land," this recognized "that Chrispianos Belcher owned at that time the land down to the two
birches, and which is now the land of this respondent." But
the proofs show that in 1848, Robert D. Belcher convoyed to
Chrispianos 640 acres, parcel of the 1500 acres conveyed to him
by Hector, and this 640 acres cornered on the two birches in
question, and was subsequently, in 1856, conveyed by Chrispianos to Henry Walker. -The two birches were at the southeast corner of the 200 acres and the northwest corner of the
640 acre tract, and this disposes of the inference suggested.
It is also urged that the description in the deed of W. H.
and W. S. Witten and Graham to Doran of November 5, 1881,
treated the 200 acres as if it were part of the 1100 acres, and
that Doran's title is thus shown not to be under the lost deed,
dnd in fact not to extend to the 200 acres at all. We do not
so understand that description. By that conveyance, a moiety
of the Payne tract was conveyed as well as the 200 acres, and
the description ran: "A l l that certain tract, piece or parcel of
land situate on the south side of the dividing ridge and on Simmons Creek, in Mercer County aforesaid, and containing two
hundred acres, more or less, bounded on the north by the tract
of land next hereinafter described, on the east by the lands of
Henry Sadler and lands of the heirs of Henry Walker, on the
south by lands of G. W. Perdue, and on the west by other
lands of the said W. H. and W. S. Witten, the balance of a
VOL. cxLu-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

larger tract of eleven hundred acres, hereinafter more particularly described, being the eastern part of the said large tract
of eleven hundred acres which Robert D. Belcher.et ux. et al.,
by deed dated December 23, 1852, and recorded in Mercer
County, in deed book No. 3, page 523, etc., granted and conveyed unto the said W. H. Witten in fee; and a portion of the
lands of the said W. H. Witten having been seized, taken in
execution, and sold under a certain proceeding instituted against
him in the Circuit Court of Mercer County aforesaid at the suit
of the Bank of Princeton, the said W. H. Witten purchased the
same and is about to receive a deed therefor." , And then follows the description of the Payne tract as bounded on the
south by lands of Sadler and the tract of land above described.
The land lying on the west belonged to the Wittens as stated,
and might well enough be described as the eastern part of the
eleven hundred acre tract, but it would be an inadmissible
construction, to make the 200 part of the 1100 acres, particularly in view of the fact, as elsewhere shown, that the 200
acres had been sold by proceedings against W. H=.Witten and
are thus identified.
Allusion is also made to the fact that the 200 acre tract as
described in the deed to Witten turned out on actual survey
to contain 357 acres, but the conveyance was of 200 acres, "by
estimation," and, moreover, the western boundary in that deed
was the line from the six chestnuts S. 35 E. 310 poles to a
,double and single poplar, corner to Robert Belcher, instead of
the Lybrook line, thus throwing into this conveyance the land
between these two lines as shown upon the map. This was
not material as between the parties, as, although Chrispianos
had not up to December 23, 1852, conveyed the 600 acres to
Robert, yet he did then, with Robert, convey them to Witten
so that the latter by the two deeds got the whole 800 acres,
though that part in the 1100 acre tract may have fallen short
of 600, while the 200 acre tract ran over. If the 1100 acre
tract contained, as testified, 778 or 825 acres, and the 200 acre
tract 357 acres, that would be between 1100 and 1200 in all,
instead of the 1300 more or less which theWittens undertook
to convey.

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

435

Opinion of the Court.

The differences in quantity resulting from taking the areas as
estimated and supposed, rather than accurately, platted and
calculated, could hardly excite remark, while the growth of the
75 acres in the deed of Chrispianos to George W. into 176 acres
might perhaps, as the record stands, invite some explanation.
We regard the evidence as clear and convincing in establishing the lost deed, and the facts which sustain the action of the
District Court in correcting the line.
The jurisdiction of equity to reform written instruments,
where there is a mutual mistake, or mistake on one side and
fraud or inequitable conduct on the other, is undoubted; but
to justify such reformation the evidence must be stifficiently
cogent to thoroughly satisfy the mind of the court. iFisack v.
Ball, 34 West Va. 64; Shenandoah Valley 2?ailroad v. Dunlop, 86 Virginia, 346.
The general doctrine is not denied, but it is contended that
the effect of the correction of the deeds (if the lost conveyance
contained an identical description) is to enlarge them so as to
include more land than they originally embraced, and that
this renders the action of the court obnoxious to the statute of
frauds.
Glass v. Hulbert, 102 Mass. 24, is cited to the proposition
that although the principle maintained by Chancellor Kent in
Gillespiev. foon, 2 Johns. Ch. 585, that relief in equity against
the operation of a written instrument, on the ground that by
fraud or mistake it did not express the true contract of the
parties, might be afforded to a,plaintiff seeking a modification
of the contract as well as to a defendant resisting its enforcement, is well settled, it cannot be extended to enlarge the subject matter of a contract or to add a new term to a writing, by
parol.
We need not enter upon a discussion in this regard here, as
the deeds themselves furnished the means of making the correction, and the statute of frauds was not pleaded.
The coal company insists, however, that it occupies the position of a bonafide purchaser for value without notice, and as
such is entitled to the protection of the court. No evidence
whatever was adduced on behalf of the defendants, and al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

though George W. Belcher, 1N. L. Reynolds and P. H. Rorer
answered under oath, they were not required to do so, and
their answers were not evidence in their favor, under the

amendment to the 41st rule in equity.
Reference to the appendix to the acts of the legislature of
West Virginia of 1-885, (pp. 446, 447,) shows the certificate of
incorporation of the company, from which it appears that the
agreement required under the statute in order to form a corporation was delivered to the secretary of state of West Virginia on the 16th of January, 1885, on which day the company,
as the secretary certifies, became a corporation. The subscribers to the agreement were P. H. Rorer, I. A. Welch, N. L.
Reynolds, A. W. Reynolds and George W. Belcher; and the
agreement states that these five corporators had subscribed
the sum of $250, being one $50 share each, and had paid on the
subscriptions the sum of $25. It is through these corporators
that the company claims title and the record discloses that
Welch was its president. Associated together to carry forward
a common enterprise, the knowledge or actual notice of all these
corporators and the president was the knowledge or notice of
the company, and if constructive notice bound them it bound
the company.
The conveyances were as follows: December 4, 1884, George
W. Belcher conveyed to Newton L. Reynolds the undivided
five-eighths of the tract of land claimed by the company, and
on the 23d of February, 1885, George W. Belcher conveyed to
Rorer the undivided three-eighths of the tract. January 13,
1885, N. L. Reynolds conveyed two-eighths of his five-eighths to
I. A. Welch, and on February 28, 1885, he conveyed the remaining three-eighths to the company. January 13, 1885, Welch conveyed to A. W. Reynolds an undivided one-eighteenth of, the
tract, and the remaining portion of the two-eighths conveyed
by N. L. Reynolds to Welch, the latter conveyed to the com-:
pany on February 28, while, on the same day, A. W. Reynolds conveyed the one-eighteenth aforesaid and Rorer and
wife the three-eighths.
The deeds of N. L. Reynolds to Welch; Welch to A. W.
Reynolds; Rorer, N. L., and A. W. Reynolds and Welch to

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v,. DORAN.

437

Opinion of the Court.

the company; all name the nominal consideration of one dollar. The deed of George W. Belcher to N. L. Reynolds purports to have been executed in consideration of $66.10, and of
George W. Belcher to :Rorer in consideration of $6393.75,
$500 in cash and $5893.75 in deferred payments.
The deed from Chrispianos to George W. recites a consideration of $75 "and other valuable considerations." This was a
general warranty deed, and so was that to lorer. The others
were special warranties only.
None of the original deeds in appellant's chain appear to
have been produced on the hearing, though certified copies
were attached to the pleadings, but no independent evidence
was adduced of the payment by any of the defendants of
any money whatever. As against complainant the recitals in
these deeds cannot be relied on as proof of the payment of the
purchase money. Boone v. Chies, 10 Pet. 177; Flagg v.
.Mann, 2 Sumner, 486; Ryles v. Tait, 6 Gratt. 44; WVarren v.
Syme, 7 West Va. 474; Brown v. Welch, 18 Illinois, 313;
Lloyd v. Lynch, 28 Penn. St. 419.
Apart from this we hold ippellant chargeable with notice.
The rule is thus stated by the Virginia Court of Appeals, in
Burwell's Adm'r8 v. Fauber,21 Gratt. 446, 463: "Purchasers
are bound to use a due degree of caution in making their purchases, or they will not be entitled to protection. Caveat
em~vtor is one of the best settled maxims of the law, and
applies exclusively to a purchaser. lHe must take care, and
make due inquiries, or he may not be a bona fde purchaser.
Re is bound not only by actual,but also by con8tructive notice,
which is the same.in its effect as actual notice. He must look
to the title papers under which he buys, and is charged with
notice -of all the facts appearing upon their face, or to the
knowledge of which anything there appearing will conduct
him. He has no right to shut his eyes or his ears to the inlet
of information, and then say he is a bona ftde purchaser without notice."
Jones v. Smith, 1 Hare, 43, 55; Le ANeve v.
Le 1Yeve, 3 Atk. 646; S. C. 1 Ves. Sen. 64; S.c. 2 Leading
Cas. Eq. 109, 4th Am. ed.; and Brush v. Mare, 15 Pet. 93,
114, are cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In .Hundyv. Vawter, 3 Gratt. 518, relied on by appellant,
the registry of a deed of "all the estate both real and personal,
to which the said James was in any manner entitled in law
or in equity," was held not to be notice in point of law to a
subsequent purchaser of the existence of the deed, nor would
notice in point of fact of such existence and contents affect
such purchaser, unless he had further notice that the land
purchased by him was embraced by the provision of the deed;
"and the proof of such notice, whether direct or positive, or
circumstantial and presumptive, must be such as to affect the
conscience of the purchaser, and is not sufficient if it merely
puts him upon inquiry, but must be so strong and clear as
to fix on him the imputation of malafides." But the latter
branch of this ruling was disapproved of in Warrem v. Syme,
7 West Va. 474; and in Fidelity Comvany v. Railroad Corn,
.avy, 32 West Va. 244, 259, it is said that "whatever is sufficient to put a person on inquiry is considered as conveying
*notice; for the law imputes a personal knowledge of a fact,
of which the exercise of common prudence might have apprised
him. When a subsequent purchaser has actual notice that the
property in question is incumbered or affected, he is charged
constructively with notice of all the facts and instruments, to,
the knowledge of which he would have been led by an inquiry
into thd incumbrance or other circumstance affectitig the
property of which he had notice."
Lord .tardwicke observed in le
evev. Le .Neve,Amb. 436;
3 Atk. 646; 1 Ves. Sen. 140: "That the taking of a legal estate,
after notice of a prior right, makes a person a mal, ftde purchaser;" and the -notes to that case in 2 Leading Cases in Eq.
109, digcuss at length the doctrine of knowledge, actual notice,
expre~ss or implied, and constructive notice, with abundant
citation of authority. The conclusion of the American editor
is that actual notice embraces all degrees and grades of evidence, from the most direct and positive proof, to the slightest
circumstances from which a jury would be warranted in inferring notice, while constructive notice is a legal inference from
established facts, and, like other legal presumptions, does not
admit of dispute.

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMTANY 'v. DORA3N .

439

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Justice Story in his work on Equity Jurisprudence,

§ 399, adopts the lauguage of Chief Baron Eyre, in Plumb v.
P1ltitt, 2 Anstr. 432, 438, that constructive notice is in its
nature no more than evidence of notice, the presumption of
which is so violent, that the court will not allow even of its
being controverted.
In later editions of that work, Judge Redfield, (11th ed.
§ 410 a,) says that the term constructive notice "is applied, indiscriminately, to such notice as is not susceptible of being explained or rebutted, and to that which may be. It seems more
appropriate to the former kind of notices. It will then include
notice by the registry, and notice by lis pendens. But such
notice as depends upon possession, upon knowledge of an ageUt,
upon facts to put one upon inquiry, and some other similar
matters, although often called constructive notice, is rather
implied notice, or presumptive notice, subject to be rebutted
or explained. Constructive notice is thus a conclusive presumption or a presumption of law, while implied notice is a
mere presumption of fact."
Vice-Chancellor Wigram in Jones v. Smith, supra, laid it
down that cases in which constructive notice had been established, resolved themselves into two classes; first, those in
which the party charged had actual notice that the property
in dispute was in some way affected, and the court has
thereupon bound him with constructive notice of facts to
a knowledge of which he would have been led by an inquiry into the matters affecting the property, of which he
had actual notice; and, secondly, those where the court has
been satisfied that the party charged had designedly abstained
from inquiry for the purpose of avoiding notice. If there is
not actual notice that the property is in some way affected so
that the case does not fall within the first class, and no fraudulent turning away from a knowledge of facts which the 'es
gestcw would suggest to a prudent mind or gross and culpable
negligence, so as to bring it within the second, then the doctrine of constructive notice would not apply.
Each case must be governed by its own peculiar circumstances, and in that in hand we think appellant either had

OCTOBER TER19, 1891.
Opinion of the CouP.

aqtual knowledge, or actual notice of such facts and circumstances, as by the exercise of due diligence would have led
it to knowledge of complainant's rights, and that if this were
not so, then its ignorance was the result of such gross and
culpable negligenc6 that it would be equally bound.
The deed of George W. Belcher to N. L. Reynolds conveyed
the undivided five-eighths of seventy-five acres by a description
reading as follows: "Beginning at two birches on the bank of
Simmons Creek in a line of a survey of twenty-five hundred
acres conveyed by James Hector to Obediah Belcher, and a
corner to the William H. Witten land, and with a line of the
said Witten land N. 50° 40' W. 85.40 chains up Simmons
Creek, topping a ridge at 23-chains and crossing hollows and
poinis of said ridge, to six dead chestnuts on said ridge, a
corner to A. G. Belcher's land." The deed of George W.
Belcher to P. H. Rorer purported to convey "three-eighths (1),
undivided, of a certain tract or parcel of land lying on Simmons Creek, a branch of Bluestone River, in the county of
IMercer, and State of West Virginia, it being the same tract,
five-eighths (f), undivided, of which has heretofore been conv6yed by the said parties of the first part to N. L. Reynolds,
and containing, by recent survey,, by horizontal measurement,
one hundred and seventy and - acres, and bounded as follows:
Beginning at two birches on the bank of Simmons Creek, N.
50 ° 26' W. 80.33 chains up Simmons Creek, crossing ridges and
slurs, to six dead chestnuts on-ridge, corner to A. G. Belcher."
The other conveyances refer to these descriptions.
When Obediah and Robert D. Belcher bought the four
thousand acres of James Hector, they agreed to a division
whereby Robert D. Belcher took fifteen hundred and Obediah
twenty-five hundred acres. The deed of Hector to Robert D.
Belcher for the fifteen hundred acres is in the record. The
north line of this tract ran from the Wilson Cary Nicholas
line N. 60 E. to the mouth, of the Spruce Pine Branch on
Flipping Creek, and Obediah Belcher's twenty-five hundred
acres lay immediately north of that line and extended across
from the Nicholas line to Flipping Creek. The two birches
spoken of in George W. Belhher's deed to Reynolds as being

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

441

Opinion of the Court.

in a line of a survey of twenty-five hundred acres conveyed by
Hector to Belcher were not corner trees in that line, but were
corner trees to the Witten tract of two hundred acres. As
the description in the deed to Reynolds puts the two birches
as a corner to the William H. Witten land, it is plain that
resort must have been actually had to R. D. Belcher's deed to
Witten of the two hundred acres, and that deed described
Witten's line as running from the two birches up Simmons
Creek "with Miller's line." That deed could not be read
without discovering that something had been omitted therefrom. And this is the more apparent, since it is shown by
the evidence that the distance by a straight line from the two
birches to the six chestnuts was 328 poles, while it is also clear
that a line running S. 55 W. from the two birches would not
reach. the six chestnuts, but would run away from them, so
that both by distance and by course it was evident that an
error had been committed, and what that error was seems to
us to be obvious to any candid mind. Having actual notice
to this extent, appellant was put upon inquiry, and inquiry
would have conducted at once to the untecorded deed.
So far as the defendant George W. Belcher is concerned,
the evidence is quite convincing of knowledge on his part.
Belcher bad resided near the land apparently all his life. In
October, 1882, when the Barcroft tract of land, which we
understand to be the same as Obediah Belcher's home place,
was surveyed for the Southwest Virginia Improvement Company, one Crockett was assisting in the survey and George
W. Belcher and others were present; and Crockett testified,
without objection, that at that time, when they got down to
the corner on the creek, he asked Belcher whose land that was
adjoining, and he said Mr. Witten's; and the witness further
said that since George W. Belcher set up a claim to the land
in controversy, Belcher told him "that he never knew he had
any land there until Mr. Welch and Mr. Reynolds found it
out, as I remember he said, by running the lines and plotting."
He also stated upon cross-examination: "He told me, I think,
that Capt. Welch got him to write what he would take for his
claim in there, i.e., to Chrispianos Belcher, his brother."

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Henry Sadler testified that in 1866, when a part of his purchase from Obediah Belcher was surveyed, George W. Belcher.
was along and marked the lines, and "there was something
said that if we got too far from the creek 'we would get on
Witten's land." The witness added that Simmons Creek was
recognized by himself as the line between his land and that of
William H. Witten.
W. S. Witten testified that on December 25, 1884, he met
George W. Belcher, and "asked him what land it was he had
sold (as Mr. Burkholder told me there was trouble about the
matter). He told me it was the land I sold Joseph I. Doran.
I told Mr. Belcher he ought to be careful about trading on
that land, and he remarked to me that when I sold it, that I
did not get much for it, and that if I would not kick in the
thing that they would make me whole." George W. Belcher
was present during the taking of these depositions, but he was
not called as a witness.
Again, actual and unequivocal possession is notice, because
it is incumbent on one who is about to purchase real estate to
ascertain by whom and in what right it is held or occupied;
'and the neglect of this duty is one of the defaults which, unexplained, is-equivalent to notice. 2 Lead. Cas. Eq. 180; Landes
v. Brant, 10 How. 348; McLean v. Cla , 141 U. S.429,436;
French v. Loyal Company, 5 Leigh, 627, 641; Western .Mining Company v. Peytona Coal Company, 8 West Va. 406,441 ;
Core v. Faupel,24 West Va. 238; Morrison v. Helley, 22 Illinois, 610. "Possession," said Walker, J., in the case last cited,
"may be actual or constructive; actual, when there is an occupancy, such as the property is capable of, according to its
adaptation to use; constructive, as when a person has the paramount title, which, in contemplation of law, draws to and
connects it with the possession. But to be adverse it niust be
In Ewing v.
a pedis possessio, or an actual possession."
Burnett, 11 Pet. 41, 53, it was held that neither actual occupancy nor cultivation nor residence was necessary to constitute actual possession; that where the property is so situated
as not to admit of any permanent useful improvements, and
the continued claim of the party has been evidenced by public

SIMMONS CREEK COAL COMPA.NY v. DORAN.

443

Opinion of the Court.

acts of ownership, such as he would exercise over property
which he claimed in his own right, and would not exercise
over property he did not claim, such possession will create a
bar under the statute of limitations; that what acts may or
may not constitute a possession are necessarily varied, and
depend to some extent upon the nature, locality and use to
which the property may be applied, the situation of the parties, and a variety of circumstances which have necessarily to
be taken into considerttion in determining the question. And
so possession of an improved portion of a tract of land, under
a conveyance in fee of the whole, is construed to be co-extensive with the grant. And where a party purchases land adjoining a tract of which he is already in the occupancy, he will
be considered as at once, in point of law, in the possession of
the newly-acquired tract, when the latter is vacant, or at least
not held under an adverse possession.
Now, W. H. Witten resided on 400 acres of land, which adjoined the 1100 acre tract, while the 200 acres bounded on the
1100 acres, and neither of the latter tracts was in adverse possession when purchased by Witten, and the evidence of W.
Scott Witten shows that W. H. Witten used the 200 acre tract
as a range for his cattle and paid the taxes on it, and that
after W. Scott Witten purchased it at the judicial sale, he also
used it in the same way. In other words, such possession as
the land was susceptible of was taken and maintained, and, in
addition to that it connected with the home tract on which
W. H. Witten had lived for fifty years. The possession, such as
it was, was notorious, and contributes its weight to the other
proofs of notice.
We repeat, that we regard it as satisfactorily established
that the defendants had such notice as put -them on inquiry
and charged them with knowledge of the facts, and under the
circumstances their silence is most significant.
Certain proceedings resulting in an alleged deed of the land
in controversy from the commissioner of school lands for Mercer County to George W. Belcher, under date of December 3,
1884, are attacked by the bill as fraudulent and void, and part
of a scheme to deprive complainant of his property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

These proceedings are attached to the bill, and show the
filing of a petition by George W. Belcher against the school
land commissioner in the Circuit Court of Mercer County, and
its reference to a master in chancery, November 21, 1884, the
report of the master on November 27, and a decree on November 29. The only party defendant was the commissioner, who
appeared and' waived process.
The decree describes the land in accordance with the description in the deed from Chrispianos to George W., and
directs the school commissioner to ionvey the same to Belcher,
which was done accordingly. The petition stated that George
W. Belcher was the owner of a tract of land lying on Simmons Creek in the county of Mercer, adjoining the lands of
Witten, Sadler and others, and containing about seventy-five
acres, and that said tract was conveyed to him by Chrispianos.
Belcher by deed bearing date October 18, 1884; and that
"a short time prior to the formation of the State of West Virginia, his vendor, Chrispianos Belcher, removed from the
State of Virginia and county of Mercer to the State of Missouri,
and that by mistake and accident the said land was omitted
from the land books, and he is advised that said land is forfeited and the title thereto vested in the State of West Virginia for non-entry thereof on the land books of Mercer
County." The petitioner further averred, "that at the time
the title vested in the State, his said vendor, Chrispianos
Belcher, had good, valid title thereto, superior to any other
claimant thereof, and that your petitioner now has good, valid
title thereto, superibr to any other claimant thereof, and he is
'advised and, now avers that he is entitled to redeem the same
by paying all taxes and interest due on said land by reason
of the forfeiture thereof from the year 1863 to the present
time and all costs."
The decree recites the conveyance of Chrispianos to George
W. Belcher, and that at the time of the forfeiture Chrispianos
had a good and valid fee-simple title thereto, superior to that
of any other claimant, and that George W. Belcher having
appeared in open court and offered to pay the sum of $30.71,
being the amount of all taxes, interest, damages and costs due

SIM-MONS CREEK COAL CO[PANfY v. DORAN.

445

Opinion of the Court.

against said tract of land by reason of the,forfeiture, (the taxes
in question covering the years from 1863 to 1884 inclusive,) is
entitled to be treated in the nature of a purchaser thereof, it
appearing to the court that the said George W. Belcher would
be entitled to the surplus of purchase money over and above
the said sum of $30.7i, had said tract of land been subjected
to sale as school lands, etc.
We cannot resist the impression that, taking all the facts
and circumstatces of the case together, these proceedings in
the Circuit Cotirt of Mercer County were, as charged by complainant, a mqre device to bolster up the alleged claim of
George W. Belcher, under the deed from Chrispianos, to property belonging to the complainant. So far from strengthening appellant's position, the inferences to be drawn from the
transaction are inconsistent with good faith in dealing with
the land. The proofs in this record show the charge of a 200
acre tract of land on Simmons Creek Fork, or Upper Simmons
Fork, or Simmons Fork, on the land books of Mercer County,
in the -name of William H. Witten, for the years 1854, '56,
'57, '58, '60, '61, '62, '63, '65, '66, '67, '68, '69, '70, '71, "72, '73,
'74, '75, '76, '77, '78, '79, '80, and its transfer for 1882-'83 to
Joseph I. Doran, and for 1881-'85 to the Southwest Virginia
Improvement Company. The location is stated to be for the
last -four years on the "dividing ridge and Simmons Creek."
It also appears that the land books for the years 1855
and 1859 were destroyed, and for 1864 that the land book was
"gone," and that the land does not appear on the book for
1881. The same books also show Chrispianos Belcher charged
in 1854 and 1856 with 656 acres and 200 acres, located on
"Bluestone and Flipping ridge and Crane Creek;" that in
1855 the books were destroyed; and that for the year 1857,
10 acres, part of the 650 acres, on Bluestone, were charged to
Chrispianos, and for many years thereafter, exclusive of the
two years when the minute is that the books were destroyed.
As has heretofore been stated, Chrispianos had a tract of 640
acres south of the dividing line between Obediah's 2500 and,
Robert D.'s 1500 acres derived from Hector, and part of the
1500 acres, which had been conveyed to him by Robert in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

1848, and which Chrispianos conveyed to H~nry Walker in
1856.

And both as to that and the 200 acres mentioned, their

location was on Flipping Creek and Crane Creek, waters
of Bluestone, and they have no connection whatever with
the 200 acres in controversy.
The latter 200 acres appear in the tax receipts, of W. 11. Witten for 1854, '55, '59,
'66, '67, '69, '70, '71, '72, '74, '75, '76, '77, '78, '79, '80, and evidence is given explanatory of the loss of the tax receipts
for the missing years, the payment of the taxes for all
the years being otherwise proven. The land in controversy
here was evidently not forfeited to the State in 1863, for the
reason given in the petition or any other.
Under the constitution of West Virginia, Art. 13, (Code,
1884, p. 36,) it is provided that all lands in the State waste
and unappropriated, or heretofore or hefeafter for any cause
forfeited, or treated as forfeited, or escheated, to the State of
Virginia or this State, or purchased by either and become irredeemable, not redeemed, released, transferred or otherwise disposed of, the title whereto shall remain in this State until such
sale as is hereinafter mentioned be made, shall by proceedings in
the Circuit Court of the county in which the lands, or a part
thereof, are situated, be sold to the highest bidder; and that the
former owner of any such land shall be entitled to receive the
excess of the sum for which the land may be sold over the
taxes charged and chargeable thereon, or which, if the land
had not been forfeited, would have been charged or chargeable thereon, since the formation of this State, with interest at
the rate of twelve per cent per annum, and the costs of the
proceedings, if his claim be filed in the Circuit Court that decrees the sale, within two years thereafter. No such sale had
ever taken place in this instance.
By chapter 105 of the code of West Virginia, (Warth's ed.
of 1884, p. 639,) provision was made for the certifying to the
clerk of the Circuit Court by the auditor of a list of all waste
and unappropriated lands theretofore vested in the State of
West Virginia by forfeiture or purchase at the sheriff's or
collector's sale for delinquent taxes, and not released,
etc., and of lands theretofore or thereafter purchased at a

SIMM9tONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

447

Opinion of the Court.

sale for taxes and not redeemed; and all lands forfeited to
the State for failure-to have the same entered upon the land
books, etc., in order that they might be sold for the benefit of
the s6hool fund; and it was made the duty of the surveyor of
each county to report to the Circuit Court all waste and unappropriated lands in his county subject to sale under the
provisions of the chapter. Further, the appointment and
qualification of a commissioner of school lands by the Circuit
Court of each county was provided for, whose duty it should
be- once in each year to ascertain from the reports and such
other information as he might be able to obtain, what lands
were liable to sale under the provisions of the chapter, as to
which no proceedings had been commenced for the sale
thereof, and to file his petition praying that the same might
be sold and stating the claimant or claimants, and their residence, iftknown, against whom process should be issued that
they might show cause why the lands should not be sold.
Publication of notice to unknown parties was also' required.
And it was further provided that the former owner of any
such land should be entitled to recover the excess of the sum
for which the lands might be sold over what was due to the
State, if he filed his claim within two years thereafter, and,
further, that any owner might within the time aforesaid file
his petition in the Circuit Court,, stating his title to the land,
etc., whereupon said court should order the excess mentioned
to be paid to him, and at any time during the' pendency of
the proceedings in the sale of such land, such former owner,
or any credit6r bf such former owner, might file his petition
in the Circuit Court and ask to be allowed to redeem such
part or parts of any tract of land so forfeited, or the Whole
thereof, as he might desire. The privilege of redemption given
by the statute was a privilege personal to the former owner
or his creditors having liens on the land, and the way, time,
mode and manner in which the privilege should be exercised
was prescribed by the statute.
At the time George W. Belcher filed his petition to redeem
the land from the alleged forfeiture, there were no proceedings
pending in the Mercer County Circuit Court for its sale for

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the benefit of the school fund. The petitioner did not pretend
that he was the former owner, or a creditor of the former
owner, but said that the land was forfeited, and the title vested
in the State of West Virginia for the failure of Chrispianos to
have it entered on the land books of Mercer County, a short
time prior to the admission of the State; and the report upon
the reference is to the effect that the tract was forfeited about
1863 by reason of such omission, and that at the time of the
forfeiture the legal title was in Chrispianos. But the legal title
to the land in dispute was not in Chrispianos from before 1852,
and the land was entered on the land books in 1863 and prior
years, and taxes paid thereon. Moreover, the proceeding was
an independent proceeding to which the owners were not made
parties and by which they were not bound. As to the suggestion of forfeiture prior to 1848, no question thereon was raised
on the petition or in this case.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court was right in ignoring the claim of title under this deed, and in setting aside the
other deeds as clouds upon complainant's title, without regard
to these proceedings in the Circuit Court of Mercer County.
But it is said that complainant's claim is stale, and that he
and those under whom he claims have slept upon their rights
for forty years. There is no doubt that William H. Witten believed himself to be the owner of all the land up to Simmons
Creek and Miller's line on the east side of that creek, from the
two birches to the corner of Payne and Graham's tract and to
Miller's survey, and thence to the six chestnuts. It is true the
deed to Robert Belcher had not been recorded and was lost,
but as Witten was in possession, mere delay, unless by reason
thereof an equitable estoppel was created in favor of appellant,
would not operate to defeat relief; but appellant, and none of
the parties under whom it claims, can assert upon this record,
that complainant stood by while they were undertaking to
possess themselves of his land, and allowed them to do so to
their injury, when they would have abstained from it if he had
proceeded earlier to the restoration of the lost deed and the
rectification of the boundary in the Witten deed.
The deed of Chrispianos to George W. was dated October 18,

SLMMONS CREEK COAL COMPANY v. DORAN.

449

Opinion of the Court.

1 884, and apparently at some time between that date and February, 1885, these defendants, or some of them, entered upon
the tract, prospected for coal, and put on improvements amounting to the value of some $200. On February 21, Doran served
notice on the persons then on the land of his ownership, etc.,
and on the 15th of May, 1885, served another notice, and demanded possession. He also, February 14, put his own tenant
in a frame house on the premisei, which was part of the improvements above mentioned, who appears to have been subsequently forcibly ejected.
The bill was filed August 1, 1885. There was no delay,
therefore, in the assertion of his rights after they were invaded.
It is argued at length that a court of equity had no jurisdiction in this case. The bill alleged that complainant was "seized
in fee of the said tract of two hundred acres, more or less;"
and that this is a sufficient allegation of possession of the land,
has been determined by this court. Gage v. Kaufma, 133
U. S. 471.
As heretofore stated, such possession as the land was susceptible of had been taken by Witten and maintained by himself and his grantees down to the time, after October, 1884,
when appellant entered upon a part of complainant's land in
the commission of-a trespass, and commenced committing acts
of waste upon the property. It cannot be held that this trespass on appellant's part constituted a possession which in itself
would drive complainant to an action of ejectment.
The jurisdiction of courts of equity to remove clouds from
title is well settled, the relief being granted on the principle
quia timet, and in the case at bar, appellant's own contention
makes it clear that the remedy of complainant at law would
have been inadequate, since the aid of a court of equity, was
required to supply what was by mistake omitted from the deed
of R'obert to Witten, so that the line could be made to run up
the left-hand fork of Simmons Creek to the corner of Miller's
survey on that creek, and thence to the six chestnuts.
We think also that the court had jurisdiction to establish the
lost deed, and that this is so even though in anaction at law
VOL. CXLIIn-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

proof of the fact might have been allowed to be made. Rickman v. Painter,11 West Va. 386; 1 Story Eq. Jur. § 81.
Upqn the whole, we see no reason for a reversal of the decree,
and it is therefore
Afirmed.

BOYD v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
WESTERNE

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 1048. Argued December 16, 1891 - Decided January 4,1892.

The full and unconditional pardon of a person convicted of larceny and sentenced to imprisonment therefor completely restores his competency as
a witnessalthough it may be stated in the pardon that it was given for
that purpose.
On the trial of a person -indicted for murder, it appeared in evidence that
the killing followed an attempt to rob. The court admitted, under objections, evidence tending to show that the prisoner had committed other
robberies in that neighborhood, on different days, shortly before the
time when the killing took place, and exceptions were taken. Held, that
the evidence was inadmissible for any purpose.

THE case is' stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. J .May for plaintiffs in error. I1-M. A. R. Garland
filed a brief for same.
.Mr.
Assitant Attorney General Maury for defendants in
error.

Mi. JUSTICE HiLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were jointly indicted, in the court
below for the crime of murder, alleged to have been committed
on the 6th day of April, 1890, at the Choctaw Nation, in the
Indian country, within the Western District of Arkansas; the
first count alleging that the person murdered, John Dansby,
was a negro, and not an Indian; the second, that the defendants were white men, and not Indians. The court, in its charge

