OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

NEW ORLEANS AND NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. JOPES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 104. Argued November 24, 1891. -Decided

December 7,1891.

When a bill of exceptions is signed during the term, and purports to contain a recital of what transpired during the trial, it will be presumed
that all things therein stated took place at the trial, unless from its language the contrary is disclosed.
The law of self-defence justifies an act done in honest and-reasonable belief
of immediate danger; and, if an injury be thereby inflicted upon the person from whom the danger was apprehended, no liability, civil or criminal, follows.
If an act of an employ6 be lawful and one which he s justified in doing,
and which casts no personal responsibility upon him, no responsibility
attaches to the employer therefor.
A railrodd company is not respopsible for an injury done to a passenger in
one of its trains by the conductor of the train, if the act is done in selfdefence against the passenger and under a reasonable belief of immediate danger.
New Jersey ,Steamboat Co. v. Brockett, 121 U. S. 637, distinguished.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

On July 24, 1886, the defendant, in error, plaintiff below,
was a passenger on the train of the plaintiff in error.

While

such passenger, and at Nicholson station in Hancock County,

Mississippi, he was shot by Carlin, the conductor, and seriously
injured. For such injury, he brought his action in damages
in the Circuit Court of that county.

The case was regularly

removed to the United States Circuit Court for the Southern
District of Mississippi; and a trial resulted in a verdict and-

judgment on May 15, 1888, in his favor, for the sun of $9500,
to reverse which judgment the defendant sued out this writ of
error. Of the fact of the shooting by the conductor, and the
consequent injuries, there was no dispute. The testimony in
the case was conflicting as to some matters, and there was

N. 0. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. JOPES.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

testimony tending to show that the plaintiff approached the
cpnductor with an open knife in his hand, and in a threatening manner, and that the conductor, fearing danger, shot and
wounded the plaintiff in order to protect himself. The bill of
exceptions recited that in its general charge "the court instructed the jury that if the evidence showed that. the plaintiff was a passenger on the train, and that he was shot and
wounded by the conductor whilst he was such passenger and
whilst prosecuting his journey, and such shooting was not a
necessary self-defence, the plaintiff was entitled to recover
compensatory damages; but if the jury believe the plaintiff,
when shot, was advancing on the conductor or making hostile
demonstrations towards him with a knife in such a manner as
to put the conductor in imminent danger of his life or of great
bodily harm, and that the conductor shot plaintiff to protect
himself, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover; but if it
appeared that the conductor shot the plaintiff, whilst such
passenger and prosecuting his journey, wantonly and without
any provocation at the time, then the jury might award exemplary damages." And further, that, "responding to the
request of defendant that the court should instruct the jury
that if they believed from the evidence that when Carlin shot
the plaintiff, he, Carlin, had reasonable cause to believe, from
Jopes's manner and attitude, that he, Jopes, was about to
assault Carlin with the knife, and that it was necessary to
shoot him to prevent great bodily harm from Jopes, then that
the jury should find for defendant, whether J6pes was intending to do Carlin great bodily harm or not, the court declined
to instruct, but instructed that, in that state of the case, if Carlin shot under the mistaken belief, from Jopes's actions, that
he was in danger of great bodily harm then about to be done
him by Jopes, when in fact Jopes was not designing or intentionally acting so as to indicate such design, the plaintiff
should be entitled to compensatory damages and not punitive
damages." To this last instruction an exception was taken,
and this presented the substantial question for consideration.
.M'. Edward Gol8tonr (with whom was ZA&. Jotn W. _Fewell
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Xr.. Calderon Carlisle for defendant in error.
1us

Green and

(Mr. .Marcel-

rA.
S.S. Calhoon filed a brief for same.)

It is nowhere shown that the exceptions, or any of them,
were taken at the trial, which is a fatal defect. Walton v.
United States, 9 Wheat. 651; Frenoh v. Edwards, 13 Wall.
506; Brown v. Clarke,4 How. 4; Sheppard v. Wilson, 6 How.
260; Phe ps v. -ayer, 15 How. 160. Nor is it anywhere
shown that any exception was taken while thejury were at the
bar.. United States v. Breitling,20 How. 252; Barton v. Forsyth, 20 How. 532; Phelps v. Mtayer, 15 How. 160.
The grounds of the objection are not given in any instance.
Coddington v. Richardson, 10 Wall. 516. If the exception to
the instructions of the court be regarded as taken to all the
propositions set forth in the instructions, the exception must
be overruled if any one of the propositions be sound. Johnston v. Jones, 1 Black, 209; Rogers v. The .Marshal,1 Wall.
644; H~arvey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 328.
The verdict was clearly right on the evidence, and there is
no probability of any difference in another trial with this evidence in; and it is highly improbable that it had the effect -to
produce or modify the verdict. Its effect in producing the
verdict, or making it larger, is imaginary. XiZanahan v.
Universal Ins. Co., 1 Pet. 170. It was competent in any point
of view, as a legal proposition, both as part of the res gestCe of
the shooting, and because it was the verbal* act of the agent,
of the company, as its conductor, made .to a passenger, and
while the contract of transportation still existed between the
passenger and the railroad .company, and while the railroad
conductor was still in the discharge of his fmnctions, as such
conductor, and agent of the company, towards that passenger.
NTew Jersey Steamboat Co. v. Brockett, 121 U. S. 637.
But the principles applicable to the trial of Carlin upon
indictment for the assault and those governing the case at bar
differ widely.
The cause of action was breach of the contract to carry
safely. The defence sought excuse for the non-performance,
in that plaintiff had abandoned the contract and made an

iN. 0. & NT. E. RAILROAD CO. v. JOP'S
Opinion of the Court.

assault upon the servant of defendant to whose care he was
committed, and: that, therefore, defendant could not perform
by reason of plaintiff's own act. Under this the facts must
exist to excuse the breach. iNot that the servant had reasonable cause to believe they existed, but that they existed in
fact. Under the criminal law if there is a reasonable doubt
it suffices to excuse, but the non-performance of contracts cannot be excused upon beliefs. The reasonable ground for
belief has no existence, even in estoppel inpais.
The doctrine contended for that the court will institute a
comparative blame inquiry, and, if the corporation or master
was less to blame than the passenger, though the servant may
be more to blame than the passenger, the master will be
excused, is as surprising as it is untenable. Under it a corporation, being incorporeal, could never be liable, for it 6an only
work through servants. Qui fait per alium facit per se
would exist no longer in jurisprudence if this was the law.
The conductor was the company, Ohicago, Miwoaukee &e.
Railway v. Ros8, 112 U. S. 377, 390, and during the journey
for which Jopes had taken passage he was charged with the
duty of carrying him safely and protecting him. Any declarations made by the conductor during the journey were competent, just as those of any personal master would have been.
If the rights are to be measured by the criminal law applicable, the declarations of Carlin were competent, -Eendrie
v. Th State, 55 Mississippi, 436.
M]n. JUS TiC.E BEWER,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A preliminary question is raised by counsel for the defendant in error. It is insisted that the bill of exceptions does not
show that this exception was taken at the trial, and while the
jury was at the bar, and therefore not in time. In support of
this contention several authorities are cited. While it is
doubtless true that if the exception was not taken until after
the trial it would be too late, and to that effect are the authorities, yet we do not think the record shows that such was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

fact in this case. The trial commenced on the 14th, and was
concluded on the 15th, and the bill of exceptions was sealed
and signed on the 16th of May. The motion for a new trial
was not overruled until- the 26th. The bill of exceptions recites in the ordinary form the coming on of the case to trial,
the empanelling of a jury, the testimony offered and the instructions given and refused. In respect to one matter of testimony, the bill of exceptions recites: "Whereupon the court
refused to allow the testimony, to which ruling the defendant
excepted." So, following the recital in respect to the last
matter of instructions, is the statement "to which defendant
excepted." It is true the words used are not "then and there
excepted," neither is it said that the court "then and there
instructed;" but as the bill purports to be a recital of what
took place on the trial, it is to be assumed that the instructions were given, and the exceptions taken, during and as a
part of the trial. The statement as to the exception follows
that as to the instructions, and the only fair and reasonable
intendment from the language is that as the one was given, so
the other was taken, at the trial. The same form of recitalwas pursued in the case of United States v. Breitling, 20 How.
252, and held sufficient. In the case of Barton v. Forsyth, 20
How. 532, it appeared that after the verdict and judgment
the defendant filed a motion, supported by affidavit, which
was overruled. Following the recital of this fact, the record
added, "to all which decisions, rulings and instructions defendant then and there excepted;" and it was held that such recital showed that the exceptions were taken at the time of the
overruling of the motion. In the case of Phelps v. la1yer, 15
How. 160, -the verdict was rendered on the 13th of December,
and the next day the plaintiff came into court and filed his
exceptions, and there was nothing to show that any exception
was reserved pending the trial. In Brown v. Clarke, 4. How.
4, it was a matter of doubt whether the exceptions were taken
to the instructions or to the refusal to grant a new trial. Of
course, in the latter case they would not have been available.
In the case of Walton,v. UnitedStates, 9 Wheat. 651, it appeared
that the exception was not taken until after the judgment.

X . 0. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. JOPES.
Opinion of the Court.

The reasoning of all these cases makes in favor of the sufficiency of this bill of exceptions, and it may be laid down as a
general proposition, that where a bill of exceptions is signed
during the term, purporting to contain a recital of what
transpired during the trial, it will be assumed that all things
therein stated took place at the trial, unless from its language
the contrary is disclosed. We hold, therefore' that the record
shows that the exception to this instruction was duly taken,
and pass to a consideration of the principal question, and that
is, whether such instruction contains a correct statement of
the law applicable.
Its import is, that if the conductor shot when there was in,
fact no actual danger, although, from the manner, attitude
and conduct of the plaintift, the former had reasonable cause
to believe, and did believe, that an assault upon him with a
deadly weapon was intended, and only fired to protect himself
from such apprehended assault, the company was liable for
compensatory damages. In this view of the law we think the
learned court erred. It will be scarcely doubted that if the
conductor was prosecuted criminally, itwould be a sufficient
defence that he honestly believed he was in imminent danger,
and had reasonable ground for such belief. In other words,
the law of self-defence justifies an act done in honest and reasonable belief of immediate danger. The familiar illustration
is, that if one approaches another, pointing a pistol and indicating.an intention to shoot, the lattei is justified -by the rule
of self-defence in shooting, even to death; and that such justification is not avoided by proof that the party killed was only
intending a joke, and that the pistol in his hand was unloaded.
Such a defence does not rest on the actual, but on the apparent facts and the honesty of belief in danger. By the Revised
Code of Mississippi (1880) section 2878, (and this section is
common to the homicide statutes of several States,),homicide
is justifiable when committed in the lawful defence of the person when there shall be reasonable ground to apprehend a
design to do some great personal injury, and imminent danger
of such design being accomplished. In 1 Wharton's Criminal
Law, 9th ed. section 488, the author says: " It is conceded on

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

all sides that it is enough if the danger which the defendant
seeksta,'avert is aparentlyimminent, irremediable and actual."
Bang v.The State, 60 Mississippi, 571 ; Shorter v. The People,
2 N. Y. (2 Comstock) 193; Logue v. Commonwealth, 38 Penn.
St. 265. And the same rule of immunity extends to civil as to
criminal cases. If the injury was done by the defendant in
justifiable self-defence, he can neither be punished criminally
nor held responsible for damages in a civil action. Because
the act was lawful, he is wholly relieved from responsibility
for its consequences. 3 B1. Com. 121. The case of -Morris v,
Platt,32 Connecticut, 75, fully illustrates the extent to whieh
immunity goes. In that case it appeared that the defendant
when assaulted had fired in self-defence, and, missing the assailant, had wounded an innocent "bystander, and the court
held that the party thus assailed was free from both civil and
criminal liability. The act which he had, done was lawful and
without negligence, and no one, not eved a third party, not an
assailant, but an innocent bystander, could make him answer
in damages for the injury occasioned thereby.
It would seem on general principles that if the, party who
actually causes the injury is free from all civil and criminal
liability therefor, his employer must also be entitled to a like
immunity. That such is the ordinary rule is not denied; but
it is earnestly insisted by counsel that where the employer is
a common carrier, and the party injured a passenger, there is
an exception, and the proposition is laid down that the contract of carriage is broken, and damages for such breach are
recoverable, whenever the passenger is assaulted and injured
by an emplpy6 without actual necessity therefor. It is urged
that the carrier not only agrees to use all reasonable nieans to
prevent the passenger from suffering violence at the hands of
third parties, but also engages absolutely that his own employ~s
shall commit no assault upon him. We quote from the brief
the contention:
"The cause of action was breach of the contract to carry
safely. The defence sought excuse for the non-performance,
in that plaintiff had abandoned the contract and made an
assault upon the servant of defendant to whose care he was

N. P. & N. E. RiILROAD CO. v. JOPES.
Opinion of the Court.

committed, and that, therefore, defendant could not perform
by reason of plaintiff's own act. Under this the facts must
exist to excuse the breach. Not that the servant had reasonable
cause to believe they existed, but that they existed in fact.
Under the criminal law if there is a reasonable doubt it suffices
to excuse, but the non-performance of contracts cannot be
excused upon beliefs."
Special reference is made to the case of Steamboat Co. v.
Brokett, 121 U. S. 631, in which this court held that c1a
common carrier undertakes absolutely to protect it passengers
against the misconduct or negligence of its own servants,
employed in executing the contract of transportation, and
acting within the general scope of their employment;" a
proposition which was fortified in the opinion by reference to
several authorities. But it will be noticed that that which,
according to this decision, the carrier engages absoltitely against
is the misconduct or negligence of his employ. If this shooting was lawfully done, and in the just exercise of the right of
self-defence, there was neither misconduct nor negligence. It
is not every assault by an employ6 that gives to the passenger
a right of action against the carrier. Suppose a passenger is
guilty of grossly indecent language and conduct in the presence
of lady passengers, and the conductor forcibly removes him
from their presence, there is no misconduct in such removal;
and, if only necessary force is -used, nothing which gives to
the party any cause of action against the carrier. In such a
case, the passenger, by his own misconduct, has broken the
contract of carriage, and he has no cause of action for injuries
which result to him in consequence thereof. He has voluntarily put himself in a position which casts upon the employ6
both the right and duty of using force. There are many
authorities which in terms declare this obligation on the part
of the carrier, and justify the use of force by the employ6,
although such force, reasonably exercised, may have resulted
in injury. But if an employ6 may use force to protect other
passengers, so he may to protect himself. He has not forfeited his right of self-defence by assuming service with a common carrier; nor does the common carrier engage aught

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

against the exercise of that right by his employ6. There is
no misconduct when a conductor uses force and does injury in
simply self-defence; and the rules which determine what is
self-defence are of universal application, and are not affected
by the character of the employment in which the party is
engaged. Indeed, while the courts hold that the liability of
a common carrier to his passengers for the assaults of his employ~s is of a most stringent character, far greater than that of
ordinary employers for the actions of their employ~s, yet they
all limit th6 liability to cases in which the assault and injury
are wrongful. Upon this general matter, in 2 Wood's Railway Law, 1199, the author thus states the rule-: "In .reference
to the application of this rule, so far as railroad companies
and carriers of passengers are concerned, it may be said that
they are not only bound to protect their passengers against
injury and unlawful assault by third persons riding upon the
same conveyance, so far as due care can secure that result, but
they are bound absolutely to see to it that no unlawful assault
or injury is inflicted upon them by their own servants. In the
one case their liability depends upon the question of negligence, whether they improperly admitted the passenger inflicting the injury upon the train,, while in the other the simple
question is whether the act was unlawful." And in Taylor
on Private Corporations, sec. 347, 2d ed., it is said,: "While
a carrier does not insure his passengers against every conceivable danger, he is held absolutely to agree that his own servants engaged in transporting the passenger shall commit no
.
Recent cases state this
wrongful act against him. .
liability in the broadest and strongest language; and, without
going beyond the actual decisions, it may be said that the carrier is liable for every conceivable wrongful act done to a passenger by its train hands and other employ~s while they are
engaged in transporting him, no matter how wilful and malicious the act may be, or how plainly it may be apparent from
its nature that it could not have been done in furtherance of
the carrier's business." See also Peavy v. Georgia Railroadc&
Banking Co., 81 Georgia, 485; HIarrison v. Fink, 42 Fed. Rep.
87.

N. 0. & N. E. RlAILROAD CO. v. JOPES.
Opinion of the Court.

In most of the cases in which an injury done by an employ6
has been the cause of the litigation, the defence has been, not

that the act of the employ6 was lawful, but that it was a wanton and wilful act on his part, outside the scope of his employment, and therefore something for which his employer was not
responsible. And if the act was of that .character, the general
rule is that the employ6 alone, and not the employer, is responsible. But, owing to the peculiar circumstances which surround
the carrying of passengers, as stated, a more stringent rule of
liability has been cast upon the employer; and he has been
held liable although the assault was wanton and wilful, and
outside the scope o the employment. Noticeable instances of
this kind are the cases of Craker v. Chicago & NYorthwestern
Railway, 36 Wisconsin, 657, in which, when a conductor had
forcibly kissed a lady passenger, the company was held responsible for the unlawful assault; and Goddard v. Grand Trunk
Railway, 57 Maine,'202, in which, when a brakeman had committed a gross and offensive assault upon an invalid passenger,
the company was held liable in damages.
But here the defence is that the act of the conductor was
lawful. If the immediate actor is free from responsibility
because his act was lawful, can his employer, one taking no
direct part in the transaction, be held responsible? Suppose
we eliminate the employ6, and assume a case in which the
carrier has no servants, and himself does the work of carriage;
should he assault and wound a passenger in the manner suggested by the instruction, it is undeniable that if sued as an
individual he would be held free from responsibility, and the
act adjudged lawful. Can it be that if sued as a carriet for
the same act a different rule obtains, and he be held liable?
Has he broken his contract of carriage by an act which is lawful in itself, and which as an individual he was justified in
doing? The question carries its own answer; and it may be
generally affirmed that if an act of an employ& be lawful, and
one which he is justified in doing, and which casts no personal
responsibility upon him, no responsibility attaches to the
employer therefor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

For the error of the court in respect to this instruction the
judgment must be
.Reversed,and the case remandecdfor a new trial,and it i8 8o

ordered.

PEARCE v. RICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 51. Argued October 26, 27, 1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.
F. owed H. & Co. on account about $22,000. He settled this in part by a
cash payment, and in part by a transfer of promissory notes payable to
himself, the payment of two of which, for $5000 each, was guaranteed
by him in writing. H. & Co. transferred these notes to a bank as collateral to their own note for about $13,000. They then became insolvent,
and assigned all their estate to P. as assignee for distribution among
their creditors. The bank sued F. on his guaranty. He set up in defence that his indebtedness to H. & Co. grew out of dealings in options
in grain and other commodities, to be. settled on the basis of "differences," and that it was invalidated by the statutes of Illinois, where the
transactions took place. The court held that he could not maintain this
statutory defence as against a bonafide holder of the guaranteed notes,
and gave judgment against him. Execution on this judgment being returned unsatisfied, a bill was filed on behalf of the bank to obtain a discovery of his property and the appointment of a receiver, to which F., and
the maker of the notes, and R., with others, were made defendants. P.,
the assignee of H. & Co., was, on his own application, subsequently made
a defendant. An injunction issued, restraining each of the defendants
from disposing of any notes in his possession due to F. Subsequently
to these proceedings F. assigned to R. the two notes which H. & Co. had
transferred to the bank. P., as assignee of H. & Co., filed a cross-bill in
the equity suit, showing that the judgment in favor of the bank was in
excess of the balance due the bank by H. & Co. R. filed an answer and a
cross-bill in that suit, setting up his claim to the said notes, and maintaining that the judgment in favor of the bank was invalid, as being in
conflict with the statutes of Illinois. Held,
(1) That the liability of F. upon the guaranty was, as between the bank
and-him, fixed by the judgment in the action at law;
(2) That all the bank could equitably claim in this suit was the amount
actually due it from H. &' Co., which was considerably less than
the amiount of the face of the notes;

