CASES ADJUDGED
is

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

SPARHAWK v. YERKES.
SPAIRHAWK v. ACKLEY,
APPEALS FROM THm

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 58, 57.

Argued October 28, 1891.-Decided December 7, 1891.

In December, 1871, Y., who was a member of the stock exchanges in New
York and in Philadelphia, was declared to be a bankrupt. At that time
his seat in the New York Exchange was worth about $4000, and the other
about $2000. By the rules of each, membership, in case of failure, was
suspended until settlement with its members who were creditors, and
the seat in each was liable to be sold and the proceeds applied to the
payment of the debts of such of its members. At the time of his failure
the indebtedness of Y. to members of the New York Exchange amounted
to about $8500, and to members of the Philadelphia Exchange to nearly
$22,000. The assignees notified each exchange of their appointment, but
took no steps to adjust the debts or to acquire the seats, which were
appraised as of no value. Within two years Y. notified them that assessments on the seats we're overdue. They told him he was the-proper
party to pay them, and that what he might pay would be recognized ds
properly to be refunded, in case the seats should be sold by them. Y.
was discharged in bankruptcy in 1873. From his private means he paid
all assessments overdue and from time to time maturing, and eventually
settled with all the creditor members. Such members had proved their
1
VOL. CXLI-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
debts against his estate in bankruptcy, and in the several settlements he
had the benefit of the dividends (28 per cent) paid by the assignees.
Having thus settled all such debts he was, in June, 18?3, reinstated in his
membership in the Philadelphia board, and in December, 1883, in his
membership in the New York board. At that time the'value of the Philadelphia seat was about $6000, and of the New York seat about $20,000. I,
November, 1885, th assignees filed bills against Y. and each board, to have
these memberships decreed to be assets of the bankrupt's estate. Held,
(1) That the assignees must be deemed to have elected not to acedpt
these rights as property of the estate;
(2) That Y. was not their trustee in expending his own money to give
value to a property which was worthless and abandoned;
(3) That the assignees could not be permitted to avail themselves of the
result of his actioh, or to take the property to work out a return
of the dividends paid to these particular creditors.

THE court stated the case as follows:
Charles T. Yerkes, Jr., made a voluntary assignment for the
benefit of creditors to Joseph -M. Pile, October 21, 1871. On
December 13, 1871, he was adjudicated a bankrupt in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, on a creditors' petition, filed November 10,
1871, 'and appellants were appointed his assignees, January 12,
and the assignment of the bankrupt estate was duly made to
them, January 24, 1872. In February, 1872, the bankruptcy
court directed a transfer by Pile of the estate unadministered
by him to the bankrupt's assignees, and this was subsequently
executed and delivered.
Ninety-nine creditors proved debts in the aggregate sum of
$829,198.45, upon which dividends were declared and paid as
follows: July 19, 1872, ten per cent; May 12, 1873, nine per
cent; April 5, 1878, eight per cent; and January 30, 1880,
one per cent.
At the time of the adjudication Yerkes was a member of
the New York and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges, which, it
is conceded, were unincorporated associations. These memberships were included in the schedules filed in the bankruptcy proceedings, and therein stated to be "of no specific
value," and in the inventory and appraisment of the estate
subsequently made they were-appraised as of no value. The

SPARHAWK v. YERKES.
Statement of the Case.

Philadelphia membership was then worth not over $2000 and
the New York membership about $4000, but the bankrupt
was indebted to members of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange
in the sum of $21,842.11, and to members of the New York
Stock Exchange in the sum of $8522.99, and under the rules
of both associations membership was suspended until settlement with creditors, and, unless settlements were made as provided, the seats were to be sold and the proceeds divided
among the, creditor members. The assignees sent to the associations notice of their appointment, in January, 1872, and an
additional notice to the New York Exchange, in May, 1873,
stating that it was their duty to realize the value of the seat,
and asking the president to indicate what form, if any, was
prescribed by the rules for transfer or sale. They also addressed a communication to the Philadelphia board, and perhaps to both, in November, 1883.
At some time within two years after the assignment, Yerkes
brought to the assignees a notice of an assessment or charge due
to one of the associations on account of the membership, and
asked them what they were going to do about its payment;
they answered that as the claim had been made upon him,
they thought he was the proper party to pay it, and that anything he paid would be recognized as properly to be refunded
out of anything the assignees might realize for the seats.
On October 3, 1873, the bankrupt was discharged. In
1876 Hyde v. 1Vood8, 94 U. S. 523, was decided, sustaining
the validity of rules of stock exchanges providing for the
application of the proceeds of sales of memberships to the
debts due by members, which-the assignees in these cases had
previously been advised by counsel was the law. As testified
by one of the assignees, they had not the slighest expectation
of paying dividends aggregating over thirty-five per cent, and
did not suppose that they could realize anything from the
Philadelphia seat, because the indebtedness of the bankrupt
to its members was largely in excess of its value, and of any
dividend they expected his estate would pay (which was also
true of the New York seat); they supposed Hyde v. Woods
ruled the New York as well as the Philadelphia case, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

were instructed by counsel that the seats could not be made
available so long as they were encun~bered with an indebtedness to members of the guilds to which :Mr. Yerkes belonged;
and they did not propose to take any steps until they learned,
in the fall of 1883, of Judge MceKenan's decision, announced
the 28th of the preceding March, in In re Werd~r, 15 Fed.
Rep. 789.
Yerkes testified to several conversations, in which it was generally conceded by the assignees that they had no rights in the
memberships, and that he had no idea that they ever expected
to make such claim; while one of the assignees said that
after the decision in .l.ydev. Woods there was a conversation
between Yerkes and them, in which it was admitted, that, for
the time being, their proceedings were suspended as to further action, but that.they never withdrew the claim.
From 1871 to 1876 the assignees took no steps to compel a
conveyance or sale of the seats, and assumed no liability or
responsibility for the assessments and charges, nor did they
for eight years thereafter. In the meantime, Yerkes by personal solicitation persuaded the members of the associations
to withhold for his personal benefit any demand for a sale.
He paid from year to year the periodical assessments, and also
either in money out of his own earnings or in services, the
debts, due the members, which debts had been reduced by the
dividends paid by the estate. On June. 18, 1883, the bankrupt was reelected to membership in the Philadelphia Exchange, and on December 27, 1883, to membership in the New
York Exchange, having made his settlements some time before.
The value of the seats in both exchanges increased considerably in the lapse of time. In the New York board the value
increased to some $20,000 in 1883, and in the Philadelphia
board to about $6000 in the same year. Subsequently the
New York seats rose in value to between thirty and thirtyfour thousand dollars and the Philadelphia seats to between
five and eight thousand dollars. As has been stated, by the
rules of the exchanges, insolvency of a member or a failure to
fulfil his contracts (bankruptcy being also specifically named
in the Philadelphia rules), in effect worked suspension of mem-

SPARHAW K v. YERKES.
Statement of the Case.

bership, and there was a provision for the sale of seats after
one year, on failure of the suspended member to settle with
his creditors. In the rules of the New York board there was
a provision for an extension of the time for settlement. Under
both sets of rules a suspended member might be reinstated if
the governing committee reported favorably upon his application.

On April 28, 1884, the assignees presented a petition

in the bankruptcy -courtfor the sale of the memberships, which
was dismissed, and on November 14, 1885, filed two bills in
equity to accomplish the same purpose against the bankrupt
and members of the New York and Philadelphia ':boards.
The bills prayed that it. might be decreed that the memberships were assets of the bankrupt's estate and vested in the
complainants as his assignees; that they be sold and complainants' vendees admitted to membership in place of 'Yerkes;
that if the court should determine that Yorkes was entitled to'
be reimbursed for any moneys paid by him for or on account
of the memberships, such reimbursement should be decreed out
of the proceeds of the sale, or if it should be determined that
Yerkes was entitled to retain the memberships, he be 'ordered
to account for the market value of the same and to pay complainants such amounts as they -had paid as dividends upon the
debts owed by Yerkes to his fellow-members of the association
at the time of his insolvency and bankruptcy.
The cases were brought to issue, evidence "taken, and a master's report made, to which exceptions were fi.d and hearing
had thereon. The master (Mfason) held that, by virtue of the
assignment in bankruptcy, the assignees' rights in this peculiar
property in these memberships, were to settle and arrange the
bankrupt's affairs to the satisfaction of his creditors,.members
of the associations, and having made satisfactory proof of settlement, to apply for readmission, which could be obtained
with the consent of two-thirds of the governing committee in
New York and of at least fourteen out of eighteen in Philadelphia, or, if they failed to effect a settlement in one year,
then to have the memberships sold and the proceeds paid pro
rata to the bankrupt's creditors in the exchanges; that the
assignees exercised neither of these rights, and tha membvi'

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

ships to which, ten years after his discharge, the bankrupt was
again admitted constituted in effect after-acquired property;
that there was no assumption of original rights de jure; and
that the lapse of time was fatal to the assignees' claim, particularly in view of the section of the bankrupt law as to the
limitation of actions.
The exceptions to the master's report were overruled, and
the Circuit Court dismissed the bills upon the ground of laches.
From these decrees appeals were prosecuted to this court.
Afr. Wayne _XfVeagh for appellants.
I. Yerkes, in dealing with his fellow-members of the stock
exchanges, and in procuring his personal reinstatement to the
seats from which he had been suspended, acted in effect as
agent or trustee for the assignees and the body of his creditors, and his acquisition of the seats enured to their benefit.
Section 5046 of the Revised Statutes amounts to a plain
statutory declaration that the title to these seats, subject to
the claims of the members of the boards, vested in the as-'
signees. "Assignees' duties relate chiefly to unsecured creditors." Mr. Chief Justice Waite, in AfoHenry v. La Socmm
Frangaied'ELpargnes, 95 U. S.58. "The leading purpose of
the bankrupt law is to secure an equal distribution of the
bankrupt's property among his creditors." Mr. Justice Davis
in Avery v. Hacidey, 20 Wall. 407, 413. Speedy distribution
is second in importance to equality of distribution. Mr. Justice Miller in Baily v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342. "Equal' distribution of the property of the bankrupt pro Pata is the main
purpose which the Bankrupt Act seeks to accomplish." Mr.
Justice Clifford, in Buchanan v. Smith, 16 Wall. 277, 301;
Wager v. Hall, 16 Wall. 584, 601; _erchants' .Yat. Bank v.
Cook, 95 U. S. 342. "And fraud upon the equality of right
among creditors of the bankrupt is committed when proof of
debt is made by a secured creditor without mentioning lien."
Bennett, J., in Starkv v. Curd, 88 Kentucky, 164.
That a stock exchange seat is property or estate within the
statute, and that it passes to assignees in bankruptcy, has been

SPARHAWK v. YERKES.
Argument for Appellants.

already decided by this court. Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523.
See also In re Warder, 10 Fed. Rep. 275 ; In re Werder, 15 Fed.
Rep. 789; Powell v. Valdron, 89 N. Y. 328; Grocers' Bank v.
M1rphy, 60 How. Pr. 426; Olute v. Loveland, 68 California,
254; Hdienicht v. Lissa, 78 California, 351.
So far as the payment of money -was a redemption, the fact
was that the assignees furnished more money to redeem the
New York seat; the only money paid by Yerkes to New York
Stock Exchange creditors being, as he states, $64:3.59, while
the assignees paid in dividends to them $2263.29. It is submitted that the claim is no more meritorious as against the
assignees who had not disclaimed title, than would be the
claim of any third person who might have paid off the debts
due the members of the stock exchanges, and then, had the
rules of the exchanges permitted, procured his admission to
the suspended memberships without a formal sale and purchase of the seats.
Suit by a bankrupt (or even possession by him) is protected
only until intervention and claim by the assignee. Cohen v.
Ditchell, 25 Q. B. D. 262; Thatcher v. Rockwell, 105 U. S. 467;
Hill v. Harding, 131 U. S. App. cc. Indeed, the title of a
stranger voluntarily redeeming such seats would be better
than Yerkes's, for the former would be free from the objection
fatal to Yerkess claims that his trust relation to the estate
forbade him from reaping an advantage at the expense of his
creditors.
The provisions of the Bankrupt Act of 1867 all show the
bankrupt to be charged with the duty of disclosure and delivery of his property to te assignees. See sections 5110, 5083;
and Deans v. Dowd, 128 U. S. 273; Peters v. Bain, 133 U. S.
670. Sec. 5051 provides "that the debtor shall . . . at
the request of the assignee and at the expense of the estate,
make and execute any instrument, deeds and writings which
may be proper to enable the assignee to possess hirnse f fully
of all the assets of the bankrupt." This provision is without
any limitation of time.
A principle applies similar to that. which forbids a technical
trustee purchasing at his own sale, or ',hose having confidential

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

relations in respect to property from reaping an advantage in
dealing with it. The rule which discountenances such transactions rests on the moral obligation to refrain from placing
one's self in relations which, ordinarily; excite a conflict
between self interest and integrity. .Afihaud v. Girod, 4
flow. 503; Fan Epps v. Tan Epops, 9 Paige, 237; Ringo v.
Binno, 10 Pet. 269; Bennett v. Austin, 81 N. Y. 308; Schrenkeisen v. -Miller, 9 Ben. 55; ifamvton v. Rouse, 22 Wall. 263.
The action of the bankrupt in seeking to possess himself of
the property in these seats assumed the existence of some
right to them remaining in him after the assignment to the
assignees. But it is very clear that he had no .possible claim
upon it or right to deal with it. A bankrupt debtor after
assignment has only a right to the surplus, or rather a hope or
expectation of such right after the debts are paid. 'Ex varte
She2ffield, 10 Ch.D. 434; Bartlett v. Teah, 1 Fed. Rep. 768.
It is insisted, therefore, that with the plain letter of the
statute vesting title in the assignees, with the duty devolving
upon the bankrupt of permitting the assignees, to realize for
his creditors everything possible out of the estate assigned to
them, and with no plain and unmistakable refusal by them to
appropriate these specific properties, this bankrupt was not
entitled either at law or in equity to redeem the seats in.
question and hold them and their emoluments against the
assignees.
There was absolutely no evidence to warrant the assumption by the master reporting as register that the assignees
took only a "suspended membership;" that is, that the memberships were suspended before the rights' of the assignees
attached thereto. The position is unsound because there is
nothing in the nature of a stock exchange. seat which justifies
it. The fact that the privileges of the seat are suspended upon
insolvency, does not abolish the property in it. It does not
become ahnihilated; it does not go to the exchange or to the
other members. The seat retains its identity, and upon the
continuance of the insolvency is sold under the rules as a
distinct thing, and the purchaser takes that particular property,
and, when elected, exercises the privileges accompanying it.

SPARHAWK v. YERKES.
Argument for Appellants.

The master assumed that its character was given to it by
the incident of an election or reelection or restoration to
membership being necessary in order to give the possessor of
the thing all the privileges attaching to it. Instead of this
being the fact, its character is given to it by its position as
property, and the rules of the organization as to election to
membership are strictly subsidiary. If the master's position
were correct that the reinstatement to membership must be
made within the times prescribed by the rules, dr be, lost, there
would be an annihilation of membership on failure of the
owner to claim it. But that this is not the case is. shown by
the rule which provides for sale of the seat, and payment out
of the proceeds (1) of the debts of members, and (2) to the
owner.
The right to readmission to the privileges of a stock exchange
seat is very analogous to the right of renewal of a lease. It
is held that this right is an essential part of the property of
an expiring lease, and an assignee for creditors cannot be
deprived of it by the bankrupt, or the bankrupt's vendee, pro
curing a new lease in his own name after bankruptcy. Jones
v. Slauson, 33 Fed. Rep. 632.
Even where there is no covenant to renew, but merely an
expectancy of renewal based upon occupancy of the premises,
and where actual renewal depends upon the favor of the
lessor, the property in the new lease attaches to the old lease
and belongs to the owner of the latter. Phyfe v. ar'dell,
5 Paige, 268; S. C. 28"Am. Dec. 430; Gibbes v. Jenkins, 3
Sandf. Ch. 130; -fMitchtell v. Reed, 84 N. Y. 556.
The master's conception of -a membership obtained by readmission as distinct from a suspended membership, is purely
of an academic and metaphysical character. It finds no basis
in the facts proven, or The law governing, as to the nature of
a stock exchange seat. It was evidently suggested by way
of argument to sustain the remaining and principal grounds
upon which the cases were determined.
II. As to the assignees' abandonment of their title. It is
well understood to be the law that assignees in bankruptcy
are not bound to accept property of an onerous or unprofitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

character. American File Company v. Garrett, 110 U. S.
288, 295. The master and the court were too quick to assume,
notwithstadiding the evidence, that the present were proper
cases for applying this law, and for holding that the assignees
had, as matter of fact, abandoned this property, and had therefore no further claim upon it.
But it is settled law that merely leaving a pledgein the
hands of a pledgee with no offer to redeem, but also with no
demand by the creditor for payment, is not of itself abandonment, and is not even evidence sufficient to justify submitting
the question of abandonment to a jury. 1?eynold8 v. Cridge,
131 Penn. St. 189.
The acceptance and appropriation of the pledge or property
by the assignees by the continuous payment of dividends upon
the stock exchange debts proved, which were liens against the
seats, and which payments went to the reduction of the
incumbrances upon them, was of itself ample to indicate their
claim of title. Welsh v. ,Afyer8, 4 Camp. 368; .Thoma8 v.
Pemberton, 7 Taunt. 206.

After twenty years a presumption of abandonment would
arise of course; but until that time elapses no such presumption arises. Union Canal Co. v. Woodside, 11 Penn. St. 176;
Steevens v. Earle8, 25 Michigan, 40.

IIl. As to the assignees being guilty of laches in asserting
their title.
It is not understood to be contended that this claim is
barred by the provision in the Bankrupt Act for a two years'
limitation of suits. Rev. Stat. 5057. Lest, however-this contention should be made, it is proper to dispose of it at this
point.

The act declares that no suit, either at law or in equity,
shall be maintainable in any court between an assignee in
bankruptcy, and a person claiming an adverse interest, touching any property or rights of property transferable to or
vested in such assignee, unless brought within two years
from the time when the cause of action accrued for or against
such assignee. This provision is a substantial reenactment of
the 8th section of the Bankrupt Act of 1841. It has been

SPARAWK v. YERKES.
Argument for Appellants.

held, under these acts, that the limitation applies only to suits
growing out of disputes in respect to property and rights of
property of the bankrupt, which came to the hands of the
assignee, and to which adverse claims existed while in the
hands of the bankrupt, and before assignment. In re Irederiek J Conant, 5 Blatchford, 54; Stevens v. Hauser, 39 N. Y.
302; Sedgwiek v. Casey, 4 Nat. Bank. Reg. 496.
"The interest adversely claimed, and which the statute protects, if not sued for within two years, is an interest in a claimant other than the bankrupt." Clark v. Clark, 17 How. 315,
321; Pke ps v. AfoDonald, 99 U. S. 298, 306; French v. .Aerrill, 132 Mass. 525.
But even if Yerkes be deemed, for any purpose, a claimant
to an adverse interest within the statute, that interest did not
begin until his admission to the stock exchange in 1883.
Under the act of 1841 it was held that the limitation does not
run till the taking of adverse possession. Banks v. Ogden,
2 Wall. 67. And the same doctrine has been maintained in
interpreting the act of 1867 and other acts of the kind. Besom
v. Shively, 28 Kansas, 574; Gray v. Jones, 14 Fed. IRep. 83.
The assignees filed their petition in the bankruptcy court
for sale of these interests early in 1884. Their petition being
dismissed, they continued the claim by bill fied in the Circuit
Court, November 19, 1885. The present suits, for purposes
of the limitation of the statute, are to be deemed a continuance
of the proceedings begun in the bankruptcy court. -Marshall
v. Knox, 16 Wall. 551; Adarms v. Collier, 122 U. S. 382, 389.
There is, therefore, no bar. And even if advantage cannot
be taken of the time of beginning the proceedings in the bankruptcy court, the bill filed in the New York Stock Exchange
case was quite within the two years.
IV. The appellants are at least-entitled to be subrogated
to the rights of the stock exchange creditors as against those
seats to the extent of the dividends received by these secured
creditors from the bankrupt's estate.
The right of subrogation is not doubtful. " A lien creditor
proving his claim as unsecured does not extinguish his lien,
but waives itfor the assignee's benefot as subrogatee." Stark&

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Curd, 88.Kentucky, 164; Coo7 v. Farrington,104 'Mass.
212, 213; HRi&ock v. Jayox, 12 Nat. Bank. Reg. 507, 512.
V. The bankrupt is not entitled tb be reimbursed the
moneys paid by him to his creditors of the stock exchange.
The dues and assessments actually paid by Yerkes, it is conceded, should be returned to him, for they were paid under an
.understanding with-the assignee that he should be reimbursed
for such outlays. But further than this he has no claim upon
the assignees.
2fr. Frank P. Prichardfor appellees. .rM. -John 'G. John8of was on the brief for Yerkes, appellee, and Mr. J. Rod-

man, Paul and Mr. George W. Biddle were on it for the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Ex*change, appellees..
MRB. CHIEF JusTICE FULLEB, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In lyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523, it was ruled that the ownership of a seat in a stock and exchange board is property, not
absolute and unqualified, but limited and restricted by the
rules of the association; that such rules in imposing the condition upon the disposition of memberships that the proceeds
should be first applied to the benefit of creditor members are
not open to objection on the ground of public policy, or because
in violation of the bankrupt act; and that in the case of the
bankruptcy of a member his right to a seat would pass to his
assignees, and the balance of the proceeds upon sale could be
'recovered for the benefit of the estate. While the property is
peculiar and in its nature a personal privilege, yet such value
as it may possess, notwithstanding the restrictions to which it
is subject, is susceptible of being realized by creditors. Ager
v. .fYurray, 105 U. S. 126; Stephens v. Cady, 14 How. 528;
Powell v. Waldron, 89 N. Y. 328; Belton v. Hatch, 109 N. Y.
593; Habenicht v. Lisae, 78 California, 351; Weaver v.
Fisher,110 Illinois, 146.
Under the rules of the exchanges in question, suspension of
membership followed upon insolvency, and if the debts due

SPA4HA'WK v. YERKES.
Opinion of the Court.

members were not settled, the seats were to be sold, and the
proceeds, after the charges due the associations were deducted,
were to be distributed pro rat among, thQse crieditors. 'Reinstatement in or readmission" to membership was provided for
upon a settlement in full by the suspended member, and the
action of the governing board in his favor. By the assignment in bankruptcy, all the bankrupt's rights of action for
property or estate and of redemption, together with his right
and authority to sell, manage, dispose of and sue for the same,
as they existed at the time the petition was filed, passed to
the assignees. Rev. Stat. ยง 5046. They might, therefore, as
-the master pqinted ont, have settled and arranged the bankrupt's affairs with the creditor members, and applied for
readmission and a transfer in such manner, with the assent of
the exchanges, as would have enabled them to avail themselves
of the seats. They could have propeily required the bankrupt to assist them in taking the necessary steps as between'
him and them and the associations, and in case of necessity
might have resorted to the courts.
They were not- bound, however, to accept property of an
onerous and unprofitable nature, which would burden instead
of benefiting the estate, and they could elect whether they
would accept or not, after due consideration and within a
reasonable time, while, if their judgment was unwisely exercised, the bankruptcy court was open to the creditors to compel a different conclusion. 6@lenny v. Langdon, Q8 U. S. 20;
Ameri an File Co. v. Garrett,110 U. S. 288.
At the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
November 10, 1871, and of the bankrupt's discharge, October
3, 1873, these suspended meniberships were confessedly of no
value to the estate and were so appraised, because no possible
dividend could be paid equal to the excess of the debts due
members over the then value of the memberships.
It may be assumed that the assignees regarded the expenditure of money in the payment of annual dues and charges,
and in settlement with creditor members, as not justifiable
under the circumstances. At all events, for twelve years after
their appointment, and ten years after the bankrupt's discharge,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

they took no steps to obtain possession, and asked no assistance
in that regard from either the bankrupt or the courts; made
no payments to the associations and attempted no settlements
with the creditor members; considered the realization of anything as substantially impracticable in view of the situation
and of judicial decision ; and contented themselves with the
hope that masterly inactivity might enable them to assert a
claim if by the efforts of the bankrupt the load of debt which
weighed down the right to the seats was lifted, and in the
progress of years the value of such seats happened to increase
instead of diminish.
Nor did they seek a sale, nor to compel the creditor members to realize upon or agree to a valuation of the seats and
prove only for the balance of their claims, under Rev. Stat.
ยง 5075, if applicable, or otherwise to gain the benefit of such
-reduction as might thus be obtained, but, on the contrary,
allowed these creditors to prove their debts in full, and paid
dividends thereon, with6ut objection.
Except that they notified the exchanges of their appointment, they did nothing in the way of taking possession or of
the preservation of the property, and for several years prior
to the reinstatement they communicated neither with the
bankrupt nor the exchanges in regard to the matter. Their
conduct can be viewed in no other light than that of an election not to accept these rights as property of the estate.
The policy of the bankrupt law was, after taking from the
bankrupt all his property -not exempt by law, to discharge
him from his debts and liabilities and enable him to take a
fresh start. Henceforward his earnings were his own, and
after his adjudication and the surrendering of his property to
be administered, he was as much at-liberty to purchase any of
the property so surrendered as any other person. Traer v.
Clews, 115 V. S. 52 .
In order to reacquire his 'eats Yerkes paid the annual dues
to fhe exchanges and the assessments for their gratuity or
trust funds, a. scheme of life insurance for the benefit of members, which added to the value of the memberships when payments were kept up, and which funds were established after

SPARHAWK v. YERKES.
Opinion of the Court.

the bankruptcy. le induced his creditor fellow-members, out
of personal consideration for him, and for his personal benefit,
to withhold . demand for a sale under the rules, and finally
paid them all in full. Those payments were made, in cash or
personal services, out of -his earnings subsequent to his bankruptcy, and, as appears from his sworn answer, as well as his
testimony, under the belief that the assignees never expected
to set up any claim to the seats.
The assignees admit in substance that they knew that
Yerkes wished to retain his seats; that he was of opinion that
they could do nothing with them; that he was preventing by
his own exertions any sale by the board creditors; and that
he was paying off their claims.
Thus, by the devotion of his own time and earnings, this
worthless and abandoned property became valuable, and the
assignees acquiesced in the transmutation, as it was accomplished, without action and without objection.
It is to be observed that Yerkes was in no sense the agent
or trustee for the assignees or for the creditors, in thus expending his money and labor for the preservation of the seats.
Whatever information he could impart, or assistance he could
rendqr, in lacilitating the action of the assignees in the line of
their duties, was to be expected of him, and up to the time of
his discharge he could have been compelled by summary order
to assist in perfecting possession in the assignees of property
which had passed to them, and which they had accepted; but
he was not bound to contribute his own time and money to
the removal of burdens which they declined to assume, and
whose existence put the rights to readmission out of the
category of available assets, and justified the election of the
assignees not to accept them.
We hold that the assignees, after sedulously avoiding for
years any responsibility in the premises, the assumption of
any relations to the exchanges, the taking of any steps to free
the rights from encumbrance, or to realize upon them as encumbered, and allowing the bankrupt, by 'the use of after
acquisitions, to create a value not theretofore possessed, cannot
be allowed to come into a court of equity, and, in spite of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer,' Harlan, JJ.

laches and acquiescence of the most pronounced character,
invoke its aid to wrest from him the fruit of his independent
and lawful exertions, and reap where they had not sown.
Under such circumstances they do not come with clean hands.
Clearly the sale of the present memberships to a nominee
of the assignees, and the admission of such nominee upon the
ouster of Yerkes cannot now be coerced, and if Yerkes's title
is not open to attack he cannot be decreed to account for the
market value thereof to the extent, in whole or in part, of the
dividends which the creditor members received. In order to
obtain the seats their claims had to be settled in full, and such
settlement was not waived by their being proved in the bankruptcy proceedings, without objection then or for thirteen
years thereafter. The dividends were not paid in order to
protect the rights of the assignees or to save the memberships,
and while, by reason of the extinguishment of the debts p-o
tanto, Yerkes may be said to have paid less than he otherwise
would, yet he paid much more than the value of the seats at
the time of the bankruptcy, in addition to the amount of the
dividends. The parties well understood that the dividends
could not at best reach more than a certain percentage, and
that the debts due the members of the association, after that
percentage was deducted, far exceeded the value of the seats.
The assignees deemed it unwise and -impracticable to attempt
to speculate upon a futare rise in that value, and, declining to
settle with the creditor members, to pay the periodical charges,
and to enter into relations with the exchanges and those
creditors, proceeded to close up the estate, without regard
to these remote expectancies, apparently with commendable
promptitude. As we have said, they cannot now be permitted
to avail themselves of the results of what Yerkes did and they
did not do, nor can they lay hold of his property to work out
a return of what the estate paid to these particular creditors
in common with the others.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
HARLAN, dissenting.

MR. JUSTIC HARLAN and myself dissent from the foregoing
opinion and judgment.

SPARHAWK v. YETKS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Harlan, J.

By the assignment in 1871 the memberships in the two
exchanges were transferred to the assignees. They were then
worth $6000. By the rules of the exchangesdebts to members were a prior lien. Those debts then amounted to $30,365.10. In 6ther words, the assignees took title to property
w6rth $6000, subject to a lien of $30,365.10. If then sold, the
debts of the bankrupt would have- been reduced by the amount
of $6000. By making the sale the assignees. would have assumed no special obligation for the balance of the debts having
a lien upon these memberships. They should have sold at
once, or waited to see if there was a rise in value. They chose
the latter. They never, in terms, relinquished their claim
upon the property. The ad interim payments made by the
bankrupt only kept alive certain insurance, which on his death
would. have enured to the heirs, and not gone to the assignees.
Such payments, therefore, were wholly for his benefit, and not
for the assigned estate, or for the creditors.
The assignees have paid dividends aggregating 28 per cent,
or to the creditors holding such liens $8502.22. The bankrupt, the assignor, availing himself of this payment, by services
and money3, pays off the balance of these lien claims and
appropriates to himself the seats in the exchanges, now worth
$35,000 to $42,000. The result is that the delay of the assignees, wise as it would seem from the increased value of 'the
property, is adjudged an abandonment. Property then worth
$6000 is not appropriated to the reduction of the debts against
the estate; on the contrary, the bankrupt gets the benefit of
$8500 paid out of the estate assigned for the benefit of creditors, uses that payment to reduce the claims against this property, and, paying off the balance, repossesses himself of the
property, now worth over $35,000.
We see neither equity nor law in this conclusion, and therefore dissent.
MR.JusTioE BRA T Y and MR. JusTica GRAY did not hear
the argument, and took no part in the decision of these cases.
VOL. CXLII-2

