OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

CHARLOTTE, COLUMBIA AND AUGUSTA RAILROAD COMPANY v. GI:BBES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
Wo. 41. Argued October 20, 1891. -Decided

January 4, 1892.

The provisions in c. 40 of the General Statutes of South Carolina of 1882,
requiring the salaries and expenses of the state railroad commission to
be borne by the several corporations owning or operating railroads
within the State, are not in conflict with the provision in the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution that a State shall not "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law; nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.".
It is again decided that private corporations are persons within the meaning
of that Amendment.
Requiring the burden of a public service by a corporation, in consequence
of its existence and of the exercise of privileges obtained at its request,
to be borne by it, is neither denying to it the equal protection of the
laws, nor making any unjust discrimination against it.
The legislative and constitutional provision of the State of South Carolina
that taxation of property shall be equal and uniform and in proportion
to its value, is not violated by exacting a contribution according to their
gross income of the several railroads, in proportion to the number of
miles of railroad operated within the State, in order to meet the special
service required of the state railroad commission.

THE court stated the case as follows:

The plaintiff below, and in error, The Charlotte, Columbia
and Augusta Railroad Company, is a corporation existing
under the laws of the States of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. Its road and other properry are situated
-in. tihe county of Richmond, Georgia, and in the counties of
Aiken, Edgefield, Lexington, Richland, Fairfield, Chester and
York, South Carolina, and in the county of Mecklenberg, North
Carolina.
By the ]egislature of South Carolina a general railroad law
was passed in 1878, prescribing numerous provisions for the
regulation and government of railroads in that State. That
law, as amended in some particulars, was incorporated as

CHARLOTTE &c. RAILROA)

v. GIBBES.

Statement of the Case.

chapter 40 in the General Statutes of the State, in 1882. It
provides for the appointment by the governor of three railroad commissioners, charged to see to the enforcement of its
various provisions, each of whom is to receive a salary of two
thousand dollars a year, to be paid out of the treasury of the
State in the manner provided by law for the salaries of other
state officers; and also that, "the entire expenses of the railroad commission, including all salaries and expenses of every
kind, sAall be borne by the several corporations owning or
operating railroads within this State according to their gross
income proportioned to the number of miles in the State, to be
proportioned by the comptroller general of the State, who on
or before the first day of October in each and every year shall
assess upon each and every corporation its just proportion of
such expenses in proportion to its said gross income for the
current year ending on the 30th day of June next preceding
that on which the said assessment is made; and the said
assessment shall be charged up against the said corporations,
respectively, under the order and direction of the comptroller
general, and shall be collected by the several, county treasurers
in the manner provided by law for the collection of taxes from
such corporations, and shall be paid by the said county treasurers, as collected, into the treasury of the State in like manner
as other taxes collected by them for the State."
For the fiscal year of 1883 the plaintiff was charged on the
books of the county treasurer of Richland County, in South
Carolina, with the sum of $987:75, being -the amount assessed
as a tax against that company as its entire proportion of the
salaries and expenses of the- railroad commissioners of the
State, and being its proportion for all the counties.
The 'plaintiff, deeming the same to be unjust and illegal,
paid the same under protest, and instituted the present suit,
under a law of the State, to obtain a judicial determination
that it was wrongfully and illegally collected, and the certificate of the court that it should be refunded.
In its complaint it alleges that the tax is illegal because
assessed in proportion to the gross income of the plaintiff
instead of.being in proportion to the value of its property;

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

and because its imposition is in conflict with the constitution
of the State in several particulars mentioned; and also in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
*of the United States, by which each State is forbidden to
deprive any person of property without due process of law, or
to deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, in this, that the act and amendments
authorizing it require railroad companies of the State, exclusively, to pay the salaries and expenses of three state officers,
no other persons in the State being required to contribute any
portion of the same, and require them to ray a tax of a nature,
character and amount not required of other corporations and
-persons within the jurisdiction of the State.
The attorney general of the State appeared for the treasurer
of IRichland County, and admitted that that officer, under the
order and direction of the comptroller general of the State,
had collected of the plaintiff the sum claimed, $987.75, as the
just proportion of the entire expenses of the railroad commissioners of the State, assessed upon that corporation by him,
and also the sum of $24.70, being the amount of costs and
penalties charged against it by his direction, and that the same
were paid under protest, denying, however, that the laws under
which the amount was assessed against the plaintiff and collected were unconstitutional and void, or that the same was
illegally and wrongfully collected.
The constitution of South Carolina declares that "all property subject to taxation shall be taxed in proportion to its
value," and that its legislature "shall provide by law for a
uniform and equal rate of assessment and taxation, and shall
prescribe such regulations as shall secure a just valuation for
taxation of all property," with certain specified exceptions not
affecting the questions presented.
The case was heard by the Court of Common Pleas for
Richland County, and, by- its decree, the validity of the assessment and tax was sustained and the complaint dismissed. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was
affirmed, and, to review that judgment, the case is brought
here on writ of error.

CHARLOTTE &c. RAILROAD v. GIBBES.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

-Mr&. Linden -ent for plaintiff in error.
I. Corporations are persons within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
and can invoke the benefits of the provisions of the Constitution and laws which guarantee to persons the enjoyment of
property, or afford to them the means for its protection or prohibit legislation injuriously affecting it. Santa Clara County v.
Southern Paciflc Railroad,118 U. S. 394; -Minneapolis& St.
L.ouis Railway v. Beckwith, 129 U. S.26. I give prominence
to this point because it is at once a full answer to the argument of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of South-

Carolina delivering the opinion in this case.
II. A tax which is in effect or substance a property tax
imposed exclusively upon railroad companies in a State, in
addition to the general tax upon 'all of their property ascertained by the Board oT Equalization, which it bears alike with
all other taxable property in the State, for the specific purpose
of contributing to the support of certain state officers, whose
functions may be connected with the railroads, is a double tax,
and in contravention of the first section of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the United States Constitution, that no State
shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. Eentucky Railroad
Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321; State Tax on _Railway Gross
Reeipts, 15 Wall. 284; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 -U. S. 27;
.Memphis Gas Light Co. v. Skelby County, 109 U. S. 398.
Ill. The additional tax imposed upon the railroads of South
Carolina for the support of the Railroad Commission of that
State was not in the exercise of its police power, but was in
the exercise of its power of taxation, pure and simple, and
being such, it must conform to principles of equality and uniformity. I concede that, however arbitrarily a police power
may be exercised, the Constitution would not be violated. As
to what is a police power, see Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27; License Cases, 5 How. 504; License Tax Cases, 5 Wall.
562; ]Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113. This case is not the

OCTOBER TERM, 189:L
Opinion of the Court.

exercise of such a power. The charge upon a railroad company, in the form of a tax, of a sum sufficient to pay the costs
and expenses of the enforced control and regulation over its
properties and operations, which sum is paid into the treasury
of the State and out in the same manner as other public
moneys, is an exercise of the powef of taxation pure and simple, and not of the police power.
.Mr. William E Earle for defendant in error. .3r6. Y J.
Pope, Attorney General of the State of South Carolina, and
.M'. -. L. Jfries were witl him on his brief.
MR. JusTicE FI LD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Notwithstanding the several objections taken in the complaint to the assessment and tax upon the railroad companies
to meet the expenses and salaries of the railroad commissioners,
the argument of counsel on the hearing was confined to the
supposed conflict of the laws authorizing the tax with the
inhibition of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States. All other objections were deemed to be
disposed of by the decision of the Supreme Court of the State,
that the laws complained of are not in conflict with its constitution.
The property of railroad companies in South. Carolina is
subjected by the general law to the same tax as similar property of individuals, in proportion to its value, and like conditions of uniformity and equality in its assessment are imposed.
The further tax laid upon them to meet the expenses and
salaries of the railroad commissioners is not in proportion to
the value of their property, but according to their gross
income, proportioned to the number of miles of their roads in
the State. This tax is stated to be beyond any which is levied
upon other corporations to meet an expenditure for state officers, and, therefore, it is contended, constitutes an unlawful
discrimination against railroad corporations, imposing an unequal burden upon them, in conflict with the constitutional

CHARLOTTE &c. RIAILROAID v. GIBBES.
Opinion of the Court.

amendment which ordains that no State shall deny to any
person the equal protection of the laws. Private corporations
are persons within the meaning of the amendment; it has
been so held in several cases by this court. Santa Clara
County v. Southern Pacific Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 394:;
Pembina .Minihg Co. v. Pennsylvania,125 U. S. 181, 189;
.inneapoli& & St. Louils Railroad Co. v. Beckwith, 129
U. S. 26.
If the tax were levied to pay for services in no way connected with the railroads, as, for instance, to pay the salary of
the executive or judicial officers of the State, whilst railroad
corporations were at the same time subjected to taxation upon
their property equally with other corporations for such expenses, and other corporations were not taxed for the salaries
mentioned, there would be just ground of complaint of unlawful discrimination against the railroad corporations, and of
their not receiving the equal protection of the laws. But
there is nothing of this nature in the tax in question. The
railroad commissioners are charged with a variety of duties in
connection with railroads, the performance of which is of
great importance in the regulation of those instruments of
transportation. They are invested with the general supervision of all railroads in the State, and are obliged to examine
the same and keep themselves informed as to their condition,
and the manner in which they are operated with reference to
the security and comfort of the public, and compliance with
the provisions of their charters, and the laws of the State.
Whenever it appeavs to thiem that a railroad corporation has
violated any law, or neglected- in any respect or particular to
comply with the terms of its charter, especially in regard to
connections with other railroads, the rates of toll and tl~e time
schedules, they are obliged to give notice thereof to such corporation; and, if the violation or neglect is continued after
such notice, to apply to the courts for an injunction to restrain
the company complained of from further continuing to violate
the law or the terms of its -charter. And, whenever it appears
that repairs are necessary to any such road, or that any addition to the rolling-stock, or any enlargement or improvement

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

in the stations or station-houses, or any modification of the
rates of fare for transporting freight or passengers, or any
change in the mode of operating the rQad and conducting its
business is reasonable and expedient, in order to promote the
security, convenience and comfort of the public, they are required to give information to the corporation of the improvements and changes adjudged to be proper, and, if the company
fail, within sixty days, to adopt the suggestions made, to take
such legal proceedings as may be deemed expedient to compel
them. It is their duty to listen to complaints against a railroad company made by the authorities of any city, town or
county, and to give its officers due opportunity of explanation,
and, if the complaint is sustained, to require the corporation
to remove the cause of complaint. They are required to investigate the cause of any accident on the railroad resulting in
the loss of life, and of any accident not so resulting, which
shall require investigation, and to make annual reports to the
legislature of their official acts, including such statements and
explanations as will disclose the actual working of the system
of railroad transportation in its bearing upon the business and
prosperity of the State, with such suggestions as to the general railroad policy of the State, or as to any part thereof, or
as to the condition, affairs or conduct of any of the railroad
corporations, as may seem to them appropriate, with a special
repprt of all accidents, and the causes thereof, for the preceding year. All contracts, agreements or arrangements of any
*and every nature, made by any railroad company, doing business in the State, for the pooling of earnings of any kind with
any other railroad company or companies, are to be submitted
to the commissioners for their inspection and approval, so far
as they may be affected by any of the provisions of the act
for securing to all persons just, equal and reasonable facilities
for transportation of freight and passengers; and if the contracts, agreements or arrangements shall, in the opinion of the
commissioners, in any way be in violation of the provisions of
the act, the commissioners are to notify the railroad companies, in writing, of their objections thereto, specifying them,
and if the railroad companies, after such notice, fail or neglect

CHARLOTTE &c. RAILROAD

. GIBBES.

Opinion of the Court.

to amend and alter such contract, agreement or arrangement
in a manner satisfactory to the commissioners, they shall call
upon the attorney general to institute such legal proceedings
as may be necessary to enforce the penalties prescribed for
such violations.
It is evident, from these and many other provisions that
might be stated, that the duties of the railroad commissioners,
when properly discharged, must be in the highest degree beneficial to the public, securing faithful service on the part. of
the railroad companies, and safety, convenience and comfort
in the operation of their roads. That the State has the power
to prescribe the regulations mentioned there can be no question. Though railroad corporations are private corporations
as distinguished from those created for municipal and governmental purposes, their uses are public. They are formed for
-the convenience of the public in the transportation of persons
and merchandise, and are invested for that purpose with special privileges. They are allowed to exercise the State's right
of eminent domain that they may appropriate for their uses
the necessary property of others upon paying just compensation therefor, a right which can only be exercised for public
purposes. And they assume, by the acceptance of their charters, the obligations to transport all persons and merchandise
upon like conditions and at reasonable rates; and they are
authorized to charge reasonable compensation for the services
they thus perform. Being the recipients of special privileges
from thp State, to be exercised in the interest of the public,
and assuming the obligations thus mentioned, their business is
deemed affected with a public use, and to the extent of that
use is subject to legislative regulation. deorgca .Railroad&
Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174, 179. That regulation
may extend to all measureq deemed, essential not merely to
secure the safety of passengers and freight, but to promote the
convenience of the public in the transaction of business with
them, and to-prevent abuses by extortionate charges and unjust
discrimination. It may embrace a general supervision of the
operation of their roads, which may be exercised by direct
legislation commanding or forbidding, under severe penalties,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Couft.

the doing or omission of particular acts, or it may be exercised
through commissioners specially appointed for that purpose.
The mode or manner of regulation is a matter of legislative
discretion. When exercised through commissioners, their services are for the benefit of the railroad corporations as well as
of the public. Both are served by the required supervision
over the roads and means of transportation, and there would
seem to be no sound reason why the compensation of the commissioners in such case should not be met by the corporations,
the operation of whose roads and the exercise of whose franchises are supervised. In exacting this there is no encroachment upon the Fourteenth Amendment. Requiring that the
burden of a service deemed essential to th6 public, in consequence of the existence of the corporations and the exercise
of privileges obtained at their request, should be borne by the
corporations in relation to whom the service is rendered, and
to whom it is useful, is neither denying to the corporations the
equal protection of the laws or making any unjust discrimination against them. All railroad corporations in the State are
treated alike in this respect. The necessity of, supervision extends to them all, and for that-supervision the like proportional
charge is made against all. There is no occasion for similar
regulations for the government of other than railroad corporations, and therefore no charge is made against them for the
expenses and salaries of the commissioners. The rule of equality is not invaded where all corporations of the same kind are
subjected to like charges for similar services, though no charge
at all is made against other corporations. There is no charge
where there is no service rendered. The legislative and constitutional provision of the State, that taxation of property shall
be equal and uniform and in proportion to its value, is not
violated by exacting a contribution according to their gross
income in proportion to the number of miles of railroad operated in the State to meet the special service required. Bar&ier
v. Connolly, 113 'U. S. 27; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
103; .2f8our Pacifc Railway v. .fumes, 115 U. S.512.
There are many instances where parties are compelled to
perform certain acts and to bear certain expenses when the

CHARLOTTE &c. RAILROAD v. GIBBES.
Opinion of the Court.

public is interested in the acts which are performed as much as
the parties themselves. Thus in opening, widening or improving
streets the owners of adjoining property are often compelled to
bear the expenses, or at least a portion of them,. notwithstanding
the work done is chiefly for the benefit of the public. So, also,
in the draining df marsh lauds, the public is directly interested
in removing the causes of malaria, and yet the expense of such
labor is usually thrown upon the owners of the property. Quarantine regulations are adopted for the protection of the public
against the spread of disease, yet the requirement that the
vessel examined shall pay for the examination is a part of all
quarantine systems. Morgan v. Louisiana,118 U. S. 455, 466.
So, the expense of a compulsory examination of a railroad
engineer, to ascertain whether he is free from color blindness,
has been held to be properly chargeable against the railroad
company. N.Yashville, Chattanooga & ,St. Louis Railway v.
Alabama, 128 U. S. 96, 101. So, where work is done in a particular county for the benefit of the public, the cost is oftentimes cast upon the county itself instead of upon the whole
State. Thus, in 0ounty of .tiobile v. .imball, 102 U. S. 691,
it was held that a provision for th issuing of bonds by a county
in Alabama could not be declared invalid, although it imposed
upon one county the expense of an improvement in which the
whole State was interested. In such instances, where the
interests of the public and of individuals are blended in any
work or service imposed by law,, whether the cost shall be
thrown entirely upon the individuals or upon the State or be
apportioned between them, is matter of legislative direction.
We see no error in the ruling of the court below upon the
Federal question presented, and the conclusion we have reached
renders it unnecessary to consider how far the obligation of
the corporation was affected by the alleged amendment made
to its charter.
Judgment qifirmed.
JUSTICES BRADLy and GRA&y did not sit in this case nor take
part in its decision.

