OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

official superiors, and in accordance with the provisions of the
act. Section 13, by which the Circuit and District Courts of
,the United States are "invested with full and concurrent jurisdiction of all causes, civil and criminal, arising under any of
the provisions of this act," evidently refers to causes of judicial
cognizance, already provided for, whether civil actions in the
nature of debt for penalties under sections 3 and 4, or indictments for misdemeanors under sections 6, 8 and 10. Its intention was to vest concurrent jurisdiction of such causes in the
Circuit and District Courts; and it is impossible to construe it
as giving the courts jurisdiction to determine matterS which
the act has expressly committed to the final determination of
executive officers.
The result is, that the act of 1891 is constitutional and valid;
the inspector of immigration was duly appointed; his decision
against the petitioner's right to land in the United States was
within the authority conferred upon him by that act; no
appeal having been taken to the superintendent of immigration, that decision was final and conclusive; the petitioner is
not unlawfully -estrained of her liberty; and the
Order of the Circuit Court is afflrrmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWE.R dissented.

BIRD v. BENLISA.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 139.

Argued January 6,1892.-Decided January 26, 1892.

When land in Florida assessed for taxation is not assessed to the owner or
occupant, or to an unknown owner, and also by an official or, accurate
description sufficient to impart notice to the owner, the title of the purchaser at a sale made for non-payment of the tax so assessed is not protected by the provision in the'statutes of Florida limiting the'right of
action of the former owner, to recover the possession of the lands sold,
to one year after the recording of the taxdeed; but the sale and the deed
are nullities Within the decisions of the Supreme.Court of Florida.

BIRD v. BENLISA.
Statement of the Case.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of Oranige County, Florida, on MNay 25, 1887. The
action was subsequently removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Florida. A trial in
that court resulted in a verdict and judgment for the defendant in error, plaintiff below. That such judgment was correct,
is conceded, unless plaintiff's right to recover was defeated by
a tax deed, with accompanying record and possession. That
deed purported to be based on a sale for the taxes of 1873,
and the description therein was as follows: Section 39, township 16, of range 27; section 37, in township 17, of range 27;
and section 38, in township 17, of range 28; containing nine
thousand nine hundred and nine and three-quarters (99091)
acres, lying and being in Orange County, Florida. It was
executed December 13, 1876, and recorded the same day. The
assessment roll was produced in evidence, and on it was found
no description like that contained in the deed. There was,
however, this entry, which plaintiff in error claimed was intended as a clescription of the lands found in the deed. to wit,

Owner.

Mazell, Partin & Partin.....

Des. of land.

Alexander........
Spring Creek.

,

'

.i'"

7800

$18 22

Grant ............

Defendant relied on section 63 of chapter 1976 of the Laws
of 1874, page 27, (which is the same as section 20, chapter
1877, Laws of 1872,) as follows:
"No suit or proceeding shall be commenced by a former
owner or claimant, his heirs or assigns,.or his or their legal
representatives, to set aside any deed made in pursuance of
any sale of lands for taxes, or against the grantee in such
deed, his heirs or assigns or legal representatives, to recover

00TOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the possession of said lands, unless such suit or proceedings
be commenced within one year after the recording of such deed
in the county where the lands lie, except upon the grounds
that the said lands were not subject to taxation, or that the
taxes were paid or tendered, together with the expenses chargeable thereon before sale, and the recording of such deed shall
be deemed such assertion of title or such entry into possession
by the grantee, his heirs or assigns, as to authorize such suit
or proceedings against him or them as for an actual entry."
-Mr. J. B. C. Drew and 2fA. A. -. Garland(with whom
-:.May
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
was Mfr. H
2r. J. C. Cooper (with whom was 2Mr. IT E. Davis on the
bri6f) for defendant in error.
Mi. JUSTICE BREwEpR delivered the opinion of the court.
It is true that this tax deed is regular in form, but there is
no connection between the .description in it and any to be
found in the assessment roll; and it has been held by the
Supreme Court of Florida, that the limitation section does n6t
prevent a suit by the owner to recover lands after the lapse of
a year, when "the calls in the deed of the clerk are materially
different from the lands described on the assessment roll, and
sold by the collector." CarnCross V. Lykes, 22 Florida, 587.
In that case it appeared that on the assessment roll the land
was described as "blocks 10, 12, 13 and 16," while the deed
purported to convey "blocks 10, 12 and 13, in the town of
Tampa, and according to the general map of said town." In
the opinion the- court said: "The description of the land on
the assessment roll is an important element in the purchaser's
title, and it must be sold by the collector and deeded by the
The statute
clerk in accordance with such description. . ,.
,was intefided to Prevent, after the lapse of a year, suits by the
former owner for recovery of lands upon technical -grounds,
for informalities and irregularities in the proceedings. it contemplated that the deed of the clerk alluded to would be to
lands assessed, and ione other. the clerk can only make a,

BIRD v. BENLISA.
Opinion of the Court.

deed to the lands sold by the collector. The collector can only
sell the lands as described on the assessment roll. . . . Sec.
20, above, only extends its protection to the lands assessed,
because, if other lands, or lands differing materially in ddscription, are deeded by the clerk, the deed 'is not a deed made in
pursuance of a sale of lands for taxes,' nor is a suit for the
recovery of possession thereof a suit for lands sold for taxes."
In Grissom v. _Frman,22 Florida, 581, the difference between the description rn the assessment roll and in the tax
deed consisted simply in a reversal in the numbers of the
township and range, the former being "township 21, range
11," and the latter,." township 11, range 21," but it was held
that the deed was a nullity. In Townsend v. Edwards, 25
Florida, 582, the tax deed being regular in form, the trial
court'had refused.to permit the introduction of the assessment
roll in evidence. The Supreme Court reversed the judgment,
on the ground of erior in that ruling, thus reaffirming the
cases in 22 Florida. In Sloan v. Sloan, 25 Florida, 53, an
action to remove a cloud upon the title, which cloud consisted
in a tax deed, it appeared that this deed was regular in form,
but it having been alleged and proved -that the assessment
was made by the collector of revenue, and not by the assessor
of taxes, it was held that the deed was voidable, and was not
within the protection of the limitation section .heretofore referred to. The court observed: "If the lands were assessed
on the roll when it went into the hands of the collector, the
owner was presumed to know it, and if he did not pay the
taxes and a sale was made, and a deed executed, he was also
charged with notice of the consequences which the statute
imposed upon him. If the lands were not upon such roll, he
was likewise presumed to know it, and that, the only conse7
quence was that they would be assessed the next year as well
for that as for the preceding year, but the law did not call
upon him to anticipate either an assessment or sale by the collector or subject him to the provisions of the-sixty-third section
on account of such assessment or sale. This tax deed is not
within the protection of the sixty-third section, but is a cloud
upon the land described in it."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

In Kansas, a like ruling has been made as to the necessity
of a conformity of the description in the tax deed to that on
the assessment roll. -ewitt v. Storeh, 31 Kansas, 488, which
ruling was followed by this court in a case coming from that
State - Stout v. 2fastin, 139 U. S. 151. It follows, therefore,
that on the face of the record there was disclosed no assessment or sale of the lands described in the deed, and the latter
must fall within the condemnation of the cases referred to.
But there was testimony tending to show that the tract in
controversy was sometimes called in the community the
"Alexander Spring Creek Grant," and it is contended by
plaintiff in error that an assessment by this description was
sufficient, and sustains a deed describing the land with official
accuracy. We cannot assent to this proposition. The land
was not known to the state or United States records by any
such description. A history of the title will be instructive.
While Florida was still a Spanish province, and on the 15th
of September, 1817, Antonio Huertas petitioned the governor
of the province for a grant of 15,000 acres, which petition was
on the same day sustained, and a decree entered that such a
grant be made. On the 13th of December, 1820, he petitioned
for a survey of the grant in four parcels, one being of 10,400
acres; which was approved and the survey made. After the
annexation of Florida and prior to the year 1873, by proper
proceedings in the Federal court under the authority of the
acts of Congress, the title to this tract of 10,400 acres was
confirmed to Moses E. Levy, and a survey thereof made and
approved by the surveyor general of the United States for
that State. Township and range lines were run through the
tract according to the general rules for the survey of public
lands of the United States, though it does not appear that the
,boundaries of these lands as surveyed conform fully to such
lines. So upon the face of the United States records, the land
was known either as the Moses E. Levy part of the HIuertas
grant, or as described by the survey, or by the township and
range numbers.
Now, the second clause of section 17, chap. 1713, Laws of
1869, in reference to assessments, requires:

BIRD v. BENLISA.
Opinion of the Court.

"A description of each tract or parcel of land to be taxed,
specifying under appropriate heads the township, range and
section in which the land lies, or if divided into lots and blocks,
then the number of the lot and block, and the full cash value

of each lot, tract or parcel, such value to be taken from the
taxpayer under oath."
And section 20 of the same chapter provides:
"If the land assessed be less or other than a subdivision
according to the United States survey, and unless the same is
divided in lots and blocks so that it can thereby be definitely
described, it shall be described by the boundaries thereof, or
in such other manner as to make the description as definite as
may be."
This land having been surveyed, the separate townships and
ranges might have been stated; or if it was all to be assessed
as one tract, and the description by the boundaries was too
long for insertion, then the description by the name known to
the records, and which would impart notice to the owner,
should have been used. The owner, as the Florida Supreme
Court has repeatedly held, .has a right to rely upon the assessment roll, and if his land be not upon it, to assume that it will
not be sold; but on the contrary, is liable to be placed upon
the roll of the succeeding year. But is he bound to hunt
through the assessment roll beyond the proper official description to seo if his land may not be found described by some.
term which is more or less commonly used in the communityI
Further, this tract was one of about 10,000 acres; the original petition was for a tract of 10,400 acres; the United States
survey made it 10,457.3d acres; but the tract here assessed
was only one of 7800 acres. While accuracy in the number
of acres may not be vital, yet so large a variation indicates
that another tract was intended, or that only a part of this

tract (and which part is not indicated) was assessed; either of
which was fatal.
Still further, the law required that the assessment should be
in the name of the owner or occupant, with a proviso, that if
the land be unoccupied it might be to "1unknown owner."
Laws 1869, c. 1713, secs. 6, 7, 17 and 19. These lands were

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

assessed to Mazell, Partin & Partin. There is no pretence
that they, or either of them, ever had any title to or possession
of, or connection with, the land. Under such circumstances,
it has been held by the Supreme Court of Florida that the
assessment is a nullity, and that no title passes by the sale.
LIEngle v. Railroad Co., 21 Floriala, 353; T'Engle v. lVilson,
21 Florida, 461. In the latter of these cases the assessment
was made to the "estate of Parkhurst," and it was held that
it and the sale based thereon were void. The court was urged
to hold that the provisions of the statute in this respect were
directory, but it declined to so hold, and ruled that they were
imperative. In the former of the cases the assessment was in
the name of W. L. Seymour, who claimed title under a foreclosure sale, but as it appeared that such foreclosure sale had
passed no title, it was ruled that both assessment and sale
were worthless. In its opinion the court said: "The tax is a
lien on the land only when legally assessed. This lien attaches
and has relation to the time at which the assessment was made.
,Pratt v. Ppice, 18 Florida, 289. We hold that a valid assessment of the land in accordance with the laws regulating assessments, c. 3099, Laws of Florida., acts of 1879, (and the
law in this respect was similar to that of 1869,) is necessary
and indispensable to make good the title of a purchaser at a
tax sale; without such assessment no lien attaches to the land.
An assessment, therefore, of lands to a person other than the
owner, such person not being the occupant thereof, is not a
valid assessment, and the purchaser at a tax sale based on such
assessment takes no title."
So it appears that this ]and was not assessed to the owner
or occupant, or to an unknown owner. It was not assessed
by any official or accurate description. Within the decisions,
therefore, of the Supreme Court of Florida the sale and deed
were nullities, and beyond the protecting influence of the
limitation statute.
The judgment was right, and it is
-Afflrmed.

