McELVAINE v. BRUSIH
Syllabus.

fully justified in concluding that such a publication, under the
peculiar circumstances attending it, made it impossible for that
jury, in considering the case, to act with the independence and
freedom on the part of each juror requisite to a fair trial of
the issue between the parties. The judge having come to that
conclusion, it was clearly within his authority to order the jury
to be discharged, and to put the defendant 6n trial by another
jury; and the defendant was not thereby twice put in'jeopardy,
within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The only other exception argued is to the statement made
by the judge to the second jury, in denying their request to be*
discharged without having agreed upon a verdictthat he regarded the testimony as convincing. But at the outset of his
charge he had told them, in so many words, that the facts
were to be decided by the jury, and not by the court. And
it is so well settled, by a long series of decisions of thig court,
that the judge presiding at a trial, civil or criminal, in any
court of the United States, is authorized, whenever he thinks
it will assist the jury in arriving at a just conclusion, to express
to them his opinion upon the questions of fact which he submits to their determination, that it is only necessary to refer to
two or three recent cases in which the judge's opinion on matters of fact was quite as plainly and strongly expressed to the
jury as in the case at bar. Vtiksurg &c. Railroadv. Putnam,
118 U. S. 545; United State8 v. Philadelpkia& Reading Railroad, 123 U. S. 113; L-ovejoy v. United States, 128 U. S. 171.
Judgment aflrmed.

McELVAIINE v. BRUSH.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1125. Argued December 7,1891.-

Decided December 21, 1991.

The provisions in the New York Code of Criminal Procedure, (§§ 491, 492,>
respecting the solitary confinement of convicts condemned to death, are
not in conflict with thd Constitution of the United States, as they are
construed by the Court of Appeals of that State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
This court follows the adjudications of the highest court of a State In the
construction of the statutes of that State.
Medley, Petitioner, 134 U. S. 160, explained. In re Wood, 140 U. S. 278,'
followed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-r. George X1. Curtis for appellant.
The court declined to hear argument for the appellee. -Mr.
Charles F.'Tabor, Attorney General of the State of New
York, filed a brief for appellee.
MR. CB- F JusTicE FuLLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

Charles McEivaine was convicted in the Court of Sessions,
Kings County, in the State of New York, on October 23, 1889,
of the crime of murder in the first degree, committed August
22, 1889, and on October 25, 1889, was sentenced to death.
From the judgment of conviction an appeal was duly taken by
McElvaine to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York,
where the judgment was reversed and a new trial granted.
People v. 3cElvaine, 121 N. Y. 250. A new trial was had
and resulted on September 29, 1890, in a conviction for the
aforesaid crime, and on October 1, 1890, MeElvaine was again
sentenced to death. A second appeal was taken to the Court
of Appeals and the judgment was affirmed February 24, 1891.
People v. .AfcElvaine, 125 N. Yi. 596.
The Court of Appeals sent down its remittitur to the Court
*of Sessions to enforce the judgment, as rendered against
McElvaine, according to law, and thereafter the judgment of
the Court of Appeals was made the judgment of the Cou'rt of
Sessions. On March 6, 1891, it was ordered and adjudged that
the judgment of conviction and sentence thereon of October
1, 1890, be enforced and executed in the manner provided by
law during the week beginning on Monday the 20th of April,
1891; and the court issued its warrant under the hands of the
judges thereof (including the presiding judge) to the agent and
warden of Sing Sing prison, coiamanding him to execute said

McELVAINE v. BRUSH.

.157

Opinion of the Court.

judgment and sentence, by putting the condemned to death,
"in the mode, manner and way, and at the place, by law prescribed and provided."
. April 21, 1891, McElvaine, by his attorney, presented to the
judge of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York a petition praying that a writ
of habeas corpus issue to Augustus A. Brush, the then agent
and warden of Sing Sing prison, requiring him to produce the
body of said McElvaine before said court at some time to be
designated in said writ, and afterwards such proceedings were
had that on said 21st day of April, 1891, an order was made
denying the prayer of said petition, from which order McEvaine appealed to this court, which appeal was allowed by the
said judge; and the clerk of the court was directed to transmit
a transcript of the petition, decision and order thereon, and of
the appeal. -This transcript was aecordingly transmitted, and,
by stipulation, is accompanied by a certified copy of the warrant for McElvaine's execution.
We have examined and considered all the grounds alleged
in the petition for the allowance of the writ, but deem it
unnecessary to refer to any, save those presented in the brief
and argulnent of petitioner's counsel.
Sections 491 and 492 of the New York Code of Criminal
Procedure are as follows:
"§ 491. When a defendant is sentenced to the punishment,
of death the judge or judges holding the court at which the
conviction takes place, or a majority of them, of whom the
judge presiding must be one, must make out, sign and deliver
to the sheriff of the county, a warrant stating the conviction
and sentence, and appointing the week within which sentence
must be executed. Said warrant must be directed to the Agent
and Warden of the State prison of this State designated by
law as the place of confinement for convicts sentenced to imprisonment in a State prison in the judicial district wherein
such conviction has taken place, commanding such Agent and
Warden to do execution of the sentence upon some day within
the week thus appointed. Within ten days after the issuing
of such warrant the said sheriff must deliver the defendant.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

together with the warrant, to the Agent and Warden of the
State prison therein named. From the time of said delivery to'
the said Agent and Warden, until the infliction of the punishment.of death upon him, unless he shall be lawfully discharged
from such imprisonment, the defendant shall be kept in solitary
confinement at said State prison, and no person shall be allowed
access to him without an order of the court, except the officers
of the prison, his counsel, his physician, a priest or minister of
religion, if he shall desire one, and the members of his family.
"§ 492. The week so appointed must begin not less than
four weeks and not more than eight weeks after the sentence.
The time of the execution within said week shall be left to the
discretion of the Agent and Warden to whom the warrant is
directed; but no previous announcement of the day or hour of
the execution shall be made, except to the persons who shall
be invited or permitted to be present at said execution as hereinafter provided." N. Y. Code Crim. Proc. 1890, pp._128, 129.
It is contended that the solitary confinement thus provided
for constitutes cruel and unusual punishment, and brings the
statute within the inhibition of the Eighth Amendme~it to the
Federal Constitution.
The first ten articles of amendment were not intended to
limit the powers of the States in respect of their own people,
but to operate on the Federal government only; but the argument is, that so far as those amendments secure the fundamental
rights of the individual, they make them his privileges and
immunities as a citizen of the United States, which cannot now,
under the Fourteenth Amendment, be abridged by a State;
that the prohibition of cruel and unusual punishments is one
of these; and that that prohibition is also included in that
"due process of law" without which no State can deprive any
person of life, liberty or property.
We held in the case of .Kemrnler, 136 U. S.436, that this
statute in providing for the punishment of death by electricity,
was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
when applied to a convict who committed the crime for which
he was convicted after the act took effect; that the enactment
of the statute was in itself within the legitimate sphere of the

McELVAINE v. BRUSH.
Opinion of the Court.

legislative power of the State, and in the observance of those
general rules prescribed by our systems of jurisprudence; and
that as the legislature of the State of New York had determined that it did not inflict cruel and unusual punishment, and
its courts had sustained that determination, we were unable to
perceive that the State had thereby abridged the privileges or
immunities of petitioner or deprived him of due process of law.
That case is decisive of this, although the eharacter of the
confinement of the condemned pending his execution was not
alluded to.
All that was held in Medley, Petitioner,134 U. S. 160, was
that a statute passed after the commission of the crime of murder, which added to the punishment of death, (that being the
punishment when the crime was committed,) the further punishment of imprisonment in solitary confinement until the exe,
cution, was, when attempted to be enforced against a convict
so situated, an ex post facto law, and that the sentence inflicting both punishments was void. The language of the opinion
upon the subject of solitary confinement tended to illustrate
the conclusion arrived at, but did not enlarge it.
And in Bolden v. .Minnesota, 137 U. S. 483, it was assumed that a similar statutory provision was not open to constitutional objection.
It is further urged that the warrant did not direct the infliction of solitary confinement; that it indicated no specific
mode of death; and that the mode and manner of the infliction of the death penalty were not specified. But as the
warrant commanded the warden to cause the judgment and
sentence to be executed and enforced, and the condemned to
be put to death "in the mode, manner and way and at the
place by law prescribed and provided," this would seem to
be ample authority to him for the confinement, as well as the
infliction of the penalty of death, as prescribed by the statute;
and, so far as the confinement had taken place under the first
sentence and warrant, that resulted from the voluntary act of
the petitioner in prosecuting an appeal.
In People v. Brush, reported in advance of the official
series in the Northeastern Reporter, vol. 28, p. 533, it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

held by the Court of Appeals of New York, that an appeal
from a judgment sentencing a defendant for murder in the
first degree, operates only as a stay of execution" of the death
penalty, and not of the confinement of the defendant in the
penitentiary pending the appeal, under the Code of Crim.
Proc. of N. Y. sec. 528, which provides that "when the judginent is of death, an appeal to the Court of Appeals stays the
execution, of course, until the determination of the appeal;"
and it was also held that under the statute providing for execution by electricity, a warrant which directed that execution
be done by putting defendant to death in the mode, manner
and way and at the place by law prescribed and provided,
was sufficient.
The general rule of decision is that this court will follow
the adjudication of the highest court of a State in the construction of its own statutes; and there is nothing in this case to

take it out of that rule. We are of opinion that the record
does not disclose that the petitioner is restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United States;
and, as obseeved by Mr. Justice Harlan in In Pe Wood, 140 U. S.
278, 289, it was not intended by Congress that the courts of
the United States should, by writs of habeas 0oVpu, obstruct
the ordinary administration of the criminal laws of the States
through their own tribunals.
The judgment must be aJfirmed, and the mandate iesue at
once, and it is8o ordered.

TREZZA v. BRusH. Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York. No. 1123. Decided
December 21, 1891.
AIR. CHIEF' JUSTICE FULLER: Trezza was cohvicted of murder

in the first degree in the Court of Sessions bf Kings County, New
York, June 6, 1890, and sentenced to death. The warrant for the
execution of the judgment and sentence was duly issued to the
agent and warden of the state prison at Sing Sing, and under it
Trezza was committed to his custody.

KNIGHT v. U. S. LAND ASSOCIATION.
Syllabus.
An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals and the judgment
affirmed, (125 N. Y. 740,) whereupon, March 6, 1891, the Court of
Sessions ordered the judgment of conviction and sentence of death
to be executed and enforced in the manner provided by law, and
issued a second warrant to the warden. Trezza then presented his
petition for a writ of habeas corpus to the judge of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and
brings the order of that court denying its prayer to this court on
appeal.
Petitioner claimed that by his imprisonment .under the first
warrant he had been once punished for the offence for which
he had been convicted, and that solitary confinement amounted to
cruel and unusual punishment, and hence that he was restrained
in violation of the Fifth and Eighth Amendments to the 'Constitution of the United States; and he objected bIso that the warrant
was not sufficiently definite and specific.
The record has not been printed nor have briefs been filed on
either side, and appellant was not represented by counsel when the
cause came on for hearing. We have, however, carefully examined
the transcript, and find no ground upon which to arrive at a different conclusion from that just announced in the case of McElvaine.
The judgment is affirmed, and thte mandate ordered to issue at once.

KNIGHT v. UNITED STATES LAND ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE STATE

No. 824. Argued October 23, 26; 1891.-

OF CALIFORNIA.

Decided December 21, 1891.

This court takes judicial notice of facts concerning the pueblo of San Francisco, (not contradictory of the findings of the referee in this case,)
which are recited in former decisions of this court, in statutes of the
United States and of the State of California, and in the records of the
Department of the Interior.
It is settled law that a patent for public land is void at law if the grantor
State had no title to the premises embraced in it, or if the officer who
issued it had no authority to do so; and that the want of such title or
authority can be shown in an action at law.
The power to make and correct surveys of the public lands belongs excluvOL. CXLU-11

