STUTSMAN COUNTY

. WALLACE.

Statemen of the Case.

STUTSMAN COUNTY v. WALLACE.
APPEAL FROM

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAKOTA.

No. 89. Argued November 13,189L

Decided January 4, 1892.

Upon the construction of the constitution and laws of a State, this court,
as a general rule, follows the decisions of its highest court, unless they
conflict with or impair the efficacy of some provision of the Constitution or of a law of the United States, or a rule of general commercial law.
In the case of an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of a Territory, which was admitted as a State after the appeal was taken, a subsequent judgment of the highest court of the State upon the construction
of a territorial law involved in the appeal is entitled to be followed by
this court, in preference to its construction by the Supreme Court of the
Territory.
Following the decision of the Supreme Court of North Dakota as to the
tax-lairs of Dakota Territory; Held,
(1) That an erroneous decision of an assessor of taxes under those laws'
in the matter of exemptions does not deprive the tax proceedings
of jurisdiction, aud that, until such erroneous decision is modified or set aside by the proper tribunal, all officers with subsequent functions may safely act thereon; and that the rul6 of
caveat emptor applies to a purchaser at a tax sale thereunder;
(2) That under those laws a county treasurer, in maktng a sale 'for
non-payment of taxes, acts ministerially, the law furnishing the
authority for selling the property, and the warrant indicating
the subjects upon which it is to be exercised; and he is protected so long as he acts within the statute;
(3) That in the case of lands granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, on which the costs of survey had not been paid and
for which no patents had been issued, it was his duty to proceed
to sell, notwithstanding those facts; and that, when the title of
the purchaser at the tax sale failed, by reason of the lands not
being subject to taxation,.the county was not liable for the purchase money under c. 28, § 78 of the Political Code of 1877.
The rule that the known and settled construction of a statute of one
State will be regarded as accompanying its adoption by another is not
applicable where that construction had not been announced when the
statute was adopted; nor when the statute is changed in the adoption.

THE court stated the case as follows:
Appellees brought an action in the District Court for the
Sixth Judicial District of the Territory of Dakota, September

OCTOBER TERIi-,

1891.

Statement of the Case.

28, 1886, to recover from Stutsman County certain moneys
which they had paid that county for lands which the treasurer
of the dounty had assumed to sell to them in satisfaction of
taxes "wrongfully assessed thereon, and which sale was therefore invalid. They also sought to recover the amount of taxes
,paid by them on the land after the sale; and prayed judgment
for the amounts paid and interest at thirty per cent per annum
thereon from the dates of the payments respectively.
The. allegations of the complaint were denied by the defendant, and the action was tried upon a statement of facts agreed
to by the parties, which statement was adopted by the District
Court as its findings of fact. These findings were, in substance,
that the lands in question were part of the original grant by
the United States to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company;
that no patents had been issued for them; that the company
earned the lands after the passage of the act of Congress of
date July 15, 1870, in regard to the payment of the costs of
surveying; that they were surveyed at the expense of the
United States government, and no part of the cost and expenses
of the survey had at the time of the tax sale been repaid by
the railroad company to the United States.; that in the year
1880 the proper officers of the county assessed all the parcels
of land mentioned in a schedule attached to the complaint,
marked "A," and levied certain taxes thereon, to wit, the territorial, county, general school, and district school taxes,
amounting in the aggregate to $5500, all of which remained
unpaid October 1, 1882; that prior to that date the then county
ireasurer of that county offered the lands for sale for the nonpayment of said taxe, and for the collection of the same, and
sold them to Charles S. Wallace for sums amounting in the
aggregate to $5221.75, and the treasurer then and there executed and delivered to Wallace the certificate of sale of the*
lands in the form provided by law to be issued upon the sale
of land for non-payment of taxes, and Wallace paid the treasurer said amount; that in 1881 the officers of the county, duly
authorized to assess property therein, assessed and levied taxes
upon said parcels of land for the territorial, county and school
taxes, and that Wallace, "in order to protect his tax lien thereon

STUTSMA..

COUNTY v. WALLACE.

Statement of the Case.

and equitable title thereto, paid to the defendant's treasurer,
as subsequent taxes upon said land, being the taxes so levied
for the year 1881," the amount of $4699.25, none of which
taxes so levied for the year 1881 had theretofore been paid;
that in 1882 the officers of the county assessed and levied territorial, county, general school and district school taxes upon
the parcels of land described in the schedule attached to the
complaint and marked "B," all of which remained unpaid October 1, 1883, and the then treasurer of the county offered the
lands for sale for the non-payment of the taxes, and for the
collection of the same, and sold them to Wallace for the sum
in the aggregate of $6033, and the treasurer delivered certificates of sale to Wallace, and he paid the said amount.
That in October, 1884, the Northern Pacific :Railroad Company brought an action against the treasurer and Wallace,
wherein a decree was entered adjudging the tax proceedings
in question to be null and void, and enjoining the treasurer
from making, and Wallace from receiving, any tax deed to the
property named in schedule "A," and in September, 1885, a
like action was brought which resulted in a similar decree as
to the property named in schedule "B."
It was also found that James M. Martin had an interest in the
tax receipts under an assignment from Wallace, and that prior
to the commencement of this action plaintiffs tendered to the
board of county commissioners of Stutsman County the tax
certificates in question, "and offered to surrender said certificates to said county upon the payment of the amount so paid
by said plaintiff, Charles S. Wallace, for the purchase of said
lands at said sales, and for the payment of the subsequent taxes
thereon as aforesaid; together with the interest thereon at the
rate of thirty per cent per annum from the dates of such payment ;" but defendant refused to pay that sum, or any part
thereof, and the whole is still unpaid; and that no part of the
land has ever been redeemed from the sales, nor from either of
them, nor from the subsequent taxes paid as aforesaid.
The court found as conclusions of law that no taxes were
due upon the lands at the time of their sale, and that they were
sold "by the mistake and wrongful act of the defendant's

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

treasurer; the then bounty treasurer of Stutsman County, and
that the plaintiffs are entitled to recover from the defendant
the amount'paid for said lands at said sales and the amount
paid as subsequent taxes thereon, as hereinafter stated, together
with thirty per cent interest thereon and on the whole amount
so paid from and after the date of such payments, as herein-,
,after specified, to this date," and thereupon directed judgment
in favor of plaintiffs and against Stutsman County for $9921,
with interest from and after October 1, 1882, at the rate of 30
per cent per annum, and for the amount of $6033, with interest
thereon from and after October 1, 1883, at the rate of 30 per
cent per annum, amounting in the aggregate, both principal
and interest, to the sum of $35,800, together with costs and
disbursements, and judgment was entered accordingly.
Exceptions were duly taken and motion for new trial made
and overruled. The county thereupon carried the case, on appeal, to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by which the
judgment was affirmed, whereupon an appeal was prayed and
allowed to this court.
The parts of the revenue laws of the Territory of Dakota,
referred to by counsel, are given in the margin.'
1 Chapter 28 of the Political Code of the Territory of Dakota, as amended
from time to time, and in force at the time of the levy and assessment of
the taxes and sale of the lands referred to in the complaint, and at the date
of the commencement of this action, contained a complete scheme for the
assessment, levy and collection of taxes. (Revised Codes, Dakota, 1877,
p. 111.) Chap. 15 of the Political Code in the Compiled Laws of 1887 has
substantially the same provisions with a new numbering of the sections.
(Comp. Laws, Dakota, 1887, p. 337.),
-Sections 1, 2 and 3 name the classes of property liable to, and enumerate
such as are exempt from, taxation. Subdivision one of section 2 states as
exempt "the property of the United States, and of this Territory, including
school lands."
'Sections 4 to 26 provide for the assessment of "taxable property," and
prescribe the manner of proceeding by the assessor in making up the assessment roll. He is required to list and assess " all taxable property, real and
personal," each year, at its cash value at the place of listing on the day
named, and can demand information of the owners, Who are obliged to list
all property sublject to taxation, and must list pr6perty of which the owners
are unkfiown, to "unknown'owners,"
The form of the assessment roll is prescribed in sections 26 and 27, and

'STUTSKAN COUNTY v. WALLACE.'
Counsel for Appellant.

-Mr. John F. Dillon for appellant.
was with him on the brief.

MAr. Barry Hubbard

by sections 28, 29 and 30 the equalization of the assessment roll by the
board of county commissioners is provided for; and the board is given
power to correct errors made in the list by the assessor and to add thereto
any property, real or personal, subject to taxation, omitted by the owner
or the assessor. During the session of the board-any person, or his agent or
attorney, feeling aggrieved by anything in the assessment roll, may apply
to the board for the correction of any alleged errors in the listing or valuation of his property, whether real or personal, and the board may corfect
the same as shall be just.
Under sections 31 and 32 abstracts of assessments must be forwarded to
the Territorial auditor, and the assessments may be equalized by the Territorial board for Territorial purposes, and for Territorial taxes.
The rates and date and levy of taxes and the preparation of duplicate
tax lists by the county clerk with their form, one of which lists is retained
by the county clerk and the other delivered, with the warrant of the county
commissioners attached to the county treasurer, are prescribed by sections
33 to 39.
Section 40 reads thus.:
"An entry is required to be made upon the tax list and its duplicate.
showing what it is, and for what county -and what year it is, and the
county commissioners shall attach to the lists their warrants under their
hand and official seal, in general terms, requiring the treasurer to collect
the taxes therein levied according to law; and no informality in the foregoing requirements shall render any proceedings for the collection of taxes
illegal. The county clerk shall take the receipt of the county treasurer on
delivering to him the duplicate tax list with the warrant of the. county commissioners attached, and such list shall be full and sufficient authority for
the collection by the treasurer of all taxes therein contained."
Sections 41 to 44 relate to the collection of taxes and form of receipts.
Section 45 provides:
"It shall be the duty of the county clerk, on receiving any duplicate tax
receipt from the treasurer, forthwith to examine the same and compare
it with the tax list in his possesgion, and see if the total amount of
taxes and the several amounts of the different funds are correctly entered
and set forth in such receipt ; and in case it shall appear that the treasurer
has not collected the full amount of taxes and interest which, according to
the tax list and the terms of the receipt he should have collected, then the
county clerk shall forthwith charge the treasurer with the amount such
receipt falls short of the true amount, and the treasurer shall be liable on
his official bond to account for and pay over the same."
Sections 46 to 51 relate to the treasurer's cash-book and the duplicate
cash-book kept by the county clerk.
Section 52 is as follows:
"If on the assessment roll or tax list there be any error in the name of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellees.

-M. TF . -Dodge (with whom were Mr. T -H. Baldwin,
.Mr. A B. urtz and -Mr. John S. TF'aton on the brief) for
appellees.
the person assessed or taxed, the name may be changed, and the tax collected, from the person intended, if he be taxable and can be identified by
the-assessor or treasurer; and when the treasurer, after the tax list is committed to him, shall ascertain that any land or other property is omitted,
he shall report the fact to the county clerk, who upon being satisfied
thereof, shall enter the same upon his assessment roll, and assess the value,
and the treasurer shall enter it upon the tax list, and collect the tax as in
other cases."
Delinquency, penalty for non-payment and lien of taxes are provided for
by sections 53 to 56, section 56 reading: "Taxes upon keal property are
hereby made a perpetual lien thereupon against all persons and bodies corporate except the United States and the Territory, and taxes due from any
person upon personal property shall be a lien upon any real property owned
by such person, or to which he may acquire a title."
-Sections 57 to 59 treat of collection of taxes by distress and sale of personal property, and sections 60 to 69 of the sale of real property for taxes
and the form of certificate of sale.
Section 62 reads:
"That on the first Monday of October in each year, between the hours of
nine o'clock, A.M., and four o'clock P.m ., the treasurer is directed to offer at
public sale at the court house, or place of holding courts in his county, or at
the treasurer's office, where, by law, the taxes are made payable, all lands,
town lots or other real property, which shall be liable for taxes of any
description 'or the preceding year or years, and which shall remain due and.
unpaid, and he may adjourn the sale from day to day until all the lands,
lots or other real property have been offered, and-no taxable property shall
be exempt from levy- or sale for taxes."
Section 67 is as follows:
"The purchaser of any tract of land sold by the county trqasurer for
taxes will be entitled to a certificate in.writing describing the land so purchased, the sum paid and the time when the purchaser will be entitled to a
deed, which certificate shall be assignable, and said assignment must be
acknowledged before some officer having power to take acknowledgment
of deeds. Spch certificate shall be signed by the treasurer in his official
capacity, and shall be presumptive evidence of the regularity of all prior
proceedings. The purchaser acquires the lien of the tax on th6 land, and if
he subsequently pay any taxes levied on the same, whether levied for any
year or years previous or subsequent to such sale, he shall have the same
lien for them, and may add them to the amount paid by him in the purchase,
and the treasurer shall make out a tax receipt and duplicate for the taxes
on the real estate mentioned in such certificate, the same as in other cases,
and shall write thereon, ' sold for tax at public sale."'

STUTSMAN COUN TY v. WALLACE.

299

Argument for Appellees.

I. The lands sold by the defendant's treasurer to the
respondent Wallace had not become part of the taxable propThen follows the form of certificate.
Section 69 concludes with the provision: "And the treasurer is further
authorized and required to sell as. aforesaid all real estate in his county on
which taxes remain unpaid and delinquent for any previous year or years."
Section 70 provides for a redemption of lands sold for taxes upon the
payment of "the sum mentioned in this certificate, and interest thereon at
the rate of thirty (30) per cent per annum from the date of purchase, together with all other taxes subsequently paid, whether 'for any year or
years previous or subsequent to said sale, and interest thereon at the same
rate from the date of such payment."
Section 73 is as follows
"If no person shall redeem such lands within two years, at any time
after the expiration thereof, and on production of the certificate of purchase, the treasurer of the county in which the sale of such lands took place
shall execute to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, in the name of the Territory, a deed of the land remaining unredeemed, which shall vest in the
grantee an absolute estate in fee simple, in such land, subject, however, to
all the claims which the Territory may have thereon for taxes or other liens
or incumbrances."
Section 78 reads thus:
"When, by mistake or wrongful act of the treasurer, land has been sold
on which no tax was due at the time, the county is to save the purchaser
harmless by paying him the amount of principal and interest to which he
would have been entitled had the land been rightfully sold, and the treasurer and his sureties shall be liable for the amount to the county on his bond,
or the purchaser may recover the same directly from the treasurer."
Section 83 requires the county treasurer to pay over to the Territorial
treasurer, on or before the first Monday of November, and at all other
times on demand, all territorial funds collected by him, and prescribes his
fees for such collection and receipt.
Section 84 reads:
"If the county treasurer thall wilfully and negligently fail to settle with
the Territorial treasurer at the time and in the manner above prescribed by
law, he shall forfeit to the use of the Territory the sum of five hundred
dollars, which sum may be-recovered of him, or his sureties, on suit brought
by the Territorial treasurer in any court in. this Territory having jurisdiction; or in case of failure of the Territorial treasurer to bring such suit,
then any citizen of the Territory may bring the same."
Section 85 provides for the procuring by the territorial auditor of a list
from the proper land office of all lands becoming taxable for the first time,
in each county, and the forwarding of the list to the clerk of such county.
Sections 89, 95 and 96 are as follows:
" § 89. In the case of dereliction of duty on the part of any officer or
person required by law to perform any duty under the provisions of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellees.

erty, within the Territory of Dakota at or prior to the date of
such sale. N'either the Territory nor its officers could thereact ih any county in this Territory, such person shall thereby forfeit all pay
and allowance that would otherwise be due him, and the county commissioners in any such county, on receiving satisfactory evidence of such dereliction or failure to perform as required by law any duty enjoined by this
act, shall refuse to pay such person or persons any sum whatever for such
services."
"§ 95. If any'county treasurer shall fail to make return, fail to make
settlement, or fail to pay over all money with which he may stand charged,
at the time and in the manner prescribed by law, it shall be the duty of the
county clerk, on receiving instructions for that purpose from the Territorial auditor, or from the county commissioners of his county, to cause suit
to be instituted against such tfeasurer and his sureties or -any of them, in
the District Court of his counky.
"§ 96. Whenever suit shall have been commenced against any delinquent
county treasurer, as aforesaid, the board of county commissioners of such
county may, at their discretion, remove such treasurer from office, and'
the vacancy thereby created, as hereinappoint some suitable person to fill.
before provided."
Sections 94 and 95 of chapter 21 of the Political Code, (Codes, 1877, p.
56,) prescribing the duties of the county treasurer, provide:
"§ 94. He shall be the collector of taxes; shall keep his office at the
county seat, and shall attend his office three days in each week. ,He shall
be charged with the amount of all tax lists in his hands for collection, and
credited with the amounts collected thereon, and the delinquent list, and
shall keep a fair and accurate current account of' the moneys by him received, showing the amount thereof, the time when, from whom, and on
what account received, in cash, warrants, county or road orders; and if in
-arrants or orders, their kind, number or other designation, amounts for
which they were drawn, interest due thereon and the amounts of the receipts thereon endorsed, if any; also of all disbursements by him made,
showing the time when, to whom, on what account and the amount paid;
and he shall so arrange his books that the amounts received and paid on
account of each separate and distinct fund or appropriation, shalt be exhibited in separate and distinct columns, or accpunts, and so as to show whether
the same was received or paid in cash, or warrants or orders, and if either
of the latter, their designation and other particulars as above required; and
the county treasurer shall at all times exhibit such accounts, when desired,
to the Territorial, cdunty or school officers, entitled to receive the same,
and shall at any time pay over the balance in his hands to them, upon receiving proper vouchers.
"§ 95. The books, accounts and-vouchers of the county treasurer, aiid
all moneys, warrants or orders, remaining in the treasury, shall at all, times
be subject to the inspection and examination of the board ofcounty con-

STUTSMAN COUYTY v. WALLACE.

301

Argument for Appellees.

fore lawfully assume jurisdiction to tax or sell the same; and
it must be conceded that the money received by the county missioners, and at the regular meetings of the board in January and July
of each year, and at such other times as they may direct, he shall settle
with them his accounts as treasurer, and for that purpose shall exhibit to
them all his books, accounts and moneys, and all vouchers relating to the
same, to be audited and allowed, which vouchers shall be retained by them
for evidence of his settlement; and, if found correct, the account shall be
so certified; if not, he shall be liable on his bond."
Section 84 of chapter 132 of the laws of North Dakota, enacted in 1890,
(Laws North Dakota, 1890, 376, 408,) is as follows:
"When a sale of land as provided in this act is declared void by judg-ment of court, the judgment declaring it void shall state for what reason
such sale is declared void. In all cases where any such sale has been or
hereafter shall be so declared void, or any certificate or deed issued under
such sale shall be set aside or cancelled for any reason, or in case of mistake, or wrongful act of the treasurer or auditor, land has been sold upon
which no tax was due at the time, the money paid by the purchaser at the
sale, or by the assignee of the. State upon taking the assignment, and all
subsequent taxes, penalties and costs paid by such purchaser or assignee,
shall, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum from the date of
such payment, be returned to the purchaser or assignee, or the party holding his right, out of the county treasury, on the order of the county auditor,
and so much of said money as has been paid into the State treasury shall be
charged to the State by the county auditor and deducted from the next
money due the State on account of taxes. The county treasurer or auditor
shall be liable on their bond for any loss occasioned by any such wrongful
act. Whenever any sale of land, or certificate or deed, made or given under
this act is declared void by judgment of court, unless the judgment declared
the tax to be illegal, said tax and subsequent taxes, returned to the pur.
chaser or assignee as provided in this section, shall remain a lien upon the
land sold, and the county auditor shall advertise the same at the next succeeding annual sale, for the full amount of taxes, penalties and costs due
on said piece or parcel -f land."
The following are sections of chapter 69 of the Dakota General Laws of
1862 (Laws, 1862, p. 419):
"Sect. 36. On the first day of February., the unpaid taxes for the preceding year shall draw interest as hereinafter provided; and taxes upon
real property are hereby made a perpetual lien thereon against all persons;
and taxes due from any person on personal property shall be a lien on any
real property owned by such person." "Sect. 39. On the first Monday in
October, 1864, and in each year thereafter, the county treasurer is required
to offer at public sale at the court house, or if there is no court house, at
the office of the county treasurer, all lands on which taxes of any description for the preceding year or years shall have been delinquent and remain

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellees.

treasurer for these lands, was received without authority of
law; for the territorial statute, section 62, chapter 28, from.
which alone the treasurer derived any authority to sell lands
for taxes, only authorized him to sell "lands, town lots or
other real property, which shall be liable for taxes." The
statute did not- and could not lawfully authorize him to sell
lands which were not liable for taxes, and which consequently
could not be taxed, but which belonged to the public domain
of the United States.
The acts of the treasurer in selling the lands to the respondents were wrongful, because committed without authority of
law, in violation of express ehactments, defining and restricting the treasurer's authority and resulting in civil injury, not
only to the owner of the lands unlawfully sold, but to the purchaser thereof wrongfully deprived of his. money without consideration. The statute, section 73 of chapter 28, guaranteed
to the respondents that if these lands were not redeemed
within two years they should, upon production of their certificates of purchase, receive deeds conveying to them in the
name of the Territory, all of the lands remaining unredeemed,
which deeds should vest in them an absolute estate in fee
simple. The breach of this guaranty did not arise through any
defect in the tax proceedings, which the purchasers might
have discovered upon an inspection of the record of such proceedings and which would bring theni within the rule of
caveat emptvr, but by reason of the fact that the entire proceedings from their inception were absolutely void and without authority of law. The question in controversy, therefore,
is not one of irregularity in the assessment of the taxes levied
or of the sale by the county treagurer, but is one of entire
due, and such sale shall be made for and in payment of the total amount of
taxes, interest and cost, due and unpaid on such real property." "Sect. 54.
Immediately after the expiration of the term of three years from the date
of the sale of any land for taxes under the provisions of this act, the treasurer then in office shall make out a deed for each lot of land sold and remaining unredeemed, and deliver the same to the purchaser upon the return
of the certificate of purchase."

STUTSMAN COUNTY v. WALLACE.
Argument for Appellees.

absence of power or authority in the taxing officers to. assess
and the treasurer to collect or make sale of the lands for their
payment.
The rule of caveat emptor as applied to tax sales purchases
has never, to our knowledge, been held to apply to a case
where there was no charge or tax due. In such case nothing
passes by it to the purchaser. No right to receive or retain
the money exists in the officer making the sale, and in such
cases the courts have uniformly held that the purchaser, who
thus paid his money and got nothing for it, should have the
same returned to him. And so whenever the question has
been raised, the courts have not hesitated to protect bidders
at public sales, when there existed, from any cause, an entire
absence of power to make the sale, refusing to enforce the
payment of the bid or -ordering restitution thereof. And in
such a case it matters not that the officer making the sale mistakenly supposed he had full power to do -so. Todd v. Dowd,
1 Met. (Ky.) 281; WTashington v. Mc Caughan, 34: Mississippi,
304; Riddle v. gill, 51' Alabama, 224; Boykin v. Cook, 61
Alabama, 472; Bu.ms v. Ledbetter, 56 Texas, 282; Laughman
v. Thompson, 6 Sm. & Marsh. 259; Bartee v. Tompkins, 4
Sneed, 823; _Norton v. Rnupervisdrs, 13 Wiscohsin, 611; Chapman v. City of Brooklyi, 40 N. Y. 372; Commonwealth Bank
v. Mayor of -Yew Fork, 43 N. Y. 184; Newman v. Supervzsors, 45 N Y. 676; Schwinger v. Rikok, 53 N. Y. 280;
Preston v. Boston, 12 Pick. 7; Corbin v. Davenport, 9 Iowa,
239; Phillips v. City of Hudson, 31 N. J. Law (2 Vroom)
143; Dodd v. .Neilon, 90 N. Y. 243; Commissionersv. Young,
18 Kansas, 440; Clapp v. Pine Grove Township, 138 Penn.
St. 35.
Applying the same rule it has been repeatedly held that
taxes illegally imposed and collected may be recovered back.
Slack v. NAorwich, 32 Vermont, 818; Dorr v. Boston, 6 Gray,
131; Gillette v. Hartford,31 Connecticut, 351.
The rule that a purchaser cannot recover the money paid
by him at a void tax sale, is based upon the principle that he
is a volunteer inthe payment of charges levied on lands subject to taxation, and has been applied only in cases where

OCTOBER TERM, 1801.
Argument for AppeUees.

jurisdiction existed and where the title of the purchaser failed
by reason of non compliance with the statute causing irregularities in the assessment levy or sale as appeared by the records which were held to be constructive notice to the purchaser
of such irregularities, and to this class of cases only has the
rule of caveat emptor been applied. Sllivan v. -Davis, 29
Kansas, 28; Lynde v. Inhabitants of Afelrose, 10 Allen, 49;
Rice v. Auditor General, 30 Michigan, 12; 4ogansport v.
fluniphey, 84 Indiana, 467.
Assuming that the assessor had no jurisdiction of the subject matter, the treasurer was not protected by his warrant in
the sale of the lands in question, and his acts were wrongful
under the numerous decisions of this court pertinent to the
subject.
When a court or other officer acts without jurisdiction of
the subject matter, all is void and such acts are regarded in
law as nullities, constituting no justification, but all persons
concerned in executing-such judgments or any process predicated, thereon are trespassers and liable to an action thereon.
Griffith v. Frazier, 8 Cranch, 9; .Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How.
65; Erskine v. flohnbach, 14 Wall. 613; Hayes v. Pacific
.fYail Steamship Co., '17How. 596.
The statute, section 78, chapter 28, political code (section
1629, Compiled Laws of Dakota) is cumulative and not exclu-.
sive. It is merely declarative of the common law rule "that an
action lies for money paid by mistake or upon a consideration
which happens to fail, or for money got through imposition."
.Moses v. -llaeferlan,2 Burrow, 1005; Louisiana v. Wood, 102
'U.S. 294.
The States of Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas and Wisconsin had
previously enacted similar statutes to the one above quoted,
and while no two of them were couched in exactly the same
language, they were prompted by a common object, designed
to subserve a common purpose and in each instance, when construed by the highest courts of those States so as to give effect
to the object designed by the legislature, they have received a
common construction.
The statute in question (section 78 of chapter 28) had its

STUTSMAN COUNTY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

origin in the statutes of Iowa and exists there to-day in the
same form as originally enacted. It was taken by Nebraska
from Iowa and by Dakota from Nebraska. It is true that in
the latter State the statute was, prior to the decisions by the
Supreme Court of that State, (Coulter v. Mahasica Co., 17 Iowa,
92; Scott v. Chickasaw Co., 46 Iowa, 253; -Morris v. County
of Sioux, 42 Iowa, 416,) amended so as to read "When by.
mistake of the treasurer or other offcer lands are sold" etc.;
but those decisions clearly show that no significance was given
to the words contained in the amendment by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska. The Supreme Court of Dakota, therefore,
in the construction of this statute followed the familiar rule
adopted by this court in numerous cases, by adopting the construction of the courts of those States by whose legislatures
the statute was originally adopted. The statute having been
taken from Iowa and Nebraska, the legislature in adopting it,
adopted the construction put upon it by the courts of those
States, which construction became part of the law itself.
McDonald v. Jiovey, 110 U. S. 619; .Afetropolitan Railroad
Co. v. .Moore, 121 U. S. 558.
MR. CHrEF Jusrmic

FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Appellees recovered judgment for the amounts paid and
thirty per cent per annum interest thereon. Interest at this
rate was that which purchasers at tax sales received upon redemption, and section 78 of chapter 28 of the Political Code
of the Territory of Dakota provided that the purchaser, who
came within its terms, should be saved harmless, by, being paid
the principal and interest to which he would have been entitled
if the land had been rightfully sold. Unless the recovery was
justified under the statute, this judgment must be reversed.
Stutsman County is one of the counties of North Dakota,
which was admitted into the Union after this cause was
docketed in this court. In Tyler v. Cass County, 48 N. W.
Rep. 232, not yet published in the official reports, where the
state of facts was substantially such as is disclosed by this
record, the Supreme Court of the State decided that no recovVOL. cxLrr-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ery could be had by the purchaser at a tax sale whose title
failed, either at common law or under the section in question, which in 1885 had been amended in a point not material
here, and became § 1629 of the Compiled Laws of Dakota of
1887.
It is well settled that upon the construction of the constitution and laws of a State this court, as a general rule, follows
the decisions of her highest court, unless they conflict with or
impair the efficacy of some provision of the Federal Constitution or of a Federal statute or a rule of general commercial
law. NWorton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425, 439; Gormley
v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338, 348.
Our mandate in this case must be issued to the state Supreme Court, which will in its turn direct the state court succeeding to the District Court of the Territory to proceed in
conformity to our judgment. 25 Stat. 683.
The parties are citizens of North Dakota. The litigation
proceeded upon the recognition and allowance of the exemption of the lands from taxation under the laws of th6 United
States, and no Feder.al questions were involved. Tyler v. Caw8
County, ante, 288. The case belongs to the class upon which
the local decisions are ordinarily given controlling effect, and
the adjudication of the highest tribunal of the State in the
case cited should be considered in the light of this rule, though
the appeal is from the Supreme Court of the Territory, which
reached the opposite conclusion.
The Supreme Court of the State held that lands which were
part of the original grant to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company and had been surveyed at the expense of the United
States and earned by the company after the passage of the act
of Congress of July 15, 1870, but ino part of the survey fees
had been repaid to the United States, although they had been
disposed of by the company and conveyed to third parties,
who were in possession, were not in fact taxable; yet that,
since land was a subject of taxation in Dakota Territory,
primafacie they were taxable; that the assessor being a judicial official, where property is exempt from taxation by class
and not by specific description, has full jurisdiction, and it is

STUTSMAN COUNTTY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

his dutjr to decide in each instance whether or not a particular
piece of property falls within any of the exempted classes, and
in this respect the source of the law that establishes the exemption is immaterial; that an erroneous decision of an assessor
in the matter of exemptions does not deprive the tax proceedings of jurisdiction, but until such erroneous decision is modified or set aside by the proper tribunal'all officers with subsequent functions may safely act thereon; that the rule of caveat
emptor applied to the plaintiff; and that there was no right
of recovery at common law. It was further held that under
the law in force when the tax sale in question in the case was
made, the treasurer, in the matter of the collection of the taxes,
was purely a ministerial officer, and when he received the
duplicate tax list with the warrant of the county commissione rs attached, if such process was fair on its face and contained
nothing that would apprise the treasurer of any defects or
infirmities, and it did not appear that the treasurer had any
knowledge of any defect or infirmities, such treasurer was fully
protected from personal liability in collecting the taxes upon
all property contained in his list, so long ds he acted strictly
within the statute; that the law furnished his authority for
selling the property for delinquent taxes; that the warrant
with the tax list attached gave him the subjects upon which
to exercise such authority; -that the statute which required the
treasurer to "sell all lands liable for taxes of any description
for the preceding year or years," meant all lands liable to taxation as shown by the process in his hands, and he could not
refuse to sell lands on his list nor could he sell lands not on
his list; that the sale of the lands in that case was neither the
mistake nor the wrongful act of the treasurer within the meaning of section 1629, Compiled Statutes; and that the plaintiff
had no right of action under that section. And further, that
section 84 of chapter 132 of the laws of North Dakota for 1890
had no application to a sale of lands made before the enactment of said chapter.
Section 1629 of the Compiled Laws is identical with section
78, chapter 2§, of the Dakota Political Code, except that inlieu of the words, "the amount of principal and interest to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

which he would have been entitled had the land been rightfully
sold," the words, "the amount of principal and interest at the
rate of twelve per cent per annum from the date of sale," have
been substituted. Compiled Laws, 1887, p. 362.
Section 78 is as follows: "When, by mistake or wrongful
act of the treasurer, land has been sold on which no tax was
due at the time, the county is to save the purchaser harifless
by paying him the amount of principal and interest to which
he would have been entitled had the land been rightfully
sold, and the treasurer and his sureties shall be liable for the
amount to the county on his bond, or the purchaser may
recover the same directly from the treasurer."
The county is thus made liable in the first instance, "when
by mistake or wrongful act of the treasurer, land has been: sold
on which no tax was due at the time," while a personal liability
to the purchaser is directly imposed upon the treasurer, who
with his sureties is als'o made liable for the amount to the
county on his bond. This statutory provision isnot the same
as that of the act of North Dakota of 1890, anC many similar
State statutes, making counties generally liable to the purchaser
,t tax sales, when the sales are declared void. Nor is it the
same as had previously existed. The law for the organization
of the Territory of Dakota was passed March 2, 1861, and" on
the 15th of May, 1862, an act of its first legislative assembly
was approved, which ,formed chapter 69 of its laws, entitled,
"Revenue." (Laws Dakota, 1862, vol. 1, p. 419.1
Section 58 read thus: "When, by mistake or vnlawful act
of the treasurer, land has been sold on which no tax was due
at the time, or whenever land is sold unlawfully in consequence
of any other mistake or irregularity rendering the sale void,
the county shall hold the purchaser harmless by paying him
the amount of principal and interest and costs to which he
would have been entitled bad the land boen rightfully sold,
and the treasurer and his sureties will be liable to the county
for the amount of his official bond: Provided,That the treasurer or his sureties shall be liable only for his own or his deputy's acts."
The treasurer was the collector of taxes and directed to sell,

STUTSMAN

COUNTY v. WALLACE.

Opinion of the Court.

but he was not macle liable if the sale were unlawful through
mistakes or irregularities chargeable to others, but only for his
own acts. When in section 78 of c. 28 of the Code of 1877,
the words, "or whenever land is sold unlawfully, in consequence
of any other mistake or irregularity rendering the sale 'void,"
were dropped out, the proviso was also exscinded as no longer
necessary.
Under it as recast the county is not ultimately to respond.
The liability falls upon the treasurer in either event, but does not
arise save where the treasurer is himself in fault in selling the
land. The wrong arising from selling land for taxes on which
no tax is due, is not necessarily the result of the mistake or
wrongful act of the treasurer; and upon the facts in this record,
if he were protected by his warrant and acted strictly within
the statute, he could not be held nor, of course, could the county,
under that section.
We agree with the learned State Supreme Court that the
treasurer acted in the sale as a ministerial officer, and that
while the law furnished authority for selling property for delinqent taxes, the -Warrant furnished the subjects upon which
to exercise the authority.
In Eskine v. Hohnbach, 14 Wall. 613, 616, Mr. Justice Field,
speaking for the court, said: "Whatever may have been the
conflict at one time, in the adjudged cases, as to the extent of
protection afforded to ministerial officers acting in obedience
to prodess, or orders issued to them by tribunals or officers
invested by law with authority to pass upon and determine
particular facts, and render judgment thereon, it is well settled
now, that if the officer or tribunal possess jurisdiction over the
subject matter upon which judgment is passed, with power to
issue an order or process for the enforcement of such judgment,
and the order or process issued thereon to the ministerial officer
is regular on its face showing no departure from the law, or
defect of jurisdiction over the person or property affected, then,
and in such cases, the order or process will give full and entire
protection to the ministerial officer in its regular enforcement
against any prosecution which the party aggrieved thereby
may institute against him, although serious errors may have

810

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

been committed by the officer or tribunal in reaching the conclusion or judgment upon which the ofder or process is issued."
Things may be void as to all persons and for all purposes, or
as to some persons and for some purposes, and although the
assessor may have been without jurisdiction over the particular
property, yet as he had general jurisdiction to list property for
taxation, and there is no pretence that there was anything on
the face of the warrant to apprise the treasurer of the lack of
jurisdictiop, he cannot be held, in executing the warrant, as
guilty of a wrongful act within the intent and meaning of this
statute.
The 40th section of chapter 28 shows that the warrant required the treasurer to collect the taxes therein levied according to law, and that the duplicate tax list with the warrant of
the county commissioners attached was full and sufficient anthority for the collection by the treasurer of all taxes therein
contained. It was his duty to proceed, and he cannot be heldto have been bound by the extrinsic fact that the costs of survey had not been paid, and that, therefore, these particular
lands were not taxable.
We think the conclusion inadmissible that the legislature
intended that the treasurer should be held responsible for the
mistakes or wrongful acts of other officers, when acting in
strict compliance with the exigency of the process committed
to him.
It has been ruled thatwhere an officer knows of facts aliunde
his process, which render the proceedings void, he is not protected ; but that question does not arise here, as no such knowledge on the part of the treasurer is found; nor is there any
basis for the contention that the treasurer made any mistake of
fact in the premises.
It was earnestly argued that, inasmuch as by section 62 the
treasurer is directed to sell all lands "which shall be liable for
taxes," there is just as much a question of law or fact presented
for his decision as is presented to a sheriff when he is directed
to sell the property of a defendant on execution, or required
to determine the exemption of property from execution; but
this ignores the fact that the warrant commanded him to col-

STUTSMAN COUNTY v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

lect the taxes from the specific property against which they
were levied, and that he had no discretion to use, no judgment

to exercise, and no duty to perform except to sell the particular property for delinquency. Buck v. Colb'tk, 3 Wall. 334,
343.
Comparing sections 36, 39, and 5d of chap. 69 of the Laws
of 1862 with sections 56, 62, and 73 of chap. 28 of the Code of
1877, (these will be found in the margin, ante, 298, 299,) it is contended that the legislature, in changing the language requiring
the county treasurer to sell " all lands on which taxes of any description for the preceding year or years shall have been delinquent and remain due," so as to read; "all lands, town lots or
other real property, which shall be liable for taxes of any description for the preceding year or years, and which shall remain
due and unpaid," and adding the words: "And no taxable
property shall be exempt from levy and sale for taxes," must
be assumed to have intended to impose upon the treasurer the
duty of determining in each instance whether or not the property was taxable, and that this view is confirmed by the amplification of the clause requiring the treasurer to -execute a
deed to the purchaser. We do not think so. If, as the state
Supreme Court remarks, the treasurer must disregard his warrant and sell no property not liable for taxes, even though the
same appeared on his list, it would be equally true that he
must sell all lands that were liable for taxes, although the same
did not appear on his list.
Under section 37 of chap. 28 of the Code of 1877, as under
section 1593 of the Compiled Laws, the clerk was directed to
prepare a list which should contain all the taxable lands in the
county with the names of the persons or parties in whose name
each subdivision was listed, and also a duplicate of the tax list
when completed, and, retaining one, to deliver the other to the
treasurer, and to these lists the warrants are attached. The
clerk makes the list from the assessment roll after the taxes
are levied, and can no more change it than the treasurer can;
and the order is to sell lands shown to be liable by being upon
the list.
By section 56 it 'was provided that taxes due from any

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

person upon personal property should be a lien up9n any real
property owned by such person or to which he may acquire a
title; and hence the argument that the amendment of section
39 of chap. 69 of the Laws of 1862 by section 62 of chap. 28
of the Code of 1877, was objectless except upon the basis of
appellee's contention, is completely answered by the Supremie
Court in pointing out that in order to give effect to the provision relative to the lien on realty of taxes on personalty, it
was necessary to direct all lands to be sold that were "liable
for taxes of any description."
The language of section 73 of chapter 28 of the Code of
18f77, that a tax deed shall run "in the name of the Territory,"
and "shall vest in the grantee an absolute title in fee simple,
in such land," whatever weight may be attached to it in a different connection, contributes nothing to sustain the position
that where such title fails, recovery can be justified under section 78.
It is said that section 78 had its origin in a statute of Iowa,
was thence taken into the statutes of Nebraska and by the
Territory of Dakota from Nebraska, and several decisions of
the highest courts of Iowa and Nebraska are referred to as
giving the provision a construction differing from that of
which we approve. We do not find that any decision of that
tenor had been announced prior to the adoption of the provision by the legislature of Dakota, and the rule that the known
and settled construction of a statute of one State will be regarded as accompanying its adoption by another, is inapplicable.
And the terms of the statutes of Iowa and Nebraska considered
'in the cases cited, were so different from that involved here, as
to deprive the decisions of the weight which might justly be
ascribed to them if they had argued and disposed of the precise question before us.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to the
•Supreme Court of the State of Xorth Dakota for further
_proceedings in conformity to law.

