OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

other; and thus, for private interests, builds up a new place
at the expense of the old; and for this subservience of its
public duty to its private interests, we are told that there is
in the courts no redress; and this because Congress in chartering this Northern Pacific road did not name Yakima City as
a stopping place, and has not in terms delegated to the courts
the power to interfere in the matter.
A railroad corporation has a public duty to perform, as well
as a private interest to subserve, and I never before believed
that the courts would permit it to abandon the one to promote
the other. Nowhere in its charter is in terms expressed the
duty of carrying passengers and freight. Are the courts impotent to compel the performance of this duty? Is the duty
of carrying passengers and freight any more of a public duty
than that of placing its depots and stopping its trains at those
places which will best accommodate the public? If the State
of Indiana incorporates a railroad to build a road from New
Albany through Indianapolis to South Bend, and that road is
built, can it be that the courts may compel the road to receive
passengers and transport freight, but in the absence of a
specific direction from the legislature, are powerless to compel
the road to stop its trains and build a depot at Indianapolis?
I do not so belittle the power or duty of the courts.

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES NAVIGATION
AND IAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 987. Argued November 18,19, 1891. -Decded

January 11, 1892.

The title of the Des Moines Navigation and Railway Company to lands
granted to the Territory of Iowa for the purpose of aiding in the improvement of the navigation of the Des Moines River by the act of
August 8, 1846, 9 Stat. 77, c. 103, and to the State of Iowa for a like purpose by the joint resolution of March 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 251, and by the

UNTED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY. 511
Statement of the Case.
act of July. 12, 1862, 12 Stat. 543, c. 161, having been sustained by this
court in eight litigations between private parties, to wit: in Dubuquc ,
Pacific Railroad v. Litchfield, 23 How. 66; Wolcott v. Des Moines Co.,
5 Wall. 681; Williams v. Baker, 17 Wall. 144; Homestead Co. v. Valley
Railroad, 17 Wall. 153; Wolsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 755; Litchfield v.
Webster County, 101 U. S. 773; Dubuque & Sioux City Railroad v. Des
Moines Valley Railroad, 109 U. S. 329, and Bullard v. Des Moines & Fort
Dodge Railroad, 122 U. S. 167, is now held to be good against the United
States, as a grant in priesenti.
It is an undoubted proposition of law that the grantor of lands conveyed in
trust is the only party to challenge the title in the hands of the trustee,
or others holding under him, on account of a breach of that tr-ust.
It appearing that the United States is only a nominal party, whose aid is
sought to destroy the title of the Navigation Company and its grantees, in
order to enable settlers to protect their titles, initiated by settlement and
occupancy, the.court holds the case of United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.
338, to be applicable, where it was held that when a suit is brought in the
name of the United States to enforce the rights of individuals, and no
interest of the government is invilved, the defence of laches and limitations will be sustained, as though the government were out of the case.
Where relief can be granted only by setting aside an evidence of title
issued by the government, in the orderly administration of the affairs
of the Land Department, the eviaence in support must be clear, strong
and satisfactory.
A general averment of fraud in a bill in equity, though repeated, is to be
taken as qualified and limited by the specific facts set forth to show
wherein the transaction was fraudulent; and in such case a demurrer to
the bill admits only the truth of the facts so set forth and all reasonable
inferences to be drawn therefrom.
The knowledge and good faith- of a legislature are not open to question,
but the presumption is conclusive that it acted with full knowledge and
in good faith; and in this case the circumstances surrounding the transaction not only preclude the idea of misconduct or ignorance on ,the
part of the legislature, but it iselear that the Navigation .Company was a
bona fide purchaser, within the meaning of the resolution of 1861, and
intended as a beneficiary thereunder.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
On August 8, 1846, an act was passed by the Congress of
the United States granting certaih lands to the then Territory
of Iowa, to aid in the improvement of the navigation of the
Des Moines River. 9 Stat. 77, c. 103. The first section defined the extent of the grant, and is in these words:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States of America in Congres assembld, That
there be, and hereby is, granted to the Territory of Iowa, for
the purpose of aiding said Territory to improve the navigation,
of the Des Moines River from its mouth to the Raccoon Fork
(so-called) in said Territory, one equal moiety, in alternate sections, of the public lands, (remaining unsold, and not otherwise
disposed of, encumbered or appropriated,) in a strip five miles
in width on each side of said river; to be selected within said
Territory by an agent or agents to be appointed by the governor thereof, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States."
On January 9, 18,11, (the Territory in the meantime having
become a State,) its first general assembly passed a joint resolution accepting this grant. A question soon arose as to its extent.
The northern limit of the improvement was the Raccoon Fork;
and thie contention on one side was that the grant extended
-no further than the improvement, and on the other, that, there
being no limitation in the granting clause, it included lands on
either side of the river up to its source, or-at least to the northern boundary of the State.
This question was submitted at various times
to the general
executive officers of the United States having charge of the
Land Department, with the result that conflicting opinions
were given by them thereon. On February 23, 1848, Richard
M. Young, the Commissioner of the General Land Office, by
letter addressed to the state authorities, ruled that "the State
is entitled to the alternate sections within five miles of the
Des Moines River, throughout the whole extent of that river,
within, the limits of Iowa."
On March 2, 1849, Robert J. Walker, Secretary of the
Treasury, to whose department at that time the control of the
administration of public lands belonged, replying to a communication from the representatives of the State of Iowa in
Congress, sustained the ruling of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office. In his letter he says: "I concur with
you in the views coitained in your communication, and am of
the opinion that the grant in question extends, as therein
stated, on b6th sides of the river, from its source to its mouth,

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMHPANY.

513

Statement of the Case.

but not to lands on the river in the State of Missouri. I have
transmitted your communication and accompanying papers,
with a copy of this letter, to ihe Commissioner of the General
Land Office."
On June 1, 1849, notice was issued from the, General Land
Office to the registers and receivers of the local land offices to
reserve from sale all the odd-numbered sections within five
miles of the river up to the northern limits of the State, and
lists were directed to be prepared of the sales and locations
within those limits already made, with a view of certifying
the remainder to the State. After these lists had been completed, but before any further action was taken, the Department of the Interior was created by Congress, and the administration of public lands transferred to that department; and
on April 6, 1850, Thomas Ewing, the Secretary of the Interior,
ruled that the Raccoon Fork was the limit of the grant. His
ruling is contained in a letter of that date, to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, as follows:
"Sm: Having considered the question submitted to me connected with the claim of the State of Iowa to select, under the
act of August 8, 1846, lands for the improvement of the Des
M oines River, I am clearly of the opinion that you cannot
recognize the grant as extended above the Raccoon Fork without the aid of an explanatory act of Congress. It is clear to
my mind, from the language of the act of August 8, 1846,
itself, that it was not the intent of the act to extend it
further."
He, however, added this further direction:
"As Congress is now in session, and, may take action on the
subject, it will be proper, in my opinion, to postpone any
immediate steps for bringing into market the lands embraced
in the State's selections."
Application was made to the President to reverse this ruling. The question was referred by the President to the
Attorney General, and, on July 19, 1850, Reverdy Johnson,
the then Attorney General, advised the President that he
concprred with the views of the Secretary of the Treasury,
and dissented* froiR those of the Secretary of the Interior;
voL. CxLTI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

holding that the grant extended to the northern limits of the
State.
Before any action was taken on this opinion, President
Taylor died, and a new administration succeeded; and, on
June 30, 1851, the then Attorney General, John J. Crittenden,
in response to inquiry, gave it as his opinion, differing from
his predecessor, that the grant terminated at the Raccoon
Fork. The-Secretary of the Interior concurred in the opinion
of the Attorney General, but at the same time continued the
reservation of the lands from market made by his predecessor;
and afterwards, believing that the question of title was one
for the decisions of the courts, approved the selection made
by the State, up to the northern limits, without prejudice to
the rights of other parties. His letter of instructions to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, of date October 29,
1851, was in these words:
"DEPARmNT

OF THE INTERIOR,

"Tas~hington, October 29, 1851.
"Sn: I herewith return all the papers in the Des Moines
case, which were recalled from your office about the first of
the present month.
"I have reconsidered and carefully reviewed my decision of
the 26th of July last, and, in doing so, find that no decision
which I can make will be final, as the question involved partakes more of a judicial than an executive character, which
must ultimately be determined by the judicial tribunals of the
country; and although my own opinion on the true construction of the grant is unchanged, yet, in view of the great
conflict of opinion among the executive officers of the government, and also in view of the opinions of several eminent
jurists which have been presented to me in favor of the construction contended for by the State, I am willing to recognize
the claim of the State, and to approve the selections, without
prejudice to the rights, if any there be, of other parties, thus,
leaving the question as to the proper construction of the statute
entirely open to the action of the judiciary. You will please,
therefore, as soon as may be practicable, submit for my ap-

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY.

515

Statement of the Case.

proval such lists as may have been prepared, and proceed to
report for like approval lists of the alternate sections claimed
by the State of Iowa, above the Raccoon Fork, as far as the
surveys have progressed, or may hereafter be completed and
returned.
"Very respectfully, etc.,

"A. H. 1l. STUART, Secretary.
"The Commissioner of the General Land Office."'
And the lists having been made out, were by the Secretary
approved in the qualified way indicated in the letter, and
thereafter transmitted to the state authorities and to the local
land offices
Subsequently, and at its December term, 1859, the question
as to the extent of the grant came before this court, and in
the case of _Dubuque & Pacifio -Railroadv. LitchAld, 23 How.
66, it was held that the Raccoon Fork was the northern limit
of the grant, and that the State took no title to lands above
that fork. After this decision, and on March 2, 1861, a joint
resolution passed Congress, in these words:
"R esolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That all the
title which the United States still retain in the tracts of land
along the Des Moines River, and above the mouth of the Raccoon Fork thereof, in the State of Iowa, which have been certified to said State improperly by the Department of the
Interior, as part of the grant'by act of Congress approved
August eight, eighteen hundred and forty-six, and which is
now held by bona fide purchasers under the State of Iowa, be,
and the same is hereby, relinquished to the State of Iowa."
12 Stat. 251.
And on July 12, 1862, the following act:
" Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
the grant of lands to the then Territory of Iowa, for the improvement of the Des M oines River, made by the act of
August eight, eighteen hundred and forty-six, is hereby extended so as to include the alternate sections (designated. by
odd numbers) lying within five miles of said river, between

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

the Raccoon Fork and the northern boundary of said State:
such lands are to be held and applied in accordance with the
provisions of the original grant, except that the consent of
Congress is hereby given to the application of a portion thereof
to aid in the construction of the Keokuk, Fort Des Moines and'
Minnesota railroad, in accordance with the provisions of the
act of the general assembly of the State of Iowa, approved
March twenty-two, eighteen hundred and fifty-eight. And if
any of said lands shall have been sold or otherwise disposed of
by the United States before the passage of this act, excepting
those released by.the United States to the grantees of the State
of Iowa under the joint resolution of March second, eighteen
hundred and sixty-two, the Secretary of the Interior is hereby
directed to set apart an equal amount of lands within said State
to be certified in 'lieu thereof: Provided, That if the said
State shall have sold' and conveyed any portion of the lands
lying within the limits of this grant the title of which has
proved invalid, any lands which shall be certified to said State
in lieu thereof by virtue of the provisions of this act shall
inure to and be held as a trust fund for the benefit of, the
person or persons respectively whose titles shall have failed as
aforesaid." 12 Stat. 543, c. 161.
Long prior to the last three matters noticed, the State had
taken action in respect to the improvement of the Des Moines
River and had disposed of the lands covered by the grant as
it was claimed to be, including those above as well as those
below the Raccoon Fork. Such action and disposition had
been in this way: Some work was done by the State, in the
first instance, through its boaid of public works. Thereafter,
and on December 1'7, 1853, a contract was made with Henry
O'Reilly therefor. This was released on June 8, 1854, and on
June 9, 1854, a new contract was entered into between the
State and the principal defendant herein, the Des Moines
Navigation and Railway Company. By its terms, the navigation company was to expend in the improvement not less than
$1,300,000, and to receive in pay the lands at $1.25 per acre;
the.lands to be conveyed from time to time as $30,000 worth
of work was done, in pursuance of the original act of Congress.

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY.

511

Statement of the Case.

Under this agreement, the navigation company proceeded
to do some work on the improvement. On March 22, 1858,
the State of Iowa passed an act, whose recital and first clause
are as follows:
,"Whereas the Dos Moines Navigation and Railroad Company have heretofore claimed, and do now claim, to have
entereal into certain contracts with the State of Iowa, by its
officers and agents, concerning the improvement of the Des
Moines River, in the State of Iowa; and whereas disagreements and misunderstandings have arisen, and do now exist,
between the State of Iowa and said company, and it being
conceived to be to the interests of all parties concerned to have
said matters, and all matters and things between said company
and the State of Iowa, settled and adjusted: Now, therefore,
be it
"1?e8olved by the GeneraZ Assembly of the State of Iowa,
That for the purpose of such settlement, and for that purpose
only, the following propositions are made by the State to said
company: That the said company shall execute to the State
of Iowa full releases and discharges of all contracts, agreements and claims with 9r against the State, including rights
to water rents which riay have heretofore or do now exist,
and all claims of all kinds against, the State of Iowa, and the
lands connected with the Des Moines River improvement,
excepting such as are hereby by the State secured to the said
company; and also surrender to said State the dredge-boat
and its appurtenances, belonging to said improvement; and
the State of Iowa shall, by its proper officer, certify and convey to the said company all lands granted by an act of Congress, approved August 8th, 1846, to the then Territory of
Iowa, to aid in the improvement of the Des Moines River,
Which have been approved and certifed to the State of Iowa
by the general government, saving and excepting all lands
sold or conveyed, or higreed to be sold or conveyed, by the
State of Iowa, by its officers and agents, prior to the 23d day
of December, 1853, under said grant, and said company or its
assignees, shall have right to all of said lands as herein granted
to them as fully as the State of Iowa could have under or by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

virtue of said grant, or in any manner whatever, with full
power to settle all errors, false locations, omissions or claims
in reference to the same, and all pay or compensation therefor
by the general government, but at the costs and charges of
said company, and the State to hold all the balance of said
lands, and all rights, powers and privileges under and by virtue
of said grant, entirely released from any claim by or through
said company; and it is understood that among the lands
excepted and not granted by the State to said company are
25,487.87 acres lying immediately above Raccoon Fork, supposed to have been sold by the general government, but
claimed by the State of Iowa." Revised Laws of Iowa, 1860,
p. 906.
The proposition of settlement made by this act was accepted
by the navigation company on April 15, 1858, and the terms
of the settlement carried into effect. On April 28, 1858, the
governor of the State certified to the President the amount
expended in the work, and the amount of land to be conveyed
to the navigation company under the settlement. The certificate was in these words:
"EXECUTIVE CHAMIER, IOWA,
"Des _Mroinem, April 28, 1858.
"To His Excellency JAMEs BuoiAff&, President of the United
States:
"I, Ralph P. Lowe, governor of the State of Iowa, as required by act of Congress approved August 8, 1846, 'granting
certain lands to the Territory, of Iowa, to aid in the improvement of the navigation of the Des Moines River in said Territory,' do hereby certify that there has been expended from
time to time prior to the date hereof on the improvement of
said river, as the work has progressed, and the money has
been required, under certain contracts made by the State of
Iowa with the Des Moines Navigation & Railroad Company,
the sum of three hundred and thirty-two thousand six hundred
and thirty-four T dollars ($332,634.04), and in consideration
of said expenditures on said improvement, and in pursuance of
the provisions of the act of Congress approved as aforesaid,

UNITED STATES v.DES MOINES &c. COM1PANY.

519

Argument for Appellant.

there will be conveyed to said Des Moines NavigAtion & Railroad Company two hundred and sixty-six thousand one hundred and seven .,%%- acres (266,107 1- acres) of the land belonging to said grant, and which have been certified and approved
to the State of Iowa under said act for the prosecution of the
improvement of said river Des Moines.
"In testimony whereof, I, Ralph P. Lowe, governor of the
State of Iowa, have caused the great seal of the State of Iowa
to be hereunto affixed, together with my signature.
"[sEAL.]

RALPH P. LowE.

"By the Governor:
"ELIJAH SELLS, Secretary of State."
And on the 3d of May, 1858, the governor conveyed to the
navigation company, by fourteen deeds, the lands referred
to.

On September 28, 1889, the present suit was commenced by
the filing of the bill in behalf of the United States, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Iowa; in which bill the complainant prayed that on final
hearing a decree might be entered cancelling and setting aside
the certificate of the United States made by the Secretary of
the Interior, the resolution of settlement passed by the General Assembly of the State of Iowa, and the deeds of the governor to the navigation company, made in pursuance of such
settlement, and quieting and confirming plaintiff's title to all
the lands. To this bill were made parties defendant the navigation company and several individuals holding title to tracts
of land by conveyance from it. The navigation company
demurred to the bill; the other defendants answered. Proofs
were taken under the issues presented by the bill and answer;
and on final hearing a decree was entered sustaining the
demurrer of the navigation company, and on the merits dismissing the. bill. 43 Fed. Rep. 1. From such decree the
United States appealed to this court.
Afr. Attorney Generalfor the United States, appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant,

This is a suit by the United States to reclaim .from the
defendants lands conveyed by lekislative grant to the *State
of Iowa upon a.trust for the purpose of improving the navigation of the Des Moines River, and received by the State upon
that trust, but for which the defendants have conveyances
from the State in violation of that trust. Commencing in
1846, the date of the original grant, the subject matter has
been one of constant dispute for over forty years. On the one
hand, speculators. represented by the defendant, the navigation company, have claimed vast traots of the best land in
Iowa under alleged grants from the State. On the other
hand, hundreds, perhaps thousands, of hard-working pioneers
have settled and made their homes upon these lands. Other
railroad companies have claimed them under other grants.
The'executive officers of the national government have made
a multitude of conflicting rules in reference to them. The legislature of Iowa has passed statutes with reference to them; the
executive of Iowa has attempted to dispose of them by administrative acts, and the courts of Iowa have attempted to settle
their titles by judicial decisions. This court, in a large number
of cases involving collateral issues, has made many decisions,
which, as between the parties before the court, are conclusive;
but now, for the first time, the .party possessed of the original
title, the party which made the grant to the State upon the
trust, the only party which ever had, or now has, a right to
question the action of its trustee in the premises- the United
States - comes into court, asserts that the conveyances under
which the defendants claim title have been made in -violation
of its rights, shows that the conditions upon which the trust
was created have been violated throughout, and demands a
restoration of so much of the property as has not passed into
the hands of innocent purchasers without notice.
Such being the case, in presenting the claim of the United
States I shall have little to do or to say with reference to the
action of any party except the United States; and little to do
and little to say with reference to the action of the United
States, except as it has spoken and acted through Congress,
which was the only branch of the government by which. this
land could be conveyed.

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY. 521
Argument for Appellant.

The sole authoritative action of the United States in the
premises, by which title to this property has been or could be
conveyed, is found in three acts of Congress, viz.: the act -of
August 8, 1846, (ante 511,) the joint, resolution of March 2,
1861, (ante 513,) and the act of July 12, 1862, (ante 515).
The first of these acts was accepted by the legislature of Iowa,
January 9, 184-7. The State thereby took these lands in trust
and could make no conveyance thereof, except according to
the terms of the act of 1846. Congress not only never released
the lands from the trust, but in the act of 1862, under which
the defendants claim, expressly provided that the grant of
lands above the fork should be subject to all the terms of the
trust in the statutes of 1846.
I. As a trustee, the State of Iowa held these lands just as any
other trustee would have held them. It took them not as a
sovereign in its sovereign governmental capacity, but as a municipal corporation dealing with property interests and as a trustee
to execute the trust reposed in it by the grant. Dillon Mun.
Corp. 3d ed. §§ 567-573 ; idal v. Girard,2 How. 127; .Mayor
of Philadelphia v. Elliott, 3 Rawle, 170; Perin v. Carey, 24
How. 465; Girardv. Philadelphia,7 Wall. 1 ; Swann v. Lind
8ey, 70 Alabama, 507.
Taking the property under said trust, the State, as trustee,
could dispose of it only in accordance with the terms of the
trust. Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44; Farnsworthv.
.Minnesota & Pacific Railroad,92 U. S. 49; Rice v. Railroad
Co., 1 Black, 358; Grinnell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 739;
TFVeeler v. Walker, 2 Connecticut, 196; S. C. 7 Am. Dec. 264;
Hayden v. Stoughton, 5 Pick. 528.
Upon these authorities it may and will be assumed in this
argument that the State of Iowa took the title to the lands
covered by the. act of 1846, in trust, and that it could not make
a title to them by conveyance, except in accordance with the
terms of the trust.
II. From-August 8, 1846, to March 2, 1861, no further action
was taken by Congress with reference to this land grant. A
vast amount of negotiations between the executive officers of
the general government, the officers of the State of Iowa, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

private citizens, and a vast amount of legislation by the State
of Iowa and negotiations and contracts between that State
and sundry parties, having or claiming to have an interest in
these lands, were had. But all such negotiations, pretended
contracts and legislation were utterly void and ineffective so
far as the lands in dispute are concerned, (if for no other reason,) because the grant, under the statute of 1846, did not
cover an acre of land north of the Raccoon Fork. -Dubuqwe
& Pacifc -Railroadv. Litcfield, 23 How. 66.
Then came the joint resolution of March 2, 1861, ante 513,
which brings us to the main point of contest, at least, so far
as this argument is concerned. The Des Moines Navigation
and Railway Company contends that it is within the scope
and meaning of this joint resolution, that, on March 2, 1861,
it held the lands in controversy as a boncaftde purchaser under
the State of Iowa. This we deny. Upon this question of
bonaldes the burden both of averment and proof is on the
defendants.
So far as the navigation and railway company is concerned,
the case was dismissed upon demurrer to the bill, that company being claimant of most of the lands. It is by defendants, of course, conceded that the averments of the bill are to
be taken as true, but it is contended that these averments are
insufficient to put in issue this question of bonaftdes. To this
assertion I answer that the question of bpnajdes is a question
of fact; that if it were a law case it would be a question for a
jury; and that in a pleading an averment of bonaXfdes, or the
reverse, is in itself an averment of fact. It may be that, in
some cases, upon motion, a naked allegation of bona fides, or
the reverse, might be required to be made more specific; but
as against a denial, or as against a demurrer, it is sufficient as
an averment of a fact.
The averments in the bill, admitted by the demurrer, are:
that the company did but a very small fraction of the work
it pretended to do; that it abandoned the undertaking covered by its contract; that it received, in lands below Raccoon
Fork, a sum vastly in excess of any just demand; that, in
short, very little expenditure was made upon this great work,

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY.

523

Argument for Appellant.

for which the vast land grant was made by Congress, and
that for such work as was done the company was paid several
times more thai the amount to which it was entitled. It further appears by averments in the bill, as well as by the
Exhibit A, being the joint resolution of the legislature forming
substantially the alleged contract between the State and' the
company in 1858, that from beginning to end there was no
pretence of compliance with the terms and conditions of the
trust, as set out in the grant of 1846, but that both this company and the State appear to have treated the act of Congress.
of 1846 as making a grant to the State, absolute and unrestrained by any conditions whatsoever.
Under these circumstances it' seems too plain for argument,
first, that this company was not, as matter of fact, a bona.fde
purchaser or holder of these lands, and second, as matter of
law, that no party, with notice, receiving a deed from a party
holding the title to lands in trust, in violation of the terms of
such trust, can be a bonaftde holder of such lands. Perry on
Trusts, 277; Bl. Com. Book II, 337.
The bill further alleges that at the date and passage and
approval of said resolution of 1861, and as the foundation and
cause of the same, a large number of persons bad in good faith
bought of the State of Iowa, paying cash therefor, large quantities of land for the purpose of making heir homes thereon,
and had with such purpose actually taken possession thereof
and settled thereon, and were then holding the same; and it
was for the purpose of protecting these persons that said
resolution of Congress was passed, and they were the persons
meant and intended in said resolution, and no others, who are
referred to in said resolution as ona ,fidepurchasers of the
State of Iowa.
To these persons, therefore, who Were entitled to protection
in the occupation of the lands they had purchased in good
faith, and in pursuance of the repeated 'decisions of the executive officers of the government, and who had improved the
lands and made their homes upon them, this resolution could
and was intended to apply. But, as matter of law, it is quite
immaterial to whom the resolution did apply, for it is very

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

clear that it did not and could not apply to the navigation
company and that is sufficient for the purposes of this case.
III. If, as seems clear, this company took nothing under the
joint resolution of March 2, 1861, the next question is, did it
take anything under the act of Congress of July 12, 1862?
The legal effect of that act was to convey to the State of
Iowa, upon exactly the same terms as were prescribed in the
original grant of 1846, the lands within the limits named north
of the Raccoon Fork and south of the northern boundary of
the State of Iowa, except as those terms are modified in the
provision "that the consent of Congress is hereby given to the
application of a portion thereof to aid in the construction of
the Keokuk, Fort Des Moines and Minnesota Railroad, in
accordance with the provisions of the act of the general assem.bly of the State of Iowa, approved March 22, 1858." As
under the act of 1846 the State was a trustee, and could not
make a conveyance of an acre of the lands, except in accordance with the provisions of the trust, so, after the enactment
of this law, it held the lands above the fork subject to the
same limitations and conditions. The effect of those limitations and conditions has already been discussed.
'IV. This brings us to the question whether, by reason of
estoppels, Iowa statutes or otherwise, the navigation company
can claim anything under the grants from the State of 1858
in the land north of the Raccoon Fork. Our contention is,
that, aside from the fact that the State held these lands in
trust, and could therefore only convey in accordance with the
trust, the navigation company can claim nothing under the
grants of 1858 for the reason that the grants contained no
warranty, and therefore a subsequent title does not inure to
the benefit of the navigation -company.
There are, however, decisions which uphold the proposition
that a conveyance, such as this, being in direct breach of trust,
would be void, and therefore, even if accompanied by warranties, would not work a grant by estoppel; but as in this case
there are no covenants that question is not material. There is,
however, another reason why the navigation company cannot
claim these lands, and could not even if the pretended grant

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINLES &c. COMTANY.

525

Argument for Appellant.

by the State were accompanied by covenants of warranty.
An estoppel by deed is operative against the grantor to prevent fraud and injustice. The principle is that a grantor who
assumes to convey and warrant property which he has not, if
he afterward acquire it, shall not be permitted to assert his
title against his grantee, because to do so would be to work a
wrong; but this principle would have no application to the
Federal government in this case, and the navigation company
is in no condition to assert such a principle. The Federal government conveyed this property to the State upon a trust; the
navigation company attempted to obtain it from the State
through a breach of this trust. Under these circumstances,
upon no prificiple can a grant by estoppel be set up by the
navigation company against the government.
Nor is the case of the defendant helped by the Code of
Iowa, of which section 1202 reads as follows: "Where a deed
purports to convey a greater interest than the grantor was at the
time possessed of, any after-acquired interest of such grantor
to the extent of that which the deed purports to convey inures
to the benefit of the grantee." The defendant can get no benefit from this statute because it does not apply to the State
at all. Bacon's Abridgment, tit. Prerogative, 3-5; UNited
States v. K-nigkt, 14 Pet. 301, 315; Dollar Savings Bank
v. United States, 19 Wall. 227, 239; United States v. Greene,
4 Mason, 427.
V. But it is objected that this claim is stale; that the
United States ought to be barred by its lachea; that this suit
inight have been brought many years ago; that this navigation company has been paying the taxes and expending money
on this land, etc. The answers to all this are*very plain and
easy. First, the claims of the United States are not subject to
statutes of limitation, nor can the charge of laches be successUnited States v.
fully asserted against ihe United States.
The Dalles .. litary Road Company, 140 U. S. 599, 632;
United States v. Insley, 130 U. S. 263, 266: And in the second
place, if the suit were by a private citizen, the plea of laches
would not be available, because it is the case of an express
trust, and until the State of Iowa in some authoritative man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

ner repudiates the trust, the statute of limitations would not
begin to run, and the charge of laches would not be well
founded. The claim that the defendant has an equity by rea-.
son of having expended money in taxes, etc., is fully answered
in one of the cases upon which the defendant mainly relies,
namely, fHomestead Company v. Valley Railroad,17 Wall. 153,
where parties whose good faith was not challenged had made
large expenditures in the payment of taxes, but were denied
by this court any equities by reason thereof.
VI. Finally, it is contended that whatever may be the merits
of this case they are foreclosed by the adjudications of this court
in the large number of decisions already made in collateral
cases which are cited by appellees. I think it is not difficult
to show that this contention is unfounded, and that there is
before the court a broad high way of solid legal principle upon
which the court may travel to the conclusion sought by thQ
government, without touching, much less crossing or upsetting,'any decision heretofore made by the court. I have carefully examined all the decisions of this court cited by defendants
upon this question, and in not one of them is there a sentence
that shows that the bona de' of the navigation company or of
the other defendants as holders of this property has ever been
questioned, or the right of the United States to demand an
accounting of its trustees, or to assert its title to lands which
have been conveyed in violation of the plain terms of the trust
under which the title passed from the United States, has ever
been raised or considered for a moment. The contest here is not
between bonajde settlers as against each other, but this litigation is in the interests of bona.-tde settlers against speculators
who have appropriated these lands in violation of law and of
the principles of common honesty.
VII. The only other question calling for attention is the relation. of the appellees, other than the navigation company; and
this, I think, presents no difficulty. They claim as innocent
bona ide purchasers from the navigation company. If, as we
think is entirely clear, it is shown that the title of the navigation company is not good, then its grantces cannot succeed
except as they show themselves to be bonafide purchasers, for

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY. 527
Opinion of the Court.

value, and without notice. The burden of proof as to the
bona jdes in this matter is upon these claimants. Olements
v. Moore, 6 Wall. 299; Haskin8 v. Warren, 115 Mass. 514;
.Nickerson v. .eacham, 5 McCrary, 511 ; Peck v. Mallame8, 10
N. Y. 509; Lakin v. ierra Butte Gold .Mine Company, 25
Fed. Rep. 337.
Mr. C. E. Gatch,for all the appellees except the Des Moines
Navigation and Railway Company. Mi'. William Connor was
with him on the brief.
Mr. Benton J. Ral for the Des Moines Navigation and
Railway Company, appellee. .&. -FrankT. Brown was with
him on the brief.
Mr. eTn Y. Stone for appellant.
filed a brief for same.

Xr.

. C. Mhawe also

Mn. JUsTIcE B.RE Rn, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Prior to the decision, of this court in Dubuque &c. Railroad
Co. v. .itchield, 23 ow. 66, which decision was announced in
1860, it was a disputed question whether the grant extended
above the Raccoon Fork. The opinions and rulings of the
executive officers of the government were conflicting; and it
is not strange that many settled upon these lands in the belief
that they were public lands of the United States, and open to
settlement. But if they were not in fact open to settlement
- if the title legally and fairly passed to the navigation company- no relief from the hardships occasioned by their mistake can be furnished by the courts, whose functions are limited
to declaring where, in the face of conflicting claims, the title
really rests. We pass, therefore, to the consideration of the
matter of title.
It will be observed, in the first place, that there is in 'this
case no question as to the priority of claim. The single question is whether the defendant's title is good as against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

government.

If so, it is unquestionably prior to all claims

of the settlers, for, as appears, as early as June, 1849, the lands
to the northern limits of the State were reserved- from settlement and sale by direction of the Land Department; and this
reservation was continued in force notwithstanding the subsequent conflicting rulings as to the extent of the grant and the
adjudication of this court as to the extent of its-limits. The
validity of this reservation was sustained in the case of Wrolcott v. Des MAtoines Company, 5 Wall. 681, decided at December
term, 1866. In that case it was held that, even in the absence
of a command to that effect in the statute, it was the duty of
the officers of the Land Department,' immediately upon a grant
,being made by Congress, to reserve from settlement and sale
the lands within the grant; and that, if there was a dispute as
to its extent, it was the duty to reserve all lands which, upon
either construction, might become necessary to make good the
purposes of the grant. This ruling as to the power and duty'
of the officers of the Land Department has since been followed
in manycases. Bullard v. -Des Jloines & Fort Dodge Railroad, 122 U. S. 161, and cases cited in the opinion.
As lands properly reserved are not open to settlement or
sale, it follows that the lands above Raccoon Fork were at the
time of the passage of the resolution of 1861 wholly within
the disposing. -power of Congress; and no rights could have
attached, by occupancy or otherwise, which would burden the
title, or either legally or equitably affect any grant or disposition which Congress might then see fit to make. By that
resolution Congress relinquished to the State all the title of
the United States, (and that was a full and absolute title,) to
such tracts of land as were then held by bonafide purchasers
under the state law; and by the act of the succeeding year,
the grant was in terms extended to the northern limits of thd
State, so that all alternate sections above the Raccoon Fork,ndt
theretofore, disposed of by the State to bona Jde purchasers,
thereby passed to the State. As the original grant in 1846
was within settled rules of construction a grant in presenti,
(Deseret Salt -Company v. Tarpey, ante 241, and cases cited
in the opinion,) the act of 1862, which was a mere extension of

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANWY.

529

Opinion of the Court.

the grant, took effect and passed title at once to the State;
and the resolution of 1861, which was in terms a relinquishment, also operated as an immediate transfer of title. By the
reservation, therefore, full title was retained in the United
States; and by the resolution of 1861, and the act of 1862,
the same full title passed eo instantito the State.
But if by the resolution title passed to the State, it also at
the same time passed through the State to the real beneficiaries of this resolution, to wit, bona de purchasers under the
State of Iowa. Section 1202 of the Code of Iowa, of 1851,
reads as follows: "Where a deed purports to convey a greater
interest than the grantor was at the time possessed of, any
after-acquired interest of such grantor to the extent of that
which the deed purports to convey enures to the benefit of the
grantee."
The deeds made by the State to the navigation
company recite that, "the State of Iowa does hereby sell,
grant, bargain and convey to the said Des Moines Navigation
and Railroad Company the following referred to and described
lands, to wit," (describing them,) "to have and hold the abovedescribed lands and each and every parcel thereof, with all
the rights, privileges, immunities and appurtenances of whatever nature thereunto belonging." These were deeds purporting to convey a full title. That is the general rule, and such
is the import of section 1232, Code of Iowa, 1851, prescribing
forms for deeds.
Even if there were no such statute with respect to after-acquired titles, the manifest intent of Congress in the resolution
ivas, not to transfer the title to the State to be by it disposed
of as it saw fit, but to the State solely for the benefit of bona
fd.e purchasers. The inference from the language, standing
by itself, is made certain by the act of 1862, where it refers
to the lands covered by this resolution as lands "released by
the United States to the grantees of the State of Iowa, under
the joint resolution of March 2, 1862." This is an interpretation by Congress of the scope of that resolution, and shows to
whom Congress intended that the lands should pass.
Was the navigation company a bonaefde purchaser under
the State? Of course if it was, the other defendants who
VOL. cxLrI-34

OCTOBER TERM, i891.
Opinion. of the Court.

hold under it also were. It is claimed by the appellant that
the b~naAte purchasers referred.to were certain parties who
had bought portions of these lands from the State of Iowa,
paying cash therefor, for the purpose of making homes, and
who had taken 'possession thereof and were then occupying
the same. But the term "bo n a fide purchaser" has a wellsettled meaning in the law. It does not require settlement or
occupancy. Any one is a bona fide purchaser who buys in
good faith and pays value. To limit the term as here used
to settlers is to interpolate into the statute a restriction which
neither the language nor the surrounding circumstances justify.
The term itself, as stated, has no such restricted meaning; and
while it may be that there were individuals holding tracts
which they had separately settled on and paid for, yet it was
also true that the great body of the lands had been conveyed
to the navigation company in payment for work done on the
Des Moines improvement. This was a well-known fact; and
if Congress had intended to distinguish between settlers and
other purchasers, it would not have used language whose wellunderstood meaning included both. If anything can be drawn
from the debates in Congyress at the time of the passage of this
resolution, it sustains this construction. As appears from the
Senate proceedings, when the resolution was pending, the fact
that a large portion of these lands had been conveyed to the
navigation company for work done on the improvement, was
stated, and an attempt was made to limit the relinquishment
to lands "by the said State sold to actual settlers." Instead of
that, the words now used were inserted, to wit, "bona Jide
purchasers under the State of Iowa." Congressional Globe,
part 2, 2d Sess. 36th Congress, 1130 to 1133. Independently,
however, of any inference from these Congressional proceedings, there can be no doubt that a party doing work under a
contract with the State, making a settlement and receiving a
conveyance of these lands in payment for that work, is a bona
f1de purchaser. If so, this cause of action fails, and the bill
must be dismissed.
But the case does not rest here. The title to these lands
has often been brought in question in cases determined by this

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COTA] NY.

531

Opinion of the Court.

court; and its.uniform ruling has been in favor of the validity
of the title of the navigation company. A review of some
of these cases will be instructive. In TZolcott v. Des 3loine8
Company, supra, it appeared that Wolcott had purchased from
the navigation company, the principal defendant in this cdse,a half section of land above the Raccoon Fork, and received a
warranty deed therefor. On the decision in Dubuque & Paoigo
Railroad v. .itchfield, 8UP'a, that the grant extended only to
the Raccoon Fork, he sued the navigation company for breach
of covenant, alleging -that the title to the tract sold had failed.
This court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court against
him. After referring to its decision in respect to the extent of
the grant of 1846, it quoted the resolution of 1801 and the act
of 1862, and added: "If the case stopped here it would be
very clear that the plaintiff could not recover; for, although
the State possessed no title to the lot in dispute at the time of
the conveyance to the Des Moines INavigation and Railroad
Company, yet, having an after-acquired title by the act of Con-'
gress, it would enure to the benefit of the grantees, and so in
respect to their conveyance to the plaintiff. This is in accordance with the laws of the State of Iowa." It then noticed the
contention of the plaintiff, that the title to this tract did not
pass to the navigation company by this later legislation, be'cause prior thereto, and on May 15, 1856, Congress had mad6 a
grant to the State of six alternate sections on each side of certain proposed railroads, to aid in their construction. The tract
was within the limits of this grant, but the court held that
the title to it did not pass thereby, because of the previous
reservation made in 1849, the grant by its terms excepting
from its operation all lands reserved by "any act of Congress,
or in any other manner by competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any objects of internal improvements, or for
any purpose whatsoever." It will be seen that this decision
not only determined the validity and scope of the reservation,
but also interpreted the effect of the resolution, as operating
to transfer full title to the navigation company.
In 1873, the cases of Williams v. Baker and edar Rapids
Railroad Co. v. Des Moines Navigation Co., 17 Wall. 144, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Romestead Company v. Valley Railroad, 17 Wall. 153, were
decided. The first two cases were disposed of by one opinion.
Both were suits to quiet title. One side claimed under the
river grant and the other under the railroad grant of 1856.
Decrees in favor of the river grant were sustained. In the
opinion, the court noticed the long contest as to the scope of the
original grant, and the final determination thereof, in the case
of Railroad Company v. £itchfteld. It then observed: "This
decision was received as a final settlement of the long contested question of the extent of the grant. But it left the State
of Iowa, which had made engagements on the faith of the
lands certified to her, in an embarrassed condition, and it
destroyed the title of the navigation company to lands of the
value of hundreds of thousands. of dollars, which it had .received from the State for money, labor and material actually
expended and furnished. What was also equally to be regretted was, that many persons, purchasers for value from the
State or the navigation company, found their supposed title
an invalid one." And after referring to the legislation of 1861
and 1862, it added: "This legislative history of the title of
the State of Iowa, and of those to whom she had conveyed
the lands certified to her by the' Secretary of the Interior as a
part of the grant of 1846, including among her grantees the
Ies Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, needs no gloss
or criticism to show that the title of the State and her gran-'
tees is perfect, unless impaired or defeated by some other and
extrinsic matter which would have that eff6ct;" and closed
the opinion in these words: "We, therefore, reaffirm, first, that
neither the State of Iowa, nor the railroad companies, for
whose benefit the grant of 1856 was made, took any title by
that act to the lands then claimed to belong to the Des Moines
river grant of 1846; and, second, that by the joint resolution
of 1861, and the act of 1862, the State of Iowa did receive the
title for the use of those to whom she had sold them as part
of that grant, and for such other purposes as had become
proper under that rant."
In the third case, which was also a contest between a claimat under the railroad grant and parties claiming'under the river

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY.

533

Opinion of the Court.

grant, the validity of the latter was affirmed, and in its opinion the court said: "It is, therefore, no longer an open question that neither the State of Iowa nor the railroad companies,
for whose benefit the grant of 1856 was made, took any title
by that act to the lands then claimed to belong to the Des
Moines River grant of 1846, and that the joint resolution of
2d of March, 1861, and the act of 12th of July, 1862, transferred the title from the Iunited States and vested it in the
State of Iowa for the use of its grantees under the river
grant."
Again, in 1879, the question of this grant came before this
court in 1folsey v. Chapman, 101 U. S. 755, 771. In that
case the claim adverse to the river grant originated in this
way. On September 4, 1841, Congress passed an act, 5 Stat.
453, c. 16, by the eighth section of which there was granted
to each State 500,000, acres of land for purposes of internal
improvement. By the constitution of Iowa, under which the
State was admitted, this grant was appropriated to the use of
common schools, (Constitution of Iowa, 1846, Article 9, "School
Funds and Schools," section 3,) and this appropriation was
assented to by Congress by a special act. 9 Stat. 349. On
July 20, 1850, the agent of the State having charge of the
school lands selected the particular tract in controversy as a
part of this school grant; and thereafter, and in 1853, the
appropriate proceedings being had, a patent was issued by the
State to Wolsey. The grdnt of 184:1 was one which required
selection, and so no rights accrued to the State to this tract
under such grant until the selection on July 20, 1850, but that,
as we have seen, was several months after the lands had been
reserved for the river grant. The court, in an elaborate opinion by Chief Justice Waite, reviewed all the legislation and
the previous decisions of the court, and reaffirmed those decisions. The deed from the State to the navigation company,
under which Chapman claimed, being subsequent to the patent
from the State to Wolsey, it was contended that the former
could not question the title thus previously conveyed. Upon
this matter the court said: "Of this we entertain no doubt.
If the State had no title when the patent issued to Wolsey, he

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

took nothing by the -grant. No question of estoppel by warranty rises, neither does the after-acquired title enure to the
benefit of Wolsey because when the United States made the
grant, in 1861 it was for the benefit of bon&fde purchasers
from the State, under the grant of 1846. This is evident' as
well from the tenor of the joint resolution of 1861 as from
the act of 1862. The relinquishment under the joint resolution
is of all the titlb which the United States retained in the tracts
of land abov e the Raccoon Fork, ' which have been certified to
said State Improperly by the Department of the Interior as
part of the grant by the act of Congress approved August 8,
1846, and which is'now held by bona )Fde purchasers under the
State of Iowa; ' and by the act of 1862 the lands are in terms
to be held and applied in accordance with the provisions of the
original grait. This legislation, being in pari materia, is to
be, construed together, and manifests most unmistakably an
intention on the part of Congress to put the. State and bona
Jide purchasers from the State just where they would be if the
original act had itself granted all that was finally given for the
river improvement. The original grant contemplated sales by
the State in execution of the trust created, and the bona)ft&
purchasers referred to must have been purchasers at such sales.
This being so, the grant when finally made enured to the benefit of Chapman rather than Wolsey."
At the same term the case of -Litck jId v. County of Web8tir was decided, 101 U. S. '[73, 775. The question in that case
was at what time the title to these lands passed from the
United States, and the lands became subject to taxation. In
disposing of that question, the Chief Justice, speaking for the
court, observed: "We think, however, that, for the year 1862
and thereafter, they were taxable. By the joint resolution,
Congress relinquished all the 'title the United States then
retained to the lands which had before that time been certified
by the Department of the Interior as'part of the river grant,
and which were held by bonafXde purchasers under the State.
No further conveyance 'was necessary to complete the transfer,
and the description was sufficient to identify the property.
The title thus relinquished enured at once to the benefit of the

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY. 535
Opinion of the Court.

purchasers for whose use the relinquishment was made. All
the lands involved in this suit had been certified, and Litchfield, or those under whom he claims, were bona fide purchasers from the State."
Again, in 1883, the case of Dubuque c Siouo Cit Rai~oad
v. De8 .Moine Valley Railroad,109 U. S.329, came to this
court on error to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa.
This was an action to recover lands and quiet title, a-d in
which the parties respectively claimed under the railroad
grant of 1856 and the river grant; and, again, the Chief Justice delivered the opinion of the court, and in it said: "The
following are no longer open questions in tJiis court.
That the act of July 12, 1862, c. 161, 12 Stat. 543, 'transferred
the title from the United States and vested it in the State of
Iowa, for the use of its grantees under the river grant.' Tolcott v. Des Yoine Company, 5 Wall. 681 ; Williams v. Raker,
17 Wall. 144; Homestead Company v. The Valley Railroad
Company, 17 Wall.'153; Woleey v. Chapman, 101 U. S.755,
767."
Still later, and in 1886, another attempt was made to disturb
the title held under the river grant in the case of Bullard v.
Des 3fpines & -FortDodge Railroad, 122 U. S. 167, which
also came here on error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa.' The contention in that case in behalf of the plaintiff
in error was that the resolution of 1861, which relinquished to
the State the title to lands held by bonafde purchasers under
it, operated to terminate the reservation from sale made by
the Land Department for the benefit of the river grant, and
thus left all lands above the Raccoon Fork not -then held by
bonafide purchasers open to settlement and free for the attaching of any other grant from that time and up to the act of
1862, which in terms extended the river grant to the northern
limits of the State, and, of course, included all lands, whether
held by bonaXdfle purchasers or otherwise. But this court sustained the decision of the.Supreme Court of Iowa, and ruled
that the reservation from sale made by the Land Department
was not terminated by the resolution of 1861, but continued
in force until the act of 1862.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Such have been the decisions of the court in respect to this
grant and titles, decisions running through twenty-five years,
all affirming the same thing, and all without dissent. It
would seem, if the decisions of this court amount to anything,
that the title of the navigation company to these lands was
impregnable. Indeed, the emphatic language more than once
used, as quoted above, appears like a protest against any further assault upon that title.
Nor has this line of decisions been confined to this court.
It runs througb the reports of the Supreme Court of Iowa.
In addition to the two cases, heretofore referred to, coming
from that court to this, and in which its decisions were sustained, may be noticed the following: B llows v. Todd, twice
before that court, and reported in 34 Iowa, 18 and 39 Iowa,
209. This was an action of ejectment brought by Bellows,
holding under the navigation company, against Todd, claiming
to have settled upon the premises under the preemption and
homestead laws of the United States in 1860. On the first
trial the court refused to give the following instruction:. "If
the jury find from the evidence that the lands in controversy
were certified to.the State of Iowa in 1853, under the act of
Congress of 8th August, 1846, and that the same have been
conveyed by the State of Iowa to the Des Moines Navigation
and Railroad Company, and by said company to plaintiff's
grantors, and by them to the plaintiff in this action, then the
plaintiff is entitled to recover." When the case came before
the Supreme Court, (34 Iowa,) the refusal to give this instruction was adjudged error, and the case remanded for a new
trial. On the second trial the plaintiff requested the following instruction: "The plaintiff in this action claims title to
the lands described in his petition under conveyances from the
grantees of the, Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company, and the defendant, as one ground of his defence, alleges
that he has been in the continuous occupation and possession
of said land for ten years prior to the commencement of this
action, and that by reason of such occupation and possession
.his title is superior; and paramount to that of the plaintiff; but
-'if the jury find from the evidence that this land was certified

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY. 537
Opinion of the Court.

to the State of Iowa under the act of Congress of August 8,
1846, and has been conveyed by the State to the Des Moines
Navigation and Railroad Company, under which plaintiff holds,
then the State having acquired title to said land by the joint
resolution of Congress of March 2, '1861, the title of the State,
so acquired, enured to the benefit of said company and its
grantees and the plaintiff, and if this action was commenced
within ten years from the date of the passage of said joint
resolution, then the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this action
notwithstanding the alleged occupation and possession of defendant," which was refused; and in 39 Iowa the refusal to
give this instruction was adjudged error, and the judgment
reversed and the case remanded. The significance of this instruction is apparent, inasmuch as the action was commenced on
May 19, 1870, less -than ten years from the resolution of March,
1861. In its opinion in this last case the court observes "that
the title which the State acquired under the resolution of
March 2, 1861, enured to the benefit of the Des Moines Navigation Company and its grantees, under the circumstances set
forth in the instruction, is elemental. Revision, § 2210 ; Code,
§ 1931."
In addition, there is a series of cases of which Str'yker v.
Polk County, 22 Iowa, 131; Litc&ftel v. Hamilton County, 40
Iowa, 66; and Goodnow v. Wells, 67 Iowa, 654, are examples,
in which it was held that these lands were subject to taxation
for the year 1861. Of course, they could not be subject to
taxation unless by the resolution the title had passed not
simply from the United States, but also through the State to
its grantees; and repeatedly, in different ways, is it asserted
in the opinions in these cases that the title had so passed. We
have thus a concurrence of opinion on the part of the Supreme
Court of Iowa and this court for a quarter of a century in
favor of the validity of the title acquired by the navigation
company. It would seem as though the period of rest as to
this question of title ought by this time to have been reached.
But the government is the complainant, induced doubtless
to bring this suit by the act of the legislature of March 28,
1888, which purports to relinquish for the State its trust and

OCTOBER TER,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

to reconvey to-the United States all its right and title to these
lands, as well as by the urgent appeals of the settlers, and the
claim is, that its presence as a party introduces new questions
into the litigation, questions not at all affected by the prior
decisions. It is the original grantor, and its contention is that
while the title of its grantee may be unassailable by other
persons, it has the right to challenge it because the grant was
made in trust for a specific purpose, and that trust has not
been properly executed, nor the lands appropriated to the purposes thereof. That the proposition of law which underlies
this claim is correct,- cannot be doubted. The grantor of lands
conveyed in trust may be the only party with power to complain of the breach of that trust, or on account of such breach
to challenge the title in the hands of the trustee or other
holding under him; and the title conveyed, voidable alone at
its instance, may be good as against all the world besides.
Before, however, examining the applicability of this proposition of law to the case at hand, one or two preliminary
thoughts naturally arrest the attention. There has been long
delay in presenting this claim.- A third of a century has
passed since' the State conveyed to the navigation company,
and more than a quarter of a century since Congress relinquished and grantea to the State the title to these lands.
Durigg that time there have been marvellous changes in the
population, the industries, the business interests of the State;'
legislatures and courts have been busy determining rights and
establishing-relations based upon the vesting of title in the
navigation company. A proposition to destroy this title, and
to put; at naught all that has been accomplished in respect
thereto and based thereon during these years, is one which
may well make us pause. While it is undoubtedly true that
when the government is the real party in interest, and is proceedfng simply to assert its own rights and recover its own
property, there can be no defence on the ground of laches or
limitation, United Stato v. .AaNkville, OCattanooga &ce. Railway, 118 U. S. 120, 125; United Statms v. Insley, 130 U. S.263;
yet it has also been decided that where the United States is
only a formal party, and the suit is brought, in its name to

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY. 589
Opinion of the Court:

enforce the rights of individuals, and no interest of the goveminent is involved, the defence of laches and limitation will
be sustained as though the government was out of the case,
and the litigation was carried on in name, as in fact, for the
benefit of private parties. United States v. Beebe, 127 U. S.
338. In that case a bill was brought by the United States to
set aside certain patents issued to one Roswell Beebe, and the
charge was that Beebe by fraudulent practices obtained the
patents. But it also appeared that certain individuals claimed
to have equitable titles to the land by virtue of prior locations;
and that the effect of a decree cancelling the patents would be
simply to enable such other parties to. perfect their equitable
titles. Forty-five years had elapsed since the patents were
issued, and this court declining to enter into any' inquiry as to
whether the patents were fraudulently obtained, ruled that
the defence of laches was complete, because the government
was only a nominal and not the real party in interest.
The history of the present litigation shows that the long
contest has been between the navigation company and its
grantees on the one side and settlers claiming the right to preemption or homestead, or parties claiming under the railroad
grants, on the other. The bill alleges:
"And complainant further alleges and charges that, at the
time of the said settlement of 1858,- and at all other times
theretofore, there existed in the constitution of the State of
Iowa, from the time of the admission of said State into the
Union in 1846, a provision in the words following, to wit,
'The general assembly shall not locate any of the public lands
which have been or may be granted by Congress to this State,
and the location of which may ibe given to the general assembly, upon lands actually settled, without the consent of the
occupant. The extent of the claim of any occupant so exempted shall not exceed three hundred and twenty acres.'
That at the time of the pretended settlement, so made between
the State of Iowa and the said navigation company, and at
all times when the State has attempted to dispose of lands
covered by the grant of 1846 and the said act of 1862, which
are in controversy in this suit, said lands were occupied by

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

persons who had settled upon them in tracts of not more than
320 acres to each person, in the belief that they were open to
location, settlement, preemption and purchase under the land
laws of the United States, and at said time they were occupying said lands in tracts not larger than'320 acres to each, and
the said State of Iowa was thereby and therefore prohibited
under said constitutional provision from disposing or attempting to dispose of any of the lands in controversy, since none of
said persons so occupying said lands consented to any sale or
disposition of them whatever."
And in the brief of the Attorney General it is stated that
"the contest here is not between bona Jide settlers as against
each other, but this litigation is in the interests of bona ,fde
settlers against speculators who have appropriated these lands'
in violation of law and of the principles of common honesty."
The district judge, deciding this case in the court below,
said: "Any purpose to call in question the title of parties in
actual possession, holding under the State or the navigation
company, is expressly disclaimed in the bill, it being averred
that the benefit of a decree in favor of complainant is sought
only as to such lands as are now actually occupied by settlers
who, do not hold title under the State or the navigation comAnd, after
pany, the same amounting to 109,057 acres."
deciding the legal question in favor of the navigation company, he goes on to discuss and suggest what in equity and
justice the government should do for the benefit of these settlers. We should be closing our eyes to manifest facts if we
did not perceive that the government was only a nominal
party, whose aid was sought to destroy the title of the navigation company and its grantees, in order to enable the settlers
to perfect their titles, initiated by settlement and occupancy;
and in that event, the delay of thirty years is such a -delay as
a court of equity forbids. At any rate, it makes most apt the
observation of Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court in
the case of United States v. Throokmorton, 98 U. S. 61, 64, in
which case a bill had been filed to set aside a decree rendered
more than twenty years before: "It is true that the United
States is not bound by the statute of limitations, as an indi-

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES- &c. COMPANY.

541

Opinion of the Court.

vidual would be. And we have not recited any of the foregoing matters found in the bill as sufficient of itself to prevent
relief in a case otherwise properly cognizable in equity. But
we think these are good reasons why a bill which seeks under
these circumstances to annul a decree thus surrounded by
every presumption which should give it support, shall present
on its face a clear and unquestionable ground on which the
jurisdiction it invokes can rest."
Even if this be regarded as a. bill brought by the United
States simply to protect its own interests, and recover its own
property, still it is well settled that where relief can be granted
only by setting aside *a grant, a patent or other evidence of
title, issued by the government, in the orderiy administration
of the affairs of the Land Department, the evidence in support
must be clear, strong and satisfactory. Muniments of title
issued by the government are not to be lightly destroyed.
Kansas City, Lawrence &o. Railroad v. Attorney General, 118
U. S. 682; 2axwell Land Grant Case, 121 U. S. 325, 381;
Colorado Coal Company v. United States, 123 U. S. 307. In
the second of these cases Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the
court, saicl; "It is not to be admitted that the titles by which
so much property in this country and so many rights are held,
purporting to emanate from the authoritative action of the
officers of the government, and, as in this case, under the seal
and signature of the President of the United States himself,
shall be dependent upon the hazard of successful resistance to
the whims and caprices of every person who chooses to attack
them in a court of justice; but it should be well understood
that.only that class of evidence which commands respect, and
that amount of 'it which produces conviction, shall make such
an attempt successful."
Returning now to the special contention on the" part of the
government: It is scarcely necessary to determine whether the
trust was one following the lands, or merely in the proceeds
of the sales of the lands, and whose faithful performance is a
question only between the United States and the State, as was
finally determined to be the state of the trust created by the
"swamp land" grant.
fills County v. Railroad Companies,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

107 U. S. 557. We pass rather to inquire in what manner
the State performed the duties or trust imposed by the acceptance of this grant, in so far as such performance affects the
title to the lands in controversy. The general purpose of the
grant was to aid the Territory or State in improving the navigation of the Des Moines River. The second section of the
act prescribed the conditions under which the Territory or
State might sell the lands, as follows:
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That the lands hereby
granted shall not be conveyed or disposed of by said Territory,
nor by the State to be formed out of the same, except as said
improvements shall progress; that is, the said Territory or
State may sell so much of said lands as shall produce the sum
of thirty thousand dollars, and then the sales shall cease, until
the governor of said Territory or State shall certify the fact
to the President of the United States that one-half of said
sum has been expended upon said improvement, when the said.
Territory or State may sell and convey a quantity of the residue of said lands, sufficient to replace the amount expended,
and thus the sales shall progress as the proceeds thereof shall
be expended, and the fact of such expenditure shall be certified as aforesaid."
The third section declared that the price should not be less
than the minimum price of other public lands. So that all
that the act provided for was, that the State should appropriate the lands to the improvement of the river; that it
should make no sales at less than $1.25 per acre; and that its
sales should not anticipate its expenditures by more than
$30,000. Now, it is not pretended that the State appropriated the lands to any other purpose, or that the price at which
it sold was less than $1.25 per acre. The contract between it
and the navigation company provided for conveyances only
as the work progressed, and money was expended by the
company; and the settlement proposed by the legislature and
accepted by the company, and the certificate made by the governor to the President, showed that the navigation company
had expended money enough to justify the conveyance of all
the lands which were in fact conveyed. On the face of the

UNITED STATES v. DES

OIXES &c. COMPANY.

543

Opinion of the Court.
transaction, therefore, the duties imposed by the trust were
exactly and properly performed, and the title of the navigation company passed to it in strict compliance with the very
letter of the statute. But it is earnestly contended that the
navigation company was not a bona Xde purchaser; .that
while it claimed to have expended $330,000 on the improvement, in truth it had not expended half that amount; that by
means of its false representations, and by threats of bringing
suit against the State and obtaining damages against it, it
induced the legislature to pass the resolution of 1858, offering
terms of settlement; that the work of improving the river
was unfinished, not more than one-tenth of the work necessary
therefor having been done; and that the State has wholly,
abandoned the undertaking.
With respect to the last two allegations it is not perceived
how, if true, they can affect the title of the navigation company to lands deeded by the State to it in payment of work
done. Surely the title to lands which the State conveyed at
the inception of the undertaking, either for cash or for work
done thereon, cannot fail because the State failed to complete
the improvement. No land could have been sold if the purchaser's title had depended upon such a condition.
If we examine the testimony, there is nothing in it worthy
of mention tending to impeach the bonafides of the transaction
between the State and the navigation company.
Only one
witness was offered by the plaintiff to prove the amount of
work done by the navigation company, and the influences by
which the action of the legislature was induced, and his testimonv carries on its face abundant evidences of its own unworthiness. In the face of ihe deliberate proceedings of the
legislature and the executive officers of the State, in respect to
a matter of public interest, open to inspection and of commonknowledge, something more than the extravagant and improbable statements of one witness, made thirty years after the
event, is necessary to overthrow the settlement. Indeed, counsel for the government make slight reference to this testimony;
but rest their case upon the allegations of the bill, which as
against "the principal defendant, the navigation company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891:
Opinion of the Court.

were admitted by demurrer. It is urged that there is an
express averment that the navigation company and its grantees are not and never were bonaXde purchasers of the lands,
or any part thereof. But such a general averment, though
repeated once or twice, is to be taken as qualified and limited
by the specific facts set forth to show wherein the transaction
between the State and the navigation company was fraudulent. Where a bill sets out a series of facts constituting a
transaction between two parties, a demurrer admits the truth
of those facts and all reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, but not the conclusion which the pleader has seen fit to
aver. And the fact which stands out conspicuously, is the
resolution proposing settlement which passed the legislature
of the State of Iowa in March, 1858. That act is beyond
challenge. The knowledge and good faith of a legislature are
not open to question. It is conclusively presumed that a legislature acts with full knowledge, and in good faith. It is true
the bill alleges ihat its passage was induced by the navigation
company, by false representations and threats of suits; but
such an allegation amounts to nothing. In Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, (5th ed. 222,) the author, citing several
cases, observes: "From what examination has been given to
this subject, it appears that whether a statute is constitutional
or not is always a question of power; that is, a question
whether the legislature in the particular case, in respect to the
subject matter of the act, the manner in which its object is to
be accomplished and the mode of enacting it, has kept within
the constitutional limits and observed the constitutional conditions. In any case in which this question is answered in the
affirmative, the courts are not at liberty to inquire into the
proper exercise of the power. They must assume that legislative discretion has been properly exercised. If evidence was
'required, it must be supposed that it was before the legislature
when the act was passed; and if any special finding was required to warrant the passage of the special act) it would seem
that the passage of the act itself might be held to be equivalent to such finding. And, although it has sometimes been
urged at the bar that the courts ought to inquire into the

UNITED STATES v. DES MOINES &c. COMPANY.

545

Opinion of the Court.

motives of the legislature where fraud and corruption .were
alleged, and annul their action if the allegations were established, the argument has in no case been acceded to by the
judiciary, and they have never, allowed the inquiry to be entered upon." See also Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Ew
Parte.1& Cardle, 7 Wall. 506; Doyle v. Continental Insurance
Co., 94 U. S. 535; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678.
And in this case the circumstances surrounding the transaction
preclude the idea of misconduct or ignorance on the part of
the legislature. The threat of suit, when the State coilld not
be sued except at its own will, could not have been very persuasive. The work done by the navigation company was
open to inspection. It was done along the line of the principal river in the State. It was in fact made a matter of examination and report; and, while the amount expended by the
navigation company might not have been known to the
exact dollar, yet, in a general way; the cost of what had been
done could easily have been ascertained, and must have been
known. But if no lack of good faith can be imputed to the
State, the party making the offer of settlement, does it not
follow necessarily that none can be imputed to the navigation
company, the party accepting the offer; for how can fraud
be imputed to one who simply accepts terms of settlement
voluntarily offered by another? And if this settlement was
made in good faith and without fraud;*is it not' clear that the
navigation company, taking the lands which the State offered
in payment for the work which it had done, took those lands
qs a .b6nadepurchaser, and,.therefore, comes within the letter
and spirit of the resolution of 1861? And here the significance
of this resolution is evident. It was passed by Congress after
the settlement, proposed by the Iowa legislature' in 1858, had
been accepted by the navigation company, and deeds had
passed in accordance therewith. Its passage imports lull
knowledge of antecedent facts upon which it. is based. In
Powell v. Pennsylvania,127 U. S. 678, 686, referring to action
had by the legislature of the State, this court said: "The
legislature of Pennsylvania, upon the fullest investigation as
we must conclusively presume, and upon reasonable grounds,
VOL. CXLU-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

as must be assumed from the record," etc. So, Congress, by
this resolution of 1861, knowing- that this settlement had been
offered by the State of Iowa and accepted by the navigation
company, knowing that such act on the part of the legislature
conclusively implied full knowledge and good faith, and that
an acceptance of such offered settlement by the navigation
company also implied good faith, knowing also that the conveyances made under this settlement embraced the major portion of the lands, must be assumed to have approved such
settlement and intended to relinquish to the navigation company the title supposed to have been conveyed by the settlement and deeds. Surely it cannot be, that when it knew the
import and implication of the legislative act, Congress thought
to repudiate it, or invite investigation into a matter which
otherwise stood foreclosed of all inquiry. As its own acts
were free from imputation, it knew that the acts of tWe legislature of the State of Iowa were also free from imputation,
and that a settlement which that legislature had offered could
not be challenged for fraud; and with that knowledge it confirmed the title which the legis]ature of Iowa had attempted
to convey. Surely under those circumstances the courts are
not at liberty to probe the matters surrounding this settlement, to see if some party did not misrepresent the facts, and
utter falsehoods. So, if we narrow the inquiry to the mere
language of the bill, in view of all the facts disclosed therein,
and of those legislative and judicial proceedings which are
matters of common knowledge and need not be averred, it is
evident that the government has not made out its case. And,
if we broaden the inquiry to all the facts disclosed by the testimony, it is clear beyond doubt that the navigation company
was a bona fide purchaser within the meaning of the resolution of 1861, and intended as a beneficiary thereunder.
It follows from these conclusions that there was no error in
the ruling of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, and its
decree is

Aflrmed

