OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

GISBORN v. CHARTER OAK LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 115. Submitted December 2, 1891. -Decided

January 4,1892.

G. conveyed to S. a "mining claim and lode" in Utah, and S. executed a
declaration of trust that the conveyance had been made to him "upon
trust to receive the issues, rents and profits of the said premises, and to
apply the same as received": (1) to the payment of operating expenses;
(2) to the repayment to S. of $400,000 advanced by him, as trustee, to G.
for the purchase of the interest of his co-tenants; together with (3) other
trusts. After taking out about $20,000, the vein was lost, and fruitless
attempts were made to recover it, which resulted in an indebtedness of
about $52,000. The holder of these claims filed a bill against S., G. and
others to charge the mining property itself with their payment, and to,
have it sold to satisfy them, no personal decree being asked against any
defendant. Held,
(1) That as a result of these transactions, a debt was created and the
mining property itself was pledged for the payment of that debt,
and of the reasonable expenses incurred in the operation of the
mine, and not simply its rents and profits;
(2) That the instruments did not create a mortgage, but an active and
express trust, which was not subject to the rule that when an
action on the debt is barred, action on the mortgage given to,
secure it is also barred.
Where the manifest purpose of a transaction is security for a debt created,
and title is conveyed, the mere direction to appropriate the rents and
profits to its payment will not relieve the realty from the burden of the
lien or limit the latter solely to the rents and profits: the test is, the
manifest purpose.
In California, (from which the Territory of Utah took its statute of limitations,) the statute does not begin to run, in the case of an express trust,
until the trustee, with the knowledge of the cestui que trust,has disavowed
and repudiated the trust.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

On and prior to February 24, 1874, Obadiah Embody, Warren D. Heaton, William E. Miller and Matthew T. Gisborn
were.the owners of the Mono Mine, situated in Ophir Mining
.District, Tooele County, in Utah Territory, Gisborn owning
an undivided one-third, and the others the remaining undi-

GISBORN v. CHARTER OAK INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

vided two-thirds. On that day, Embody, Heaton and Miller
executed a deed of their undivided two-thirds to Gisborn. The
consideration named and to be paid was $400,000. With the
deed in his possession, he went to the city of New York to
raise the money. Negotiations were there had with the firm
of Allen, Stephens & Co., through William A. Stephens, a
partner, and by them on April 30, $100,000 was advanced, for
which Gisborn and Warren Hussey, who was assisting in the
negotiations, executed four notes of $25,000 each to William
A. Stephens, trustee, and as security Gisborn made a deed of
the undivided !}, of the Mono mining property, also to William
A. Stephens, trustee. Subsequently the negotiations were completed, the balance of the money advanced, and on May 6,1874,
Gisborn made a second deed conveying the remaining undivided A,of the property to William A. Stephens, trustee. Each
of these was a warranty deed.
On May 30, 1874, Stephens executed the following declaration of trust:
"C
Know all men by these presents, that whereas Matthew T.
Gisborn, of the city of Salt Lake and Territory of Utah, has
by two certain deeds of conveyance, bearing date, respectively,
April 30, 1874, and May 6, 1874, conveyed to me, William A.
Stephens, of the city and county of New York, trustee, all of
the IMono' mining claim and lode, with the tehements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereunto appertaining, situate
in Dry Canyon, Ophir Mining District, Tooele County and
Territory aforesaid, and more particularly described in the
survey and application for a patent therefor, now pending in
the United States Land Office:
"Now, as a part of the same transaction, I, the said William
A. Stephens, trustee as aforesaid, do declare that such conveyance was made and received upon the trusts, nevertheless, and
to and for the uses, interests, securities and purposes hereinafter limited, specified, described and declared, that is to say,
upon trust to receive the issues, ints and profits of the said
premises, and to apply the same as received as follows, viz.,
":First. To the payment of all expenses of operating said

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

mine, keeping the same with the appurtenances in good condition and repair, transportation of ores, etc., from and after
the 30th day of April, 1874, including expenses for the hoisting works on said premises, and current public taxes.
"Second. To the payment to me, as trustee, of the sum of
four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) advanced by me, as
trustee, to said Gisborn, for the purchase of two-thirds, undivided, of said premises from his late cotenants, together with
interest at the rate of seven (7) per cent per annum, as follows: On $100,000 thereof, from and after the said 30th day
of April, 1874, and on the remaining $300,000 from and after
the 30th [6th] day of May, 1874.
"Third. To the payment to said Matthew T. Gisborn, of a
sum equal to seven per cent per annum, upon one-third of the
net proceeds of said mine, so applied to the payment of said
sum of $400,000, and interest, as aforesaid, from and after the
same shall be so applied, or a like percentage per annum on
such portion of one-third of the net proceeds of said property
as said Gisborn shall not have received in the meantime with
my consent.
"Fourth. And finally to deliver and pay over to said Gisborn, his heirs or assigns, the sum of two hundred and seventyfive thousand (275,000) dollars, less the amount of net proceeds
he may have received as last aforesaid, but exclusive of the
interest mentioned last above in subdivision third.
"And I, the said William A. Stephens, trustee, as aforesaid,
do covenant and agree to and with the said Matthew T. Gisborn, his heirs and assigns, that I shall and will duly apply all
the rents, issues and profits of said property to the uses aforesaid, in the order aforesaid, and as soon as the same shall be
received by me, and further, that as soon as said uses shall be
fulfilled and discharged, I will cause said conveyance of said
premises to me to be cancelled of record, by doing such acts
and executing such instrument as may be necessary to recover
or revert .the title of said premises, with the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereto appertaining to and in the
said Matthew T- Gisborn, his heirs and assigns, to the same
extent and estate as now held by me, as aforesaid, as trustee.

GISBORW v. CHARTER OAK INS. C0.

329

Statement of the Case.

"And it is further declared as one of the terms of said trust,
that during the continuance thereof the said premises and
property, and all the operations and business pertaining thereto, shall be placed in the management and control of two persons, one of whom to be selected by the said Matthew T. Gisborn, and the other by myself, and in case of any disagreement between them in respect to the operation of said mine,
and the management of the business pertaining thereto, the two
agents so selected shall each select one person, and the matter
of difference shall be submitted for decision to the persons so
selected as last aforesaid, and in the event that the two alternates so selected, as last aforesaid, cannot agree upon a decision of the matter so referred to them, they shall select a third
party as an umpire, whose decision shall determine the matter
in dispute; the compensation of such agents, and their respective alternates, shall be paid by the party on whose behalf
they are selected respectively, and that of the umpire, if incurred, shall be paid as a current expense of said mine, and it
is understood and approved, that said Matthew T. Gisborn,
both select and appoint Alexander W. Adams as such managing agent on his behalf, and that I select and appoint Samuel
K. iolman as such .managing agent on my behalf, and that
any vacancy which may occur in either appointment, shall be
filled by the same right of selection on either side, but in no
case shall any person, directly or indirectly or contingently
interested in said property, be selected for this purpose, but
nevertheless, it is provided and specified, as a further term of
said trust, that in the meantime, on request of said Matthew
T. Gisborn, his assigns or legal representatives, I shall and will
reconvey to such person or persons as he may designate that
portion of said mining claim and premises which is situate
east of the centre of the ravine crossing said premises, nearest
the eastern boundary thereof, which said ravine is further designated and identified as one in which a living spring rises, a
short distance above the north boundary of said premises, the
more exact metes, bounds and extent of such portion to be
hereafter described by exact measurement, according to said
tokens.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellant.

"In testimony whereof, I hereunto set my hand and affix my
seal this 30th day of :Nay, 1874.
" [SEAL.]
W. A. STEPHENS, Trustee.
"J. B. Rosborough.
"John T. Caine."
The two deeds to Stephens were recorded May 12, 1874,
and this declaration of trust June 12, 1874.
The trustee entered upon his duties and mined some $20,000,
when the vein which had theretofore produced abundantly
suddenly ran out. Thereafter, in fruitless endeavors to find
the lost vein, about $52,000 of indebtedness was created. By
assignment the present appellee became the owner and holder
of the claims for the original advances and the moneys thus
fruitlessly expended, and on August 20, 1883, filed its bill in
the District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory of Utah, the object of which was to charge the mining
property itself with both these sums and to have it sold to satisfy such liability. No personal judgment was asked against
any party. Stephens, the trustee, Gisborn, the firm of Allen,
Stephens & Co., and Hoyt Sherman, the assignee in bankruptcy of Allen, one of the firm, and Warren Hussey were
made parties defendant to the bill. On May 20, 1886, a decree
was entered in favor of the plaintiff for both sums, and directing that the property be sold to satisfy such amount. Gisborn
appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which affirmed
the decree, and thereafter he appealed to this court.
Lyttleton .P'ice for appellant.
.r. Arthur Brown and .Mr.
I. In California, from which State Utah takes its entire
jurisprudence, and from which it has copied literally its statute of limitations, it is expressly provided by statute, and held
by the courts, that a mortgage is barred in four years under
the provisions of that statute. Under this enactment the courts
have held, without dissent, that mortgages and other instruments creating liens by way of contracts are barred in four
years. They are "instruments of writing," and the statute is

GISBORN v. CHARTER OAK INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

applicable to them. Deering's Code of Civil Procedure, section
337 and note, and discussion in the note; .McCarthy v. White,
21 California, 495; S. . 82 Am. Dec. 754; Lord v. -Morris,18
California, 482. In AMoCarthy v. White, the court say: "Where
an action upon a promissory note secured by a mortgage of the
same date upon real property is barr:ed by way of the statute
of limitations, the remedy upon the mortgage is barred." See
also Read v. Edwards, 2 Nevada, 262; Henry v. .Mining Co.,
1 Nevada, 619; -fackTie v. Iansilng, 2 Nevada, 302; Cooks v.
Culbertson, 9 Nevada, 199; Hayward v. Gunn, 82 Illinois, 385,
389; Eane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns. Ch. 90; . . 11 Am. Dec.
417; Governor v. Toodworth, 63 Illinois, 254.
II. A lien upon real estate must either be created by law,
that is, by some statute, or by the contract of the parties.
The contract of these parties did not make the $400,000 a lien
upon anything but "the rents, issues and rof.ts," and the expenses incurred in hunting for the lost vein were not thought
of or dreamed of by the parties, and are in no way included
within the contract. New v. N9icoll, 73 iN.Y. 127, 130 ; Perkins v. Perkins, 16 Michigan, 162; Bennett v. NLichols, 12
Michigan, 22.
.Mr.Alvan P. Hyde for appellee.
MR. Jusno. BRnwFR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
There are three principal questions in this case: First, was
the mine chargeable with the payment of the consideration
money? Second, was it also chargeable with the payment of
the moneys expended in the fruitless search for the lost vein?
And, third, is the cause of action barred under -the statute of
limitations?
With respect to the first, the contention of appellant is that
Stephens, as trustee, was a purchaser of the undivided twothirds acquired by Gisborn by his deed of 24th February,
1874; that, as such purchaser, he took all the chances of the
mine's productiveness; and that now, on its failure, he must

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pocket the loss. And, secondly, that the trust was only in
reference to the rents, issues and profits; that Stephens, having taken title for the purpose of executing such trust, has
failed, and relinquished all attempts at so doing; and, therefore, that the title to the one-third of the mine, of which Gisborn was all the while the owner in equity, has now reverted,
and a decree should have been entered directing a conveyance
thereof by Stephens to him.
These matters must be settled not by parol testimony as to
the prior conversations and negotiations between the parties,
but by the terms of the written instruments, which express
the result of all such negotiations, and constitute the contract
between the parties. If the meaning of these instruments be in
any respect doubtful, reference may be had to the surrounding
circumstances for the purpose of interpretation; but, when
interpreted, the writings which constitute the contract determine the relative rights. Fortunately the language is not
obscure, and the real transaction is fully disclosed. There
was no purchase by Stephens, or the firm for which he was
trustee. On that side of the transaction there was only a loan
of money. By the 'deed of February 24, 1874, from his coowners, Gisborn became the owner of the entire mine. True,
the delivery at first may have been conditional, and to be
completed only on the payment of the consideration; but,
when that was paid, as it was, then the delivery was complete,
and Gisborn became the absolute and full owner. Gisborn, as
owner, by two deeds conveyed the entire mine to Stephens as
trustee, and not individually. The terms of that trust were
disclosed by the declaration of May 30, which, as stated in it,
was "a part of the same transaction." The two deeds and
the declaration may, therefore, be' considered as one instrument making a conveyance of lands upon certain specified
trusts and conditions. They are that the grantee shall take
the title and possession; out of the rents, issues and profits
pay certain moneys; and then reconvey the entire property
to the grantor. If the firm had bee. a purchaser, then, on
performance of the trust, the trustee should have conveyed to
it the portion of-which it was a purchaser. As was well said

GISBORN v. CHARTER OAK INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Supreme Court of the Territory, "The idea of a sale
and that the purchaser was not to get the title are not consistent."
Nor is this- conclusion affected by the surrounding circumstances, or the subsequent conveyances disclosed by the
testimony. It appears that Warren Hussey, who had no
interest in the property, was helping Gisborn to negotiate the
loan, on a promise of receiving, if successful, an interest in the
mine. In order to induce Allen, Stephens & Co. to make
the loan, he promised to share with them his compensation;
and on April 13, and prior to any advances, this agreement
was executed:
NEw YoRK, April 13, 1874.

"It is understood that Warren Hussey gets four-eighteenths
of all the ' Mono' mine in his own right. With us he agrees
to make the matter satisfactory to us from the said foureighteenths, even if he gives us all of it.
"ALLEN, STEFiENS & Co.,
WARREN HlUSSEY."

After the declaration of trust, but on the same day, Gisborn
gave to Hussey a contract, which recited that "for and in
consideration of certain moneys advanced and services rendered to me in effecting the purchase of two-thirds of the
'Mono' mining claim and lode. from my late cotenants,
as soon as the uses and purposes of said trust shall
be fulfilled and accomplished according to the terms of said
declaration of trust, (reference thereto here made for particulars,) I shall and will convey to the said Warren Hussey, his
heirs and assigns, by good and sufficient deed, the following
described part, portion and interest in said mining claim, lode
and premises, viz., the one-half, undivided, of all that portion
of said 'Mono I mining claim, lode and premises," etc. And
on August 10, 1874, Hussey executed to William A. Stephens
a bond to convey to him all the interest acquired under such
contract from Gisborn.
But the transaction evidenced by these instruments was
independent of the loan. It was an arrangement of the agent

OCTOBER TERM; 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

with respect to his compensation for services, and does not
change the contract made by the two deeds and the declaration. Indeed, the recital in the bond from Gisborn is equivalent to an assertion by him, that he, rather than Allen, Stephens
& Co., was the purchaser of the two-thirds, and is inconsistent
with his present claim in respect thereto. No disposition which
Hussey, his ageni, might make of the interest which he proposed to convey to him for his services in effecting a purchase
from the cotenants, would reach backward and modify the
terms of the contract between him and the lenders to him,
or alter their established relations.
Further, these contracts throw light upon the third and
fourth clauses of the declaration, which otherwise would appear strange and unnecessary provisions. Were it not for
them, it might seem singular that if the trust was simply to pay
the $400,000 borrowed from Allen, Stephens & Co., the reconveyance should not be made immediately upon such payment,
and that the trust should continue further, and until the payment of $275,000 to Gisborn. They show that the final
arrangement was not that Gisborn should give Hussey an
undivided one-half of the mine after the payment out of the
profits of the monety borrowed, but only after the payment of
the loan, and also the receipt by himself of the further sum
named. In other words, the transaction practically amounted
to this: The mine was placed as security to Allen, Stephens
& Co. for the $400,000 borrowed, then to Gisborn for $275,000,
and, thereafter, Hussey was to receive one-half for his services.
But whatever arrangements may have been made between
Grisborn and Hussey, and whatever disposition Hussey may
have seen fit to make of the remote interest he was to acquire
from Gisborn, the transaction between Gisborn and Allen,
Stephens & Co. was fully contained in and determined by
the tw6 deeds and the declaration. That transaction was a
loan by Allen, Stephens & Co. of $400,000, on the security of
the mine.
Neither id there force in the contention that the mine itself
was not the security, but only the rents, issues and profits.
It 1%true that the language of the trust is "to receive the issues,

IGISBO1 N v. CHARTER OAK INS, CO.
Opinion of the Court.

rents and profits of the said premises, and to apply the same
as received as follows." Undoubtedly the thought of the parties was that the mine would continue so productive that the
issues and profits would pay these amounts, but the mine
itself was conveyed, and the further stipulation was that upon
the di~charge of this trust the mine should be reconveyed.
The trust contemplated the payment of the sums named, and,
until they were paid the trust was not discharged. The language used may not have been the most apt, but the intent is
clear. What was meant is, that the mine was not placed in
the hands of the trustee simply for the purposes of sale, but
in order that he might work it and apply the proceeds to 'the
payment of these sums. There was not a mere conveyance of
the title in the nature of a mortgage to secure the debt3 but
an express and active trust.
Undoubtedly the owner of real estate can specifically appropriate rents and profits to a named purpose, or create a
trust in them separate and apart from the title to the real
estate; but where the manifest object is security, and the title
is conveyed, the meere direction to appropriate the rents and
.profits to the payment of the debt will not relieve the realty
from the burden of the lien or limit the latter solely to the
rents and profits. *The test is -the manifest purpose. Is
that merely to dispose of the rents and profits or is it to grant
security for an indebtedness? This question is not a new one.
It has arisen frequently in the consideration of powers given
by will to dispose of rents and profits. In the case of Allan
v. Backhouse, 2 Yes. & Beam. 65, the Vice Chancellor held
that where -the term was created for the purpose of raising
money out of the rents and profits, if the trust of a will
required that a gross sum should be raised, the expression
"rents and profits" would not confine the term to the mere
annual rents, but would authorize the sale or mortgage of
the estate itself. In 2 Story's Equity Jurisprudence, (11 ed.,)
see. 1064a, the rule is thus state d: "When a testator directs
a gross sum to be raised out of the rents and profits, of an
estate at a fixed time, or for a definite purpose or object,
which, must be accomplished within a short period of time, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

which cannot be delayed beyond a reasonable time, it is but
fair to presume that he intends that the gross sum shall at all
events be raised, so that the end may be punctually accomplished; and that he acts under the impression that it may be
so obtained by a due application of the rents and profits within
the intermediate period. But the rents and profits are but the
means; and the question therefore, may properly be put,
whether the means, if totally inadequate to accomplish the
end, are to control the end or are to yield to it. Now if the
gross sum cannot be raised out of the rents and profits at
all, or not so soon as to meet the exigency contemplated by
the testator, it would seem but a reasonable interpretation of
his intention, to presume that he meant to dispense with the
means, and, at all events, to require the sum to be raised."
See also Hawkins on Wills, 120; 1 Powell on Mortgages, 61.
The same ruling has been applied to mortgages. In 3 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence, ยง 1237, the author says that
"an assignment of the r6nts and profits of land as security for
a debt is another mode of creating an equitable lien on the
land in the favor of the assignee." And in Ex -ParteWillis,
1 Yes. Jr. 162, it is said of such an assignment that "it is an
odd way of conveying; but it amounts to an equitable lien,
and would entitle the assignee to come into equity and insist
upon a mortgage.". Legard v. Hodges, 1 Yes. Jr. 477; Smith
v. Patton, 12 West Va. 551.
The evident purpose of these instruments was not the mere
appropriation of the rents and profits; the parties contemplated security for the debt. The owner conveyed the title
to the trustee; and the provision as to rents and profits, while
imposing a primary duty on the trustee, does not, if the rents
and profits fail to accomplish the object of the conveyance, to
wit, the payment of the debt, prevent the application ,f the
realty itself thereto.
Passing now to the second question: The trust, as disclosed
by the first clause, contemplated the continued operation of
the mine, keeping it and its appurtenances in good repair, and
the payment of taxes. Whatever expenses were legitimately
incurred in the discharge of this part of the trust were charge-

GISBORIN v. CHARTER OAK INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

able upon the property. These were not debts created on the
personal obligation of the trustee, and afterwards sought to
be thrown upon the estate, but in an honest and reasonable
execution of the trust. In 2 Pomeroy's Equity Jurisprudence,
sec. 1085, it is said that "the trustee is entitled to be allowed,
as against the estate and the beneficiary, for all his proper
expenses out of pocket, which include, all payments expressly
authorized by the instrument of trust, all reasonable expenses
in carrying out the directions of the trust, and, in the absence
of any such directions all expenses, reasonably necessary for
the security, protection and preservation of the trust propelty,
or for the prevention of a failure of the trust." Gisborn is
certainly not in a position to complain of these expenditures,
for most of them, at least, were incurred while he was acting
as manager for the trustee, and were approved by him in
writing. It will not do to say that it was the duty of the
trustee to stop work the moment the vein was lost. It was a
reasonable exercise of the power vested in him to make some
limited exploration to see if the lost vein could not be recovered.
No one could tell in advance how great had been the displacement; perhaps a few feet of mining might have brought it to
light; and as Gisborn was consulted on these efforts, and
approved of them, and the expenditures were largely made
under his direction, it must be adjudged, as against him, that
they were reasonable, and therefore also chargeable upon the
trust estate.
With reference to the last question, the contention of the
appellant is, that if the title was conveyed as security, then
the instruments created simply a mortgage; and that the rule
in California, from which State Utah took its statutes, is that
when action on the debt is barred, action on the mortgage
given to secure the debt is also barred. lord v. lorris,18
California, 482; ik Carthy v. IFite, 21 California, 495.
The obvious answer is that these instruments did not create
a mortgage, but an active and express trust, and the rule
invoked as to mortgages does not apply, either in California
or elsewhere. In 3fies v. Thorne, 38 California, 335, it was
held that the statute of limitations does not begin to run in
VOL. cxLu-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the case of an express trust, until the trustee, with the knowledge of the cestui que tryst, has disavowed and repudiated the
trust. In -Hearstv. PujoZ, 44 California, 230, the proposition
is laid down that "if A. conveys to B. a tract of land, to be
by B. afterwards reconveyed to himself, he thereby creates an
express ,trust, which B. may accept by accepting the fdeed ;"
and also that, "the statute of limitations does not commence
running on A.'s right to a reconvey~nce until B. repudiates
the trust, and such repudiation is brought to the knowledge of
A." And Grant v. Burr, 54 California, 298, draws the distinction between a deed of trust and a mortgage, as to the
running of the statute of limitations. In that case, the trustee
under a deed of trust, long after the notes secured thereby had
become barred by the statute of limitations, was proceeding to
sell the land under the power conferred. The grantor in the
deed sought to enjoin such sale, but the injunction was denied,
and this ruling was affirmed by the Supreme Court. See
also HZenry v. _ifning Comyany, 1 Nevada, 619; Bacon v.
.Rives, 106 U. S.99; Seymour v. Freer, 8 Wall. 202, in which
the general proposition is laid down that the statute of limitations has no application to an express truit where there is
no disclaimer. In the case at bar there was no disclaimer on
the part of the trustee, no repudiation of the trust. He never
asserted title in himself as against any beneficiary. On the
contrary, he continued to work the mine, and in the active discharge of the trust, so long as money therefor was available,
and then, With the consent and approval of Gisborn, leased the
mining property for two successive years, and until January,
1880, to parties who stipulated to do certain work therein.
That nothing was done by him after this was not because of
any repudiation of the trust, but simply from a lack of means.
His inaction under the circumstances amounts to nothing
further than this, that the continued failure to realize rents,
issues and profits justified an appeal to the courts to subject
the realty itself to the satisfaction of the claims.
These are the principal and decisive questions in the case,
and in respect to them, or otherwise, we see no error in the
rulings. The decree will, therefore, be
A ffrmed.

