OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

prevent land, which .might otherwise have been selected for
the establishment of the college intended, from being previously selected by other grantees of the United States of
unlocated quantities of land. No trust against the State could
arise until proceeds from the sale of the property granted, or
some portioln of it, had been obtained and come into her possession. Whatever disposition she might subsequently make
of the proceeds, in carrying 'out the object intended, or in
defeating it, could have no bearing upon the title acquired by
other parties from the sale of the lands. 3fills County v. Rail,road Companies, 107 U. S. 557;'JrhigrantCo. v. County of
Adams, 100 U. S.61; Cook County v. Calumet & Cicago
Canal Co., 138 U. S.635, 655.
The judgment iaust, therefore, be
Afmed.

PHELPS v. SIEGFRIED.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 655. Submitted January 7, 1892. -Decided

January 11,1892.

'Invoices of merchandise entitled to free entry were required, in August,
1889, to conforni to the requirements of se6tions 2853, 2854, 2855 and 2860
of the Revised Statutes..
United States v. Mosby, 133 U. S. 273, affirmed and applied.

THIS action was brought against the collector of customs
at the port of San Francisco, to recover the value of ten
p ckages of tea imported by the plaintiffs in August, 1889.
The complaint averred that the merchandise in question was
entitled to free entry, but that, although plaintiffs had done
everything the law required of them, the defendant, as collector of the port of San Francisco, had refusqd to allow entry
of the said merchandise or to. deliver the same to the plaintiffs
except on the condition that plaintiffs should deliver to defendant a consular invoice from the 'United States consul at
Yokohama, Japan, declaring the cost or value of said merchan-

PHELPS v. SIEGFRIED.
'Argument for Defendants in Error.

dise in Japan, or should give a bond in $100 conditioned for
the delivery of such an invoice within a prescribed time. The
complaint averred that there was no warrant of law for this
action of the collector.
The defendant demurred to the complaint, but the court
overruled the demurrer. The defendant thereupon said that
the facts in the case were fully set forth in the complaint, and
that he could not answer further, whereupon judgment was
entered for plaintiff, as prayed for in his complaint. This
writ of error was sued oat to review that judgment.
Kr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ faury for plaintiff in
error.
_Mr. John S. Mosby for defendants in error.
.The plaintiff in error relies on the case of United States v.
Mfosby, 133 U. S. 273, as decisive of this. It is admitted that
that case is an authority in point. It is respectfully submitted
that there was error in the judgment of the court on that
question, and that it should be overruled. The decision in
that case seems to have been based on a construction of sections 2853, 2854, 2855 and 2860, Rev. Stat., without reference
to other sections that explain them. When all the provisions
on the subject of consular invoices are read together as a
whole, it is clear that they were never intended to apply to free
importations; they are in fact repugnant to such a construction.
Idi United States v.. Mos~b the court says: "In addition to
this, it is entirely clear that the question of determining
whether goods to be shipped will, when imported into the
United States, be free from duty is a question which could
not be left to the determination of a consul." With all due
respect it seems to be a-non sequitur to say that a consul
determines that imports are free of duty in a case where he is
not called on to perform any official duty in regard to them.
As the consul never hears of a shipment where he certifies no
invoice, it is hard to see how it is left to him to determine
whether the goods are free or dutiable, or where his judgment
comes in.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The judgment is reversed and cause
remanded, with a direction to sustain the demurrer and to
dismiss the action, upon the authority of United States v.
mJosby, 133 U. S. 273.
1?eversed.

MAGONE v. ItOSENSTEIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 145. Argued January 7, 8, 1892. - Decided January 11, 1892.

Soft wood boxes, imported from Sweden, containing parlor matches, or
safety matches, are not subject to duty under the act of March 3, 1883,
22 Stat. c. 121, p. 488, ยง 7, p. 523.
Oberteuffer v. Robertson, 116 U. S. 499, affirmed and applied.

THE defendant in error imported into the port of New York
from Sweden 301 cases of matches known as parlor matches,
and ten cases of matches known as safety matches.. The
boxes contained about seventy matches each, and were made
of very thin pieces of soft wood covered with paper, and so
constructed that the receptacle containing the matches fitted
snugly into the cover like a drawer and could be slid out of
the cover at either end for the purpose of withdrawing the
contents.
The defendant, as collector, classified the soft wood boxes
for duty separately from the matches, and liquidated the duties
on the boxes at the rate of 100 per cent ad valorem, the cost
of packing not being included therein. The duty so levied on
the parlor-match boxes amounted to $315.43, and on the safetymatch boxes to $69.57.
The importer duly protested and brought this action to
recover back the duties on the boxes paid in obedience to said
assessment.
It was admitted by the counsel for the plaintiff in error that
the undoubted effect of the. testimony was to show that the

