FRANKLIN COUNTY v. GERMAN BANK.
Statement of the Case.

rights of two private parties to a contract, with respect to the
terms of such contract, does not prevent their agreeing upon
other and different terms for the future. The fact that such
parties are a private and a public corporation is immaterial, so
long as the right to contract exists.
(4) Little need be said with regard to the appeal of Conery
and the other taxpayers; they sue in the right of the city, the
rights of the city are their rights, and they have no other or
greater rights upon this appeal than has the city. Indeed, the,
city has, in its amended and supplemental answer, joined with
them in the assertion of its rights, and they~are bound by the
disposition of the case against it. As there is no Federal
question properly presented in this case,
The motion to dismiss is granted.
MR. JUSTICE HA L

is of opinion that this court has juris-

diction, and that the judgment below should be affirmed.

FRANKLIN COUNTY v. GERMAN SAVINGS BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN 'DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1234. Submitted November 23, 1891.-

Decided December 14, 1891.

Where a court, having complete jurisdiction of the case, has pronounced a
decree upon a certain issue, that issue cannot be retried in a collateral
action between the same parties, even although the evidence upon which
the case was heard be sent up with the record. Brownsvfile v. Loague,
129 U. S. 493, examined and explained.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action by the German Savings Bank of Davenport, Iowa, upon 128 coupons cut from bonds issued by the
county of Franklin in payment of its subscription to the
capital stock of the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company. The allegation of the declaration was that such bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

had been issued on the 10th day of November, 1877, by the
said defendant, "being thereunto duly authorized by an affirmative vote of the legal voters of said county, as required by
law." There was a further averment that plaintiff became
the owner of twenty of these bonds, whose numbers were
given, from which the coupons in suit had been cut. To this
declaration a plea of non a8sumpsit and a replication thereto

were filed. A jury being waived, the cause was tried by the
court, which- found in favor of the plaintiff, and a judgment
was rendered on February 4, 1891, in its favor for the sum of
$5120, damages and costs. The bonds purported on their face
s
to haie been " isued
under the provisions of an act of the
General Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled ' An act to
incorporate the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company,'
approved February 22, 1861, authorizing subscriptions to the
capital stock of said railroad, and in accordance with the
majority of votes cast at- an election held in said county on
the 11th day of September, 1869, in conformity with the
provisions of said act."
Upon the trial of the case, the plaintiff bank, after presenting the bonds and coupons set forth in the declaration, put in
evidence the record of a suit in equity, begun in the same
court, and carried to a final decree on July 3, 1883. The bill
was originally filed by the county of Franklin in the Circuit
Court of Franklin County, Illinois, on the 4th day of August,
1880, against the Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company,
the clerk, sheriff and collector of said county, the auditor of
public accounts of the state of Illinois, the state treasurer of
Illinois, several private individuals, and the unknown holders
of bonds issued by the said Franklin County in aid of the said
railroad company. The bill alleged the issuing by the county
of $150,000 of its bonds, dated November 13, 1877, to the
Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company; $100,000 of which
were subscribed and issued under the act of the General
Assembly of Illinois, entitled, "An act to incorporate the
Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company," approved February 22, 1861, authorizing a subscription to the capital stock
of said company, and $50,000 of which were subscribed and

FRANKLIN COUNTY v. GERM~fAN BANK.
Statement of the Case.

issued under an act of the general assembly, entitled, "Au act
to authorize cities and counties to subscribe stock to railroads, '
approved November 6, 1849. The bill alleged that both
classes of bonds were subscribed and issued in pursuance of the
vote of the people of the county at an election held the 11th
day of September, 1869; and that the order of the county
court submitting the proposal to the voters named certain
conditions to be complied with before the bonds should be
issued, one of which was that the railroad should be commenced in the county of Franklin within nine months from
the date of the election, and completed through the county
by the 1st day of June, 1872. The bill further alleged that
the orders submitting the question to the voters were never
complied with, and particularly that the road was not cornpleted within the time provided; that all of the orders and
resolutions of the county court and the board of supervisors
subscribing, and attempting to subscribe, stock to said railroad company were in conflict with the constitution of the
.State, and were void; that the state auditor had no right to
levy taxes for the purpose of paying the principal or interest
of said bonds; that the state treasurer had no right to receive
or pay out the same; and that the act to provide for paying
railroad debts by counties, approved April 16,. 1869, was unconstitutional, contrary to pfiblic policy, and void. The bill
prayed an injunction restraining the officers of the State from
collecting or paying out taxes' in liquidation of said bonds,
and that the individual defendants and unknown holders of
the bonds be enjoined from suing the county upon any of the
coupons attached to such bonds.
A temporary writ of injunction was issued as prayed. Service by publication was made upon the unknown holders of
the bonds. Upon the 27th day of October, 1880, a decree was
taken by default. At the October term, 1881, the German
Savings Bank appeared in the cause, had the decree opened,
and removed the case to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Illinois, to which it Was submitted
upon proofs taken, and upon a stipulation that the defendant
was the bona.#de holder of the bonds'set up in its answer, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

purchased the same for value without notice of any defence.
The answer of the bank, which was also adopted by other defendants intervening for their own interests, put in issue every
material averment of the bill, and prayed that, as to the bonds
and coupons held by it, the bill might be dismissed for want
of equity and the injunction dissolved. On July 3, 1883, a
decree was entered declaring that all bonds involved in the
case, and purporting on their face to have been issued under
the provisions of the Railroad Act of November 6, 1849, were
issued without authority of law, and were, therefore, void, and
decreeing that, as to the holders of such bonds, the injunction
be made perpetual. The decree further provided that, -as to
the specific bonds designated by their numbers, and among
others -the bonds belonging to the German Savings Bank,
"purporting on their.face to be of the series issued under the
charter of the said Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company,
approved February 22, 1861, the court doth decree in favor of
said defendants, the said several respective holders thereof,
and that the said several bonds and the coupons thereof are
valid and legal obligations against the county of Franklin; and
as to said last-mentioned series of said bonds and coupons thereunto attached, as h6ld as aforesaid, the court doth decree that
the injunction issued in this cause be dissolved, and complainant's bill be dismissed for want 6f equity."
The German Savings Bank in June, 1885, appealed from so
much of this decree as adjudged that nine bonds, which had
been issued under the act of 1849, and were held by the bank
were void, and upon such appeal this court affirmed the decree'
of the Circuit Court. German Savings Bank v. Franklin
County, 128 U. S. 526. The county of Franklin, hQwever, did
not appeal from the decree establishing the validity of the
bonds issued under the act of 1861.
After the plaintiff had put in the said record, decree and
mandate of this court, in the equity case, it introduced in evidence the eighteen bonds which, with the coupons thereof, had
been decreed to be valid and legal obligations against the
county, and also put in evidence coupons cut from two other
bonds which had also been adjudged to be valid. The defend-

FRANKLINT COUNTY v. GERMAN BANK.
Argument for Plaintif in Error.

ant introduced no evidence, but claimed that the evidence contained in the record introduced by the plaintiff showed that
the bonds and coupons therefrom, upon which this action was
brought, were invalid. The plaintiff contended that the validity of said bonds and coupons had been established in the said
equity case, and that the question was ra- adjudicata,and the
court so decided. To reverse the judgment of the Circuit
Court in this behalf, this writ of error was sued out.
.Mr. Daniel X Browning and Mr. William .*Cantrellfor
plaintiff in error.
Municipal bonds inlIllinois, issued since the adoption of the
constitution of 1870, areprimafacie invalid, and the burden
of proof rests upon the plaintiff to show affirmatively that they
were authorized by A vote of the people prior to that time.
Jackson County v. Brush, 77 Illinois, 59; PeopZe v. Jackson
County,, 92 Ilinos, 441; People v. Bishop, 111 Illinois, 124;
Prairie Township v. Lloyd, 97 Illinois, 179; Eddy v. The
People, 127 Illinois, 428; .Me ure v. Oxiford Township, 94
U. S. 429; Buchanan v. LitcAemld, 102 U. S. 278.
Bonds issued after the time fixed by the vote expires, and
after the adoption of the constitution of 1870, are void, even
in the hands of innocent purchasers. German Savings Bank
v. Franklin County, 128 U. S. 526; Richeson v. The People,
115 Illinois, 450; Eagle v. JKohn, 84 Illinois, 292; Eddy v.
The People, supra.
When a decree has been rendered that is not self-executing
and the beneficiary thereof again goes into court for a complete remedy, the latter court will not enforce the decree if
it appears erroneous. Fadhams v. Gay, 73 Illinois, 415.
Where the payment of judgments rendered upon municipal
bonds issued to a railroad company was sought to be enforced
by a petition for a mandamus, and it appeared that the bonds
upon which the judgments were rendered were issued without
authority of law, the petition was denied. Brownsville v.
Ioague, 129 U. S. 493. There is no allegation in any of the
pleadings in this case invoking the doctrine of estoppel or res
VOL. CXLII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opition of the Court.

judicata, but the evidence introduced by the defendant in
error was for the purpose of proving what the law required it
to prove, that the bonds were issued under existing laws, and
were authorized by a vote of the people of the county prior to
the adoption of the constitution; and this evidence having
shown that they were not so issued, but were void, the court
should have found for the plaintiff in error.
A party cannot present evidence to a court, thus Vouching
for its being true, and then ask the court to disregard such
portions of it as he may deem to be unfavorable to him.
Xb. E. .Cook and Xf. Samuel P. ITeeler for defendant
inerror.
MR. JusTioE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the'court.

As both parties claim an estoppel by virtue of the decree in
the equity suit between the parties to this suit, it only becomes
necessary to consider the effect of this decree. It contains two
separate and distinct findings: First, so far as the nine bonds
held by the German Savings Bank, and issued under the act
of November 6, 1849, were concerned, the decree pronounced
them to be void, and as to them the injunction was made per
petual. From this part of the decree the bank appealed to
this court, by which the decree was affirmed. 128 U. S.526.
Second, as to the eighteen bonds issued under the act of 1861,
and the coupons cut from two other bonds issued under the
same act, also held by the German Savings Bank, and purporting on their face to be of the series issued under the charter
*of said.Belleville and Eldorado Railroad Company, approved
February 22, 1861, the decree adjudged in favor of the defendant bank, and that the said several bonds and the coupons
thereof were legal and valid obligations against the county of
Franklin, aiid as to this series the injunction was dissolved and
the complainant's bill dismissed. No appeal was taken from
this part of the decree by the county of Franklin, but it now
insists that these bonds are void for the same reasons that the
bonds issued under the act of November 6, 1849, were adjudged

FRANKIIN COUINTY v. GERMAN BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

to be void, namely, because both series were issued pursuant to
the same vote and subject to the same conditions.
The record of the equity suit does not show clearly the
ground upon which the court based its distinction between
the two classes of bonds; nor is it xecessary to be ascertained
here. It is sufficient for the purposes of this suit to know that
the validity of these bonds was directly put in issue by the
pleadings, and determined adversely to the county. The
plaintiff alleged in its bill that these bonds were invalid by
reason of the non-compliance of the road with certain conditions precedent upon which they were issued, setting up with
great particularity all the proceedings prior to the issue of the
bonds; reciting the laws under which they were claimed to
have been authorized; and demanding their cancellation and
surrender upon the ground that the acts of the county officers
were unauthorized and void, and 'the laws under which they
were issued unconstitutional. The entire question of their
validity was presented and tried upon the merits, and the
court could not have dismissed the bill as to these bonds
without holding that they were valid, and the further finding
that the several bonds and coupons thereof "are valid and
legal obligations" added nothing to the force of the decree
dismissing the bill.
The defendant's position in this connection is, that as the
entire record taken together shows that these bonds were void,
this court ought not to treat the decree of the court below,
adjudging them to be valid, as.res adjudicata. It is true that
there are certain authorities to the effect that, in the case of
deeds, if the truth plainly appears on the face of the deed,
there is, generally speaking, no estoppel, meaning simply, as
stated by Xr. Bigelow, (Bigelow on Estoppel, 351,) "that all
parts of the deed are to be construed together; and that if an
allegation in the deed which alone would work an estoppel
upon the parties is explained in another part of the deed, or
perhaps another deed to which reference is made for the purpose, there is ordinarily no estoppel." Lord Coke also states
certain exceptions to the conclusive effect of records, one of
these being, "where the truth appears in the same record, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

where the defendant is sued by the wrong name and enters
into a bail bond prout the writ, as he must, and then put in
,bail by his right name, he who was arrested is not estopped
froth pleading in abatement; or where the record shows that
the judgment relied on asan estoppel has been reversed in
error." But we know of no case which goes to the extent
of holding that where a court having complete jurisdiction of
the case has pronounced a decree upon a certain issue, such
issue may be retried in a collateral action, even although the
'evidence upon which the case is heard is sent up with the
record. Ifthis were possible, then in every such case where a
judgment or decree is pleaded b:j way of estoppel, and the.
record shows the evidence upon which it was rendered, the
court in which the estoppel was pleaded would have the power
to retry the case, and determine whether a different judgment
'ught not to have been rendered. The case of Br'ownviIle v.
Loague, 129 U. S. 493, 503, 505, has perhaps gone as far in the
direction indicated by the defendant as any case reported in
the books, but it is far from being an authority for the position assumed here. That was a petition for a mandamus to
enforce the collection of judgments of a Circuit Court upon
certain bonds which this court had held to be invalid. The
court denied the application of the relator upon the ground
that, in his pleadings, he did not rely exclusively upon the
judgments, but opened the facts which attended the judgments
for the purpose of counting upon a certain act of the legislature as furnishing the remedy which he sought, and that, by so
doing he in effect asked the court to order the levy of a ta4
to pay the coupons, and relidd upon the judgments principally
as creating an estoppel of a denial of the power to do so.
"Thus invited," said the Chief Justice, "to look through the
judgments to the alleged contracts on which they are founded,
and finding them invalid for want of power, mpst we nevertheless concede to the judgments themselves such effect, by
way of estoppel, as to entitle the plaintiff, ex debito justitie,
to a writ commanding the levy of taxes under a statute which
was not in existence when these bonds were issued? .
Rut where application is made to collect judgments by pro-

OGHLAIN 0. SOUTH' OAROLIA I'D CO..

101

Syllabus.

cess not contained in themselves, and requiring, to be sustained, reference to the alleged cause of action.upon which
they are founded, the aid of the court should not be granted
when upon the face of the record it appears, not that mere
error supervened in the rendition of such judgments, tut that
they rest upon no cause of action whatever." This, however,
does not touch the question of the binding effect of judgments
when offered in evidence in a distinct and collateral action.
We know of no case holding their probative effect to be anything else than conclusive. Had the plaintiff county desired
further to test the validity of these bonds, it was its duty to
have appealed from this decree, as did the bank with respect
to the bonds which. that court held to be invalid, when the
question of the validity of both issues could have been heard
and determined by this court.
There was no error in the finding of the court ,below, and its
judgment must be
________Ajfi~'mned.

COGHLAN v.

.SOUTH

CAROLINA RAILROAD COM-

PA.NY.
'APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 47. Argued October 21, 22, 1891.- Decided December 7,1891.
When a contract for the payment of money at a future day, with interest
'meanwhile payable semi-annually, is made in one place, and is to be performed in another, -both as to interest and principal, and the interest be-'
fore maturity is payable according to the legal rate in the place of performance, the presumption is, in the absence of attendant circumstances
to show the contrary, that the principal bears interest after maturity at
the same rate.
The report of the master in a suit in equity to foreclose a railroad mortgage, to whom it had been referred to take proof of the claims, found as
to a bondholder, that his bonds were due and unpaid, that certain coupons
had been paid, and that certain other subsequent coupons had been paid,
but made no mention of the intervening coupons. No exception was
taken to this report. Held, that it was a reasonable inference that the
claimant did not offer these coupons in proof, and that the failure to find
as to them could not be urged as an objectiQn to the final decree.

