OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

them he had not decided what to do. As intimated, the testimony in reference to these last matters does not leave the
case free from doubt, yet we are of the opinion that the Circuit
Court rightly read it, and properly held that it was not shown
that at the date of those instruments Ott had determined upon
an assignment. They were, therefore, valid as in the exercise
by him of his undoubted jas disponendi; and the assignment,
subsequently determined upon and subsequently made, was
without preferences, was not void under the statute of Iowa, but
was a valid general assignment, transferring all of the property
then in his possession for the benefit of all his creditors.
The decree will be
._A/rmed.

DELAWARE CITY, SALEM AND PHILADELPHIA
STEAMBOAT NAVIGATION COMPANY v.

REYBOLD.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF DELAWARE.
No. 138. Argued January 5, 6,1892.-

Decided January 18,1892.

The plaintiff below sued, in assumpsit to recover from the defendant company the sum of $2898.18. The first count was for money had and
received to the plaintiff's use, being money paid by the United States for
the pilotage, hire and service of a steam vessel. The claim under this
count'was, that a contract had been made with the plaintiff by which he
was to prosecute the claim and receive to his own use whatever he might
get for it. Such claims being unassignable under Rev. Stat. ยง 3477, the
company received the money, and set up in defence as against the first
count (1), that it never made the contract, and (2), that the assignment
was illegal. The second count was for money due, and owing plaintiff,
for work and labor in the prosecution of the claim. The jury returned a
verdict for less than the sum claimed, without specifying under which
count the damages were assessed. The Court of Errors and Appeals of
the State of Dblaware affirmed the judgment on the ground that it had no
power to review the finding on a question of fact, and the finding on the
second count being in plaintiff's favor there was no error in the rendition of the judgment by the court below on such a finding. Held, that
the only Federal question raised in the case at the trial was not neces-

DELAWARE CITY &c. NAV. CO. v. REYBOLD.

637

Opinion of the Court.
sarily involved in the trial of the issue under the second count, and that,
as the judgment could be sustained under that count, this court was without jurisdiction.

Even if a Federal question was raised in the state court, yet, if the case
was decided on grounds broad enough, in themselves, to sustain the judgment without reference to the Federal question, this court will not entertain jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

31'. Anthony Ilirgin (with whom was.A&. V
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

. Spruane

.Mt. Edward G. Bradford (with Whom was .,fr.
(h'ay on the brief) for defendant in error.

George

M . JusTicn LA-AR delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of assumpsit brought in the Superior
Court in and for New Castle County, Delaware, by Anthony
Reybold against the Delaware City,' Salem and Philadelphia
Steamboat Navigation Company, a Delaware corporation, to
recover a sum of money that had been received by the defendant company from the United States for the pilotage and hire
of the steamboat Swan, which had been formerly owned by
the company; and had been chartered to the government during the civil war.
The declaration contained the usual common counts. With
respect to the two counts on which the plaintiff relied for a
recovery, viz., (1) for money had and received, and (2) for
work and labor performed, he filed a bill of particulars as
follows:
"First. Money had and received by the defendant in this
cause, to and for the use of the said plaintiff, to a large
amount, to wit, the sum of two thousand eight hundred and
-ninety-eight dollars and eighteen cenfs, with .legal interest
thereon from the time the said defendant so had and received
the same, to wit, from the twenty-ninth day of August A.D.
1882, said sum of money having been paid by the United'
States of America to the said defendant for the pilotage and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

hire or service of a certain steam vessel, to wit, the Swan,
formerly owned by the said defendant, and the said plaintiff
being at the time of said payment and ever since entitled, as
against the said defendant, to receive said money so paid as
aforesaid.
"Second. Money due and owing at the time of the commencement of this cause from the said dafeudant to the said
plaintiff, to a large amount, to wit, the sum of five thousand
dollars, for the work, labor, care and diligence of the said
plaintiff before that time done, performed and bestowed in
and about the business of the said defendant, at the request of
the said defendant, to wit, in and about the prosecution of a
certain claim of the said defendant against the United States
of America, amounting to a large sum of money, to wit, five
thousand seven hundred and ninety-six dollars and thirty-six
cents, for the pilotage and hire or service of a certain steam
vessel, to wit, the Swan, formerly owned by the said defendant."
The defendant pleaded, (1) non-assumpsit; (2) payment; (3)
set-off; and (4) the statute of limitations. Upon the issues
thus joined the case went to trial. At the trial, as shown by
the bill of exceptions, the plaintiff, to sustain the issue on his
part, under the first count, submitted evidence tending to
prove that in 1876 or 1877 the steamboat company had a
claim against the United States, which it considered worthless,
for the pilotage and hire of the steamboat Swan, formerly
owned by it; that thereupon, at the request of the plaintiff,
who was at that time one of the directors, of the company,
there was an agreement made and entered into between the
plaintiff and the company that if he would undertake the
collection of the claim he might have what he could get from
it, provided the company should be at no expense in the
matter; and that he afterwards prosecuted the claim to collection, and the teamboat company received a certain named
sum of money as the proceeds thereof; to which sum the
plaintiff claimed he was entitled, as money had and received
to his use, under the provisions of the aforesaid agreement.
To sustain the issue raised under the second count, the

DELAWARE CITY &c. NAV. CO. v. REYBOLD.

639

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff introduced evidence tending to prove that, during a
period of more than two years, he bestowed much care, work,
labor and diligence in the prosecution of the claim against
the United -States to a successful termination ; and his contention therefore was, that he was entitled to recover on a quantumw meruit for such services.
The contention of the defendant was, (1) that no agreement
had ever been made with the plaintiff whereby he was to receive
and retain for his own benefit whatever he could collect from
the government on the aforesaid claim, and that even if the
agreement had been made, it could not be enforced because it
was in violation of ยง 3471 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States; and (2) that the plaintiff was not entitled to
a recovery under the second count as on a quantum meruit,
because the work was done under a contract claimed by it to
be illegal: and on the trial of the case the defendant requested
the court to charge the jury accordingly. The court, however,
refused to charge as requested by the defendant, but instead
thereof, over the objections of the defendant, gave to the jury
the following instructions:
"3. That the company could not legally assign its claim, by
gift or otherwise, to the plaintiff. Still, if the jury are satisfied from the evidence that he secured it by his efforts and
expenditures in the production of the necessary proof, he is,
entitled to recover upon the count for money had and received,
for the money received by the company was his money, and
the company cannot be allowed in this action or under such a
count to shelter itself under any defence of the illegality of
the contract inter sese.
'. 4. The plaintiff may recover under the count for work and
labor, under the circumstances shown by the proof of the
plaintiff, if the jury believe it, such proof being that the directors furnished the plaintiff, upon its request, with the means
-through
its books and accounts -of prosecuting the claim.
If, therefore, the company would avail itself of the fruits of
the plaintiff's work and labor and services it should pay him
what they are worth, the same as a man who sees another
working in his corn field among other hired laborers should

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pay him what his labor was worth, if the jury in such case
should be satisfied that there was, from the circumstances, evidence of a hiring. That the question in the case in hand, as
well as in that cited, was for the jury upon the facts proved."
The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, without
specifying under which count the damages were assessed, for a
sum less by several hundred dollars than the amount which had
been received by the defendant from the United .States in satisfaction of the aforesaid claim, and judgment was entered upon
the verdict. Exceptions having been saved, a writ of error
was sued out from the Court of Errors and Appeals of the
state, which affirmed the judgment below, a short opinion, as
follows, being delivered:
"The action in the court below was assumpsit.
"The plaintiff's narr. contained two counts - one for money
had and received, and the other for-work and labor done.
"There was no count in the nart. upon any special contract.
The jury in the court below heard the proof offered in support
of these respective counts. They passed upon the sufficiency
of that proof. Their judgment on this question was conclusive
and final.
"This court has no jurisdiction to determine whether their
verdict was right or wrong, and no power to review their finding upon a mere question of fact.
"This court in affirming the judgment below do so for the
reason that the finding of the jury under the second count, for
work and labor done, being in favor of the plaintiff below,
there was no error in the rendition of the judgment by the court
below upon such finding of the jury. -The court declines to
render any decision upon any other questions raised in the cause
in the arguments of counsel, because it considers such questions
as irrelevant."
A writ of error to that court brings the case here; and a
motion to dismiss the writ of error for the want of jurisdiction, on the ground that no Federal question is involved, is the
present matter to be considered.
Section 34:77 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
relied upon by the defendant as forbidding any assignment to

DELAWARE CITY &c. NAV. CO. v. REYBOLD.

641

Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff of its claim against the government, is as follows:
"All transfers and assignments made of any claim upon the
United States, or of any part or share thereof, or interest
therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may
be the consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney,
orders or other authorities for receiving payment of any such
claim, or of any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null
and void, unless they are freely made and executed in the
presence of at least two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due and
the issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof. Such
transfers, assignment and powers of attorney, must recite the
warrant for payment, and must be acknowledged by the person
making them, before an officer having authority to take acknowledgments of deeds, and shall be certified by the officer;
and it must appear by the certificate that the officer, at the
time of the acknowledgment, read and fully explained the
transfer, assignment or warrant of attorney to the person
acknowledging the same."
It is manifest from an inspection of this record that the
only Federal question that could have arisen, or did arise, in
this case in the trial court was, whether this section operated
as a bar in law to any recovery by the plaintiff upon the
cause of action embodied in the first count of his declaration.
Iut that question did not necessarily enter into the cause of
action arising under the second count of the declaration. That
was on a !Vtant.,l meruit for work done and labor performed
by the plaintiff which enured to the benefit of the defendant.
No Federal question was necessarily involved in that branch of
the case. The question there was, whether the defendant
should be held bound to pay to the plaintiff what his services
in prosecuting the claim for its benefit were reasonably worth.
His claim in this particular was in the nature of an attorney's
fee for legal services performed, the basis of which does not
rest on Federal law, but on the law and practice of the State
in which the services are rendered; or, more properly, perhaps, on the principle of general law that one who accepts
VOL. CXLII-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The benefit of such services shall be held liable to pay what
they are reasonably worth.
The cause was submitted to the jury upon the second count,
and the charge of the trial court was broad enough to warrant
a verdict upon that count alone, irrespective of any claim
arising under the first count; and the opinion of the Court of
Errors and Appeals clearly shows that the judgment was
affirmed on the ground that the verdict of the jury was rendered on that count. The decision of the highest court of the.
state that the verdict of the jury was to be-taken as rendered
upon the second count involves no Federal question, but has
relation only to the law of the State and the practice of the
state courts.
If it be objected that the verdict of the jury could not have
been rendered on the second count alone, because although it
appears from the record that the work and labor of prosecuting
the claim to a successful termination was performed by the
plaintiff, yet the record fails to show that any evidence was
adduced upon the trial before the jury of the value of such
work andi labor and services, the answer is, (1) that the bill of
exceptions does not purport to set out, even in substance, all
the evidence bearing on the issues in the case. It is manifest
from the face of the bill of exceptions that what is stated to
be the evidence given is set forth in a condensed form, and
that the charge of the court to the jury assumed that there
was evidence in support of the value of the services performed
on which the second count was based. We think, therefore, that
in the absence of any statement in the bill of exceptions
that all of the evidence is set forth, that what is set forth is
a mere ummary; and, as the attention of the trial court was
not called to the want of any evidence upon the point of the
value of the services which the charge assumes to have been
before the jury at the time the charge was given, the objection of such want of evidence cannot avail the plaintiff in
error in aii appellate court. (2) The very fact that the verdict
is for an amount several hundred dollars less than what the
plaintiff would hive been entitled to recover on the claim set
forth in the first count, is proof that it was rendered not on

DELAWARP CITY &c. NAV. CO. t. REYBOLD.

643.

Opinion of the Court.

that count, but necessarily on the second count. If the plaintiff was entitled to recover at all on the first count, he was
entitled to recover the full amount demanded in that count,
and the verdict, being for less than that amount, must have
been rendered on the second count.
For these reasons we think it apparent that the judgment
sought to be reviewed by this writ of error was not based on
any question arising under ยง 34:77 of the Revised Statutes, but
upon questions arising out of the cause of action set forth in
the second count of the declaration;, and that that judgment
proceeded upon grounds broad enough in themselves, and
irrespective of any Federal question, to support it. Whether
correct or not, upon those grounds, it is not our province to
inquire, because it does not involve a Federal question.
The rule is well settled that, even if a Federal question was
raised in the' state court, yet if the base was decided on grounds
broad enough in themselves to sustain the judgment, without
reference to the.Federal question, this court will not entertain
jurisdiction. The authorities in support of this rule are too
numerous for citation. We cite only a few of the more recent
ones: .De Saus&ure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216; Beaupqri v.
Noyes, 138 U. S. 397; Cook County v. Calumet & Chicago
Canal Co., 138 U. S. 635; Walter -A. Vood Company v. Skinner,
139 U. S. 293; and the following, at this term of the court:
Hammond v. Johnston, ante, 73 ; City of New Orleans v. New
Orleans Water Works Co., ante, 79; -Henderson Bridge Co. v.
HUenderson City, 141 U. S. 679.
This case comes clearly within the rule announced, and the
principle of the authorities cited; and the writ of error is,
therefore,
Dismissed.

