IN RE FASSETT, Petitioner.
Names of Counsel

IN RE FASSETT, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 10. Original. Argued December 14,15,1891.-

Decided January 11, 1892.

The collector of customs at the port of New York seized a British built
steam pleasure yacht, purchased in England by a citizen of the United
States, and duly entered at that port, the seizure being for the alleged
reason that the vessel was liable to duty as an imported article. Rer
owner filed a libel in admiralty against her and the collector in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
claiming the delivery of the vessel to him and damages against the collector. Under process from the court the vessel was attached and taken
possession of by the marshal, and due notice was given. The cdllector appeared personally in the suit, and put in an answer, and the district attorney put in a claim and an answer on behalf of the United States. The
substance of the answers was that the vessel was liable to duty as an
imported article. The collector applied to this court for a writ of prohibition'to the District Court, alleging that that court had no jurisdiction
of the suit. This court, without considering the question of the liability
of the vessel to duty, denied the writ on these grounds-:
(1) The District Court had jurisdiction of the vessel and of the collector;
(2) The question whether the vessel was liable to duty as an imported
article was sub judice in the District Court;
(3) The subject matter of the libel was a marine tort, cognizable by the
District Court;
(4) It being alleged in the answers, that the vessel was detained by the
collector "under authority of the revenue laws of the Unitpd
States," she was, under § 934 of the Revised Statutes, subject, to
the order and decree of the District Court;
(6) The libellant had no remedy under the Customs Administrative act
of June 10, 1890, 26 Stat. 131; and.the only way in whichthe vessel could be brought under the jurisdiction of a court of the United
States was by the institution of the libel

THE case is stated in the opinion
.Ar.,Sollicitor General for the petitioner.
Mr. -ihu Root (with whom was .A&. &tmueZ B. Clarke on
the brief) opposing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
Mmta. JusTICE BLAToCFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 7th of Mvfay, 1891, Frederick W. Vanderbilt, a nativeborn citizen of the United States, residing in the city of New
York, purchased in England, from one Bailey, who was her
registered owner, a sea-going, schooner-rigged, screw steamship, called the Conqueror, built at Glasgow, Scotland, of the
gross tonnage of 371.91 tons, designed, intended and constructed to navigate the high seas, not in the conveyance of
passengers or merchandise for hire, but as a pleasure yacht
only, which was the only use to which she ever had been put,
or was intended to be put, by the purchaser. Bailey delivered
to the latter a bill of sale in due form. The yacht was navigated to Halifax and thence to the United States, arriving in
the port of New York on July 6, 1891. Her master made due
entry of her at that port, and reported her arrival to the collector of customs there, and delivered to him the necessary
manifest. The collector thereupon collected light-money upon
her, under § 4225 of the Revised Statutes. The master also
presented to the collector the said bill of sale, for record and
certification. It was recorded in the collector's office, and he
endorsed upon it a certificate, and delivered it back, so endorsed, to the master. The certificate was dated July 13, 1891,
and was to the effect that the bill of sale was in the form and
substance valid and effective in law, and had been duly recorded in his office; and that Vanderbilt was a citizen of the
United States.
Prior to July 1, 1891, and to the arrival of the yacht in the
waters of the United States, Vanderbilt had been and continued to be a member of the "Royal Mersey Yacht Club,"
and the vessel was enrolled among the yachts belonging to
that club, which is a regularly organized yacht club of Great
Britain, which country extends like privileges to the yachts of
the United States; and, under § 4216 of the Revised Statutes,
she was privileged to enter and leave any port of the United
States without entering or clearing at the custom-house or
paying tonnage tax.
On the 21st of August, 1891, the Assistant Secretary of the

IN .RE FASSETT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

Treasury notified J. Sloat Fassett, then collector of customs at
the port of New York, that the Solicitor of the Treasury had
advised.the Treasury Department that the yacht was liable to
duty under the fair intendment of the tariff act, and directed
the collector to take the necessary steps for the appraisement
of her for duty, and to have the duty -upon her assessed and
collected according to law.
On the 27th of August, 1891, in the navigable waters of the
United States, in the harbor of New York, off Stapleton,
within the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District ofiNew York, Fassett, without
the consent and against the will of Vanderbilt, forcibly took
possession of the yacht and deprived Vanderbilt of the use-and
control of her, and detained her for the enforcement of the
payment of duties upon her.
On the 1st of September, 1891, Vanderbilt filed a libel in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, against the yacht and Fassett, setting forth the
foregoing matters, and averring that the seizure of the yacht
by Fassett was illegal and wrongful, and solely upon the claim
that she was an article imported into the United States, within
the fair intendment of the customs-revenue laws, and as such
liable to duty -'that the duties which accrued upon her importation were unpaid; and that the collector was entitled to
keep her in custody until they should be paid or secured; and
averring that she was not seized under any claim of authority
given by any provision of the laws of the United States relating to commerce and navigation, or of any law providing a
penalty or forfeiture. The libel further averred that the yacht
was not an imported article within the true intent and meaning of the tariff or customs-revenue laws of the Uited States;
that Fassett, in his official capacity or otherwise, had no authority to keep possession of her; and that the premises were
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States and of the court. The libel prayed for process against
the yacht and Fassett personally, and for the delivery of the
yacht to the libellant, and for the condemnation of Fassett to
pay damages and costs.
VOL. CXLI-31

OCTOBER TERM:, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

On the filing of the libel, the proper stipulation for costs was
given on the part of the libellant, and process of attachment
was issued against the vessel, returnable September 15, 1891,
with a monition to Fassett. By the return to that process,
it appeared that the marshal had not seized the vessel. On
motion, and after hearing both parties, the court issued an
aias process, on September 24, 1891, returnable October 6,
1891. The marshal made a return to this that he had attached
her on September 29, 1891, and given the proper notice.
lassett having resigned his office, Francis Hendricks was appointed collector of customs in his place, and on October 1,
1891, took possession of the, vessel and held her for the payment of duties upon her, as an article imported into the United
States. As the marshal's return to the alia8 process did not
show that the vessel was in his custody, the court issued to.
him on October 8, 1891, a third process, returnable October 13,
1891, to which he made return that, on October 8, 1891, within
the jurisdiction of the court, he had attached her by taking
full and exclusive possession of her; that since such attachment he had been and was in exclusive possession of her under
said process; and that he had given due notice.
On the 13th of October, 1891, the United States attorney
entered his appearance as proctor for Fassett personally and
as late collector, on behalf of the United States, and for Hendricks as collector and claimant, on behalf of the United States.
On October 15, 1891, he filed an answer and exceptions for
Fassett personally, and a claim, answer and exceptions for
Fassett, as late collector , on behalf of the United States, and
a claim, answer and exceptions of Hendricks, collector, on behalf of the United States. The substance of those papers was
to the effect that the possession of the vessel by the collector
was not wrongful, because she was an article imported from
a foreign country lnd subject to duties under the revenue laws
of the United States; that the court had no jurisdiction of the
matters contained in the libel, because the cause was not a
civil cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and the
possession of the collector, on behalf of the United States, was
provided for by the revenue laws of the United States, and the

RT RE FASSETT, 'Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

vessel was properly taken or detained by the collector under
authority of such laws, and in custody of the law; and a restitution of the vessel to the collector was asked for.
On the 19th of October, 1891, on a petition to this court,
filed by Fa,,sett, setting forth the material parts of the foregoing statement, this court issued an order to the judge of the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, returnable November 2, 1891, to show cause
why a writ of prohibition should not issue to him, to prohibit
him from further holding the aforesaid plea. To this order to
show cause the judge has made due return, and the matter has
been argued here by the counsel for both parties.
The principal question discussed at the bar was as to
whether the Conqueror is liable to duty as an article imported
from a foreign country into the United States; but, in the
view we take of the case, we do not find it necessary or proper
to consider that question, because we think that upon other
grounds the writ of prohibition must be denied.
It is contended .on behalf 6f the petitioner, Fassett, that
when he, as collector, took possession of the yacht and decided
that she was dutiable, the only remedy open to her owner was
to pay under protest the duties assessed upon her, andin that
way secure possession of her, with the right thereafter, as provided in sections 14 and 15 of the Customs Administrative
Act, of June 10, 1890, 26 Stat. 131, 137, 138, to obtain a refund of those duties by taking an appeal from the decision of
the collector to the board of general appraisers, and appealing, if necessary, from that board to the Circuit Court of the
United States.
The idea embodied in the libel is, that if the yacht was not
an imported article, the act of the collector in forcibly taking
possession of her was tortious, and, as that act was committed
on the navigable waters of the United States, the District
Court, as a court of admiralty, had jurisdiction, in a cause of
possession, to compel the restitution of her. The libel presents
for the determination of the District Court, as the subject
matter of the suit, the question whether the yacht is an imported article, within the meaning of the customs-revenue

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

laws. The matter is &ubjudice in the District Court. Al it
has done so far towards determining the question is to issue
process and obtain control of the vessel, so that the question
might be formally raised by pleading, and to receive the pleadings of the respondent and the claimant, raising the question.
The District Court has jurisdiction to determine the question,

because it has jurisdiction of the vessel by attachment, and of
Fassett by monition; and for this court to decide in the first
instance, and in this proceeding, the question whether the
yacht is an article imported from a foreign country, and subject to duty under the customs-revenue laws, would be to decide that question as a matter of original jurisdiction, and not
of appellate jurisdiction, while, as a question of original jurisdiction, it is duly pending before the District Court of the
tnited States, on pleadings which put that very question in
issue.
In November, 1891, this court was petitioned by one Sturges to issue a writ of prohibition to forbid the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of New York,
sitting as a Court of Admiralty,.from further proceeding in
certain causes in which it had entertained libels against certain vessels, in rem, and had attached the vessels, Sturges
claiming title to them, as a receiver appointed by a state court
of New York, by a prior title, and having set up such title, in
answers to the libels, and alleged want of jurisdiction in the
District Court over the vessels. This court denied the application for the writ without delivering any opinion, but the
ground of the denial was that the matter was in course of litigation in the District Court, on due process.
A like view was taken by this. court in ExParte Easton, 95
U. S. 68; Ex _prte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515; E,xparte Ferry
Company, 104: U.S.519; PcparteHagar, 104 U. S. 520; and
Ex parte PenixITns. Co., 118 U. S. 610, 625, 626.
The subject matter of the libel is a marine tort, cognizable
in a cause of possession in admiralty by any District Court of
the United States which finds the vessel within the territorial
limits of its process. Constitution, art. 3, sec. 2; Rev. Stat. §
563; S&ooum v. 3laybery, 2 Wheat. 1; The lort Gape, 6 Bis-

IN RE FASSETT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

sell, 505; The : W. French, 13 Fed. Rep. 916; The Haiee,
Stewart's Vice-Adm. Cases (Quebec), 25; Matter of Blan8hard,
2 B. & 0. 244; The Beatrice, 37 Law Jour. N. S. Adm. 10;
The Teegrafo, L. R. 3 F. 0. 673, 686; Burke v. Trevitt, I
Mason, 96; L'Invieible, 1 Wheat- 238; The Santifsfma Trinidad, 7 Wheat. 283; Betts' Adm. Prac. 19; Benedict's Admiralty, § 311; Williams & Bruce Adm. Prac. 1'; Cohen's Adm.
Law, 32; Henry's Admiralty, § 19, 31; Phila.&c. Railroad
v. Javre de Grace Steam Tow Boat Co., 23 How. 209; Gaena
&c. Packet Co. v. Roek Island Bridge Co., 6 Wall. 213a; Jackso v. The .Magnolia, 20 How. 296; Leathers v. Blessig, 105
U. S. 626.
It is provided by § 2785 of the Revised Statutes, that the
owner of imported merchandise shall make entry of it with
the collector within a specified time. Section 2963 provides
that when merchandise imported into the United States has
not been duly entered, it shall be deposited in the public warehouse and there remain. Section 2964 provides that in all
cases of failure or neglect to pay the duties within the period
allowed by law to the importer to make entry thereof, the
merchandise shall be taken possession of by the collector and
deposited in the public stores, there to be kept, subject at all
times to the order of the importer, on payment of the proper
duties and expenses. Section 2973 provides that if the merchandise shall remain in public store beyond one year, without
payment of the duties and, charges thereon, it is then to be
appraised and sold by the collector at public auction, and the
proceeds, after deducting for storage and other charges and
expenses, including duties, areto be paid over to the importer.
Section 934 provides as follows: "All property takeit or detained by any officer or other person, under authority of any
revenue law. of the United States, shall be irrepleviable and
shall be deemed to be in the custody of the law, and subject
only to the orders and decrees of the courts of the United
States having jurisdiction thereof."
By their respective claims, answers and exceptions, Fassett,
as late collector, and Hendricks, as collector, both of them
allege that the vessel is "property- taken or detained by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

collector of the port, under authority of the revenue laws of
the .United States, and in custody of the law.?' Such property,
by § 934 of the Revised Statutes, is expressly made subject "to
the orders and decrees of the courts of the United States having jurisdiction thereof." On the facts set forth in the libel,
the District Court of the United States for the southern District of New York had jurisdiction of the vessel, as property
detained by the collector under authority of a revenue law of
the United States; and, while it was so in the custody of the
law that it must continue to be detained by the collector, subject "only to the orders and decrees of the courts of the United
States having jurisdiction thereof," it was subject to such
orders and decrees.
As the District Court in the present case has jurisdiction in
the premises, we will not prohibit it from proceeding in the
exercise of such jurisdiction. A writ of prohibition is not
intended to take the place of exceptions to the libel for insufficiency, and will issue only in case of , want of jurisdiction
either of the parties or the subject matter of the proceeding.
The libellant has no other remedy than the filing of this
libel. He has none under the Customs Administrative Act, of
June 10, 1890. 26 Stat. 131. By § 14 of that act, the decision of the cbllector as to "the rate and amount" of duties
chargeable upon imported merchandise is made final and. conelusive, unless the owner or importer, within the time limited
after the ascertainment and liquidation of duties, shall give
notice in writing to the collector, with the reasons for his
objections, and, if the merchandise is entered for consumption,
shall pay the full amount of the duties and charges ascertained
to be due thereon. Upon such notice and payment, the collector is to transmit the papers to a board of three general
appraisers, who are to examine and decide the case, and their
decision, or that of a majority of them, is to be final and conelusive, except when, under § 15 of the act, an application shall
be filed in the Circuit Court of the United States. By § 15
application may be made to that court for a review of the
questions of law and fact involved in the decision of the board
of general appraisers; and, on the evidence taken by that

IN RE FASSETT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

board, and further evidence, if given, that court is to hear and
determine such questions of law and fact "respecting the classification of such merchandise and the rate of duty imposed
thereon under such classification." -By § 25 the right of action

is taken away to sue a collector or other officer of the customs
on account of any rulings or "decisions as to the classification
of the merchandise or the duties charged thereon, or the collection of any dues, charges or duties on, or on account of, such
merchandise, or any other matter or thing as to which, under
the act of June 10, 1890, the owner or importer may be entitled to appeal from the decision of the collector or other officer, or from any board of appraisers provided for in the act.
The appeal provided for in § 15 brings up for review in
court only the decison of the board of general appraisers as to
the construction of the law, and the facts respecting the classification of imported merchandise; and the rate of duty imposed thereon under such classification. It does not bring up
for review the question of *whetheran article is imported mer:
chandise or not; nor, under § 15, is the ascertainment of that
fact such a decision.as is provided for. The decisions of the
collector from which appeals are provided for by § 14 are only
decisions as to "the rate and amount "1of duties charged upon
imported merchandise, and decisions as to dutiable costs and
charges, and decisions as to fees and exactions of whatever
character. Nor can the court of review pass upon any question
which the collector had not original authority to determine.
The collector has no authority to make any determination regarding any article which is not imported merchandise; and
if the vessel in question here is not imported merchandise, the
court of review -would have no jurisdiction to determine any
matter regarding that question, and could not determine the
very fact -which is in issue under the libel in the District
Court, on which the rights of the libellant depend.
Under the Customs Administrative Act, the libellant, in order
to have the-benefit of proceedings thereunder, must concoe
that the vessel is imported merchandise, which is the very
question put in contention under the libel, and must make
entry of her as imported merchandise, with an invoice and a

OCTOBER -TER]M, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

consular certificate to that effect, and thus estop himself from
maintaining the fact which he alleges in his libel, that she
is not imported merchandise.
The vessel in this case was not seized for forfeiture. If she
had been, that seizure would be one to be followed by a suit
for forfeiture, instituted by the United States, and thus she
would be brought within the jurisdiction of a court of the
United States.. But she is not to be prosecuted in court by an
affirmative proceeding instituted by the United States to recover the duties upon her as an imported article, which are
claimed by the United States; and thus the only way in
which she can be brought under the jurisdiction of a court of
the United States is by the institution of the libel in question.
The writ of prohibitionis denied.

EAMES v. KAISER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNWITED

STATES

FOR TE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 125. Argued and submitted December 16, 1891. -Decided

January 11, 1892.

C. & Co. commenced suit against K. in Texas and caused his property to be
attached on the ground that he was about to convert it or a part of It
into money for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors.
K. sued C. & Co. to recover damages for the wrongful issue and levy of
those attachments. On the trial of the latter case, proof was -made tending to show fraud- on the part of K. by putting his property into notes
and placing them beyond the reach of his creditors, and, among other
things he testified as a witness in his own behalf, that on the day of the
levy or the next day a large amount owed to him was put into negotiable
notes. On cross-examination he was asked what he had done with the
notes. Plaintiff's counsel objected, and the objectiox was sustained.
Held, that this was error.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This action was originally commenced in the District Court
of Tarrant County, Texas, by Samuel Kaiser against K. B.

