OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

pany. The lines of the lands under the water have not been
run, but are easily traceable by reference to the lines actually
surveyed. The possession of the lands under the lake appears
to have always accompanied the possession of the lands on its
border. No contest was made against their recovery if a right
of possession was shown to the border lands.
From the view of the interest conveyed by the grant which
we have expressed, we are satisfied that the company could
maintain an action for the possession of the premises in controversy, and that its lessee, the plaintiff herein, was possessed
of the same right. The judgment must, therefore, be
Afflmed.

KAUKAUNA WATER POWER COMPANY v. GREEN
BAY AND MISSISSIPPI CANAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT- OF OUTAGAME COUE=,
No. 65. Argued October 30, November 2,1891. -Decided

WISCONSIN.

December 21, 1891.

If ihe adjudication of a Federal question is necessarily involved in the dis:
position of a case by a state court, it is not necessary that it should
appear affirmatively in the record, or in the opinion of that court, that
such a question was raised and decided.
Proceedings under a state statute enacted before the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment which, if taken before its adoption, would not have
violated the constitution, may, when taken after its adoption, violate it,
if prohibited by that amendment.
In Wisconsin the ownership of riparian proprietors extends to the centre
or thread of the stream, subject, if such stream be navigable, to the
right of the public to its use as a public highway for the passage of vessels; and the law, so settled by the highest court of the State, is controlling in this court as a rule of property.
A state legislature may authorize the taking of land upon or riparian rights
in a navigable streain for the purpose of improving its navigation, and
if a surplus of wdleris created, incident to the improvement, it may be
leased to private parties under authority of the State, or retained within
control of the State; but so far as land is taken for the purpose of the
improvement, either for the dam itself or the embankments, or for the
overfilow, or to far as water is diverted from its natural course, or from

KAUtAUNA

CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

255

Statement of the Case.
the uses to which the riparian owner *ould otherwise be entitled to devote it, such owner is entitled to compensation.
Where a statute for the condemnation of lands for a public use provides a
definite and complete remedy for obtaining compensation, such remedy
is exclusive.
The act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 506, c. 166, 'to aid in the Improvement
of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, in the State of Wisconsin," provided a
mode for obtaining compensation to persons Injured by the taking 6f
their land or their riparian rights in making such improvements; and, as
it remained in force for thirteen years, it gave to persons injured a reasonable opportunity for obtaining such compensation, and if they failed
to avail themselves of it, they must be deemed to have waived their
rights in this respect.
Such an owner, who fails to 6btain compensation for the taking of his
property for use in a public improvement, by reason of his own neglect
in applying for it, cannot violently interfere with the public use, or
divert the surplus waters for his own use.
It is not decided whether or not a bill in equity, framed upon the basis of a
large amount of surplus water not used, will lie to compel an 'lquitable
division of the same upon the ground that it would otherwise run to
waste.
Under the circumstances disclosed in this case, there was no takin . of the
property of the plaintiff in error without due process of law.

THE court stated the case as follows:

This was a complaint in the nature of a bill in equity filed
in the Circuit Court of Outagamie County, Wisconsin, by the
Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company against the Kaukauna Water Power Company, and a number of other defendants, lessees and tenants of the Water Power Company,
for the purpose of enjoining them from interfering with the
plaintiff and- its employ~s while engaged in maintaining, repairing and reltuilding a certain embankment and drain upon
a certain lot of land iipon the bank of the Fox River, in the
State of Wisconsin, and from cutting, tearing away or removing such embankment or drain. The case made by the complaint, pleadings and evidence was substantially as follows:
By an act approved August 8, 1846, 9 Stat. 83, c. 170, Congress granted certain lands to the State of Wisconsin, upon
its admissiQn into the Union, for the purpose of iraproving the
navigation of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, the former of
which is one -of the navigable rivers of the State, having an

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

average flow of 150,000 cubic feet per minute, and affording a
water power of 300 horse power per foot fall. By an act approved June 29, 1848, Laws Wisconsin 1848, No. 2, p. 58, the
legislature accepted the grant, and by a subsequent act entitled
"An act to provide for the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, and connecting the same by a canal," approved
August 8, 1848, created a board of public works to superintend the construction of the improvements contemplated by
the act of Congress.' In this act (see. 16) the legislature pro' One of the briefs for the plaintiffs in error cited the following sections
of this statute.
"SEC. 15. In the construction of such improvements the said board
shall have power to enter on, to take possession of and use all lands, waters
and materials, the appropriation of which for the use of such works of
improvement shall in their judgment be necessary.
"SEc. 16. When any land, waters or materials appropriated by the
Board to the use of said improvements shall belong to the State, such
lands, waters or materials, and so much yf the adjoining land as may be
valuable for hydraulic or commercial purposes, shall be absolutely reserved
to the State, and whenever a water power shall be created by reason of any
dam erected or other improvements made on any of said rivers, such water
power shall belong to the State, subject to future action of the legislature.
"SEc. 17. When any lands, waters or material appropriated by the
board to the use of the public in the construction of said improvements
shall not be freely given or granted to the State, or the said board cannot
agree with the owner as to the terms on which the same shall be granted,
the superintendent, under the directions of the board, shall select an appraiser, and the owner shall select another appraiser, who, together, if they
are unable to agree, shall select a third neither of whom shall have any interest directly or indirectly in the subject matter, nor be of kin to such owner,
and said appraisers, or a majority of them, shall proceed to hear testimony,
and to assess the benefits or damages, as thA case may be, to *thesaid owner,
from the appropriation of such land, water or materials, and their award
shall be conclusive unless modified as herein provided. If the owner shall
neglect or refuse to appoint an appraiser as herein directed, after ten days'
notice of such appointment by the superintendent, then such superintendent
shall make such appointment for him.
"SEc. 18. Either party may appeal from such 'ward to the Circuit Court
of the County in which the premises may be situated within thirty days
after such award may be made and filed with the secretary of the board, and,
such appeal shall be tried by a jury as other cases commenced in said Circuit Court, and upon the finding of such jury judgment may be rendered in
favor of either party, but no execution shall issue thereon against the
State.

KAUKAUNA 'CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

25

Statement of the Case.

vided that, "Whenever a water power shall be created by reason of any dam erected or other improvements made on any
of said rivers, such water power shall belong to the State, subject to the future action of the legislature." The board was
limited by the act, in their contracts and expenditures, to the
proceeds of the sale of the lands granted by Congress. In
1851 the State made a contract with Morgan L. Martin for
the improvement of the Fox River between Lake Winnebago
and Green Bay. At Kaukauna in township 24: N., R. 18 E.,
were rapids in the Fox River, and the navigation at this point
had to be improved by the construction of a dam across the
river to secure slack water, and of a canal leading therefrom
on the north side of the river to a point below the rapids.
In 1853, the State of Wisconsin, finding itself unable to
complete the improvement from the grant made to it, incorporated the Fox and Wisconsin Improvement Company, for
the purpose of carrying forward the improvements of these
rivers, and relieving the State of its indebtedness on account of
the work already done, and from its liability upon its contracts
not then executed. The grant was made upon condition-thatthe company should file with the Secretary of State a bond
for the vigorous prosecution of the improvement to coiftpletion, and for the completion of the same within three years.
The bond was further conditioned to pay all the State's in" SEC. 19. An entry of such award, signed by the appraisers, or a major"Ityof them, or certified by the Clerk of the Court, in case the same shall have
been appealed and containing a proper description of the premises appropriated, the names of the persons interested, and the sum estimated for
benefits or damages, shall be made in a book, to be kept by the secrdtary of
the board.
"SEC. 20. A transcript of such entry, signed in like manner, acknowledged or proved as a conveyance of land, shall be recorded in the office of
the Register of Deeds of the County in which the premises are situated, and
the fee simple of said premises shall thereupon vest in the State.
"SEC. 21. If the damages exceed the benefits it shall be the duty of the
board to direct the same to be paid out of the fund appropriated to said
improvements; proof of such payment or the qffer thereof in case the party
entitled shall decline to receive the same, shall discharge the State and every
person under its employ from any claim for such land, waters and materials
appropriated as aforesaid."
voL.. exrx-17

OCTOBEA TERMI, 189,1.
Statement of -the Case.

debtedness and to save the State harmless from 'all liability
growing out of the improvement. Having complied with all
of these conditions, all of the dams, locks, water powers and
other appurtenances of said works, and. -all the said rights,
-powers and franchises were passed to and vested in the Fox and
Wisconsin Improvement Company. Pursuant 'to the condi'tions of this grant, the improvement company went on to complete the works as then contemplated, and in its prosecution
of the same, in oraer to secure slack-water navigation around
the rapids, in 1853, 1854 and 1855 built a dam at the head of
the rapids, so as to raise the water about eight feet above the
natural level, -reaching from lot 5, section 22, south of the
river, to section 24 north of the river, and also built a canal
and locks on the north side of the river, reaching from the
pond created by the dam to the slack water of the river below
the rapids and below the dam. The south end of the dam
abutted upon lot 5, now owned by the Canal Company. This
dam was built and maintained by virtue of the act of the
State, approved August 8, 1848, providing for the completion
of such improvement, and there was no other authority for
building or maintaining the same. The dam so constructed
was maintained by the improvement company and its successor, the Green Bay and Mississippi Canal Company, until
1876, when the United States, having taken title to the improvement, built the new dam now in question, forty feet
below the old one, and extended the embankment down the
river to meet it. In the belief that it also owned the hydraulic power mentioned in the 16th section of this act, the
improvement company bought lands adjacent to the canal for
the .purpose of rendering such power available.
In order to raise funds for the completion of the work and
the payment of the State indebtedness, it mortgaged the property to the amount of $500,000; and, also, under an act of the
legislature of October, 1856, made a deed of trust to three trustees of all the unsold lands granted to the State in aid of the
improvement, and bf all the works of improvement constructed
on the river, including the dams, locks, canals, water powers
and other appurtenances. This trust deed was subsequently

KAUKAUNA C0.

v. GREEN BAY &c. CAIAJ.

259"

Statement of the Case.

foreclosed for the purpose of paying the State .indebtedness
and the bonds issued under the, mortgage, as well as those
secured by the trust deed; and thb property upon such foreclosure was sold to a committee, which subsequently became
incorporated under the name of the Green Bay and'Mississippi
Canal Company, plaintiff in this suit, which in this manner became seized in fee of all the improvements, and all the rights,
powers and privileges connected with the improvement company, including the dam and canal and all the hydraulic power
thereby furnished and the mill lots connected therewith.
Plaintiff entered into possession of this ,property and spent
considerable sums in improving, repairing and operating such
works of improvement. Finding its expenses largely exceeded
the revenue derived from it, an act of Congress was procured,
in 1870, authorizing the Secretary of War to ascertain the
amount which ought to be paid to 'the plaintiff for its property
and rights in the canal, which amount, being subsequently
settled by a board of arbitration, a deed -was made to the
United States of the entire property, with a reservation of the
water power created by the dam, and by the use of the surplus
water not required for the purposes of navigation, with the
rights of protection and reservation appurtenant thereto, and
the land necessary to the enjoyment of the same, and acquired
with reference to such use.1
1 On the 3d of March, 1875, Congress enacted: "That whenever, in the
prosecution and maintenance of the improvement of the Wisconsin and Fox
Rivers in the State of Wisconsin, it becomes necessary or proper in the
judgment of the Secretary of War to take possession of any lands, or the
right of way over any lands, for cdnals and cut-offs, or to use any'earthquarries or other material lying adjacent or near to the line of said improvement and needful for its prosecution or maintenance, the officers in charge
of said works may, in the name of the United States, take possession of and
use the same, after first having paid or secured to be paid the value thereof,
which may have been ascertained in the mode provided by the laws of the
State wherein such property lies. In case any lands or other property is
now or shall be flowed or injured by means of any part of the works of said
improvement heretofore or, hereafter constructed for which compensation is
now or shill become legally owing, and in the opinion of the officer in charge
it is not prudent that the dam or dams be lowered, the amount of such compensation may be ascertained in like manner. 18 Stat. 506, c. 166, ยง 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

T)e dam which furnishes such hydraulic power rests upon
the south side of the river on lot 5 of the government survey,
Which lot in its natural condition was low and scarcely raised
above the surface of the water in the river at its natural stage.
In order to maintain a head of water in the pond for the purpose of navigation or hydraulic power, it was necessary to
build an embankment about ten feet high, and of a thickness
and strength sufficient to hold the water in the pond; such
embankment was built and extended across the fronts of lots
5, 6 and 7, shortly before the construction of the dam. This
lot number 5 was entered by one Denniston in 1835. He
afterwards assigned his duplicate therefor to one Hathaway,
who received a patent from the United States, August 10, 1837.
His title, through several mesne conveyances, became vested in
the Water Power Company, May 14, 1880, but no authority
was ever obtained from the owner of this lot to erect or abut
the dam upon it, or to build an embankment upon it, and no
condemnation proceedings under the act of 1848 to obtain an
appraisal of damages to such lot were proved at the trial. Lots
6 and 7, ,also originally entered by Denniston, lie immediately
above lot 5, and in their natural state were also low and flat.
In 1854, one John Hunt, then the owner in fee of these lots,
granted to the improvement company, its successors and assigns,
the right to erect and forever maintain an embankment of the
dimensions as surveyed by the engineer .of said company, reserving the right to "myself to use said embankment when
completed, but not so that the same shall be injured through
lots 6 and 7;

.

.

.

also the privilege of excavating a ditch

along the south or east side of said embankment, not exceeding three feet in width." Under and by virtue of such grant,
the improvement company built the embankment, and dug the
ditch, and the same have ever been maintained under and by
virtue of such grant and the legislative act of 1848.
The defendant, the Kaukauna Water Power Company, claiming to own that part of lots 5, 6 and 7,, adjacent to Fox River,
by purchase of lot 5 from one Beardsley and o lots 6 and 7
from Hunt in 1880, began to excavate and build a canal upon
these lands, in order to draw water from the pond on the south

KAUKAUNA QO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

261

Statement of the Case.

side, and use the same for hydraulic purposes, when plaintiff
gave notice in writing of its claim to such hydraulic power,.
'stating that it would resist the breaking of such embankment
and the drawing of water from the pond, thereby depriving
plaintiff of the use thereof, and of the control of and dominion
over the same. The other defendants claimed the right to use
the water from the canal-of the Water Power Company under,
and as tenants of such company. The complaint was dismissed
by the Circuit Court, and an appeal taken to the Supreme
Court of the State, by which the decree of the Circuit Court
was reversed, and the case remanded to that court with instructions to enter judgment for the plaintiff, and for an injunctioh
against the defendants restraining them from drawing any
water from the pond maintained by the dam for hydraulic
purposes. From the decree so entered by the Circuit Court
MAP OF IMPOVEMETS.

7tJOq HNT

0

5

4

the Kaukauna Water Power Company and the other defendants sued out this writ of error, claiming that there was drawn
in question the validity of a statute of the State, and of an
authority exercised under the State, upon the ground of their

OOTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

repugnance to the Constitution of the United States. A mo-.
tion to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground that no Federal question was involved was postponed to a consideration of
the case upon the merits.
Mr. David S. Ordway (with whom was -Mr.Alfred Z. Cary)
for plaintiffs in error.
I. The question, as to whether the use was for a public or
private purpose, is open here for discussion, notwithstanding
the fact that this court usually adopts the construction put
upon a state statute by the court of last resort of the State
'where enacted. Jeferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436;
Bridge Proprietorsv. Hfoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116; 32&iilen v.
oTh
v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356;
Anderson, 95 U. S. 37; Yiek
Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S. 92; Gormley v. Clark, 134.
U. S. 348 ; Chicago, Xilwaukee &c. Railway v. .Minnesota, 134:
U. S. 418; .finneapolis -astern Railway v. -Minnesota,134 U. S.
467; ohnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 306.
II The Kaukauna Company was possessed of the'property
of which it claims to have been illegally deprived, and that
property extended to the centre line, or thread, of the river.
Jones v. Pettibone, 2 Wisconsin, 308; Olson v. -fterrill, 42.
Wisconsin,. 203 Torcross v. Grifithks, 65 Wisconsin, 599;
State v. Carpenter, 68 Wisconsin, 165; Chandos v. Afack, 7'
Wisconsin, 573; Walker v. Board of Public Works, 16 Ohio,
540; June v. Purcell, 36 Ohio St. 396.
By reason of ownership of the bank and of the bed of the
stream, the company was the owner of the use, while passing,
of all of the water which might flow over the bed of the
stream; in other words, was the owner of all of the water
power which could be utilized upon its land. Webb v. Portland -Manufacturing Co., 3 Sumner, 189; Stillman v. White
Rock 1Man~ufacturing Co., 3 Woodb. & Min. 538; Parker v.
Griswold, 17 Connecticut, 288; . 0. 42 Am. Dec. 739;
Cooper v. Williams,'5 Ohio, 391; S. C. 24 Am. Dec. 299;
ifaukauna, Wate Power Co. v. Green Bay & -Miss. Canal
Co., 75 Wisconsin, '385.

KAUKAUNA

CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

263

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

It could erect and maintain a dam upon its own land
across the stream, although navigable, unless the United
States, the State of Wisconsin, or some party acting under
them, for the protection of navigation, objected. Fort Plain
Bridge Co. v. Snitk, 30 N. Y. 44; Wetmore v. Brooklyn Gas
Light Co,, 42 N. Y. 384:; 'Chenango Bridge Co. v. Paige, 83
N. Y. 178; Roe v. Strong, 107 N. Y. 350; _amvard College
v. Stearns, 15 Gray, 1; Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U. S. 403.
If the Water Power Company was so possessed of the south
bank and the bed of the stream to its centre, with the right to
construct such a wing-dam and canal, certainly the State, by
,the exercise of its undoubted power in the improvement of
navigation, forestalled the Water Power Company, and by
the erection of the dam in question deprived it of the opportunity of improving and utilizing its water power. The necessity for and object of the embankment was to prevent the
overflow of the river and escape of the water; it was a mere
continuation of the dam up stream upon the surface of the
land of the Water Power Company. The right to place it
there could only be acquired by purchase or condemnation.
Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166.
In such case the riparian proprietors retain the ownership
of the soil, subject to the public easement, unless the language
of the statute shows an intention to take the fee for the purpose of the act; the rule being, that in the absence of express
words, the courts do not infer that a statute of this kind gives
to the public or to a board of conservators or navigation companies, acting in the public interest, a greater interest in the
soil than is necessary for the purpose of navigation." See
Lee Conoervanoy Board v. Button, 12 Ch. D. pp. 400, 401,
James, L. J.
III. If taking the property of the Water Power Company
was for a private purpose, there will be no dispute but that the
law of 1848 was void, because in conflict with the provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Osborn v. -Hart,24 Wisconsin, 89 ; Cole v. Xa (-range,
113 U. S. 1; .Matterof Deansville Cemetery Assn., 66 N. Y.
569.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The right of the riparian owner to have the water of a
navigable stream flow past his lands adjoining the same as
they were accustomed to flow, is as perfect against everybody
except the State, or some person or corporation standing in its
stead, as it is in the case of unnavigable streams; and that
right does not, as the state court has decided, depend upon his
ownership of the soil under the water, but upon his riparian
ownership. Cohn v. JTausau Boom Co., 47 Wisconsin, 314,
322. And the right of the State to control the waters of such
streams in the public interest is the same whether the owners'hip of the soil under the water be in the State or in the
riparian owner.
I It is hardly to be conceived that the legislature of the State
of Wisconsin- substantially copying its canal law from those
of older States, knowing at the same time that under the
constitution of the State there was no power or authority
possessed by the State to engage in works of internal improvement, and kn6wing that the State was prohibited by its constitution from incurring any indebtedness for such purpose,
could have intended to take the private property of individuals,
for a mere private purpose, and it is only through the construction placed upon the act of 1848 that such a result is
accomplished, which construction we bring here for review.
Upon this point, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, by its
judgment now under consideration, has decided that by the 16th
and 17'th sections of the act of 1848, it was the intention of
tb legislature to take all such surplus water, and furthermore
that such taking was not a necessity - was only a convenience
- and that it was.a taking for a public purpose. As to both of
these points so decided we respectfully submit that the decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin is erroneous.
The court, in its opinion, substantially admits that, but for
the fact of indivisibility, the taking of the surplus water would
be a taking for,a private purpose. The courts of New York,
Ohio, Michigan and Maryland have had the same, or very similar questions before them, and, as I understand their decisions,
have reached conclusions entirely different from those reached

KAUKAUNA

CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

265

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

by our Supreme Court in this case, and I respectfully submit
more in consonance with justice and correct legal principles.
Buckingham v. Smith, 10 Ohio, 288; Cooper v. William, 5
Ohio, 391; S. C. 24: Am. Dec. 299; Varick v. Smith, 5 Paige,
137; S. C. 28 Am. Dec. 417; Smith v. Rochester, 92 N. Y. 463;
Kane v. Baltimore, 15 Maryland, 240. See also In re Barre
Water Co., 62 Vermont, 27.
We submit that this is the only logical disposition of such a
question in a jurisdiction which affirms that the absolute owner
ship of the beds of navigable streams is, yrima fade, in the
owners of the banks; and I respectfully add that I can see, in
this case, no reason for refusing to follow such holding to its
logical results.
IV. The legislature.is not the ultimate judge of how much
water is necessary. Sisby .Yanufacturing Co. v. State of New
York, 104 N. Y. 562.
V. The surplus water power was neither necessary nor convenient for the purposes of navigation.
The plaintiffs in error admit that it was of vital interest to
the state, and to those entrusted with the preservation and
maintenance of the improvement, that they should have the
entire control of the dam, embankments, canals, and all appliances necessary for the purposes of navigation, as well as of
the waters necessary for navigation in the pond created by the
dam. But they deny that the absolute control of such water
involves the ownership or the right to the use of the surplus
over and above what is necessary for the purposes of navigation. They deny that the surplus water power is either necessary or convenient for the purposes of navigation.
The authorities are numerous upon the question of what is
necessary, and what is merely convenient for public use, and
the effect, in either case, upon the right of the public to take
in invitum. Especially see Stockton & Visalia Railroadv.
Stockton, 41 California, 147; Varick v. Smith, supra; Waddell's A eal, 84 Penn. St. 90; Loan Association v. Toveka,
20 Wall. 655; Chagrin Falls &c. Road v. Cane, 2 Ohio St.
419.
As the interest of the public was acquired for defined ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

jects and specified purposes, the land could not be diverted to
other purposes or used in a manner substbntially different
from that for which it was appropriated, without relieving it
from the incumbrance, and restoring the owner to the absolute
dominion he had before it was taken. See Nashville &
ChattanoogaRailroadv. Cowardin,11 "Humph.348 ; Afemphis
Freight Co. v. Jemphis, 4 Coldwell, 419; West River Bridge
Co. v. .Dick, 6 How.507.
Wherever the taking of private property for public use is
provided for by a general law, which does not itself describe
the property to be taken, the question whether the use is public is for the courts to determine in each individual case as it
arises. ilobart v. JfXilwaukee City Railroad, 27 Wisconsin,
194.
All the facts bearing upon this question are set out in the
record, and the court below does not seem to disagree with us
as to the fact that the use, for hydraulic purposes, is _prima
facie, private. It could not well come to any other conclusion,
in view of the declaration of the court in the Eau Claire Case,
40 Wisconsin, 533. It there declares that a statute which
authorized the erection of a dam at public cost across a navigable river, either for the purpose of water works for the city,
or for the' purpose of leasing the water power for private purposes, was unconstitutional and void, because the power so
,granted was alternative and optional, either for public or private use, thus leaving it possible to be used for private purposes solely. But the court below distinguishes the case at
bar upon its peculiar facts, and holds, contrary to the New York,
* Ohio and Maryland cases cited, and in direct opposition to all
of the facts shown by the record that all of the surplus water
power is a mere accidental excess, an unavoidable incident to
the power to construct and maintain the dam, and that such
surplus water is practically inseparable from the water necessary for the purposes of navigation. This conclusion is supported by two adjudicated cases only, that is to say, The State
v. Eau Claire,40 Wisconsin, 533, and Spaulding v. Lowell, 23
Pick. 71; in neither of which it is submitted, was involved
the proposition in support of which they are cited.

KAUKAUNA

CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CNAIL.

267

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

iSpaulding v. Lowell has been followed in many cases.. See
George v. Afendon SchooZ District, 6 Met. 497 ; Hood v. Lynn,
1 Allen, 103; French v. Quincy, 3 Allen, 9; Jinot v. West
Boxbury, 112 Mass. 1. In none of them, and in no other case
which we have been able to find, has the accidental surplus or
excess consisted of anything except a portion of that which
had necessarily been taken for a public purpose. We therefore subniit that, upon all the facts in the record, and all the
authorities which have thus far been referred to by either of
the parties to this case, the taking of the surplus water power,
by the judgment of the court below, was for a private purpose
and that, therefore, the judgment should be reversed.
VI. The act of 'Congress of 1875 failed to supply a' just
compensation.
The Wisconsin act of August 8, 1848, was void, for the reason that it allowed the "appraisers to assess the benefits or
damages, as the case might be, to the owner from the, appropriation of such land, water or materials," and only provided
for the payment of damages to the owner if they exceeded the
benefits.
It is the settled law of Wisconsin that the value of property
taken must be paid, and that it cannot be reduced by offsetting against it benefits which may be assessed. Bobbins v. .MlXwaukee & Horicon, Raiload, 6 Wisconsin, 636; Ble8ch v.
Chicago & _Yorthwe8term Railway, 48 Wisconsin, 168 ; Boohl-'
man v. Green Bay &c. Bailway, 40 Wisconsin, 157'; Power8
v. Bears, 12 Wisconsin, 213; . C. 78 Am. Dec. 733.
The defects in the state statute of August 8, 1848, were
not remedied, nor was just compensation for the property of
the Water Power Company so taken supplied by the act of
Congress of March 3, 1875, c. 166.
The Supreme Coiurt, in its judgment below, held that that
act was equivalent to the provisions of the state statute with
reference to highways, when it only authorized an action to
be brought against the United States in the courts of the
State of Wisconsin, to obtain a judgment for its damages so
claimed. In this it is respectfully submitted that the court
below erred, and tbatthe act of Congress relied upon, even if

OCTOBER TERM, 189i.
Consel for Defendant in Error.

it was intended to apply to cases of this kind, furnished no
adequate mode foi obtaining compensation, because, supposing
the Water Power Company to be fortunate enough to obtain
a judgment for its damages, it was then nearly as far from
the possession of compensation as it was before the commencement of proceedings. Not one dollar could be had until an
appropriation could be obtained through some act of Congress.
It was left to trust to "the future justice of Congress."
It seems to us that this exact question was decided in the case
of Connecticut River v. Franklin County Commissioners, 127
Mass. 50; the opinion was by Gray, C. J. The doctrine in
that State is no more stringent and exacting as to prepayment,
or the provision of a sure and adequate fund than in Wisconsin, but the case goes further and points out what is not such
a sure and adequate provision.
In this respect there would seem to be an irreconcilable conflict between the decision of the Supreme Court of M assachusetts and that of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin brought
here for reiew, and we respectfully submit that the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin carried the doctrine of substituted payment far beyond aily previously adjudged case, and that the
doctrine of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts is more
nearly in accord with all prior decisions of the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin, than is its decision which is now brought here
for review.
But suppose (for the purpose of this argument only) that the
act of Congress of 1875 did furnish adequate provision for
payment after that date of just compensation for water
power taken, it could not possibly, by relation or otherwise,
render the act of August 8, 1848, valid or effectual for the taking and passing title to the water power in question, at any
time prior to theapproval of the act, to wit, March 3, 1875.
The concurring opinion of Mir. Justice Bradley in Davidson
v. Nifew Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, stated clearly the doctrine for
which we contend; and it was approved in .Hagar v. Reclamation 'District,111 U. S. 701.
.r'.

-Moses Hoover for defendant in error.

KAUKAUNA

CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

269

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE B~owx, after stating the case, delivered the
Opinion of the court.
(1) The only question involved in this case proper for us to
consider, is whether the act of the legislature, of Wisconsin of
August 8, 1848, reserving to the State the water power
created by the erection of the dam over the Fox River, as
construed by the Supreme Court of the State, and the proceedings thereunder, operated to deprive the plaintiffs in error of
'their property without due process of law. Notwithstanding
the inhibition of the Constitution is not distinctly put in issue
by the pleadings, nor directly passed upon in the opinion of
the court, it is evident that the court could not have reached
a conclusion adverse to the defendant company without holding, either that none of its pfoperty had been taken, or that
it was not entitled to compensation therefor, which is equivalent to saying that it had not been deprived of its property
without due process of law. This court has had frequent
occasion to hold that it is not always necessary that the
Federal question should appear affirmatively on the record, or
in the opinion, if an adjudication of ,such question were necessarily involved in the disposition of the case by the state
court. Wilison v. Blackird Creek Mlfarsh Co., 2'Pet. 245;
Armtrong v. Athens County, 16 Pet. 281; Chicago Life 1n,
eurance Co. v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574; Eureka ake Co. v.
Yuba County, 116 U. S. 410..
It is argued by the defendant in error that, inasmuch as the
act of the legislature complained of was knacted in 1848, and
the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution was not
adopted until 1868, the provision of the latter against the
"depriving" a person of property without due process of law
has no application to this case. There are several answers
made by the plaintiff in error to this contention: First. It was
not the act itself which deprived the Water Power Company
of its property, but the proceedings taken under the act, and
so far as such proceedings were taken subsequent to the constitutional amendment, they fall within its inhibition. It may
well be doubted whether the mere construction of the dam

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

and embankment operated of itself to 'deprive the owner of
lot 5 of any right to the water power, as the water continued
to flow past the lot as it had previously done, .though at a
higher level than before. Be this as it may, however, it is
possible that the notice given by the Canal Company, in 1880,
of its claim to the exclusive right to this water power may be
considered as a deprivation within the meaning of the amendment. Until this time there had been no active interference
with any claim or riparian rights belonging to the Water
Power Company. Second. If the erection of the dam and
embankment be treated as an assertion of an exclusive right
to the water power in front of 'these lots, perhaps the maintenance of this dam and embankment may be regarded as a
continuous deprivation of the rights of the riparian owner to
such water power, within the meaning of the constitutional
provision. The act of deprivation continues so long as the
Canal Company maintains its paramount and exclusive right
to the use of the water flowing in front of suoh lot. Third.
While it is undoubtedly true that the first dam and embankment were constructed in the years 1853 to 1855, before the
constitutional amendment was adopted, the new dam, the
southerly end of which also abutted on lot 5, as well as the
embankment connecting this with the old dam, was not built
until 1876 ; and in the construction of these the Water Power
Company claims that it was deprived of its property without
due process of law. The allegation of the answer in this connection is "that the dam which now raises the water of said
Fox River for the filling of said government canal, in the said
complaint mentioned, is not the same dam which was built
by the board of public works, and in said complaint referred
to; that, after the United States became the owner of said
canal and water-way, and in about the year 1874, the United
States abandoned said old dam and built a new one, .
the southerly half of which said new dam and which point of
abuttal is upon land which, prior to, and at the time of, the
commencement of this suit, belonged to, and was in the possession of, and still belongs to, and is in the possession of, the defendant, the Kaukauna Water Power Company; . . . that,

]KAUKAUNA CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

2971

Opinion of the Court.

after the building of said new dam by the United States, as
aforesaid, it, the said United States, constructed and extended
the said embankment along the southerly shore of said Fox
River, on said lot 5, from the said old dam down stream to,
and joined and terminated the same upon, its said new dam,
as the same is now in use; and these defendants state, upon
information and belief, that neither the United States or any
other party ever, by purchase, condemnation, dedication, or in
any other way, acquired, of or from the owner of said lot 5,
the right to so construct or abut said new dam upon said lot 5,
or to so lengthen or construct said new part of said embankient
thereupon," etc.
We think these facts and allegations are sufficient to raise
the constitutional question whether the property of the Water
Power Company has been taken without compensation, and
that the motion to dismiss should, therefore, be denied.
1 (2) The act of the legislature of Wisconsin of August 8,
1848, in so far as it provided that the water power created by
the, dam erected, or other improvements made on the river,
should belong to the State, is claimed to be iavalid upon the
ground, first, that it purported to take private property for a
private purpose; and second, that if it were held to be the
taking of private property for a public purpose, it was void
under the constitution of the State, and not due process of law,
because the act did not provide a method of ascertaining and
making coli;pensation for the property so taken. Practically
the only question is, whether this act was valid in so far as it
authorized the State to take and appropriate the water power
in question.
It is the settled law of Wisconsin, announced in repeated.
decisions of its Supreme Court, that the ownership of riparian
proprietors extends to the centre or thread of the stream, subject, if such stream be navigable, to the right of the public to its
use as a public highway for the passage of vessels. Jones v.
Pettibone, 2 Wisconsin, 308; Walker v. Sk7epardson, 2 Wisconsin, 384; S. C. 4 Wisconsin, 486 ; fforoos. v. Griffiths, 65 Wisconsin, 599. In City of Janesville v. Carpenter,77 Wisconsin,
288, 300, it is said of the riparian owner: "He may construct

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Olinion of the Court.

docks, landing places, piers and wharves out to navigable waters
if the river is navigable in fact, but if it is not so navigable
he may construct anything he pleases to the thread of the
stream, unless it injures some other riparian proprietor, or
those having the superior right to use the waters for hydraulic
purposes. . . . Subject to these restrictions, he has the
right to use his land under water the same as above water.
It is his private property under the protection of the constitution, and it cannot be taken, or its value lessened or impaired,
even for public use, 'without compensation,' or 'without due
process of law,' knd it cannot be taken at all for any one'sprivate use." With respect to such rights, we have held that the
law of the State, as declared by its Supreme Court is controlling as a rule of property. Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324;
Payker v. Bird, 137 U. S.661; Hcrdin v. Jordan,140 U. S.
371. There is no doubt, under the facts of this case, that the
owner of lot 5 was entitled to compensation for the land appropriated by the State in the construction of the dam and of the
embankment in front of the lot. To what extent he was entitled
to the use of th6 water power created by the dam, as against
the public-and the Other riparian owners, may be difficult of
ascertainment, depending as it does largely upon the number
of proprietors, the width and depth of the river, the volume of
the water, the amount of fall, and the character of the manufactures to which it was applicable. Nor is it necessary td
answer the question in this case, since it appears, that, whatever this property is, it has been appropriated and no provision
made for the compensation of the owner.
The case of the plaintiff Canal Company depends primarily,
as stated above, upon the legality of the legislative act of
1848, whereby the State assumed to reserve to itself any water,
power which should be created by the erection of the dam
across the river at this point. No question is made of the
power of the State to construct or autho.rize the construction
of this improvement, and to devote to it the proceeds of the
land grant of the United States. The improvement of the
navigation of a river is a public purpose, and the sequestration
or appropriation of land or other property, therefore, for such

KAUKAUNA CO. v. GIEEN BAY &c. CANAL.

27a

Opinion of the Court.

purpose, is doubtless a proper exercise of the authority of the
State under its power of eminent domain. Upon the other
hand, it is probably true that it is beyond the competency of
the State to appropriate to itself the property of individuals
for the sole purpose of creating a water power to be leased
for manufacturing -purposes. This would be a case of taking
the property of one man for the benefit of another, which is
not a constitutional exercise of the right of eminent domain.
But if, in the erection of a public dam for a recognized lublie
purpose, there is necessarily produced a surplus of water, which
may properly be used for manufacturing purposes, there is no
sound reason why the State may not retain to itself the power
of controlling or disposing of such water as an incident of its
right to make such improvement. Indeed, it might become
very necessary to retain the disposition of it in its own hands,
in order to preserve at all times a sufficient supply for the
purposes of navigation. If the riparian owners were allowed
to tap the pond at different places, and draw off the water for
their own use, serious consequences might arise, not only in
connection with the public demand for the purposes of navigation, but between the riparian owners themselves as to the
proper proportion each was entitled to draw - controversies
which could only be avoided by the State reserving to itself
the immediate supervision of the entire supply. As there is
no need of the surplus running to waste, there was nothing
objectionable in permitting the State to let out the use of it to
private parties, and thus reimburse itself for the expenses of
the improvement.
The value of this water power created by the dam was much
greater than that of the river in its unimproved state in the
hands of the riparian proprietors who had not the means to
make it available. These proprietbrs lost nothing that was
useful to them except the technical right to have the water
flow as it had been accustomed and the possibility of 'their
being able some time to improve it. If the State could condemn this use of the water with the other property of the
riparian owner it might raise a revenue from it sufficient to
complete the work which might otherwise fail. There was
VOL. CXLU-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

every reason why a water power thus created should belong
to the public rather than to the riparian owners. Indeed, it
seems to have been the practice, not only in New York but in
Ohio, in Wisconsin, and perhaps in other States, in authorizing
the erection of dams for the purpose of navigation or other
public improvement, to reserve the surplus of water thereby
created to be leased to private parties under authority of the
State; and where the surplus thus created was a mere incident
to securing an adequate amount of water for the public improvement, such legislation, it is believed, has been uniformly
sustained. Thus, in Cooper v. Williams, 4 Ohio, 253, the law
authorizing the construction of the Miami Canal, from Dayton
to Cincinnati, empowered the canal commissioners to dispose
of the surplus water power of the feeder for the benefit of the
State, and their action in so disposing of the water was justifled. The ruling was repeated in the same case, 5 Ohio, 391.
In Buckingham v. Smith, 10 Ohio, 288, it was held that, if
the water of private streams should be taken by the State for
the mere purpose of creating hydraulic power, and rented to
an individual, the transaction would be illegal, and no title
would pass as against the owner; but it was intimated that in
conducting water through a feeder, a discretionaty power must
necessarily rest in the agents of the State, and in making provision for a supply, it must frequently occur that a surplus
will accumulate, and that such surplus might be subject to
lease by the commissiofiers. In Little fiami Elevator Co. v.
Cincinnati, 30 Ohio St. 629, 643, the right to lease surplus
water for private use was recognized as an incident to the
public use of a canal for the purpose of navigation; but it was
held that such use was a subordinate one, and that the right
to the same might be terminated whenever the State, in the
exercise of its discretion, abandoned or relinquished the public
use. It was doubted whether the State could, after abandoning the canal as a public improvement, still reserve to itself
the right, to keep up a water power solely for private use and
as a source of revenue. "By so doing," said the court, "the
water power would cease to be an incident to the public use,
and the State would be engaged in the private enterprise of

KAUKAUNA CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

275

Opinion of the Court.

keeping up and renting water power aftei it ceased to act as
a government in keeping up the public use." The same ruling
was made by this court in Fox v. Cincinnati, 104 U. S. 783.
See also Hubbardv. City of Toledo, 21 Ohio St. 379. In Spaulding v. Lowell, 23 Pick. 71, 80, it was held that, where a town
built a market house two stories high, and appropriated the
lower story for a market, it being bonafide their principal and
leading object in erecting the building, the appropriation of
the upper story to other sub6rdinate purposes was not such'an
excess of authority as to render the erection of the building
and the raising of money therefor illegal. Chief Justice Shaw,
in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "If this had been
a colorable act, under the pretence of exercising a legal power,
looking to other and distinct objects beyond the scope of the
principal one, it might be treated as an abuse of power, and a
nullity. But we perceive no evidence to justify such a conclusion in the present case. The building of a market house
was the principal and leading object, and everything .else
seems to have been incidental and subordinate. . . . If
the accomplishment of the object was within the scope of the
corporate powers of the town, the corporation itself was the,
proper judge of the fitness of the building for its objects, and
it is not competent in this suit to inquire whether it was a
larger and more expensive building, than the exigencies of the
city required." See also French v. Inhabitants of Quincy, 3
Allen, 9. In Attorney General v. Eau Claire, 37 Wisconsin,
400, it was broadly held that where the State was authorized
to erect. and maintainI a dam for a public municipal 'use, the
legislature might also empower it to lease any surplus water
power created by such dam. The ruling was repeated in State
v. Eau Claire, 40 Wisconsin, 533.
The true distinction seems to be between cases where the
dam is erected for the express or apparent purpose of obtaining a water power to lease to private individuals, or where in
building a dam for a public improvement, a wholly unnecessary
excess of water is created, and cases where the surplus is a mere
incident to the public improvement and a reasonable provision
for securing an adequate supply of water at all times for such

0CTOBEk TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court..

improvement. No claim is made in this case that the water
power was created for the purpose of selling or leasing it, or
that the dam was erected to a greater height than was reasonably necessary to create a depth of water sufficient for the
purposes of navigation at all seasons of the year. So long as
the dam was erected for the bonatde purpose of furnishing an
adequate supply of water for the canal and was not it colorable
device for creating a water power, the agents of the State are
entitled to great latitude of discretion in regard to the height
of the dam and the head of water to be created; and while
the surplus in this case may be unnecessarily large, there does
not, seem to have been any bad faith or abuse of discretion on
the part of those charged with the construction of the improvement. Courts should not scan too jealously their conduct in
this connection if there be no reason to doubt that they were
animated solely by a desire to promote the public interests, nor
can they undertake to measure with nicety the exact amount
of water required for the purposes of the public improvement.
Under the circumstances of this case, we think it within the
power of the State to retain within its immediate control such
surplus as might incidentally be created by the erection of the
dam.
So far, however, as land was actually taken for the purpose
of this improvement, either for the dam itself or the embankments, or for the overflow, or so far as water was diverted from
its natural course, or from the uses to which the riparian owner
would otherwise have been entitled to devote it, such owner is
undoubtedly entitled to compensation. So far as concerns lots
6 and -7, no such compensation could be claimed, since the Supreme Court held, and we think correctly, that the release
executed by Hunt to the Fox and Wisconsin Improvement
Company in 1854, in which he granted to that company and
its representatives "the right to erect and forever maintain an
embankment of the dimensions as surveyed by the engineer of
said company," operated as a surrender of all riparian rights
appertaining to such lots not reserved in the instrument. No
such grant, however, was proven to have been made with respect to lot 5, then owned by one Beardsley, to which the

KAUIKAUIqA CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

277

Opinion of the Court.

Water Power Company now holds the title. Inasmuch as
the dam abuts upon this lot, its owner was doubtless entitled
to compensation for the land occupied by the dam and embankment, as well as for the value of the use of the water diverted
from its natural course. The 17th section of the act of 1848
attempted to provide for such compensation by enacting that
"when any lands, waters or materials, appropriated by the
board to the use of the public in the construction of said improvements, shall not be freely given or granted to the State,
or the said board cannot agree with the owner as to the terms
on which the same shall be granted," the superintendent shall
take measures to secure the appointment of appraisers to assess
the benefits or damages to the owner from the appropriation
of the land, etc., with a further provision that if the damages
exceeded the benefits it should be the duty of the board to
direct the same to be paid "out of the fund appropriated to said
improvements." It was held, however, by the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin in Sweaney v. United States, 62 Wisconsin, 396, as
well as in the present case, that it failed to give the land ownerthe right to institute condemnation proceedings under it to have
his compensation determined; and, that if the State should institute such proceedings, the condemnation when determined
was, by section 21 of the act, made payable out of the fund
appropriated for such improvements, and for these reasons the
-t did not make adequate provision for the compensation of
the owners. The construction thus given to this act is obligatory upon this court.
In 1875, however, Congress passed an act, 18 Stat. 506, to
aid in the improvement of the Fox and Wisconsin Rivers, thefirst section of' which provided that "in case any lands or
other property is now or shall be flowed or injured by means
of any part of the works of said improvement heretofore or
hereafter constructed for which compensation is now or shall
become legally owing, and in the opinion of the officer in
charge it is not prudent that the dam or dams be lowered, the
amount of such compensation be ascertained," etc. It is
claimed in this connection that there was nothing in the contract of purchase made between the government and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Canal Company, by which the government was bound to pay
anything for, or on account of, the property which it did not
take and which was excepted in the deed; that the water
power created by the Kaukauna dam, and by the use of the
surplus water not required for the purposes of navigation, was
a part of the excepted property which the government did not
purchase; that whatever title the Canal Company had to such
water power and such surplus water at the time of its cong
veyance, it kept, and nothing more; that if its title was
defective, or it had none, the government was in nowise bound
to make the same good or supply it; and that to compel tlhe
government now to pay for the water power, would require it
to make a payment it never assumed to make, and for property
it had no title to or interest in. If there were anything in
this point, it is one which should more properly be made by
the government, and if the government has seen fit, as it did,
to reimburse the riparian owners for all their damages, it
comes with ill grace from the mouth of the Water Power
Company to set up the exemption.
This construction, however, in our opinion is too narrow
and technical. The only authority by which private property
could be taken or overflowed was one derived from the State
or general government; whatever appropriation was made, or
injury done to such lands, was done solely for the benefit of
the public, and it was right the public should pay the compensation therefor. There is no sound reason for'a distinction in
regard to compensation between the property conveyed and
the property excepted from the conveyance - the latter being
a mere incident to the former. The Fox and Wisconsin Improvement Company, in reteiving title from the State, did not
undertake to reimburse the riparian proprietors for damages
to their lands, and it was inequitable that it should be called
upon to do so. It was said by this court in United States v.
Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 514, speaking of the act of 1870 authorizing the purchase of the improvements: "Some of the dams
constructed had" caused the lands of several parties to be overflowed, and in the estimate of the amount to be paid by the
United States no account was taken of the liability of the

KAUKAUNA CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

279

Opinion of the Court.

company for such damages. The question, therefore, soon
arose whether the payment of these damages devolved upon
the United States; and this question was submitted by the
Committee on Commerce of the House of Representatives to
the Secretary of War, and-was by him referred to the Assistant Judge Advocate General. That officer held that liability
for the damages incurred from the flowage of water on the
lands of others, caused by the works constructed, followed the
property transferred and devolved on the United States." It
is true that the defendant in error could not by its deed of
1870, or by any reservation of the water power therein contained, saddle the government with the burden, but it was a
burden already existing, which could not be discharged until
the proper compensation had been provided. The land was
not taken for the purpose of creating a water power, but for
improving the- navigation of the river, and there was no reason for charging the defendant in error, which had reserved
the water power only, with the payment of compensation.
The question of compensation is one separate and apart from
the transfers of which this property was the subject, but one
which in honor as well as in law was chargeable upon the publie. The act of 1875 in question seems to have originated
from the report of the Assistant Judge Advocate General,
upon whose opinion a bill was prepared for the assumption by
the United States of the company's liability for such damages.
The terms of this act are broad enough to cover not only
lands taken for flowage purposes, but all injury done to lands
or other property by means of any part of the works of said
improvement, which would include damages caused by the
diversion of the water. It is true that this act, after remaining in force about thirteen years, seems to have been repealed
by the deficiency bill of 1888, 25 Stat. 4, 21, which, after making appropriation for the payment of flowage damages to
about 125 different claimants, declared that the United States
should not be "held liable for damages heretofore or now
caused by the overflow of the lands or other property of any
person
.
.
unless the action or proceeding to ascertain
and determine the amount . . . shall have been or shall

OOTO]3ER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

be commenced

.

.

.

prior to the passage of this act; and

all claims and causes of action now existing upon which no
proceeding has been already or shall be taken within the time
last specified to enforce the same shall be forever barred."
Congress was not obliged to keep the act of 1875 in operation
forever, and reasonable opportunity having been afforded to
the plaintiffs in error to obtain compensation for the damages
sustained by the construction of the improvement, we think
they must be deemed to have waived their right to them.
Where a statute for the condemnation of lands provides a
definite and complete remedy for obtaining compensation,
this remedy is exclusive; the common law remedy or proceeding is superseded by the statute, and the owner must pursue
the course pointed out by it. Mills on Eminent Domain, sections 87, 88. It is true that, if the statutory remedy be incomplete or imperfect, the owner is not thereby debarred from his
common law remedy and may recover his damages in an action of trespass or ejectment. But it does not follow even
from this that he has a right, especially after acquiescing in
the appropriation of his land for a number of years, to take
the law into his own hands, and manu forti repossess himself
of his own. Thus, if a railway company, without condemnatfon proceedings, took possession of a lot of land for its track
and ran its trains over it for the time which elapsed in this
case between the building of the dam and the cutting of the
embankment by the plaintiffs in error, it would scarcely be
claimed that the owner could enter upon the, land, tear up the
rails, and throw his fences across the road-bed. Such a proceeding was attempted in Sate v. Hemsenkamp, 17 Iowa, 25,
and the result was an indictment for wilfully obstructing the
track. The court declined to instruct the jury that if the defendant owned the land, and the railroad company had not
obtained a right of way over it, defendant had a right to place
what he pleased upon the land, and should be acquitted; and
the Supreme Court said of this refusal that it was so obviously
right that "we can scarcely believe it is expected of us to
undertake a vindication of its correctness." So in Dunlap v.
Pulley, 28 Iowa, 469, the defendant, during his term of office

KAUKAUNA

CO. v. GREEN BAY &c. CANAL.

281

Opinion of the Court.

as road supervisor, fenced up and obstructed a certain county
road which had been laid out over a tract of land owned by
him, claiming the right to do so upon the ground that he had
never been paid a just compensation. The court held, however, that though entitled to compensation, he was entitled to
it only in the manner provided by law. "If he failed to ask
for compensation, or failed to apply in time, or applying, was
unsuccessful in showing his right thereto, he could not, upon
any principle, resist the right of the public to open the road,
upon the ground that he has not been paid for injuries or
losses which he claims to have sustained. If the board rejected his claim because not properly presented, because not
preferred in time, or upon any ground, (haying jurisdiction so
to decide,) his remedy was by appeal.'
Under the circumstances of this case we do not think it was
within the power of the owner of lot 5, after acquiescing for
over twenty-five years in the construction of the dam, and the
exclusive appropriation of the water by the State, to treat their
proceedings as a nullity, and take such action as could only be
justified upon the theory that the State and the Canal Company
had acquired no rights by its long silence. The claim of the
Water Power Company is to cut the embankment erected by
authority of the State, and to draw off one-half of the surplus
water power of the pond, upon the ground that it is now the
owner of the southern bank of the river, and this, too, without
taking any leg. proceedings in assertion of this right so to do.
Its position necessarily assumes that, by virtue of its ownership of lot 5 (all damages connected with lots 6 and 7 having
been released by their then owner, Hunt), it is entitled to onehalf of the water created by this improvement, and that, too;
without reference to the riparian rights properly appurtenant
to lot 5 before the improvement was made, or to any particular fall from the upper to the lower corner of such lot. It is
difficult to see how, under these circumstances, this claim can
be sustained. The dam was built for a public purpose, and
the act provided that if, in its construction, any water power
was incidentally created, it should belong to the State, and
might be sold or leased, in order that the proceeds of such sale

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

or lease might assist in defraying the expenses of the improvement. A ruling which would allow a single riparian owner
upon the pond created by this dam to take to himself one-half
of the surplus water without having contributed anything
towards the creation of such surplus or to the public improvement, would savor strongly of an appropriation of public property for private use. If any such water power were incidentally
created by the erection of a dam, it was obviously intended that
it should belong to the public and be used for their benefit,
and not for the emolument of a private riparian proprietor.
The cutting of the embankment undek the circumstances of
this case and the appropriation of the surplus water which the
Water Power Company had had no hand in creating, was a
trespass which the court had a right to enjoin.
We do not undertake to say whether a bill in equity, framed
upon the basis of a large amount of surplus water not used,
might not lie to compel an equitable division of the saxhe upon
the ground that it would otherwise run to waste.
Our conclusion is that there was no taking of the property
of 'the plaintiff in error without due process of law, and the
-deckee of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin is
Afflrmed.
iMiR. JUSTIcE HARLAN dissented.

ST. PAUL, MINNEAPOLIS AND MANITOBA RAILWAY COMPANY v. TODD COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 132.

Argued and submitted December 18, 1891.-

Decided January 4, 1892.

A decision of the Supreme Court of a State, sustaining as valid a statutory
contract of the State exempting the property of a railway company from
taxation, but deciding that a certain class of property did not come within
the terms of the exemption, is not an impairment of the contract by a
law of the State and is not subject to review in error here.
New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisi ia Sugar Refining Co., 125 U. S.
18, affirmed and applied.

