OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

TYLER v. CASS COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 1320. Submitted November 23, 1891. -Decided January 4, 1892.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company sold to a purchaser a tract included
in the original grant to it which had never been patented, and on which
the costs of Survey had never been paid. The tract was sold for nonpayment of taxes while Dakota was a territory, and the purchaser paid
therefor. The Supreme Court of North Dakota held that the land was
not taxable when the tax was levied and assessed, and that nothing
passed by the sale. The purchaser brought this action in the state court
of North Dakota to recover back the purchase-money paid at the tax sale.
A judgment in plaintiff's favor was reversed by the Supreme Court of
the State, no question being made as to the regularity of the tax sale and
pioceedings. Held, that the exemption of the land from taxation having
been recognized by the state court, no Federal question was involved,
and the-writ of error must be dismissed.
MoTiON

to dismiss.

The court stated the case as follows:

Plaintiff presented a claim to the board of county commissioners of Cass County, Dakota Territory, to recover moneys
paid by him as the purchase price of certain lands sold by the
county treasurer for delinquent taxes at a tax sale in 1885.
The claim was rejected and plaintiff appealed to the District
Court of Cass County, where the cause was tried upon an
agreed statement of facts without a jury, and resulted in a
judgment in favor of the plaintiff. The defendant preserved
proper exceptions to the rulings and action of the court, and
carried the case by appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory.
After the admission of :North Dakota as a State, the appeal
was heard and decided by the State Supreme Court, which
had succeeded to the jurisdiction of the Territorial Supreme
Court. The opinion will be found reported, in advance of the
official series, in 48 NT. W. Rep. 232. The judgment below
was reversed with instructions to dismiss the case, and thereupon a writ of error was taken out from this court.

TYLER v. CASS COUNTY.
Argument against the Motion.

Counsel agree that the facts appearing of record are sub:
stantially as follows: That the lands in question were part of
'the original grant by the United States to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company; that the company had, prior to
the levy and tax sale, disposed of said lands to private parties
by deeds and contracts, and such parties were in possession;
that no patents had been issued; that the company earned the
lands after the passage of the act of Congress, approved July
15, 1870, in regard to payment of the cost of surveying; that
they were surveyed at the expense of the United States gbvernment,after the date of the act, and no part of the cost and
expense of the survey had been repaid by the company to the
United States; that in 188- and prior thereto, the taxing
officers of Cass County assessed the lands and levied taxes
thereon, which remained unpaid October 6, 1885, on which
date the treasurer of the county proceeded to sell them for
delinquent taxes, and plaintiff became the purchaser; and it
was to recover the purchase money so paid that the action was
brought. No question is made as to the regularity of the tax
sale, or the proceedings leading thereto.

.Mr. John F. Dillon and .1r. Harry Hubbard for the
motion.
Jr>. illiam -H.Francis(with whom was .X r.Seth -Yewman on the brief) opposing.
The authority sought to be exercised by the assessor is contrary to the laws of the Territory, which provide that "the property of the United States" "shall be exempt from taxation."
Nowhere is any authority given to the assessor to assess nontaxable lands, and his action was an exercise of authority in
direct violation of its statutes. The Federal question is: Were
the lands attempted to be assessed, when the assessor had no
jurisdiction by reason of their immunityfrom taxation under
the Constitution and laws of the United States ? This question
was raised below and was decided against such immunity.
That is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction. The Banks V.
VOL. CXLII-19

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The .Mayor, 7[ Wall. 16. It was raised at the proper time and
in the proper manner. -DetroitCity Railway y. Guthard,114:
U. S. 133.
]Mn. CH.EF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on motion to dismiss the writ of
error.
The question arising for determination in the state court
was whether the money which had been paid by the purchaser
of the lands at the tax sale could be recovered back either at
common law or under the Dakota statute in that behalf. The
ground upon which the tax title was held to have failed was
that the United States had a lien upon the lands, and that,
therefore, they could not, under the laws of the United States,
be sold for taxes, but that fact did not impress with a Federal
character the inquiry as to the right of recovery.
It is earnestly urged that the lands were "a part of the public domain of the United States," and, as no tax could therefore
be imposed thereon, that they were not within the jurisdiction
of the Territory of Dakota or its taxing officers for the purpose
of assessment and taxation; that this was an immunity under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, which was
specially set up and claimed by appellant; and that the decision of the state court was against such immunity. But the
Supreme Court of North Dakota held, that in view of the
decision of this court in _forthern Pac?F Railroadv. Traill
County, -115 U. S. 600, the lands were not taxable at the time
the taxes were assessed and levied, and that nothing passed
by the sale. The exemption of the lands from taxation was,
in other words, fully recognized and allowed.
Plaintiff in error insists that although, in the absence of
statute the purchaser of a defective title at a tax sale cannot
recover back the money paid, yet there is an exception to this
rule where there is no jurisdiction whatever to impose the tax,
and that this case comes within that exception, because the
assessor had no jurisdiction to decide whether the lands in

TYLER v. CASS COU1NTY.
Opinion of the Court.

question were or were not taxable. And he contends that
the Supreme Court of North Dakota decided against the right
of recovery at common law, not upon the, ground that such
recovery could not be had even where there was an absolute
want of jurisdiction, but upon the ground that if the assessor,
in good faith and relying upon the record as it appeared to
him, assessed the lands against private parties in possession,
though fhey in fact belonged to the United States, such act
would not be without jurisdiction, although the assessment
could not be sustained. Hence it is argued that the court decided against the immunity from the jurisdiction of the assessor.
Since, however, it was because the exemption was sustained
that the purchaser at the tax sale brought this action,, the
reasoning ot the state court cannot be availed of by him as a
denial of an immunity to which he was entitled. It was the
assessor's duty under the Dakota statutes to return a tax list
including all the lands that were taxable, and in doing so he
passed upon the question whether they were or were not taxable, and if he put upon the list lands that were exempt, and
those lands were sold for'taxes, whether the purchase money
could be recovered back was, irrespective of the statute, purely
a common law question which-was not changed by the fact
that the exemption arose under the laws of the United States.
As between the plaintiff and the county, it was for the stat6
court to decide whether a recovery could be had, and that
decision embraced no direct ruling upon a Federal question
adverse to the plaintiff, even though it were based upon.the
ground that the assessor had jurisdiction to the extent stated.
In TRilliam8 v. lTeaver, 100. U. 5. 547, the plaintiff sought
to hold the defendants individually liable for the sum which
he was compelled to pay as taxes on his shares of national
bank stock, by reason of the wrongful assessment thereof for
the year 1874, made by them in their official character as the
board of assessors of the city of Albany; and Mffr. 'Justice
Miller, delivering the opinion of the bourt, said: "The Court
of Appeals, in its opinion, conceding the assessment to be in
many respects erroneous and to the prejudice of plaintiff,
holds that, in the absence of fraud or intentional wrong, the

OCTOBER TERM,' 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

defendants were not personally liable in damages for any error
in the assessment. Whether that court decided that question
correctly or not, it is not a Federal question, but one of general municipal law, to be governed either by the common law
or the statute law of the State. In either case it presents no
question on which this court is authorized to review the judg,ment of a state court. That decision is also conclusive of the
whole case. If the defendants, in assessing property for taxation, incur no personal liability for any error they may commit,
the fact that the error consisted in a misconstruction of an act
of Congress can make no difference. An officer whose duty
personally, as the Court of Appeals of New York holds, is
mainly judicial, is no more liable for a mistaken construction
of an act of Congress than he would be for mistaking the
common law or a state statute."
In The Banks v. The .I[ayor, 7 Wall. 16, cited and relied
on by plaintiff in error, an act of the New York legislature authorized the issue of bonds by way of refunding to
banks such portions of a tax as had been assessed on Federal
securities exempted by the Constitution and statutes of the
United States from taxation, and the officers who were empowered to issue the obligations refused to sign them, because,
as they alleged, a portion of the securities for the tax on
which the banks claimed reimbursement was, in law, not exempt, and the highest court of the State sanctioned this
refusal. There, the decision by the State court was against
the exemption claimed, and it was held that this was a decision against a right, privilege or immunity claimed under
the Constitution or a statute of the United States, and that,
therefore, this court had jurisdiction.
In the case at bar, as we have said, the lands. were held to
be not taxable, and the question of the jurisdiction of the
assessor, in the first instance, in making the assessment, was
not so resolved as to deny the exemption. We do not understand it to be contended that, so far as the decision of the
state court rested upon the construction of the statute, any
Federal question was involved.
The writ of error i8di8mZe6d.

