CO1VERS v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. I'D 00.

671

Statement of the Case.

CONVERS v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA, AND
F
RAILROAD COMPANY.

SANTA

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 154. Argued January 11, 1892. - Decided January 26,1892.
When a railroad company initiates proceedings in Illinois to acquire land
for its road, and a defendant appears and claims ownership of the tract,
and no denial is made to this claim, and only evidence as to the amount
of compensation is presented for the consideration of the jury, and the
jury awards a sum as such amount, the judgment should either direct
the payment of this sum to such owner, or the deposit of the same with
the county treasurer for his benefit.
THE

court stated the case as follows:

On June 'Ith and 10th, 1887, respectively, the Atchison,
Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company in Chicago, the
defendant in error, filed two petitions in the County Court of
Cook County, Illinois, to condemn the right of way through
certain lands. The present plaintiff in error was made a party
defendant to each of those proceedings. , He appeared, and in
each filed a cross-petition, alleging his ownership of a particular tract, and praying specified damages for its appropriation
to the uses of the railroad company. Thereafter, being a citizen and resident of New Jersey, he filed petitions and bonds
for removal of the cases to the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the Northern District of Illinois. The removal
papers alleged a separable controversy between Convers and
the railroad company. After removal there was a consolidation of the two cases, and, no one appearing in that court but
himself and the railroad company, the issues were submitted
to a jury upon pleadings of this nature: on the part of the
railroad company, petitions disclosing its proposed right of
way, asking an appropriation of the lands therefor, and an
ascertainment of the damages; and cross-petitions by Convers,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

alleging that he was the owner of particular tracts described
within this right of way, and the damages which he would
sustain by their appropriation by the railroad company, and
praying compensation therefor. To the averments in the
pleadings on either side there was no formal denial, and upon
these-pleadings the case went to trial. The jury found the
amount of damages to be $12,000. The verdict, after describing the lands, recited: "And that the owners and parties
interested therein are entitled to the sum of twelve thousand
dollars, the value of the land taken and all improvements
thereon, in full compensation for the same." Upon such verdict the-plaintiff in error moved for a judgment in his favor
for $12,000, the total amount of the damages; but this was
refused; and the judgment which was entered ignored him,
and decreed that for the particular tracts described "the sum of
money awarded by the jury in and by their said verdict to the
owners and parties interested in the property above described
is a just compensation for the taking of said premises for the
railroad purposes of the petitioner herein, and for all damages
to property not taken. And it is further ordered that the petitioner pay to the county treasurer of Cook County, Illinois,.
for the benefit of the owners and parties interested in the
premises above described, the sum of twelve thousand dollars,
($12,000), being the amount awarded by said jury in and by
their said verdict. It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed
that upon the making of said payment to the said county
treasurer, the petitioner, the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railroad Company in Chicago, may enter upon the premises
above described and the use of the same for railroad purposes." To reverse such judgment, Convers sued out a writ
of error from this court.
XPl. Mzrles .M. St urges for plaintiff in error.
Yr. CMaurles S. .Holt (with whom was Mr. Borman
liams on the brief) for defendant in error.

il-

L On the record Convers appears as the only "owner or
person interested in" the property. The jury properly ascer-

CONVERS v. ATCHISONI,

TOPEKA &c. R'D CO.

673

Opinion of the 'Court.

tained the entire value, and the judgment in effect awards
that value to Convers as specifically as if his name had been
used. The form of the verdict and judgment cannot possibly
prejudice his rights.
H. The verdict and judgment are right. If there had been
adverse claimants before the court, Convers would have bad
no right to a determination by the condemnation jury of the
question whether he was or was not the owner. A jury
im.npanelled under the eminent domain acts of Illinois has no
duty or power to pass on questions of title. Such questions
are to be determined by the court or by a common law jury,
as the nature of the case may require: Rev. Stats. Ill. c. 47,
(title, "Eminent Domain,") §§ 2, 8, 10, 16 ; c. 24, (title, "Cities,
Villages and Towns,") §§ 1 7, 129.
The jury has nothing to do with any question except the
amount of compensation. Smith v. c. &T
I. -Railway Co.,
105 Illinois, 511; South Park Commissioners v. Todd, 112
Illinois, 379; DeBuol v. F. & Mt. Railway Co., 111 Illinois,
499; Railroad Company v. Haslam, 73 Illinois, 491; C.
TV. r Railway Co. v. Prussng,96 Illinois, 20S; Suver v. C.
S. F. & C. Railway Co., 123 Illinois, 293; Grayville & -Mattoon Railroad Co. v. Chtristy, 92 Illinois, 337; Henry v.- Centralia & Chester Railroad Co., 121 Illinois, 264:; O'Hare v.
C., X. & I. Railway Co., (Supreme Court of IllinoiS, October,
1891,) 28 N. E. Rep. 925.
Neither the Constitution nor the statutes give a right to
trial by jury on questions of title.
MR. JUSTIcE BivEwpR delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question in this case is, whether the verdict and
judgment responded to the issues tendered by the pleadings.
A bill of exceptions was prepared, showing that the testimony
presented to the jury was simply as to the damages resultiig
from the appropriation of the proposed right of way by the
railroad company; and that no testimony was offered by Convers as to the extent and nature of his title, and none by the
railroad company in any manner challenging it. By the
VOL. CXLII-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

-express language of the verdict the amount found by the jury
was the total amount of compensation due for the appropriation of this right of way through the particular tracts claimed
by Convers. As that matter was properly determined, there
is no necessity for a new trial, or further inquiry as to the
amount of damages. But upon the pleadings we think a
judgment ought to have been entered in terms in favor of
Convers for such damages, or at least one directing their appropriation to him personally, and that the question as to who
was entitled thereto ought not to have been, by the form of
the judgment, left open to further inqury.
The bill of rights of the constitution of Illinois (Constitution 1870, art. 2, see. 13) declares: "Private property shall
not be taken or damaged for public use without just compensation. Such compensation when not made by the State, shall
be ascertained by a jury, as shall be prescribed by law."
The eminent domain act, passed under this constitutional
provision, (Revised Statutes, Illinois, 1874, chapter 47, p. 475,)
directs in terms that just compensation for private property
taken "shall be ascertained by a jury as hereinafter prescribed." (See. 1.) The procedure thereafter provided was
a petition by the party authorized to take the property to a
judge of the circuit or county court, describing the property
and naming the owners appearing of record, if known, or if
not known, stating that fact, and praying that the compensation be assessed. (See. 2.) In the one petition any number of
parcels of property might be included, and the compensation
for each assessed separately by the same or different juries.
(See. 5.) Process was to be served, as in cases in chancery, (see.
4,) a trial had, and the verdict, or report of the jury as it is
called, was "to clearly set forth and show the compensation
ascertained to e~ch person thereto entitled." (See. 9.) The oath
to be taken by the jury contemplated also the same separate
ascertainment. (See. 8.) "See. 10. The judge or court shall
upon such a report, proceed to adjudge and make such order
as to right and justice shall pertain, ordering that petitioner
enter upon such property and the use of the same, upon payment
of full compensation, as ascertained as aforesaid." Section 11

CONVERS v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c.'R'D CO.

675

Opinion of thb Court.

adds that "any person not made a party may become such by
filing his cross-petition," and that his rights "shall thereupon
be fully considered and determined." See: 14 is as follows:
"Payment of compensation adjudged may, in all cases, be
made to the county treasurer, who shall, on demand, pay the
same to the party thereto entitled, taking receipt therefor, or
payment may be made tG the party entitled, his, her or their
conservator or guardian."
These sections make it clear that under the pleadings the
judgment entered upon this report or verdict should either
have directed payment to the plaintiff, or that the deposit
with the county treasurer was for his benefit. In other words,
Convers's right to this money should have been settled by the
judgment, and not left open to further inquiry.
It is unnecessary to consider what rule obtains when the railroad company puts in issue the fact or extent of the claimant's
title or interest. It is enough to dispose of the case here presented.
While the precise question does not appear to have been
determined by the Supreme Court of the State, its rulings are
in this direction. Bowman v. Railway Company, 102 Illinois,
459; Johnson v. Railway Company, 116 Illinois, 521; Suver
v. Railway Company, 123 Illinois, 293. In the first of these
cases it was held that the provision in the statute, that several
tracts of lands belonging to different'persons might be included
in one petition, and the compensation for each separately assessed by the same or different juries, extended to cases where
different persons had distinct interests in the same tract, and
that in such cases the damage to each might be separately
ascertained. In the second, the court decided that each owner
might have his damages assessed before a separate jury, and
was entitled to his single appeal from the judgment; and, also,
that, if a cross-petition set forth only evidence of claimant's
title, and was uncertain in the description of his interest in
the property, such defect was ground for demurrer, but did
not justify a dismissal on motion. And, in the third, the petition of the railroad company, averring that four persons named,
had or claimed an interest in a tract described, and there being

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

no other averment in the petition or cross-petition of separate
interests in such parties, a finding of the gross amount to be
paid to them was sustained. In that case, also, it was held
that certain defects alleged to exist in the petition must, to be
taken advantage of, be challenged by demurrer. These cases
all indicate that proceedings under the eminent domain act
may be divided into distinct controversies between the railroad
company and each party owning or having a separate interest
in any tract; and that a controversy, thus separated, is to proceed according to the ordinary rules concerning trials, with a
certainty in verdict and a finality in judgment. They sustain
the conclusion we have heretofore expressed in this case.
The judgment will be
Reversed, and the case remanded with in8tructiofl to enter a
jidgment in terms securing to Conver the amount of the
damage8found bry the jury.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

took no part in the decision of this case.

HEDDtN v. ISELIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 14,.

Argued January 7, 1892. -Decided January 26, 1892.

In a suit to recover back customs duties paid under protest, where the only
question tried was, whether in re-appraisement proceedings the importer
was denied rights secured to him by law; Held,
(1) It was proper to admit in evidence a protest filed by the importer
with the re-appraisers, as a paper showing what rights the importer claimed, and especially his claim that the merchant
appraiser was not qualified;
(2) A motion to direct a verdict for the defendant was properly denied,
the court having ruled in accordance with the decision of this
court in Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S. 310, and having instructed
the jury fully and properly, and there being no exception to the
charge, and a question proper for the jury.

