DUNCAN

v.

GEGAN.

[Sup. Ot.

were exchanged, and of course their title is protected by the
treaty.
Want of survey since the treaty is suggested; but the grant
was of the island whose boundaries are the waters which surround it, and which separate it as effectually from the public
domain as could the most accurate official survey ever made.
Priority of recognition is claimed in favor of the other donee;
but the decisive answer to that suggestion is that the act of
Congress making it reserves in terms the rights of others, and
limits the operation of the act to the relinquishment of any
claim of the United States to the land.
Most of these views are much strengthened by historical
researches of the court below, as exhibited in the opinion of the
State court given in support of the judgment brought here by
the present writ of error. Trenier v. Stewart, 55 Ala. 458.
Without entering further into the details of the case, it must
suffice to say that we are all of the opinion that there is no error
in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

DUNCANV v. GEGAlT.
1. The proceedings had in a cause are not vacated by its removal from a State
court to the Circuit Court.
2. Where the relative priority of certain mortgages had been determined on
appeal by the Supreme Court of the State, and on the return of the mandate
to the court of original jurisdiction the fund derived from the judicial sale
of the property covered by them was distributed pursuant to the judgment,
- Held, that the Circuit Court, the cause having been thereto removed,
properly ruled that the parties, as to the rights litigated and disposed of,
were concluded by the judgment.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Elam Bowman executed, Feb. 2,1855, a mortgage in favor of
Stephen Duncan on Waver Tree plantation, consisting of three
thousand four hundred acres of land in the parish of Tensas,
La., his wife intervening in the act, and renouncing her rights
of tacit mortgage in favor of Duncan. It was inscribed in the

Oct. 1879.]

DUNCAN v. GEGAN.

recorder's office of that parish Feb. 3, 1855, and reinscribed
Sept. 13, 1865.
Bowman executed, Jan. 10, 1861, another mortgage on one
thousand nine hundred and twenty acres of that land in favor
of Shaw, tutor of Gegan. It was inscribed on that day. Mrs.
Bowman did not renounce in favor of this mortgage.
Mrs. Bowman obtained judgment, May 18, 1866, against her
husband for $13,278.42 and interest, with recognition of her
legal and tacit mortgage upon all of his property, to date and
rank from the years 1840 and 1845, for $9,325, and from Jan.
1, 1862, for $3,953.25.
Duncan brought, Dec. 26, 1865, suit upon his mortgage
notes in the District Court for that parish, and obtained judgment May 19, 1866, with recognition of his mortgage.
Duncan and Mrs. Bowman, on their respective judgments,
took out executions, and caused the property to be seized and
advertised for sale April 3, 1869.
On the day upon which the sales were to take place, Gegan,
who had then attained his majority, brought suit, in that court,
to determine the rank of the mortgages, making Duncan and
Mrs. Bowman parties defendant. In his petition he alleged
that by reason of Duncan's failure to reinscribe his mortgage
within ten years from the time of its first inscription, it was
entitled to rank only from the date of its second inscription,
while Gegan's mortgage was entitled to rank from the date of
its original inscription.
From the judgment, fixing the relative rank of the three
mortgages, an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court. It was
there held that by reason of Duncan's failure to reinscribe his
mortgage within ten years, it ceased to be evidence against
Mrs. Bowman of a mortgage upon her husband's property,
and that the other mortgage took effect as if that of Duncan
had never been executed. His mortgage was therefore postponed to those of Gegan and Mrs. Bowman.
After this mandate was filed in the court of the parish,
Gegan and Mrs. Bowman sued out executions, and the property
was sold Sept. 3, 1870. The proceeds were paid to Mrs. Bowman, although they were not sufficient to satisfy her mortgage,
which the court had determined was entitled to priority.

DUNCAN V. GEGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Duncan filed his petition April 26, 1876, for the removal of
the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States. On its
removal, he filed his bill in equity against Mrs. Bowman, Gegan,
and the purchaser at the sheriff's sale, alleging that Gegan's
mortgage was second in rank to his, and Mrs. Bowman's mortgage inoperative, because her judgment against her husband
was collusive, fraudulent, null, and void; that the sale made
under her mortgage by the sheriff was also void, because
the purchaser was the adopted daughter of Mrs. Bowman, and
without means; and that the decree of the Supreme Court was
void, because the mortgaged property was not under seizure
when it was rendered. He prays that his rights under his
mortgage be recognized and maintained against Bowman and
wife, Gegan, and the purchaser at sheriffs sale; that the sale be
set aside, and the property ordered to be sold to pay the debt
secured by his mortgage.
The Circuit Court, considering that the validity and relative
rank of the respective mortgages had been determined by the
Supreme Court, that the property had been sold under the
mortgages entitled to precedence, and that the fund arising
from the sale was actually distributed and applied in the
manner and order of priority required by the judgment of the
Supreme Court, dismissed the bill. Duncan appealed here.
Ilftr. Robert Mott and Mr. Thomas J. Semmes for the appellant.
Mr. flenry B. Kelly and Mr. Jlenry L. Lazarus for the
appellees.
MR. CMEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The transfer of the suit from the State court to the Circuit
Court did not vacate what had been done in the State court
previous to the removal. The Circuit Court, when a transfer
is effected, takes the case in the condition it was when the State
court was deprived of its jurisdiction. The Circuit Court has
no more power over what was done before the removal than
the State court would have had if the suit had remained there.
It takes the case up where the State court left it off.
Before the suit of Geganr v. Bowman and .Duncan was

Oct. 1879.]

DUNCAN v. GEGAN.

removed to the Circuit Court, the rank of the appellant's mortgage had been finally settled by the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State on appeal. That was no longer an open
question between the parties to that litigation. All the court
from which the removal was afterwards made could do was to
distribute the proceeds of the sale of the property in accordance with the directions of the Supreme Court. It had no
power whatever to change the order of priorities as settled by
the appellate court.
The question of the right to make the transfer is not before
us. Duncan, who caused the removal to be made, is the only
party who complains of the decree below, and he cannot object
here to what has been done below by his own procurement.. We
confess it is not easy to see how a party could swear to his belief,
that from prejudice or local influence he could not obtain justice
in the State court, when all that court had to do was to divide
the proceeds of a sale by paying them out in a certain way, and
as to which there was apparently no possible chance of dispute.
But still it was so sworn, and the Circuit Court took jurisdiction against the motion of the opposite party. Of that no complaint is now made by the appellees.
It follows, then, that, whether the proceedings which were
afterwards had in the Circuit Court at the instance of the
appellant were part of the original suit removed from the
State court, or a new and distinct suit begun in the Circuit
Court by the appellant himself after the removal, the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the State on the appeal in the original
suit concludes him as to his rights thus litigated and disposed
of. As it is apparent that the questions presented by the new
pleadings in the Circuit Court are in all respects the same as
those settled by the Supreme Court of the State, it follows that
the Circuit Court was right in holding that the appellant was
concluded by that decree.
Affrmned.

