Oct. 1879.]

THomAS V. RAILROAD CO.

cation of any other contract. BExpressum facit cessare tacitum.
The contract cannot, therefore, be converted into an indorsement or an assignment. And if it could be treated as an
assignment of the note, it would not cut off the defences of the
maker. Such an effect results only from a transfer according
to the law merchant; that is, from an indorsement. An
assignee stands in the place of his assignor, and takes simply an
assignor's rights; but an indorsement creates a new and collateral contract. 2 Parsons, Notes and Bills, 46 et seg., notes.
At best, therefore, the defendants below can claim no more
or greater rights than those of the Cook County Bank, and the
complainants are entitled to a return of the note and of the
collaterals on payment of the sum of $132.
-Decreeaffirmed.

THoMAs v. RAUROAD ComP-NY.
1. The powers of a corporation organized under a legislative charter are only
such as the statute confers; and the enumeration of them implies the
exclusion of all others.
2. A lease by a railroad company of all its road, rolling-stock, and franchises
for which no authority is given in its charter is ultra vires and void.
3. The ordinary clause in the charter authorizing such a company to contract
with other transportation companies for the mutual transfer of goods and
passengers over each other's-roads confers no authority to lease its road
and franchises.
4. The franchises and powers of such a company are in a large measure designed to be exercised for the public good, and this exercise of them is the
consideration for granting them. A contract by which the company renders itself incapable of performing its duties to the public, or attempts to
absolve itself from its obligation without the consent of the State, violates
its charter and is forbidden by public policy. It is, therefore, void.
5. The fact that the legislature, after such a lease was made, passes a statute
forbidding the directors of the company, its lessees or agents, from collecting more than a fixed amount of compensation for carrying passengers and
freight, is not a ratification of the lease or an acknowledgment of its
validity.
6. Where a lease of this kind for twenty years was made, and the lessors resumed possession at the end of five years, and the accounts for that period
were adjusted and paid, a condition in the lease to pay the value of the
unexpired term is void, the case not coming within the principle that executed contracts originally ultra vires shall stand good for the protection of
rights acquired under a completed transaction.

72

THOMAS V. RAILROAD 00.

-

[Sup. at.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
This was an action of covenant, by George W. Thomas,
Alfred S. Porter, and Nathaniel F. Chew, against the West
Jersey Railroad Company, and they, to maintain the issue
on their part, offered to prove the following facts: On the eighth day of October, 1863, the Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company, a corporation incorporated by the
legislature of New Jersey, March 9, 1859, entered into an
agreement with them, whereby it was stipulated that the company should, and did thereby, lease its road, buildings, and
rolling-stock to them for twenty years from the 1st of August,
1863, for the consideration of one-half of the gross sum collected
from the operation of the road by the plaintiffs during that
period; that the company might at any time terminate the
contract and retake possession of the railroad, and that in such
case, if the plaintiffs so desired, the company would appoint an
arbitrator, who, with one appointed by them, should decide
upon the value of the contract to them, and the loss and
damage incurred by, and justly and equitably due to them, by
reason of such termination thereof; that in the event of a difference of opinion between the arbitrators, they were to choose
a third, and the decision of a majority was to be final, conclusive, and binding upon the parties.
On the 10th of April, 1867, the legislature of New Jersey
passed an act entitled "A supplement to the act entitled ' An
Act to incorporate the Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company.'" It was therein enacted that it should be unlawful for
the directors, lessees, or agents of said railroad to charge more
than the sums therein named for passengers and freight respectively. The plaintiffs claim that at the date of the passage of
this act it was well known that they were acting under the said
agreement of 8th October, 1863.
On the 12th of October, 1867, articles of agreement were
entered into between the Millville and Glassboro Railroad
Company and the West Jersey Railroad Company, the defendant, whereby it was agreed that the former should be merged
into and consolidated 'With the latter.
In November, 1867, a written notice was served by the Mill-

Oct. 1879.]

THOMAS V. RAILROAD CO.

ville and Glassboro Railroad Company upon the plaintiffs, putting an end to the contract and to all the rights thereby granted,
and notifying them that the company would retake possession
of the railroad on the first day of April, 1868.
On the 18th of March, 1868, the legislature of New Jersey
passed an act whereby it was enacted that, upon the fulfiment
of certain preliminaries, the Millville and Glassboro Railroad
Company should be consolidated with the West Jersey Railroad Company, "subject to all the debts, liabilities, and obligations of both of said companies." The conditions required
by that act were fulfilled, and the railroad was duly delivered
by the plaintiffs to the West Jersey Railroad Company on the
1st of April, 1868.
On April 18, 1868, and again on May 22 of the same year,
notices to arbitrate according to the terms of the agreement
were served by the plaintiffs upon the Millville and Glassboro
Railroad Company, and immediately thereafter upon the West
Jersey Railroad Company. The latter company refused to
comply with the terms of either notice; but subsequently,
on the 21st of December, 1868, an agreement of submission
was entered into between the plaintiffs and the latter company, whereby H. F. Kenney and Matthew Baird were appointed arbitrators, with power to choose a third, to settle the
controversy between the parties. These arbitrators disagreeing, called in a third, who joined with said Baird in an award,
by which the value of the unexpired term of the lease, and
the loss sustained by reason of the termination thereof to and
by the plaintiffs, was adjudged to be the sum of $159,487.07;
and the West Jersey Railroad Company was ordered to pay
that sum to the plaintiffs. This award was subsequently set
aside in a suit in equity brought in New Jersey.
The plaintiffs further offered to prove their compliance in
all respects with the terms of the lease, its value, and the
loss and damage they had sustained by reason of its termination as aforesaid. The court excluded the offered testimony on
the ground that the lease by the Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company to the plaintiffs was ultra vires, and directed
the jury to return a verdict for the defendant. The plaintiffs
duly excepted and sued out this writ.

74

THOMAS v. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup, Ct.

They assign for error that the court below erred, 1. In excluding from the consideration of the jury the
offered evidence of the said agreement between the 'Millville
and Glassboro Railroad Company and the plaintiffs; of the
acts of assembly of New Jersey, one an act to incorporate
the Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company, approved the
9th of March, 1859, and another an act entitled "A supplement to the act entitled ' An Act to incorporate the Millville
and Glassboro Railroad Company,' passed the tenth day of
April, 1867," and the acts referred to therein; of the fact
that it was well known at the date of the last-named act
that the plaintiffs were lessees acting under the said contract
and agreement; and of all the other acts of the legislature
of the State of New Jersey relating to the West Jersey Railroad Company, and to the Millville and Glassboro Railroad
Company.
2. In directing the jury that their verdict must be for the
defendant.
3. In entering judgment upon the verdict for the defendant.

Mr. George W. Biddle and iMbr. A. Sydney Biddle for the
plaintiffs in error.
I. The contract of 8th October, 1863, was intra vires of the
Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company, because authorized
by the act of incorporation.
First, It was expressly authorized by the act of incorporation, the thirteenth section of which declares " that it shall
be lawful for the said company, at any time during the continuance of its charter, to make contracts and engagements
with any other corporation, or with individuals, for the transporting or conveying any kinds of goods, produce, merchandise,
freight, or passengers, and to enforce the fulfilment of such
contracts."
A supplement to that act, approved April 10, 1867, sustains this position, for it enacts "that it shall be unlawful for
the directors, lessees, or agents of said railroad to charge more
than three and a half cents per mile for the carrying of passengers, and six cents per ton per mile for the carrying of freight
or merchandise of any description, unless a single package,
weighing less than one hundred pounds; nor shall more than one

Oct. 1879.]

THOMAS v. RAILROAD CO.

half of the above rate be charged for carrying any fertilizing
materials, either in their own cars or cars of other companies
running over said railroad: Provided, that nothing contained
in this act shall deprive the said railroad company, or its lessees,
of the benefits of the provisions of an act entitled ' An Act relative to freights and fares on railways in the State,' approved
March 4, 1858, and applicable to all other railroads in this
State."
Seeond, The contract in question was impliedly authorized
by the act of incorporation. It was, in fact, a mere appointment of agents or employ~s to run the road, making it for their
advantage to economize and advance the interests of the road
by paying them upon a sliding scale. Although the words
"lease" and "lessees" are employed, its terms show that the
plaintiffs were in no respect lessees in a legal sense. It was
confined to twenty years. The company could put an end
to it and retake possession upon three months' notice. The
contract would terminate by the death of either of the so-called
lessees, or by their omission to make the regular payments.
They were required forthwith to discharge from their employment any person employed by them whom the company,
through its directors, should wish removed. The plaintiffs
were to pay to the company one-half the gross amount received, and to secure their covenant to keep the rolling-stock,
&c., in good repair, by depositing yearly a sum of $10,000 with
a trustee, who acted as agent for the company. This case
essentially differs from those in which it has been held that a
contract whereby a railroad company engages to employ the
corporate funds in a manner not authorized by the charter is
void, and that its execution will, upon the application of a
shareholder, be restrained by a court of chancery, and from
those in which such a contract has by a common-law court
been declared to be impliedly forbidden by the legislature, and
therefore void as against public policy.
This funa was to be appropriated under the directions of
the company for repairing and replacing the track, roadbed, and rolling-stock. Any dispute as to what were current
repairs (to which no portion of this fund was to be applied),
and what were repairs to perpetuate the road and rolling-

THOMEAS

V.

RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

stock, was to be settled by an agent of the company. This
fund was to be applied by the trustee upon the order of,
and only to the purposes designated by, the Millville company.
No definition of a lease can be framed which will comprehend such an agreement. It was, in truth, an appointment of three agents to take charge of a small road a few miles
long.
Third, The objection of ultra vires cannot be maintained in
this case. The funds of the corporation were not engaged outside of the scope of the object of its charter; and although it
devolved some of its administrative duties to others, the supervision of the directors was not withdrawn, and the rights of
the shareholders were carefully secured. Robbins v. Embry,
I Smed. & M. (Miss.) Ch. 268, 269; JLanelly Railway & .Doecl
Co. v. London & Northwestern Bailway Co., Law Rep. 8 Ch.
942.
An instrument providing that a railroad shall be run, not
directly by the corporation, but by agents appointed by it, has
never been declared invalid. Galveston Bailroad v. Cowdrey,
11 Wall. 459. It is not a valid objection that the plaintiffs
should be primarily liable to the public. Langley v. Boston .
Maine Railroad, 10 Gray (Iass.), 103. The corporation
remained bound. It has never attempted to evade the duties
nor escape from the responsibilities imposed by its charter;
and it could not successfully do so. Yorc & Maryland Line
Railroad Co. v. Winans, 7 How. 30; Bissell v. The Michigan .
Northern Indiana Railroad Co., 22 N. Y. 258.
II. The contract was authorized, inasmuch as it was neither
directly nor impliedly forbidden; was germane to the object
for which the company was formed, and would have been
valid at common law, if made by a corporation created by
charter.
A corporate body may (as at common law) do any act which
is not either expressly or impliedly prohibited by its charter;
although where the act is unauthorized a shareholder may
enjoin its execution; and the State 'may, by proper process,
forfeit the charter.
The real position being in such cases, Has the charter pro-

Oct. 1879.]

THobds V. RAILROAD Co.

hibited the contract sought to be enforced; if it has, has the
prohibited portion been completely executed; if it has not,
have the partners, the shareholders in the corporation, ratified
the act which their agents, the directors, were, as against them,
unauthorized to perform ? Taylor v. Chichester & Midhurst
Railway Co., Law Rep. 2 Ex. 356; The Mayor of Norwich v.
NDorfolk Railway Co., 4 El. & BI. 397; -EastAnglian Railways
Co. v. The Eastern Counties Railway Co., 11 C. B. 775; Chambers v. 31fanehester & .lilford Railway Co., 5 B. & S. 588 ; South
Wales Railway Co. v. Redmond, 10 C. B. N. s. 675; Bateman
v. Mayor, &c. of Ashton-under-Lyne, 3 H. & N. 323; Shrewsbury & Birmingham Railway Co. v. The Northwestern Railway
Co., 6 H. of L. 113, 136.
The authorities establish the proposition that a contract
not forbidden may be enforced, where the shareholders'have
assented. In this case there was a prior unanimous assent
and a subsequent unanimous ratification, and the illegal part,
if any, of the contract has been completely executed.
III. The defence of ultra vires is inadmissible to an action
against a corporation upon its contract duly made, where (if
not wholly executed) all the shareholders have acquiesced in
its performance, or where the contract has been wholly performed by the other party without objection on the part of the
corporation, or any of the shareholders. Graham v. Birkenhead Railroad Co., 2 Mac. & G. 146; Phosphate of Lime
Company v. Green, Law Rep. 7 0. P. 43, 62, 63; The Brie
Railway Co. v. The -Delaware,Lackawanna, & Western and The
-Zorris & -Essex Railroad Companies, 21 N. J. Eq. 283, 289;
Riche v. The Ashbury Railway Carriage& Iron Co., Law Rep.
9 Exch. 244.
Where the transaction is complete, and nothing remains to
be done by the party seeking relief, the plea of ultra vires is
not available by the corporation in an action brought against it
for not performing its side of the contract. The Silver Lake
Banc v. North, 4 Johns. (N. Y.) Oh. 370, 373 ; Gold Mining
Company v. N~ational Bank, 96 U. S. 640; National Bank v.
Mlatthews, 98 id. 621 ; Steamboat Company v. fc(Cutcheon &
Collins, 13 Pa. St. 13; Oneida Ban v. Ontario Bank, 21 Y. Y.
490, 495; Bissell v. Michigan Southern & Northern Indiana

THomAs v. RAILROAD Co.

[Sup. t

Railroad Companies, 22 id. 258, 272, 273; Whitney Arms Company v. Barlow, 63 id. 62, 68, 69; Steam Company v. Weed, 17
Barb. (N. Y.) 378; iMoss v. Mining Company, 5 Hill (N. Y.),
137; Grant v. Henry Clay Coal Co., 80 Pa. St. 208, 218; Oil
Creek &- Allegheny River Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania Transportation Co., 83 id. 160 ; HeLCluer v. Manchester & Lawrence
Railroad, 13 Gray (Mass.), 124; Gifford v. New Jersey Railroad Co., 2 Stock. (N. J.) 177; Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey,
11 Wall. 459, 476; Smith v. Sheeley, 12 id. 358, 861; Zelly v.
Tr'ansportationCompany, 3 Oreg. 189; Weber v. Agricultural
Society, 44 Iowa, 239; Showalter v. Pirner,55 Mo. 233; Chambers v. City of St. Louis, 29 id. 543; Land v. Coffman, 50 id.
243; Wade v. Colonization Society, 7 Smed. & M. (Miss.) 663,
697; Robbins v. Embry, supra.
IV. If the contract were originally ultra vires, it was ratified,
and, for the future, authorized by the act of 10th April, 1867.
P. L. of New Jersey of 1867, p. 915; Record, 40.
It is a well-settled principle of law that statutes, by implication, ratify and legalize former unauthorized proceeding of a
corporation, where the unlawful act is mentioned or referred
to in them as a proper one; and if the act be a continuing
one, it is authorized for the future. Vhe Ecclesiastical Commissioners for England v. Northeastern Railway Go., 4 Oh. Div.
845.
rTr.
Samuel -Dickson, contra.
IR. JUSTICE MILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The ground on which the court held the contract to be void
and on which the ruling is supported in argument here, is, that
the contract amounted to a lease, by which the railroad, rollingstock, and franchises of the corporation were transferred to
plaintiffs, and that such a contract was ultra vires of the company.
It- is denied by the plaintiffs that the contract can be fairly
called a lease.
But we know of no element of a lease which is wanting .in
this instrument. "A lease for years is a contract between lessor
and lessee, for possession of lands, &c., on the one side, and

Oct. 1879.]

THOMAS

v. RAILROAD CO.

a recompense by rent or other consideration on the other."
4 Bac. Abr. 632.
"Any thing corporeal or incorporeal lying in livery or in
grant may be the subject-matter of a lease, and, therefore, not
only lands and houses, but commons, ways, fisheries, franchises,
estovers, annuities, rent-charges, and all other incorporeal hereditaments are included in the common-law rule." Bouv. L. D.,
"Lease;" 1 Wash. Real Prop. 810.
The railroad and all its appurtenances and franchises, including the right to do the business of a railroad and collect the
proper tolls, are for a period of twenty years leased by the company to the plaintiffs, from whom in return it receives as rent
one-half of all the gross earnings of the road. The usual provision for a right of re-entry on the failure to perform covenants in addition to the special right to terminate the lease on
notice, and the usual covenant for repairs and proper running
of the road, equivalent to good husbandry on a farm, are inserted
in the instrument.
The provision for the complete possession, control, and use of
the property of the company and its franchises by the lessees is
perfect. Nothing is left in the lessor but the right to receive rent.
No power of control in the management of the road and in the
exercise of the franchises of the company is reserved. A solitary
exception to this statement, of no value in the actual control
of affairs, is found in the sixth clause of the lease, which covenants that the lessees will discharge any one in their service on
the request of the corporation, evidenced by a resolution of the
board of directors.
But while we are satisfied that the contract is both technically and in its essential character a lease, we do not see that
the decision of that point either way affects the question on
which we are to pass. That question is, whether the railroad
company exceeded its powers in making the contract, by whatever name it may be called, so that it is void.
It is, perhaps, as well to consider this question in the order
of its presentation by the learned counsel for plaintiffs, upon
whom the burden of showing the error of the Circuit Court
devolved the duty of proving one of the following propositions -

THOMAS V. RAILROAD 00.

[Sup. Or.

1. The contract was within the powers granted to the railroad company by the act of the New Jersey legislature under
which it was organized.
2. That if this be not established, the lease was afterwards
ratified and approved by another act of that legislature.
8. That if both these propositions are found to be untenable,
the contract became an executed agreement under which the
rights acquired by plaintiffs should be legally respected.
The authority to make this lease is placed by counsel primarily in the following language of the thirteenth section of the
company's charter: " That it shall be lawful for the said company, at any time
during the continuance of its charter, to make contracts and
engagements with any other corporation, or with individuals,
for the transporting or conveying any kinds of goods, produce,
merchandise, freight, or passengers, and to enforce the fulfilment of such contracts."
This is no more than saying, "you may do the business of
carrying goods and passengers, and may. make contracts for
doing that business. Such contracts you may make with any
other corporation or with individuals." No doubt a contract
by which the goods received from railroad or other carrying
companies should be carried over the road of this company, or
by which goods or passengers from this road should be carried
by other railroads, whether connecting immediately with them
or not, are within this power, and are probably the main object
of the clause. But it is impossible, under any sound rule of
construction, to find in the language used a permission to sell,
lease, or transfer to others the entire road and the rights and
franchises of the corporation. To do so is to deprive the company of the power of making those contracts which this clause
confers and of performing the duties which it implies.
In The Ashbury Bailway Carriage & Iron Co. v. Biche, decided in the House of Lords in 1875 (Law Rep. 7 H. L. 653),
the memorandum of association, which, as Lord Cairns said,
stands under the act of 1862 in place of a legislative charter,
thus described the business which the company was authorized
to conduct: "The objects for which this company is established are to make, sell, or lend on hire, railway-carriages and

Oct. 1879.]

TaOMAS V. RAILROAD Co.

engines, and all kinds of railway plant, fittings, machinery,
and rolling-stock; and to carry on the business of mechanical
engineers and general contractors ; to purchase and sell as merchants, timber, coal, metals, or other materials; and to buy and
sell any such materials on commission or as agents." This
company purchased a concession for a railroad in Belgium, and
entered into a contract for its construction, on which it paid
large sums of money. The company was sued afterwards on
its agreement with Riche, the contractor, and the contract was
held valid in the Exchequer Chamber by a majority of the
judges, on the ground that while it was in excess of the power
conferred on the directors by the memorandum, it had been
made valid by ratification of the shareholders, to whom it had
been submitted.
The House of Lords reversed this judgment, holding unanimously that the contract was beyond the powers conferred by
the memorandum above recited, and being beyond the powers
of the association, no vote of the shareholders whatever could
make it valid. The case is otherwise important in its relation
to the one before us, but it is cited here for its parallelism
in the construction of the clause defining the powers of the
company.
If a memorandum which describes the parties as engaging in
furnishing nearly all the materials, machinery, and rolling-stock
which enter into the construction of a railroad and its equipments, and then empowers them to carry on the business of
nec1 anical engineers and general contractors,cannot authorize
a contract to build a railroad, surely the authority to build a
railroad and to contract for carrying passengers and goods over
it and other roads is no authority to lease it and with the lease
to part with all its powers to another company or to individuals. We do not think there is any thing in the language of
the charter which authorized the making of-this agreement.
It is next insisted, in the language of counsel, that though
this may be so, "a corporate body may (as at common law) do
any act which is not either expressly or impliedly prohibited
by its charter; although where the act is unauthorized by the
charter a shareholder may enjoin its execution; and the State
may, by proper process, forfeit the charter."
VOL. xr.

6

THOMAS V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. at.

We do not concur in this proposition. We take the general
doctrine to be in this country, though there may be exceptional
cases and some authorities to the contrary, that the powers of
corporations organized under legislative statutes are such and
such only as those statutes confer. Conceding the rule applicable to all statutes, that what is fairly implied is as much
granted as what is expressed, it remains that the charter of a
corporation is the measure of its powers, and that the enumeration of these powers implies the exclusion of all others.
Thfs class of subjects has received much consideration of late
years in the English courts, and counsel have relied largely on
the decisions of those courts. Among the cases cited by both
sides is The Eiast Anglian Railways Co. v. The .Eastern Counties
Railway Co., 11 0. B. 775.
In that case the Eastern Counties Railway Company had
made a contract in which, among other things, it covenanted
to take a lease of several other railroads whose companies had
introduced into Parliament a bill for consolidation under the
name of East Anglian Railways Company, and to assume the
payment of the parliamentary expenses of this act of consolidation.
This covenant was held void as beyond the power conferred
by the charter. "They cannot," said the court, "engage in
a new trade, because they are incorporated only for the purpose of making and maintaining the Eastern Counties Railway.
What additional power do they acquire from the fact that the
undertaking may in some way benefit their line? Whatever
be their object or prospect of success, they are still but a
corporation for the purpose only of making and maintaining
the Eastern Counties Railway; and if they cannot embark in
new trades because they have only a limited authority, for the
same reason they can do nothing not authorized by their act
and not within' the scope of their authority." This case,
decided in 1851, was afterwards cited with approval by the
Lord Chancellor in 1857 in delivering the opinion of the
House of Lords in Eastern Counties Railway 0o. v. Hawces
(5 H. L. Cas. 331) ; and it is there stated that it was also acted
on and recognized in the Exchequer Chamber in Mc aregor v.
The Deal & Dover Railway Co., 22 Law J. r. s. Q. B. 69;

Oct. 1879.]

THOMAS V. RAILROAD CO.

18 Q. B. 618. Both these cases are cited approvingly in the
opinion of Lord Cairns in the Ashbury Company, on appeal in
the House of Lords.
This latter case, as decided in the Exchequer Chamber (Law
Rep. 9 Exch. 224), is much relied on by counsel for plaintiffs
here as showing that, though the contract may be ultra vires
when made by the directors, it may be enforced if afterwards
ratified by the shareholders or if partly executed.
But in the House of Lords, where the case came on appeal,
this principle was overruled unanimously in opinions delivered
by Lord Chancellor Cairns, Lords Selborn, Chelmsford, Ratherly, and O'Hagan, and the broad doctrine established that a
contract not within the scope of the powers conferred on the
corporation cannot be made valid by~the assent of every one
of the shareholders, nor can it by any partial performance
become the foundation of a right of action.
It would be a waste of time to attempt to examine the American cases on the subject, which are more or less conflicting, but
we think we are warranted in saying that this latest decision
of the House of Lords represents the decided preponderance of
authority, both in this country and in England, and is based
upon sound principle.
There is another principle of equal importance and equally
conclusive against the validity of this contract, which, if not
coming exactly within the doctrine of ultra vires as we have
just discussed it, shows very clearly that the railroad company
was without the power to make such a contract.
That principle is that where a corporation, like a railroad
company, has granted to it by charter a franchise intended in
large measure to be exercised for the public good, the due performance of those functions being the consideration of the
public grant, any contract which disables the corporation from
performing those functions which undertakes, without the
consent of the State, to transfer to others the rights and powers
conferred by the charter, and to relieve the grantees of the
burden which it imposes, is a violation of the contract with
the State, and is void as against public policy. This doctrine
is asserted with remarkable clearness in the opinion of this
court, delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell, in The York &

THOUAS V. RAILROAD 00.

[Sup. Ot.

kT1aryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans, 17 How 80. The
corporation in that case was chartered to build and maintain
a railroad in Pennsylvania by the legislature of that State. The
stock in it was taken by a Maryland corporation, called the
Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company, and the entire
management of the road was committed to the Maryland company, which appointed all the officers and agents upon it, and
furnished the rolling-stock. In reference to this state of things
and its effect upon the liability of the Pennsylvania corporation for infringing a patent of the defendant in error, Winans,
this court said: " This conclusion [argument] implies that the
duties imposed upon the plaintiff by the charter are fulfilled by
the construction of the road, and that by alienating its right
to use, and its powers of control and supervision, it may avoid
further responsibility. But those acts involve an overturn of
the relations which the charter has arranged between the
corporation and the community. Important franchises were
conferred upon the corporation to enable it to provide facilities
for communication and intercourse, required for the public
convenience. Corporate management and control over these
were prescribed, and corporate responsibility for their insufficiency provided as a remuneration to the community for their
grant. The corporation cannot absolve itself from the performance of its obligations without the consent of the legislature. Beman v. Rufford, 1 Sim. N .s. 550; Winch v. B.
1. Railway Co., 13 L. & Eq. 506."
And in the case of Blaec v. Delaware J Raritan Canal Co.,
22 N. J. Eq. 130, Chancellor Zabriskie says: "It may be considered as settled that a corporation cannot lease or alien
any franchise, or any property necessary to perform its obligations and duties to the State, without legislative authority."
p. 399. For this he cites some ten or twelve decided cases in
England and in this country.
This brings us to the proposition that the legislature of New
Jersey has given her consent by an act which amounts to a
ratification of this lease.
That act is entitled "A supplement to the act entitled ' An
Act to incorporate the Millville and Glassboro Railroad Company,"' approved April 10, 1867; and its only purpose was to

Oct. 1879.]

THOMAS V. RAILROAD

CO.

regulate the rates at which freight and passengers should be
carried. It reads as follows: "That it shall be unlawful for the directors, lessees, or agents of
said railroad to charge more than three and a half cents per mile
for the carrying of passengers, and six cents per ton per mile for
the carrying of freight or merchandise of any description, unless
a single package, weighing less than one hundred pounds; nor shall
more than one-half of the above rate be charged for
carring any
fertilizing materials, either in their own cars or cars of other companies running over said railroad: Provided,that nothing contained
in this act shall deprive the said railroad company, or its lessees, of
the benefits of the provisions of-an act entitled 'An Act relative to
freights and fares on railways in the State,' approved March 4,
1858, and applicable to all other railroads in this State."
It may be fairly inferred that the legislature knew at the
time the statute was passed that plaintiffs were running the
road, and claiming to do so as lessees of the corporation. It
was not important for the purpose of the act to decide -whether
this was done under a lawful contract or not. No inquiry was
probably made as to the terms of that lease, as no information
on that subject was needed.
The legislature was determined that whoever did run the
road and exercise the franchises conferred on the company,
and under whatever claim of right this was done, should be
bound by the rates of fare established by the act. Hence, without undertaking to decide in whom was the right to the control
of the road, language was used which included the directors,
lessees, and agents of the railroad.
The mention of the lessees no more implies a ratification of
the contract of lease than the word "directors" would imply a
disapproval of the contract. It is not by such an incidental
use of the word " lessees" in an effort to make sure that all who
collected fares should be bound by the law, that a contract
unauthorized by the charter, and forbidden by public policy,
is to be made valid and ratified by the State.
It remains to consider the suggestion that the contract, having been executed, the doctrine of ultra vires is inapplicable to
the case. There can be no question that, in many instances,

THOMAS V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

where an invalid contract, which the party to it might have
avoided or refused to perform, has been fully performed on
both sides, whereby money has been paid or property changed
hands, the courts have refused to sustain an action for the
recovery of the property or the money so transferred.
In regard to corporations, the rule has been well laid down
by Comstock, C. J., in Parishv. Wheeler (22 N. Y. 494), that
the executed dealings of corporations must be allowed to stand
for and against both parties when the plainest rules of good
faith require it.
But what is sought in the case before us is the enforcement
of the unexecuted part of this agreement. So far as it has
been executed, namely, the four or five years of action under
it, the accounts have been adjusted, and each party has received what he was entitled to by its terms. There remains
unperformed the c6v~nant to arbitrate with regard to the value
;of the contract. It is the damages provided for in that clause
of the contract that are sued. for in this action. Damages for
a material part of the contract never performed; damages for
the value of a contract which was void. It is not a case of a
contract fully executed. The very nature of the suit is to
recover damages for its non-performance. As to this it is not
an executed contract.
Not only so, but it is a contract forbidden by public policy
and beyond the power of the defendants to make. Having
entered into the agreement, it was the duty of the company
to rescind or abandon it at the earliest moment. This duty
was independent of the clause in the contract which gave them
the right to do it. Though they delayed its performance for
several years, it was nevertheless a rightful act when it was
done. Can this performance of a legal duty, a duty both to
stockholders of the company and to the public,, give to plaintiffs a right of action? Can they found such a right on an
agreement void for want of corporate authority and forbidden
by the policy of the law? To hold that they can, is, in our
opinion, to hold that any act performed in executing a void
contract makes all its parts valid, and that the more that is
done under a contract forbidden by law, the stronger is the
claim to its enforcement by the courts.

Oct. 1879.]

EMPIRE v. DARLINGTON.

We cannot see that the present case comes within the principle that requires that contracts which, though invalid for want
of corporate power, have been fully executed shall remain as
the foundation of rights acquired by the transaction.
We have given this case our best consideration on account
of the importance of the principles involved in its decision,
and after a full examination of the authorities we can" see no
error in the action of the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY did not sit in this case.

EMPIRE

v.

DARLINGTON.

1. Pursuant to the provisions of an act of the General Assembly of Illinois,
approved Feb. 28, 1867, and to the result of a popular election duly called,
and held June 3, 1867, a township subscribed $50,000 to the capital stock of
a railroad company, created under the laws of that State, and it issued its
bonds in payment therefor. On Aug. 20, 1869, that company was consolidated with another in Indiana, the new company assuming another name,
and, in harmony with the object of said act, providing for the construction
of a continuous line of road from a point in Indiana to the initial point of
the road in Illinois. An election held in the township, Oct. 12, 1869, for the
purpose of ascertaining the sense of its people upon the proposition to subscribe, upon certain conditions, $25,000, for additional stock in aid of the
construction and completion of the road of the consolidated company, resuited in favor of the subscription, which being made, bonds'to that amount
in the customary form, bearing date March 20, 1870, and signed by the
supervisor and clerk, were issued in the name of the township and delivered
to the company. Each contains a recital that it is issued under and by
virtue of a law of the State of Illinois, approved Feb. 28, 1867, and in accordance with the vote of the electors of said township, at the special election held Oct. 12, 1869, in accordance with said act; and it pledges the
faith of the township for the payment of the said principal sum and interest
as aforesaid. The twelfth section of the act of Feb. 28, 1867, declares that
"to further aid in the construction of said road by said company, any
incorporated town or townships in counties acting under the township organization law, along the route of said road, may subscribe to the capital
stock of said company in any sum, not exceeding 250,000." Held, 1. That
the power of the township to subscribe to the capital stock of the company
was not exhausted by the subscription firstmade after the election held

