CHRISTIAN UNION V. YOUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

The transaction, like all others, was made known to the
trustees individually, and they never objected. This intelligent
acquiescence was a binding ratification. .Kelsey v. National
Bank of Crawford County, 69 Pa. St. 426; Hilliard v. Goold,
34 N. H. 230; Christian U-niversity v. Jordan, 29 Mo. 68;
Sherman v. Fitch, 98 Mass. 59.
The arrangement was first challenged after the company
became bankrupt and went into the hands of the appellants.
The company was concluded, and the appellants can be in
no better position. They, like assignees in bankruptcy, can
have no rights, legal or equitable, but those of the insolvent
party whom they represent. Gibson v. Warden, 14 Wall.
244.
The appellants are not entitled to any relief.
Other legal views which are applicable lead to the same
conclusion, but it is unnecessary to pursue the subject further.
This opinion disposes also of the second case. The two cases
are the same, mutatis mutandis.
-Decrees affirmed.

CHRISTIAN UNION v. YoUNT.
1. While a corporation must dwell in the State which created it, its existence
may be elsewhere acknowledged and recognized. Its residence creates no
insuperable objection to its power of contracting in another State.
2 In harmony with the general law of comity among the States composing the
Union, the presumption is to be indulged that a corporation, if not forbidden
by its charter, may exercise the powers thereby granted within other States,
including the power of acquiring lands, unless prohibited therefrom, either
in their direct enactments or by their public policy, to be deduced from the
general course of legislation or the settled adjudications of their highest
courts.
8. This court cannot presume that it is now, or was in 1870, against the public
policy of Illinois that one of her citizens owning real estate there situate
should convey it to a benevolent or missionary corporation of another State
of the Union, for the purpose of enabling it to carry out the objects of its
creation, since she permitted her own corporations, organized for like purposes, to take such real estate by purchase, gift, devise, or in any other
manner.

Oct. 1879.]

OHRISTIAN

UNION V. YOUNT.

4. Where land in Illinois was conveyed to a New York corporation, the children
and heirs-at-law of the grantor, who file their bill to set aside the conveyance upon the ground that it was against the public policy of Illinois, cannot raise the question that the grantee acquired a larger quantity of lands
than its charter allowed.
5. Carroll v. The City of East St. Louis (67 Ill. 568) and Starkweather v. American Bible Society (72 id. 50) distinguished.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mfr. f. J Henry for the appellant.
Air. E. S. Terry, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by Yount and others against the
American and Foreign Christian Union to set aside a conveyance of certain lots or parcels of land in the State of Illinois,
alleged to be of the value of $10,000, which was executed,
May 19, 1870, by Stephen Griffith, a citizen of that State, to
the Christian Union, a corporation created in the year 1861
under the laws of New York, providing for the incorporation
of benevolent, charitable, scientific, and missionary societies in
the latter State.
A decree was rendered against the corporation, and it appealed here.
The place of business and principal office of the appellant
was and is in the city of New York, but there seems to be no
inhibition, in its charter, upon the exercise of its functions in
other States. The declared object of its incorporation was, "by
missions, colportage, the press, and other appropriate agencies,
to diffuse and promote the principles of religious liberty and a
pure evangelical Christianity, both at home and abroad, wherever a corrupt Christianity exists."
The appellees, who are the children and heirs-at-law of
Griffin, pray for a decree declaring the conveyance to be null
and void, and requiring the appellant to convey to them the
premises in dispute. They broadly claim that by the settled
law of Illinois a foreign corporation cannot take or hold lands
in that State, and that, consequently, no title passed to the
MR. JUSTICE. HARLA.

VOL. X1.

23

354

OHRISTIAN UNTON V. YOUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

appellant from their ancestor. That is the fundamental proposition in the case, and is the only one which counsel for the
appellees, in support of the decree below, has deemed it
necessary to discuss with any fulness.
By the statute of New York under which the appellant was
organized, it was made capable of taking, receiving, purchasing,
and holding real estate for the purposes of its incorporation,
and for no other purpose, to an amount not exceeding the sum
of $50,000 in value, and personal estate for like purposes to an
amount not exceeding $75,000 in value, the clear annual income
of such real and personal estate not, however, to exceed the
sum of $10,000. No question is made here as to its right, consistently with its own charter and the laws of New York, to
acquire, for the purposes of its creation, real estate within,
at least, the quantity designated by its charter.
The appellant, then, having this capacity by its charter,
and not being expressly prohibited from exercising its powers beyond the State which created it, we proceed to inquire
whether it was forbidden by the laws of Illinois in force in
the year 1870 from taking title by conveyance to real property
within the limits of that State, for the objects designated in
its charter. For, besides the admitted incapacity of a corporation of one State to exercise its powers in another State,
except with the assent or permission, expressed or implied, of
the latter, it is a principle " as inviolable as it is fundamental
and conservative, that the right to hold land, and the mode
of acquiring title to land, must depend altogether 'on the local
law of the territorial sovereign." -Runyan v. The Lessee of
Coster, 14 Pet. 122; Lathrop v. Commercial Bank of Scioto,
8 Dana (Ky.), 114.
By a general law of Illinois, enacted in 1859, any three or
more persons of full age, citizens of the United States, a majority of whom were also required to be citizens of that State, could
become a body politic and corporate for benevolent, charitable,
educational, literary, musical, scientific, religious, or missionary
purposes, and in their corporate capacity take, receive, purchase,
and hold real and personal estate, and, for charitable purposes
only, sell and convey the same. Laws of Ill., 159, p. 20;
Gross's Rev. 124.

Oct. 1879.]

CHRISTIAN UNION V. YOUNT.

Corporations formed under that law were made capable of
taking, holding, or receiving any property, real estate or personal, by gift, purchase, devise, or bequest, or in any other
manner. Authority was given to sell real estate purchased
by them for their own use, with any building erected thereon,
and invest the proceeds in the purchase of another lot, or
the erection of another building, or both. As to such as was
devised or given to them for any specified benevolent purpose,
authority was conferred to sell the same and apply the proceeds
in aid of that purpose, such real estate, however, not to be held
more than five years.
This general statute was in force when the conveyance
to the appellant was executed. It thus appears that when its
rights accrued under that conveyance the statutes of Illinois
expressly provided for the incorporation of societies having
objects similar to those of the appellant, and with capacity to
take, receive, and hold real property, by gift, purchase, devise,
bequest, or in any other manner, for the purposes of their
creation. Shortly after the passage of the general law of
1859, to wit, at its session of 1861, the General Assembly
created a large number of religious and charitable corporations,
with like capacity to take, receive, and hold real and personal
property; and in the year 1863 it expressly exempted from
taxation real and personal property which the American Bible
Society, a corporation of New York, then owned or might thereafter acquire in the State of Illinois, not exceeding $50,000 in
value; also all Bibles and Testaments in its depositories, and
any articles of personal property necessary for the prosecution
of its objects. Pri. Laws Ill., 1863, p. 26.
The conclusion is not to be avoided that the State, prior to
1870, authorized, if it did not steadily encourage, the organization of societies for benevolent, charitable, religious, and
missionary objects, and endowed them with capacity to acquire
by purchase, gift, or devise, real estate for the purposes of their
creation. It had not then, nor, so far as we are informed, has
it since, passed any statute expressly forbidding corporations of
other States, having like objects, from taking, receiving, purchasing, or holding real property in that State to the same extent
and for the same purposes as were allowed to its own corpo-

CHRISTIAN

UNION V. YOUNT,

[Sup. Gt.

rations of that class. Nor is our attention called to any statute
in force in 1870, or subsequently, which expressly forbade foreign corporations from exercising, within the State of Illinois,
the functions with which they were endowed by the respective
States creating them, or which made the express permission by
statute of that State a condition precedent to the recognition
within its jurisdiction of the corporations of other States.
Although, as a general proposition, a corporation must dwell in
the State under whose laws it was created, its existence as an
artificial person may be acknowledged and recognized in other
States. "Its residence in one State creates no insuperable objection to its power of contracting in another." Bunyan v. The
Lessee of Coster, 14 Pet. 122. In Cowell v. Springs Comvany
(100 U. S. 55) we said: "If the policy of the State or Territory
does not permit the business of the foreign corporation in its
limits, or allow the. corporation to acquire or hold real property,
it must be expressed in some affirmative way; it cannot be inferred from the fact that its legislature has made no provision
for the formation of similar corporations, or allows corporations
to be formed only by general law. Telegraph companies did
business in several States before their legislatures had created or
authorized the creation of similar corporations; and numerous
corporations existing by special charter in one State are now
engaged, without question, in business in States where the creation of corporations by special enactment is forbidden." In
harmony with the general law of comity obtaining among the
States composing the Union, the presumption should be indulged
that 4 corporation of one State, not forbidden by -the law of its
being, may exercise within any other State the general powers
conferred by its own charter, unless it is prohibited from so
doing, either in the direct enactments of the latter State, or by
its public policy to be deduced from the general course of legislation, or from the settled adjudications of its highest court.
There was here no such direct legislation daring or prior to the
year 1870, nor can the existence of such a public policy be
inferred from the general course of legislation or judicial decisions in Illinois up to and including that year, in relation to
religious, benevolent, charitable, or missionary societies created
in other States.

Oct. 1879.]

CHRISTIAN UNION V. YOUNT.

But it is contended that the precise question now under consideration has been heretofore decided by the Supreme Court
of Illinois adversely to these views in Carroll v. The City of
Last St. Louis (67 Ill. 568) and Starkweather v. American
Bible Society (72 id. 50), and that this court is obliged to follow the construction of the State law and give effect to the
public policy of Illinois, as announced by the highest court of
that State. Our obligation to follow, without question, these
decisions arises, it is claimed, out of the express provisions of
the act of Congress declaring that the laws of the several States,
except when the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United
States otherwise require or provide, are to be regarded as rules
of decision in trials at common law in the courts of the United
States in cases where they apply. This provision was incorporated in the original judiciary act, and has been retained in
the statutes of the United States to the present time. Under
it we have often declared that the construction given to a State
statute by the highest judicial tribunal of such State is to be
accepted in the Federal courts as a part of the statute whenever
they are required to determine questions, or ascertain rights
arising out of or dependent upon such local statute. But how
far the Federal courts, in the ascertainment and enforcement of
property rights, dependent upon the statute law, or the settled
public policy of a State, are bound by the decisions of the State
court, rendered after such rights were acquired or became vested,
is a different question, and one of the gravest importance. The
rule upon this subject has been announced, with some qualifications arising out of the circumstances of the particular cases,
heretofore decided in this 'court. Its extended discussion is
not, however, essential in this case, since the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Illinois, upon which counsel for appellees
rely, do not, in our judgment, necessarily conclude the precise
point here involved.
In Carrollv. The City of East St. Loui8 (supra), the question
before the court was whether the Connecticut Land Company,
a corporation created in another State for the sole purpose of
buying and selling lands, had power to purchase and hold title
to lands in the State of Illinois. The decision was that it could
not, for the reason - and no other is assigned - that the com-

CHRISTIAN UNrON IV.YOUNT.

[Sup. Or.

pany, if permitted to exercise its functions in Illinois to the full
extent authorized by its charter, could acquire lands without
limit as to quantity, and hold them in perpetuity; that such
privileges had never been accorded by Illinois to her own domestic .corporations, and were inconsistent with her settled
public policy against perpetuities, as indicated not by express
enactment, but with absolute certainty, by the general course
of its legislation fr6m the very organization of the State.
Two of the judges dissented from the opinion, so far as it
held invalid a transfer of land by the corporation to a purchaser.
The subsequent case of Starlcweather v. American Bible
Society (supra) involved the title to certain real estate, an un-divided interest in which was devised by one Starkweatber to
the trustees of the American Bible Society, established in 1816,
to have and to hold the same for its use, but not to be entitled
to the same, or its income, until his youngest child became of
age. The claim of the Bible Society was denied, by the court,
upon the following grounds: 1. That by the laws of New York,
as declared by the highest court of that State, it had not the
capacity to take title to real property in New York by devise.
2. That New York had no power to create a body incapable of
taking land in that State by devise, and yet with power to so
take lands in a foreign jurisdiction. 3. And by way of argument, that if New York was to so enact, and other States were
to so consent, thea such bodies might so receive and hold lands;
but, said the court, the former had not so enacted, nor had
Illinois so consented, since, when the will of Starkweather was
probated, Sept. 16, 1867, there was no statute of Illinois
which authorized foreign corporations to hold lands by devise
in that State. 4. The principles announced in Carrollv. Th1e
Cit1 of -East St. Louis were regarded as conclusive against
the claim of the Bible Society, "as," said the court, "all of
the inconv'euiences and injuries are as likely to ensue in this,
and other cases like it, as in that." 5. The devise being illegal and void, the court could not decree a sale of the real
estate devised and direct the payment of the proceeds to the
society.
We are of opinion that the Starkweather case does not deter-

Oct. 1879.]

CHRISTIAN UNION, V. YOUNT.

mine the particular question we have been considering. It does
not decide that the devise to the Bible Society was void solely
because of the absence of some statute expressly and affirmatively authorizing or permitting devises of real estate in Illinois
to corporations of other States. The absence of such a statute
was referred to, as we suppose, for the purpose of showing that
the admitted incapacity of the Bible Society, under the law of
its own creation, to take real estate by devise, and its consequent
inability to acquire in that mode real estate situated elsewhere,
codld not be removed or be met by any thing in the legislation
of Illinois, since no statute in force when the will was probated
conferred upon foreign corporations the right to acquire real
property in that State by devise.
The Starkweather case was held to be concluded by the principles announced in the Carroll case, for the reason, perhaps,
that the property devised could, consistently with the will of
the testator and the charter of the society, have been held for a
period of time beyond that allowed to similar corporations of
Illinois holding lands in that State. Upon no other ground are
we able to understand how the Starkweather case was concluded
by the principles announced in Carroll v. East St. Louis.
Neither decision warrants the conclusion that, at the date of the
deed to appellant, a benevolent, religious, or missionary corporation of another State having authority under its own charter
to take lands, in limited quantities, for the purposes of its
incorporation, was forbidden by the statutes or the public policy
of Illinois, from taking title, for such purposes, to real property
in that State, under a conveyance from one of its citizens, duly
executed and recorded as required by its laws. The conveyance to the appellant can be sustained without in any degree
impairing or doing violence to the fundamental principle enunciated in the Carroll case; viz., that corporations cannot acquire
lands in Illinois in large quantities, to be held, or which may
be held, in perpetuity. It can also be sustained, without violating the main proposition laid down in the Starkweather case;
viz., that a foreign corporation, forbidden by the laws of the
State creating it, to acquire lands there, by devise, could not,
by that mode, take lands in Illinois, in the absence of a statute
of that State assenting thereto. We cannot presume that it is

CHRISTIAN UNION V. YOUNT.

[Sup. O .

now, or was in 1870, against the public policy of Illinois that
one of its citizens should convey real estate there situated to a
benevolent or missionary corporation of another State of the
Union, for the purpose of enabling it to carry out the objects of
its creation, when that State permitted its own corporations,
organized for like purposes, to take real estate within its limits,
by purchase, gift, devise, or in any other manner.
We have considered these questions with reference to the law
of Illinois at the date of Griffith's conveyance. But our conclusions are strengthened by her subsequent legislation. We
refer particularly to the general statute passed in 1872, providing for the organization of corporations for pecuniary profit, or
for any lawful purpose except banking, insurance, real-estate
brokerage, the operation of railroads (other than horse and
dummy railroads), and the business of loaning money, with
authority to own, possess, and enjoy so much real and personal
estate as shall be necessary for the transaction of their business,
and to sell and dispose of the same when not required for the
uses of the corporation. All real estate acquired in satisfaction
of any liability or indebtedness, and not necessary and suitable
for the business of the corporation, was required to be annually
offered at public auction, and if not sold within five years, its
sale could be enforced by information in the name of the State
against the corporation. Sect. 26 of that general statute expressly recognizes the right of foreign corporations to acquire
real estate in Illinois. Its language is: "Foreign corporations,
and the officers and agents thereof, doing business in this State,
shall be subjected to all the liabilities, restrictions, and duties
that are or may be imposed upon corporations of like character
organized under the general laws of this State, and shall have
no other or greater powers. And no foreign or doniestic corporation established or maintained in any way for the pecuniary
profit of its stockholders or members, shall purchase or hold
real estate in this State, except as provided for in this act."
Hurd's Ill. Rev. 1879, p. 290.
Distinct provision was made in the same statute for the
organization of societies, corporations, and associations, not for
pecuniary profit, with capacity to take, purchase, hold, and dispose of real and personal estate for purposes of their organiza-

OCA. 18T9.]

CHRISTIAN UNION V. YOUNT.

tion. The statute imposes on the corporations last described no
restrictions as to the quantity of estate they may take and hold,
except that it must be for the purposes of their organization.
Churches, congregations, or societies formed for religious worship, when incorporated under that statute, in addition to
grounds for burying and camp-meeting purposes, were limited
to ten acres of ground for houses, buildings, or other improvements for the convenience and comfort of such congregations,
church, or society.
If the settled public policy of Illinois in 1870 forbade a benevolent missionary corporation of another State from taking
title to real estate in Illinois for purposes of its organization, a
general statute would hardly have been passed in 1872 recognizing the right of foreign corporations organized for pecuniary
profit to hold real estate in Illinois, to the same extent and
under like powers with domestic corporations of the same
class.
Appellees, in their pleadings, allege that the lots conveyed by
their ancestor to the American and Foreign Christian Union
were not required or necessary for the convenience or transac- tion. of its business. These allegations are both insufficient and
immaterial: insufficient, because they may be true, and -ret the
appellant, with the lots in dispute added to its property, may
not have had more real estate than its charter permitted; immaterial, because if, as we hold, the appellant could consistently
with its own charter and the law of Illinois take title to real
property in that State for the purposes of its creation, its
acquisition of a larger quantity of real estate than its charter
allowed, or its business required, or was consistent with the law
of Illinois, was not a question which the appellees have any
right to raise. If the title passed by valid conveyance from
their ancestor, it is of no concern to them that the appellant
has acquired or is holding more real estate than its charter
authorizes.
We forbear the discussion of any other question arising upon
the assignments of error. It is apparent from the record and
the argument of counsel that the decree of the court below
was based upon the conclusion that the appellant, being a
foreign corporation, was forbidden by the law of Illinois from

862

KAIN v. GIBBONEY.

[Sup.Ct.

taking title to the property in controversy. No proof was taken,
nor was the case heard upon the issue as to the mental capacity
of Griffith to execute the conveyance of 1870, or as to its baving been obtained by fraudulent solicitations and representations upon the part of the agents of the appellant. The parties
should have an opportunity to prepare the cause, and have it
heard upon those issues.
The decree will be reversed, with directions to overrule the
demurrer to the cross-bill and the exceptions to the answer, and
for such further proceedings as may be consistent with this
opinion.
So ordered.

KAn

v. GIBBONEY.

1. In Virginia, since her repeal of the statute of 43d Elizabeth, c. 4, charitable
bequests stand upon the same footing as other bequests, and her courts of
chancery have no jurisdiction to uphold a charity where the objects are
indefinite and uncertain. Such being the settled doctrine of her court of
last resort this court accepts and enforces it in passing upon an attempted
testamentary disposition of property which is claimed under the law of the
State to be a valid gift for charitable uses.
2. A., who resided and died in Virginia, by her last will and testament, bearing
date Dec. 9, 1854, and admitted to probate in 1861, bequeathed her property
and money to B., "Roman Catholic bishop of Wheeling, Virginia, or his
successor in said dignity, who is hereby constituted a trustee for the benefit
of the community" (an unincorporated association previously described as
a religious community attached to the Roman Catholic Church), the same
"to be expended by the said trustee for the use and benefit of said community." Held, 1. That the bequest, conceding it to be for charitable uses,
is invalid. 2. That the legislation of Virginia touching devises or bequest§
for the establishment or endowment of unincorporated schools or validating
conveyances for the use and benefit of any religious society does not apply
to this bequest.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Virginia.
On Aug. 7, 1853, Malvina Matthews, of Wythe County,
Virginia, made her last will and testament, which was duly admitted to probate, devising a tract of land on which she then
lived, to Granville H. Matthews in trust for her two daughters,
Malvina and Eliza, and authorizing him to sell it and invest

