GATES V. GOODLOE.

[Sup. Ct.

this cause still depend on that section, which is a reproduction
of the act of 1867. 14 id. 558. As the plaintiffs are not shown
to have been citizens of Missouri, it is clear that the defendants
were not entitled to take the case to the courts of the United
States on this ground.
To effect a removal under the act of March 3, 1875, the petition must be filed in the State court " before or at the
term at which said cause could be first tried and before the
trial thereof." Sect. 3. This has been held to mean, in respect to suits pending when the act was passed, that the petition must be filed at the first term of the court thereafter at
which the cause could be tried. .Removal Cases, 100 U. S.457.
The act took effect from the time of its approval, March 3.
The case was actually tried once in the State court, on the
14th of April following. The jury disagreeing, it was continued
at that term and also at the May term. The petition for removal was not filed until September afterwards. Clearly this
was too late.
It is unnecessary to consider any of the other objections to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court which have been raised.
Judgment affirmed.

GATES v. GOODLOE.
1. Where the defendant in error moved to dismiss a writ sued out by three
partners, two of whom had previously received their discharges in bankruptcy, on the ground that the assignee alone could prosecute it, the court
grants the application of the latter to be substituted as a plaintiff in
error.
2. Semble, that the partner against whom no bankruptcy proceedings were instituted might have sued out the writ, using, if necessary, the names of all
the parties against whom the judgment had been rendered.
3. The court reaffirms the ruling in The William Bagaley (5 Wall. 377), that a
resident of a section in rebellion should leave it as soon as practicable, and
adhere to the regular established government; and furthermore holds that
one who, abandoning his home, enters the military lines of the enemy, and
is in sympathy and co-operation with those who strive by armed force to
overthrow the Union, is, during his stay there, an enemy of the government,
and liable to be treated as such, both as to his person and property.
4. When in 1862, at a time when there was no such substantial, complete, and
permanent military occupation and control of Memphis as has been held

Oct. 1879.]

GATES V. GOODLOE.

sometimes to draw after it a full measure of protection to persons and
property, and when no pledge had been given which would prevent the
general commanding the forces of the United States from doing what the
laws of war authorized, and his personal judgment sanctioned, as necessary
for and conducive to the successful prosecution of the war, -Held, that he
had the right to collect rents belonging to a citizen who had gone and remained within the lines of the enemy, and hold them subject to such disposition as might thereafter be made of them by the decisions of the proper
tribunals.
5. A lessee who was dispossessed by the military authorities under such circumstances and deprived of the use and control of the demised premises, is
discharged from liability to his lessor for rent accruing during the period of
such dispossession.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
_lr. Luke If. Finlay for the plaintiffs in error.
141r. Joseph B. Heiskell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The original decree in the second Chancery Court of Shelby
County, Tennessee, for $8,821.49, was rendered against S. Ml.
Gates, A. M. Wood, and Milton McKnight, partners under the
name of Gates, Wood, & McKnight, and on appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, it was, to the extent of $7,840.25,
affirmed Oct. 13, 1875. On the 1st of August, 1876, Gates and
Wood received discharges in bankruptcy, releasing them individually from all provable debts and claims existing against
them on the 22d of April, 1876, other than those which, by law,
were excepted from the operation of such a discharge. The
present writ of error was sued out Oct. 30, 1876, by all the
partners. The defendant in error now moves to dismiss it, upon
the assumption that the assignee in bankruptcy could alone
prosecute it. Undoubtedly, the assignee had the right to prosecute that writ, so far, at least, as it concerned those whom he
represented. If the bankrupts could not themselves, under any
circumstances, properly sue it out after their discharge (and
upon that question we express no opinion), all difficulty, in that
respect, has been removed by the application of the assignee for
an order here substituting him as a plaintiff in error. His application is now granted, and he is allowed to prosecute the writ
in behalf of the bankrupts. Independently, however, of that

GATES V. GOODLOE.

[Sup. Ct.

application, we are not prepared to say that McKnight, the
partner against whom no bankruptcy proceedings were instituted, might not have sued out the writ, using for that purpose,
if necessary, the names of all the parties against whom the
original decree was rendered. With both the assignee in bankruptcy and McKnight before the court, there is no sound reason
why the cause should not proceed to a final determination upon
the errors assigned.
Coming, then, to the merits of the case, we find that the original plaintiffs in error specially claimed a right or immunity in
virtue of an authority exercised under the United States. The
right or immunity, so claimed, was denied, first in the court in
which the suit originated, and subsequently in the Supreme
Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts upon which that claim rests, or out of which it
arises, are, briefly, these: On the 6th of June, 1862, military possession was taken of the
city of Memphis by the Union forces then engaged in suppressing armed insurrection against the national authority. During
the succeeding month General Sherman, having been previously
assigned by competent military authority to the command of
the district of West Tennessee, reached that city with reinforcements, and assumed control of the forces in that locality.
Shortly thereafter he published orders, reopening trade and
communication with the surrounding country, and prescribing
rules in conformity with which travel in and out of the city
should be conducted. On the 7th of August, 1862, pursuant to
orders from General Grant, his superior officer, specific instructions were issued by him to the quartermaster in charge at
Memphis, concerning vacant stores and houses in that city, and
also as to buildings which were occupied, but the owners of
which had "gone South," leaving agents to collect rent for
their benefit. With reference to the latter class of buildings
his instructions, or rather orders, were: " Rent must be paid
to the quartermaster. No agent can collect and remit money
South without subjecting himself to arrest and trial for aiding
and abetting the public enemy."
The object of these regulations was thus distinctly set forth
by General Sherman in his letter of instructions: "I under-

Oct. 1879.]

GATES V. GOODLOE.

stand that General Grant takes the rents and profits of this
class of real property, under the rules and laws of war, and not
under the Confiscation Act of Congress; therefore the question
of title is not involved, - simply the possession, and the rents
and profits of houses belonging to our enemies, which are not
vacant, we hold in trust for them, or the government, according
to the future decision of the proper tribunals." He concluded
his letter in these words: "We have nothing to do with confiscation. We only deal with possession, and, therefore, the
necessity of a strict accountability, because the United States
assumes the place of trustee, and must account to the rightful
owner for his property, rents, and profits. In due season courts
will be established to execute the laws, the Confiscation Act
included, when we will be relieved of this duty and trust. Until
that time every opportunity should be given to the wavering
and disloyal to return to their allegiance to the Constitution of
their birth or adoption."
These instructions do not appear in the present transcript,
although they constitute a part of the archives of the War Department, and belong to the public history of the late civil war.
Some question may be made as to our right to take judicial
notice of them in the determination of this case. But, apart
from them, the record sufficiently establishes the fact that the
military authorities adopted the general policy indicated by
General Sherman's letter of instructions, and a rental agent,
designated by those authorities, was charged with the duty,
among others, of collecting rents of houses which, although
occupied, belonged to persons who had "gone South." To
that class of property belonged a storehouse, occupied by Gates,
Wood, & McKnight, under a lease executed at Memphis, in
1859, by R. C. Brinkley, the testator of defendant in error, for
a term of five years, and for the stipulated rent of which the
lessees had executed their several promissory notes, payable
quarterly during the whole period of the lease. Brinkley, upon
the approach of the Union forces, left his home in Memphis,
and went within the lines of the Confederate forces, where he
remained until 1864.
Gates, Wood, & McKnight were notified by the military
rental agent, in the summer of 1862, to pay him the rents going

GATES V. GOODLOE.

[Sup. Ot.

to Brinkley. They refused to recognize that order, or to so
pay the rents, and, by reason of such refusal, were dispossessed
by the military authorities. Those of their sub-tenants who
expressed a willingness to comply with the order were permitted to remain in the occupancy of the premises, paying rent,
however, directly to the rental agent of the United States.
From the time the lessees were thus dispossessed, until July
11, 1863, the property remained under Federal military control,
and all rents arising therefrom were collected by the rental
agent, who, in the exercise of his functions, was recognized and
sustained by the general commanding the Union forces in that
district. During that intermediate period the lessees were
neither in possession of the premises, nor permitted by the military authorities to receive any rents accruing therefrom.
Their rent notes, covering the period during which they were
thus kept out of possession, remained, however, outstanding, in
the hands of the lessor or his agent. They constitute the foundation of the judgment or decree in this suit.
Are the lessees liable to the estate of Brinkley for rent, as
stipulated in the lease of 1859, for the period when the storehouse was under control of the Federal military? There is no
claim here for rents subsequent to July 11, 1863, since, on that
day, possession was delivered or control surrendered to the
lessor's son, under an arrangement made by him with the military authorities. After the return of the lessor to Memphis,
in 1864, the latter took control of the property, and enjoyed
the rents. Upon the solution of the foregoing question this
case depends.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee was of opinion that the
lessees were not discharged from liability upon their contract
with Brinkley, by reason of the action taken by the military
authorities touching the rents accruing from the property in
question. That court recognized the hardship of the case upon
the lessees, but consistently with its views of the law the relief
asked for could not be given.
We are unable to give our assent to the conclusion reached
by that learned court. It is inconsistent with our decision in
Harrisonv. Myers (92 U. S. 111), where we held that the lessee
was discharged from liability to the lessor for rent of certain

Oct. 1879.]

GATES v. GOODLOE.

property in New Orleans during the period when the rents and
profits arising therefrom were required by the Federal military
authorities, occupying and controlling that city in the year
1862, to be paid directly to them. There is some difference in
the facts of the two cases, but in their essential features they
are alike. That case, it may be here observed, was determined
in this court after the rendition of the present dedree by the
Supreme Court of Tennessee.
Brinkley, in his answer, claims to have gone within the
insurrectionary lines as a private citizen and upon private
business. He testified that he " never had the honor to go or
act in any other capacity, then, before, or since." It was, however, shown that in 1861 he became a member of a military
board organized in hostility to the United States. It does not
appear when his connection with that body terminated, or when
the board itself ceased operations. But it does appear from his
own admissions that he had, prior to the occupation of Memphis
by the Union forces, contributed money towards the equipment
of military companies organized in that State with the avowed
purpose of resisting the authority of the national government.
When he abandoned his home, and entered the military lines
of the enemy, he was, beyond question, in full sympathy and
active co-operation with those who sought, by armed force, to
overthrow the Union. Neither in his answer nor in his deposition does he intimate that he had any sympathy with the
United States in its efforts to suppress insurrection. ie was,
therefore, in the very fullest legal sense, an enemy of the
government during his stay within the military lines of the
rebellion, liable to be treated as such both as to his person
and property. His remaining there was in plain violation of
law and in disregard of duty. In M]le William Bagaley (5 Wall.
877), we said that "it was the duty of a citizen when war
breaks out, if it be a foreign war and he is abroad, to return
without delay; and if it be a civil war, and he is a resident in
the rebellious section, he should leave it as soon as practicable,
and adhere to the regular established government."
The general commanding the Union forces at Memphis was
charged with the duty of suppressing rebellion by all the means
which the usages of modern warfare permitted. To that end

GATES v. GOODLOE.

[Sup. Ot.

he represented for the time, and in that locality, the military
power of the nation. He did not assume authority to confiscate
Brinkley's rents, nor did he seize them as booty of war; but, by
his subordinates, collected and held them subject to such disposition as might be thereafter made of them by the decisions
of the proper tribunals. They were seized, flagrante bello, in
that portion of the territory of the United States the inhabitants
whereof had been declared to be in insurrection. There was
no such "substantial, complete, and permanent military occupation and control" as has been sometimes held to draw after
it a full measure of protection to persons and property at the
place of military operations. 16 Wall. 495. No pledge had
then been given by the constituted authorities of the government which prevented the commander of the Union forces from
doing all that the laws of war authorized, and that, in his judgment, under the circumstances attending his situation, was
necessary or conducive to the successful prosecution of the war.
He was not bound to risk the possibility of Brinkley's rents
being transmitted to him beyond the Union lines. To have
permitted the latter to enjoy the benefit of them in any form
during his voluntary absence within the military lines of the
insurlection might have encouraged him to remain under the
protection of the enemy, adding by his presence and means to
the enemy's ability to continue the struggle against the government. If, therefore, in the judgment of the commanding
general, the security of his own army, or the diminution of the
enemy's resources, required that he should prevent those within
the Confederate military lines from receiving or using in any
way, while there, rents accruing from real estate within the
Federal lines, it would be difficult to show that the mode
adopted by him to effect that result was not a proper military
precaution, entirely consistent with the established rules of
war, and having direct connection with the great end sought to
be accomplished by the war; to wit, the destruction of armed
rebellion, and the complete restoration of the national authority
over the insurrectionary district.
The action of the military authorities in seizing the rents
arising from the property which Brinkley had leased to Gates,
Wood & McKnight not being, then, in violation of law, -that

Oct. 1879.]

GATES V. GooDLoE.

which was done being regarded as having been done by the
authority of the United States in lawful defence of the national
existence against armed insurrection, - it results, necessarily,
as we think, that the lessees, when dispossessed by military
authority and deprived of all future use and control of the
leased property, were discharged from liability to the lessors
for rent accruing during, at least, the period of such dispossession. They were not discharged from liability for rent which
had previously accrued. But since the consideration for their
promise to pay rent, from time to time, was the possession and
use of the leased property during the term and upon the conditions specified in the lease, and since such enjoyment and use
were materially interrupted and prevented by the interference
of the law, or of lawful public authority, to which both parties
were amenable, the lessees, it seems to the court, ought to be
protected against liability for the rent stipulated in the contract
of 1859, for the period they were thus kept out of possession
and enjoyment of the property. The events and contingencies
causing that result were not such as the parties anticipated,
nor such as we can suppose were in contemplation when the
contract was made. Otherwise they would, it must be assumed,
have been provided for in the contract.
The conclusion thus reached is abundantly sustained by
authority. Indeed, many of the authorities would justify us
in holding the action of the military authorities to have worked
the dissolution of the entire contract of lease from the moment
the lessees were dispossessed.
In Melville v. De Wof (4 El. & B1. 844), the plaintiff sued
for wages agreed to be paid to him as a mariner and carpenter
on board of a foreign ship going to the Pacific Ocean. In the
course of the voyage complaint was made to a British consul,
at a foreign port, of an offence alleged to have been committed
by the master of the ship. The consul, in pursuance of a British
statute, and having power and jurisdiction so to do, caused the
master to be conveyed to England, under restraint, to be there
proceeded against in respect of the offence charged; and the
consul, having power and jurisdiction so to do, caused the plaintiff to leave the ship, and proceed to England as a witness.
The latter did not return to the ship, or render any further

GATES V. GOODLOE.

[Sup. Ct.

services thereon for the defendant. The question in the case
was as to the liability of the defendant for wages according to
the articles signed, for the period subsequent to the departure
of the plaintiff for England under the direction or order of the
consul. The Court of Queen's Bench, speaking by Lord
Campbell, C. J., said: "The money paid into court covered
the plaintiff's demand for wages during the whole time that he
had served on board the ship; and we think that, upon the
facts proved, the ship-owners were not liable to pay him wages
for a longer period. By authority of the British legislature
he was then separated from the ship at a foreign port and sent
to England, without any reasonable possibility of his ever
being able to rejoin the ship during the voyage in which he
was engaged. No blame is to be imputed to him, and there has
been no forfeiture of wages; but he cannot be considered as
having earned the wages in dispute. After he was sent home
from Montevideo to England, he neither served under the articles
actually or constructively; and as from that time the relation
of employer and employed could not be renewed within the
scope of the original hiring, we think that the contract must
then. be considered as dissolved by the supreme authority of
the State, which is binding on both parties." Again: "Then,
an act being done by public authority, which rendered any
further performance of the contract impossible, we think that
the contract was dissolved."
.Exposito v. Bowden (7 id. 768) has some bearing upon the
question. Bowden, a British subject, contracted to make a
voyage to Odessa, a Russian port, and bring from there goods
belonging to the other contracting party. Before the voyage
was completed, war between England and Russia intervened.
Bowden thereupon declined to execute the contract, and was
sued for damages for failing to do so. The Court of Queen's
Bench said: "As to the mode of operation of war upon contracts of affreightment made before, but which remain unexecuted at the time it is declared, and of which it makes the
further execution unlawful and impossible, the authorities
establish that the effect is to dissolve the contract, and to so
absolve both parties from further performance of it."
The same doctrine was announced in Barker v. Hodgson

Oct. 1879.]

GATES V. GOODLOE.

(3 Moo. & S. 267), where Lord Ellenborough said: "If, indeed,
the performance of this covenant has been rendered unlawful
by the government of this country, the contract would have been
dissolved on both sides, and this defendant, inasmuch as he has
thus been compelled to abandon his contract, would have been
excused for the non-performance of it, and not liable in
damages."
In his treatise on the law relative to merchant ships and
shipping (11th ed., by Shee, 453), Lord Tenterden says: "If
an agreement be made to do an act lawful at the time of such
agreement, but afterwards, and before the performance of the
act, the performance be rendered unlawful by the government
of the country, the agreement is absolutely dissolved."
To the same effect speak Chancellor Kent (3 Kent, 248)
and Mr. Chitty. Chit. Contr. (11th Am. ed.) 1077. The lastnamed author says: "So the non-performance of a contract will
be excused where such non-performance is occasioned by an
act done by public authority."
Further citation of authorities would seem to be unnecessary.
The reasons assigned in the adjudged cases, and by elementary
writers, in support of the principles announced in the foregoing
authorities, apply to this case, and should control its determination. The lessees having been permanently deprived, by competent public authority, of the possession of the leased property,
the use of which was the sole consideration for the notes sued
on, they were discharged from liability upon the notes, which
represented the rents accruing during the period of military
occupancy and control.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee will be
reversed, with directions to enter, or to cause to be entered in
the proper court, a decree of perpetual injunction in accordance
with the principles of this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

