Oct. 1879.]

8.HALL
V. RUSSELL.

of the defendant, George P. Humphrey, the sum of $25, and
that Humphrey thereupon convey to Baker the premises described in the bill, and that the deed contain a covenant against
the grantor's own acts and against the demands of all other
persons claiming under him; and it is
So ordered.

HALL V. RUSSELL.
1. The act of Congress approved Sept. 27, 1850 (9 Stat. 496), commonly known
as the Donation Act, granted to each person having the requisite qualifications the right to settle upon and cultivate a tract of public land in Oregon
not in any case exceeding in extent one section, or six hundred and forty
acres, in order that he might, upon complying with all the prescribed conditions and making proof thereof, be entitled to a patent for such tract.
2. The title to the soil does not vest in the settler before the conditions have
been fully performed. Qucre, Does it pass from the United States until
the requisite final proof of their performance be made ?
3. A., an unmarried man, settled, in 1852, upon a half-section of public land in
Oregon, and, after residing thereon less than a year, died. Held, that he
had no devisable interest in the land.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Oregon.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. William W. Chapman and Mr. Timothy D. Lincoln for
the appellants.
Mr. George ff. Williams, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the heirs of the devisee of
James L. Loring, deceased, and the administrator of Loring
with the will annexed, to obtain the legal title to a tract of
three hundred and three acres of land near Portland, Oregon,
which, as the complainants claim, the defendants hold in trust
for them. The facts material to the view we take of the case
are as follows: In the month of April, 1852, Loring, a single man, settled

504

HALL V.RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

on the land in dispute with a view to becoming its owner under
the operation of the Oregon Donation Act. 9 Stat. 496. He
had all the qualifications necessary to enable him to take and
hold under the act, but died after a residence on the land of
less than a year, leaving a will, executed in Ohio in 1849,
whereby he devised all his estate remaining after the payment
of some small legacies, to Samuel Parker Hall, then of Cincinnati, Ohio, but now deceased.
On the death of Loring, Joshua Delay claimed the land as a
settler in behalf of himself and his wife, Sarah Delay, and after
a contest with the representatives of Loring before the officers
of the Land Department, the heirs of the Delays succeeded in
obtaining a patent. Much litigation ensued between them and
the heirs of Loring about the title, but, finally, all the estate of
both these parties was transferred to the present defendants, in
whom it is now vested, but with full knowledge, before the
transfer, of the claim of the complainants. The theory of the
present suit is that Loring, by his settlement, acquired an estate
in the lands which passed by his will, and that the heirs of the
Delays took title under the patent issued to them in trust for
the devisee of Loring as the real owner of the property. The
court below dismissed the bill for the reason, among others,
that Loring had no devisable estate in the lands when he died,
and, consequently, his devisee took nothing by the will.
The case, therefore, in this aspect, presents the question
directly whether the heirs of a settler under the Oregon Donation
Act, who died before the expiration of the four years' residence
and cultivation required, took by descent from the settler, or as
donees of the United States. If by descent, it is conceded the
settler had a devisable estate. If as donees, he had not.
The sections of the act material to the determination of this
question are the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and twelfth.
The fourth is as follows:"SECT. 4. That there shall be, and hereby is, granted to every
white settler or occupant of the public lands, American half-breed
Indians included, above the age of eighteen years, being a citizen of
the United States, or having made a declaration according to law,
of his intention to become a citizen, or who shall make such declaration on or before the first day of December, eighteen hundred and

Oct. 1879.]

HALL V. RUSSELL.

fifty-one, now residing in said Territory, or who shall become a resident thereof on or before the first day of December, 1850, and who
shall have resided upon and cultivated the same for four consecutive
years, and shall otherwise conform to the provisions of this act, the
quantity of one-half section, or three hundred and twenty acres of
land, if a single man, and if a married man, or if he shall become
married within one year fi-om the first day of December, 1850, the
quantity of one section, or six hundred and forty acres, one-half to
himself and the other half to his wife, to be held by her in her own
right; and the surveyor-general shall designate the part inuring to
the husband and that to the wife, and enter the same on the records
of his office; and in all cases where such married persons have complied with the provisions of this act, so as to entitle them to the
grant as above provided, whether under the late provisional government of Oregon, or since, and either shall have died before patent
issues, the sui'ivor and children, or heirs of the deceased, shall be
entitled to the share or interest of the deceased in equal proportions,
except where the deceased shall otherwise dispose of it by testament
duly and properly executed according to the laws of Oregon. Provided, that no alien shall be entitled to a patent to land, granted
by this act, until he shall produce, to the-surveyor-general of Oregon,
record evidence that his naturalization as a citizen of the United
States has been completed; but if any alien, having made his declaration of an intention to become a citizen of the United States,
after the passage of this act, shall die before his naturalization shall
be completed, the possessory right acquired by him under the provisions of this act, shall descend to his heirs-at-law, or pass to his
devisees, to whom, as the case may be, the patent shall issue. Provided further, that in all cases provided for in this section, the
donation shall embrace the land actually occupied and cultivated
by the settler thereon. Providedfurther, that all future contracts
by any person or persons entitled to the benefit of this act, for the
sale of the land to which he or they may be entitled under this act,
before he or they had received a patent therefor, shall be void.
Providedfurther, however, that this section shall not be so construed as to allow those claiming rights under the treaty with Great
Britain, relative to the Oregon Territory, to claim both under this
grant and the treaty, but merely to secure them the election, and
confine them to a single grant of land."
The fifth provides "that to all white male citizens of the
United States . . . emigrating to and settling in said Territory

HALL V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

between the first day of December, 1850, and the first day of
December, 1853, . . . who shall . . . comply with the foregoing section, and the provisions of this law, there shall be and
hereby is granted the quantity of one quarter-section . . . if
a single man; or if married . . . the quantity of one halfsection . . ."

Sect. 6 provides that within three months after the survey
has been made, or after the commencement of the settlement,
each settler shall notify the surveyor-general of the precise
tract claimed by him, and that the surveyor-general shall enter
a description of such claims in a book to be kept by him for
that purpose.
Sect. 7 provides that, within twelve months after the survey
or settlement, each person claiming a donation right shall prove
to the surveyor-general that the settlement and cultivation
have been commenced, specifying the time of the commencement; and that he shall, after the expiration of four years
from the date of his settlement, prove in like manner the fact
of continued residence and cultivation required by the fourth
section; and upon such proof being made, the surveyor-general,
or other officer appointed by law for that purpose, shall issue
certificates under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, setting forth the facts in the case, and specifying the land to
which the parties are entitled. And the said surveyor-general
shall return the proof so taken to the office of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, and if the said commissioner
shall find no valid objections thereto, patents shall issue for the
land according to the certificates aforesaid, upon the surrender
thereof."
" SIEcT. 8. That upon the death of any settler before the expiration of the four years continued possession required by this act, all
the rights of the deceased, under this act, shall descend to the heirsat-law of such settler, including the widow, where one is left, in
equal parts, and proof of compliance with the conditions of this act
up to the time of the death of such settler, shall be sufficient to
entitle them to the patent."
Sect. 12 provides that all persons claiming by virtue of settlement and cultivation commenced subsequently to Dec. 1,

Out. 1879.]

O .ALLv. RUSSELL.

1850, shall make affidavit that the land is for their own use
and cultivation.
The rights of Loring and those who claim under him all
depend on sect. 4. Whatever he took was by virtue of the
grant there made. If that section gave him no devisable estate
before the completion of the required four years' residence and
cultivation, he had none. The other sections may be resorted
to if necessary to get at the meaning of this, but this alone,
when its meaning is ascertained, fixes the limit of the donation
made to him.
The anomalous condition of affairs in Oregon Territory when
this act was passed has been heretofore brought to our attention. Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402; Lamb v. Davenport,18 id.
307; Stark v. Starr, 94 U. S. 477; Barney v. Dolph, 97 id. 652.
For many years the inhabitants had been without any government except that which they had themselves organized for
their own protection. The ownership of the soil on which
they lived was in dispute between the United States and Great
Britain. Under the operation of treaty stipulations for a joint
occupation of the Territory, extensive settlements had grown
up, and the people in governing themselves had adopted land
laws which made occupancy the basis of ownership as between
settlers. While waiting for the contesting sovereign claimants
to determine which of the two should be the acknowledged
owner of the soil, they contented themselves with regulating
their rights of occupancy as between each other, trusting to the
bounty of the government under whose sole dominion they
should ultimately fall, for a grant of title to the land itself.
The first of these acts was passed in 1844. Laws of Oregon,
1843 to 1849, 77. Under this only free males, over the age of
eighteen, who would be entitled to vote if of lawful age, and
widows, were entitled to hold a "claim," save that a married
man under eighteen was not debarred. A claim was also confined to six hundred and forty acres or less. Permanent improvements and continuous occupation and cultivation were essential
to the preservation of the rights conferred. Following this was
the "Land Law," contained in the organic law of the provisional government which went into operation in 1846. Ter.
Stat. Oregon (1851), 32, art. 3. This law relaxed somewhat

508

HALL

v.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

the stringency of the former act as to actual occupation, and
extended the privilege of establishing claims to all residents of
the Territory. By the act of Congress creating a territorial
government for Oregon, approved Aug. 14, 1848 (9 Stat. 823),
all laws theretofore passed in the Territory making grants of
land, or otherwise affecting or incumbering the title to lands,
were declared void, but all other laws in force under the
authority of the provisional government were continued in
operation so far as they were not incompatible with the constitution or the principles and provisions of that act. All laws
passed by the legislative assembly of the Territory were to be
submitted to Congress, and if disapproved were to be null and
-void. Sect. 6.
Doubts having arisen whether, after the establishment of the
territorial government, the land law of the provisional government was in force, an act of the territorial legislature was
passed Sept. 12, 1849, expressly declaring it to be so, and some
additional provisions were made consistent with the title of the
new act, which was "An Act to prevent injuries to the possession of settlers on public lands." Ter. Laws (1851), 246.
By sect. 5 of this act it was provided that "land claims shall
descend to, and be inherited by the heirs-at-law of the claimant,
in the same manner as is provided by law for the descent of
real estate." On Sept. 26, 1849, "An act respecting wills"
was passed by the territorial legislature. Ter. Stat. (1851),
274. By this act every person of twenty-one years of age and
upwards, of sound mind, might, by "last will, devise all his
estate, real, personal, and mixed, and all interests therein, saving
to the widow her dower." Before the passage of the act of
September 12, if a person died in the lawful possession of a
land claim, it formed part of his personal estate, and was to be
disposed of by his executors or administrators for the benefit
of his legal heirs. Laws of Oregon, 1843 to 1849, 61.
It was in the midst of this condition of affairs that the
Donation Act was passed. Congress had the right, on assuming
undisputed dominion over the Territory, to confine its bounties
to settlers within just such limits as it chose. The settlers had
no title to the soil, and the legislation under the provisional
government, as well as that by the territorial legislature, had

Oct. 1879.]

HALL v. RUSSELL.

no other effect than to regulate possessory rights on the public
domain in the absence of congressional interference.
The opening words of sect. 4 are "that there shall be, and
hereby is, granted." This is appropriate language in which to
express a present grant, but as was well remarked by Mr. Justice Field for the court in 3issouri,Kansas, and Texas Railway
Company v. Kansas Pacific Railway Company (97 U. S. 491),
"It is always to be borne in mind, in construing a congressional grant, that the act by which it is made is a law as well
as a conveyance, and that such effect must be given to it as will
carry out the intent of Congress." There cannot be a grant
unless there is a grantee, and consequently there cannot be a
present grant unless there is a present grantee. If, then, the
law making the grant indicates a future grantee and not a
present one, the grant will take effect in the future and not
presently. In all the cases in which we have given these words
the effect of an immediate and present transfer, it will be found
that the law has designated a grantee qualified to take, according to the terms of the law, and actually in existence at the
time. Thus, in Rutherford v. Greene's HYeirs (2 Wheat. 196),
the grantee was Major-General Greene; Lessieur v. Price (12
How. 59), the State of Missouri; in United States v. Arredondo
(6 Pet. 691), Arredondo & Son; in Fremont v. United States
(17 How. 542), Alvarado; in Schiulenburg v. H1arriman (21
Wall. 44), the State of Wisconsin; in Leavenworth, Lawrence,
and Galveston Railroad Company v. United States (92 U. S.
733), the State of Kansas; and, without particularizing further,
it may be said generally that in the swamp-land cases and all
the internal-improvement-grant cases, where for the most part
the question has arisen of late, if a grant has been held to take
effect presently, the State or some corporation, having all the
qualifications specified in the act, has been designated as grantee. In other words, when an immediate grant was intended
an immediate grantee, having all the requisite qualifications,
was named.
Coming then to the present case we find that the grantee
designated was any qualified "settler or occupant of the public
lands . . . who shall have resided upon and cultivated the
same for four consecutive years, and shall otherwise conform to

HALL v. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

the provisions of the act." The grant was not to a settler only,
but to a settler who had completed the four years of residence,
&c., and had otherwise conformed to the act. Whenever a
settler qualified himself to become a grantee, he took the grant
and his right to a transfer of the legal title from the United
States became vested. But until he was qualified to take, there
was no actual grant of the soil. The act of Congress made the
transfer only when the settler brought himself within the description of those designated as grantees. A present right to
occupy and maintain possession, so as to acquire a complete
title to the soil, was granted to every white person in the Territory having the other requisite qualifications, but beyond this
nothing passed until all was done that was necessary to entitle
the occupant to a grant of the land. Whether the fee passed
out of the United States before the claim was "proved up," it
is not necessary now to consider. For the purposes of the present suit it is enough to show that the occupant got no title himself, beyond that of a mere right of possession, until he had
completed his four years of continued residence and cultivation.
That such was the clear intention of Congress we think is
manifested in many provisions of the act. Thus, where married
persons "have complied with the provisions of the act, so as to
entitle them to the grant as above provided, whether under the
late provisional government of Oregon, or since, and either
shall die before patent issues, the survivor and children or heirs
of the deceased shall be entitled to the share or interest of the
deceased in equal proportions, except where the deceased shall
otherwise dispose of it by testament, duly and 'properly executed according to the laws of Oregon." This evidently related
to such married persons as had completed their four years' residence and cultivation, and had done the other things required
in the mean time; that is to say, had given notice of the precise tract claimed (sect. 6), and had proved the commencement of their settlement and cultivation (sect. 7). These were
the provisions to be complied with "so as to entitle them to a
grant." As there could be no grant until there was some person entitled to receive it, the conclusion would seem to be irresistible that, under this provision, married settlers had no estate
in the land which they could devise by will, until from being

Oct. 1879.]

HALL v. RUSSELL.

qualified settlers only they had become qualified grantees. Having completed their settlement, And nothing remaining to be
done but to get their patent, their estate in the land was one
they could devise by will, or which would go to the surviving
husband or wife and children or heirs of a deceased married
person. Not so, however, with the mere possessory rights
which preceded a compliance with the provisions of the act so
as to entitle the settlers to their grant of the land.
Again: "No alien shall be entitled to a patent for land,
granted by this act, until he shall produce to the surveyor-general of Oregon record evidence that his naturalization as a citizen of the United States has been completed; but if any alien,
having made his declaration of intention to become a citizen of
the United States, after the passage of this act, shall die before
his naturalization shall be completed, the possessory right acquired by him under the provisions of this act shall descend to
his heirs-at-law or pass to his devisees, to whom, as the case
may be, the patent shall issue." An alien who had declared
his intention to become a citizen, or who should do so before
Dec. 1, 1850, was a qualified settler, but he was not a qualified grantee until he had completed his naturalization. As
no patent could be issued to him before his naturalization, provision was made for the disposition of the "possessory right"
which one who had declared his intention, after the passage of
the act, could acquire as an authorized settler. By the requisite residence and cultivation accompanied by the prescribed
preliminary notice and proof of claim and settlement, the alien
settler could perfect his right to a patent as soon as he completed his naturalization, but until he was in a condition to
"prove up" for a patent, his rights in the land were "possessory" only.
Another provision is equally significant: " All future contracts by any person entitled to the benefit of this act, for the
sale of the land to which he may be entitled under this act
before he or they have received a patent therefor, shall be void."
This must refer to sales after the necessary residence and
cultivation were complete, because the grant was only to a settler" who shall have resided upon and cultivated the same
for four consecutive years." This implies continuous residence

HALL V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. ot.

and cultivation by the person or persons who make the claim.
There is no provision by w~aich the possession of one can be
added to that of another, so as to complete the requisite term.
The grant was to the occupant who had himself conformed to
the provisions of the act. The sale of a possessory right could
have no other effect than that of an abandonment of the
settler's "claim" and a grant to the purchaser of the right to
enter upon the abandoned lands and begin a new settlement
of his own.
This intention is even more distinctly shown in sect. 5, which
being in pari materia with sect. 4 may be resorted to as in some
degree showing the meaning of both sections. There the language is, "that to all white male citizens . . . who shall in all
other respects comply with the foregoing section, . . there shall
be and hereby is granted," &c. This indicates clearly that
there was to be no grant except to persons who, by complying
with the provisions of the act, had qualified themselves to take.
We conclude, therefore, that under sect. 4 there was no grant
of the land to a settler until he had qualified himself to take as
grantee by completing his four years of residence and cultivation, and performing such other acts in the mean time as the
statute required in order to protect his claim and keep it alive.
Down to that time he was an authorized settler on the public
lands, but not a grantee. His rights in the land were statutory
only, and cannot be extended beyond the just interpretation of
the language Congress has used to make known its will.
This brings us to the consideration of sect. 8, which, in substance, provided that if a settler died before the expiration of
the required four years' continued possession, all his rights
should descend to his heir-at-law, including his widow, if he
left one, and that proof of his -compliance with the conditions
of the act up to the time of his death should be sufficient to
entitle them to the patent.
Here is a plain indication that the right of the settler before
the expiration of his four years' continued possession was something less than a title in fee to the land, for the provision is
not that the land shall descend, but the settler's rights only.
Had it been supposed that the title was already in the settler,
subject only to defeasance, if the conditions subsequent to the

Oct. 1879.]

HALL V. RUSSELL.

grant should not be performed, we cannot but think that provision would have been made for a transfer of the land free of
the conditions, instead of only the settler's rights. The object
of Congress undoubtedly was to allow a settler's heirs to succeed to his possessions and thus keep his rights alive. But for
some such provision all rights of the settler would have been
lost by his death. As the law required full four years' residence by the person who claimed the grant, if no provision
and been made for a continuance of his possession the land would
have become vacant on his death and open for a new settlement
by a new settler, if the law authorizing new settlements still
remained in force. Hence it was provided that the possessory
rights of a deceased settler should go to his heirs, and that they
might get the land on making the requisite proof, without further residence and cultivation of their own. Their title to the
land was to come, not from their deceased ancestors, but -from the
United States. The title, it is true, was granted to them by
reason of the possessory rights of their ancestor, but these
were rights which he could not transfer, and which passed to
them under the statute without any act of his. On his death
his heirs became qualified grantees. Whether they took immediately on his death or after proof of his compliance with the
provisions of the act while in life, need not be decided. It is
enough for this case that when their ancestor died he had nothing in the land which he could transmit to them, and that what
they afterwards got came from the United States and not from
him. All his rights in the land were dependant on his completion of the four years' possession, but in consideration of
what he had done Congress made his heirs the special objects
of its bounty if he died before his own grant had been secured.
We attach no importance to the word "descend," as used in
this section. In sect. 4 the word selected to convey substantially the same idea was "entitled." The thing done was to
give the heirs of a settler the benefit of his rights and to designate them as the recipients of the bounty of the government,
instead of him.
We have not overlooked the fact that by the territorial enactments of Oregon a settler's claim might descend to his heirs as
real estate, and that his possessory rights might be disposed of
VOL. X1.

33

VANCE v. BURBANK.

[Sup. ot.

by will. But all these enactments are in conflict with the act
of Congress, and, therefore, inoperative. The heirs of the settler took only such title as Congress gave them. The territorial government could not add to or take from that grant. It
is not contended that under the act of Congress a settler might
devise his interest in the land unless the fee passed to him
before his death.
It follows from this that Loring at the time of his death had
no devisable estate in the land, and that the heirs of his devisee
cannot maintain this suit. This makes it unnecessary to consider any of the questions that have been argued.
-Decreeaffirmed.

VAwOE v. BURBANK.
1. The decision of the officers of the Land Department is final upon the question
whether a claimant under the Donation Act (9 Stat. 496), when he demanded
his patent certificate as against other contesting claimants, had resided on
and cultivated the lands in dispute for four consecutive years, and had
otherwise conformed to the requirements of the act.
2. To obtain relief upon the ground of fraud, it must appear that a party was
prevented thereby from exhibiting his case fully to the department, so that
it may properly be said there never was a decision in a real contest about
the subject-matter of inquiry. An allegation in a bill in equity that false
testimony was submitted is not sufficient, where the party had opportunity
to meet it and took all the appeals which the law gave.
3. A wife, or her heirs, gets nothing under that act before her husband or some
one for him proves up the claim.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Oregon.
This is a suit in equity commenced on the 24th of December,
1877. The case made by the bill is as follows On the 20th of July, 1848, Lemuel Scott, a married man,
settled on six hundred and forty acres of land in Oregon, and
became a claimant thereof under the laws of the provisional
government. On the 27th of September, 1850, Congress passed
the "Donation Act" (9 Stat. 496), the provisions of which are
fully stated in Hall v. Bussell, supra, p. 503. At the date of
this act the wife of Scott lived with him on the land, and he

