Oct. 1879.]

HATCH v. DANA.

HATCH v. DAN.
1. Creditors of an incorporated company who have exhausted their remedy at
law can, in order to obtain satisfaction of their judgment, proceed in equity
against a stockholder to enforce his liability to the company for the amount
remaining due upon his subscription, although no account is taken of the
other indebtedness of the company, and the other stockholders are not made
parties; although, by the terms of their subscriptions, the stockholders were
to pay for their shares "as called for" by the company, and the latter had
not called for more than thirty per cent of the subscriptions.
2. Pollard v. Bailey (20 Wall. 520) and Terry v. Tubman (92 U. S. 156) distinguished from the present case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
On April 12, 1871, Charles A. Dana recovered a judgment
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, against the Chicago Republican Company,
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Illinois, for the sum of $6,419.17 and costs.
An execution issued upon this judgment was by the marshal
of the United States for that district returned nulla bona.
Thereupon, on Aug. 23, 1871, Dana, on behalf of himself
and all other creditors of the company who might come in and
seek relief by and contribute to the expense of the suit, exhibited in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois his bill in equity against the company,
Hatch, Williams, and other resident stockholders, averring the
incorporation of the company in February, 1865, with a capital
stock of $500,000, divided into shares of $100 each; that at a
meeting of the incorporators, held in Chicago in April, 1865,
certain stock subscriptions were made, Hatch and Williams
each subscribing for one hundred shares; that a complete
organization of the company was effected, and an assessment
of twenty per cent declared upon the stock subscribed, the
company thereupon commencing business; that eighty per
cent of the subscriptions to stock so made still remains unpaid;
that in October, 1870, the company so organized sold and
transferred all its tangible property, credits, and subscription
lists to a corporation of a very similar name, and thereupon

HATcH V. DANA.

[Sup. Ct.

ceased to do business; that the company is wholly insolvent;
avers the recovery of the judgment aforesaid, the issue and the
return unsatisfied of an execution thereon; that there are no
other unpaid creditors than the complainant. It prays that,
upon an accounting of the amount unpaid upon the stock
subscriptions of the stockholders named as defendants, they
may be decreed to pay so much of the balance found unpaid
on their respective subscriptions as will be sufficient to pay
the ascertained debts of the corporation, including the judgment aforesaid; and for general relief.
The complainant dismissed the bill as to all of the defendants except Hatch and Williams. They, in their answer,
admit the incorporation and organization of the company, as
alleged in the bill; do not deny that they were of the original
stockholders therein to the amount alleged in the bill, but aver
that they paid in thirty per cent of the amount subscribed by
them; admit the sale of its property in October, 1870, and
that since then it has done no business; do not know whether it
is indebted to the complainant or any other person, or whether
or not it is insolvent; deny the recovery of the said judgment
and call for full proof thereof, but admit that, if such judgment
was lawfully rendered, it still remains in full force and unsatisfied; aver that about Aug. 1, 1866, the company determined
to reduce its capital stock from $500,000 to $200,000, and did
so, calling in all existing certificates, and reissuing to the
holders thereof new certificates for two-fifths of the amount
which they originally held, since which time various transfers
of portions of the new or substituted stock have been made,
but the respondents do not know to whom or by whom they
have been made; state the names of certain persons who,
together with the defendants, are holders and owners of portions of the stock; and ask that all said persons be made
parties, and that an accounting be had, in conformity with the
prayer of the bill.
A replication to the answers was filed.
The facts of the case are set out in the complainant's bill.
A decree was rendered Jan. 6, 1879, that the complainant,
Charles A. Dana, recover of Hatch and Williams the sum of
$9,398.72, being the amount due on that day upon the said

Oct. 1879.]

HATCH v. DXNA.

judgment, and that they pay the costs of the suit to be taxed;
it being provided, however, that of the sum so decreed to be
paid not more than $7,000, together with interest thereon
from the date of the decree, at the rate of six per cent per
annum, shall be made and collected from either said Hatch
or Williams, the said sum of $7,000 being the amount the
court finds each of them to owe and be indebted to the Chicago
Republican Company.
From this decree Hatch and Williams appealed.
Mi. D. T. Littler for the appellants.
The remedy sought in this case by the complainant is in
virtue alone of the general equity jurisdiction of the court in
the premises.
A court of equity will never allow a trust to fail on account
of the failure or refusal of a trustee to perform his duty. When,
therefore, the creditors of a corporation are unable to obtain
satisfaction in the ordinary mode, if the stockholders are
indebted to the corporation on account of subscriptions made
by them to the capital stock, and the board of directors fail or
refuse to raise the money to pay such debts by making and
enforcing against the members the necessary assessments, a
court of equity will interfere, and either compel the directors
to perform this duty, or, according to the modern practice, perform it by its own proper officers. The rights of 'creditors
being superior, and partaking somewhat of the character of a
lien, equity will regard and work them out by the same means
by which the corporation itself should have done so. Adler v.
Milwaukee Patent Brick Co., 13 Wis. 57 ; Ward v. Griswoldville Manufacturing Co., 16 Conn. 601; .Henry v. Vermillion,
17 Ohio, 187. The court will either compel the board of
directors to make an assessment, or it will exercise its power
through its own officers and processes to accomplish the same
substantial result.
The bill must be filed against all the shareholders, unless
some valid excuse is shown for not bringing them in. This
must necessarily be so; otherwise the main object of asserting
the jurisdiction of equity, the equalizing of the burden of the
shareholders, and the preventing of a multiplicity of suits would
be defeated. Under such a bill an account will be taken of

HATCH

v.

DANA.

[Sup. Ct.

the debts and assets of the corporation, of the amount of
capital not paid in, and of the amount due from each shareholder. A receiver appointed in a creditor's suit against a
corporation cannot maintain a bill in equity against a single
shareholder to collect what is unpaid on his subscription.
Thompson, Liability of Stockholders, sect. 353 ; Wood v. Dummer, 3 Mas. 312; iadley v. Russell, 40 N. H. 109; BErickson
v. Nismith, 46 id. 371; Mann v. Pentz, 3 N. Y. 415 ; Pierce v.
Milwaukee Con. Co., 38 Wis. 253; Adler v. Milwaukee Patent
Bric7 Co., 13 id. 57; Coleman v. White, 14 id. 700 ; Carpenterv.
Marine Bank, id. 705; Umsted v. Buskirk, 17 Ohio St. 113;
Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1252; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520;
Terry v. Tubman, 92 U. S. 156.
In 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1252, it is said: "The property of
private corporations is deemed a trust fund, and the creditors
may enforce their claims against it into whosesoever hands it
may come, as well before as after dissolution, unless it may
have come to the hands of a bona fide purchaser. Upon the
like ground the capital stock of an incorporated bank is deemed
a trust fund for all the debts of the corporation, and no stockholder can entitle himself to any dividend or share of such
capital stock until all the debts are paid; and if the capital
stock should be divided, leaving any debts unpaid, every stockholder receiving his share of the capital would in equity be
held liable pro rata to contribute to the discharge of such
debts out of the funds in his own bands. This, however, is a
remedy which can be obtained in equity only; for a court of
common law is incapable of administering any just relief, since
it has no power of bringing all the proper parties before the
court, or of ascertaining the full amount of the debts, the mode
of contribution, the number of the contributors, or the cross
equities and liabilities which may be absolutely required for a
proper adjustment of the rights of all parties, as well as of the
creditors," citing Wood v. Dummer, supra; Y'ose v. Grant, 16
Mass. 9; Carson v. African Company, 1 Vern. 121.
The unpaid subscriptions for stock in an insolvent corporation constitute a trust fund for the benefit of all creditors of
the corporation alike or pro rata, and it is not permissible to
one creditor to absorb the same to the exclusion of others.

Oct..1879.]

HATCH v. DANA.

The bill as framed and filed in this cause properly recognizes the above rule. It is in form a general creditor's bill,
under which, if opportunity had been afforded by the court,
all creditors might have come in and sought relief, subject to the condition of contributing to the expense of the
suit. But no such opportunity was afforded them. There
was neither a reference for ascertaining them, nor notice to
them to come in.
Although the complainant was not bound to hunt up the
creditors, it was incumbent upon the court to refer the cause
to a master, with directions to cause notice, by publication or
otherwise, to be given to all creditors before proceeding to a
final decree appropriating the whole fund to complainant.
"The general rule is that a creditor who proceeds in chancery to subject the liability of the shareholders of an insolvent
corporation must bring his bill on behalf of all other creditors
who may come in and establish their debts according to the
course of a court of chancery. Whilst liens and legal priorities are preserved, he does not obtain a preference over other
creditors by the filing of such a bill; but the property of the corporation, or the sums due from shareholders in respect of their
individual liability, are sequestered for the ratable benefit of
all the creditors." 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1252; Wood v.
Dummer, supra; Morgan v. New York Railroad Co., 10 Paige
(N. Y.), 290; Mann v. Pentz, 3 X. Y. 415; Masters v. Ressis
L. Mining Co., 2 Sandf. (N. Y.) 301; Coleman v. White, 14
Wis. 700; Carpenter v. lifarine Bank, id. 705; Crea v. Babcock, 10 Mete. (Mass.) 525; Umsted v. Buskirk, 17 Ohio St.
113; Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520; Terry v. Tubman, 92
U. S. 156.
Mr. -. B. McCagg, contra.
1. Dana's judgment, the insolvency of the company and its
withdrawal from business, entitled him to enforce from its
delinquent stockholders, for his benefit, the collection of their
unpaid stock subscriptions. Dalton . Morganton Railroad Co.
v. XcDaniel, 56 Ga. 191 ; Henry v. . & A. 1. B. Co., 17 Ohio,
187; Ogilvie v. Knox Insurance Co., 22 How. 380; Upton,
Assignee, v. Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 45; Angell & Ames, Corporations, sect. 602.
VoL X1.

14

HATCH v. DANA.

[Sup. Ct.

2. It was not necessary to make all the delinquent stockholders parties defendant to his bill. Ogilvie v. Knox Insurance
Co., supra; Bartlett v. -rew, 57 N. Y. 587.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This bill is an ordinary creditor's bill, the sole object of
which is to obtain payment of the complainant's judgment. It
is true it is brought on behalf of the complainant and all other
creditors of the corporation who might choose to come in and
seek relief by it, contributing to the expense of the suit. But
no other creditors came in; and it does not appear that there is
any other creditor, unless it be one of the stockholders, who
was made a defendant, and who filed a cross-bill which he
afterwards dismissed. All the stockholders were not made
defendants.
The bill was not a bill seeking to wind up the company. It
sought simply payment of a debt out of the unpaid stock
subscriptions.
That unpaid stock subscriptions are to be regarded as a fund,
which the corporation holds for the payment of its debts, is an
undeniable proposition. But the appellants insist that a creditor of an insolvent corporation is not at liberty to proceed
against one or more delinquent subscribers to recover the
amount of his debt, without an account being taken of other
indebtedness, and without bringing in all the stockholders for
contribution. They insist, also, that by the terms of the subscriptions for stock made by these appellants they were to pay
for the shares set opposite their names respectively, "as called
for by the said company;" that the company made no calls for
more than thirty per cent; that, therefore, this company could
not recover the seventy per cent unpaid without making a
previous call; and that a court of equity will not enforce
the contract differently from what was contemplated in the
subscription.
These positions, we think, are not supported by the authorities, - certainly not by the more modern ones, - nor are they
in harmony with sound reason, when considered with reference
to the facts of this case. The liability of a subscriber for the
capital stock of a company is several, and not joint. By his

Oct. 1879.]

HATCH v. DANA.

subscription each becomes a several debtor to the company, as
much so as if he had given his promissory note for the amount
of his subscription. At law, certainly, his subscription may
be enforced against him without joinder of other subscribers;
and in. equity his liability does not cease to be several. A
creditor's bill merely subrogates the creditor to the place of the
debtor, and garnishes the debt due to the indebted corporation.
It does not change the character of the debt attached or garnished. It may be that if the object of the bill is to wind up
the affairs of this corporation, all the shareholders, at least so
far as they can be ascertained, should be made parties, that
complete justice may be done by equalizing the burdens, and in
order to prevent a multiplicity of suits. But this is no such case.
The most that can be said is that the presence of all the stockholders might be convenient, not that it is necessary. When
the only object of a bill is to obtain payment of a judgment
against a corporation out of its credits or intangible property,
that is, out of its unpaid stock, there is not the same reason
for requiring all the stockholders to be made defendants. In
such a case no stockholder can be compelled to pay more than
he owes.
In Ogilvie v. Knox Insurance Company (22 How. 380) the
question was considered. That was a case in which several
judgment creditors of a corporation had brought a creditor's
bill against it and thirty-six subscribers to its capital stock.
The bill alleged that the complainants had recovered judgments against the company, upon which executions had been
issued and returned "no property;" that the other defendants had severally subscribed for its stock; and that the
subscriptions remained unpaid, payment not having been enforced by the company. The prayer of the bill was that
these other defendants might be decreed to pay their subscriptions, and that the judgments might be satisfied out of the
sum paid. It was objected, as here, that the bill was defective
for want of proper parties; but the court held the objection
untenable. In delivering the opinion of the court, Grier, J.,
said: "The creditors of the corporation are seeking satisfaction
out of the assets of the company to which the defendants are
debtors. If the debts attached are sufficient to pay their

HATCH v. DANA.

[Sup. Ct.

demands, the creditors need look no further. They are not
bound to settle up all the affairs of this corporation, and the
equities between its various stockholders, corporators, or debtors.
If A. is bound to pay his debt to the corporation in order to
satisfy its creditors, he cannot defend himself by pleading that
these complainants might have got their satisfaction out of B.
as well. It is true, if it be necessary to a complete satisfaction
of the complainants that. the corporation be treated as an
insolvent, the court may appoint a receiver, with authority to
collect and receive all the debts due to the company, and administer all its assets. In that way all the other stockholders
or debtors may be made to contribute." The court, therefore,
directed a decree against the respondents severally for such
amounts as appeared to be due and unpaid by each of them for
their shares of the capital stock.
This case is directly in point, and it does not stand alone.
In Bartlett v. -Drew (57 N. Y. 587), it was ruled that when the
property of a corporation had been divided amongst its stockholders before all its debts had been paid, a judgment creditor,
after the return of an execution unsatisfied, might maintain an
action, in the nature of a creditor's bill, against a stockholder
to reach whatsoever was so received by him, and that he was
not required to make all the stockholders parties to the action;
that he had nothing to do with the equities between the stockholders, unless he chose to intervene to settle them. This is
much beyond what the complainant needs in this case. It is
enforcing against stockholders in severalty what the corporation could not enforce, without any regard to the equities of
one against the others.
So in Pierce v. The Milwaukee Construction Co. (38 Wis.
253), which was a proceeding analogous to a creditor's bill,
and brought to enforce payment to a judgment creditor of the
company of unpaid subscriptions to its capital stock, it was
ruled that the complaint was not bad because all the stockholders were not made defendants. This, it is true, was a
proceeding under a statute, but it was a statute enacting substantially this equity rule.
In Marsh v. Burroughs (1 Woods, 468), a bill of certain
creditors who had recovered judgments against a bank, to

Oct. 1879.]

HATCH v. DANA.

recover from some stockholders who had not paid in full their
subscriptions, non-joinder of parties was set up in defence.
Mr. Justice Bradley said: " A judgment creditor who has
exhausted his legal remedy may pursue in a court of equity
any equitable interest, trust, or demand of his debtor, in whosesoever hands it may be. And if the party thus reached has a
remedy over against other parties for contribution or indemnity, it will be no defence to the primary suit against him that
they are not parties. If a creditor were to be stayed until all
such parties could be made to contribute their proportionate
share of the liability, he might never get his money."
The case of Wood v. Dummer (3 Mas. 808), upon which the
appellants largely rely, was not an attempt to reach unpaid
stock subscriptions. It was sought to follow the property of a
corporation paid over to its shareholders before its debts were
paid. But even in that case the bill was sustained, though all
the shareholders were not made defendants. Those not sued
appear to have been treated only as convenient, not as necessary
parties.
The cases of Pollard v. Bailey (20 Wall. 520) and Terry v.
Tubman (92 U. S. 156) are not in conflict with Ogilvie v. Knox
I fluranee Company. They arose under statutory provisions
imposing upon the stockholders of banks a liability for the
debts of the corporation, "in proportion to their stock held
therein." It was this liability beyond the stock subscription
which was sought to be enforced, and as it was only a proportional liability, its extent could be ascertained only when the
obligation of the other shareholders was taken into consideration. Hence it was ruled that the proper mode of proceeding
was by bill in equity in which an account of the debts and
stock could be taken and a pro rata distribution could be
made. Not a hint was given that the latter case was intended
to be questioned or qualified. Indeed, Pollard v. Bailey and
Terry v. Tubman have little analogy to it, or to the case we
have now before us. They were both suits at law. The debt
due by these appellants to the corporation of which they are
members is a fixed and definite one, and it is neither more
nor less because other debts may be due to the company from
other stockholders.

214

HATCH v. DANA.

[Sup.

at.

We hold, therefore, that the complainant was under no
obligation to make all the stockholders of the bank defendants
in his bill. It was not his duty to marshal the assets of the
bank, or to adjust the equities between the corporators. In all
that he had no interest. The appellants may have had such
an interest, and, if so, it was quite in their power to secure its
protection. They might have moved for a receiver, or they
might have filed a cross-bill, obtained a discovery of the other
stockholders, brought them in, and enforced contribution from
all who had not paid their stock subscriptions. Their equita-,
ble right to contribution is not yet lost.
That the appellants are not protected by the fact, if such
was the fact, that their subscriptions for stock were payable
"as called for by the company," we think is clear. Assuming
that such a clause in the subscription meant more than an
agreement to pay on demand, and that it contemplated a formal call upon all subscribers to the stock of the company, the
subscriptions were still in the nature of a fund for the payment
of the company's debts, and it was the duty of the company to
make the calls whenever the funds were needed for such payment. If they were not made, the officers of the company
violated their trust, held both for the stockholders and the
company. And it would seem to be singular if the stockholders could protect themselves from paying what they owe
by setting up the default of their own agents. But in this
case the company went out of business before the complainant
obtained his judgment, and it does not appear that since that
time it has had any officers who could make the calls. Before
that time its president was dead. However this may be, it is
well settled that a court of equity may enforce payment of
stock subscriptions though there have been no calls for them
by the company. In Henry v. Railroad Company (17 Ohio,
187), a suit brought by a judgment creditor of a corporation
to enforce payment by its stockholders of their unpaid subscriptions, for which calls had not been made, it was held that
when a company ceases to keep up its organization, and abandons all action under the charter, a proceeding at the instance
of the creditor becomes indispensable. It was further said:
"When a company, becoming insolvent, as in this case, aban-

Oct. 1879.]

HATCH v. DANA.

dons all action under its charter, the original mode of making
calls upon the stockholders cannot be pursued. The debt, therefore, from that time must be treated as due without further
demand." This means, of course, as between the debtor and
the creditor of the corporation. After all, a company call is
but a step in the process of collection, and a court of equity
may pursue its own mode of collection, so that no injustice is
done to the debtor.
In the English courts a mandamus is sometimes awarded to
compel the directors to make the necessary calls. Queen v.
The Victoria Park Co., 1 Ad. & El. N. s. 544; Queen
v. Ledgard, id. 616 ; The King v. Katharine Dock Co., 4 Barn.
& Ad. 360. But this remedy can avail only when there are
directors. The remedy in eqaity is more complete, and it is
well recognized. Ward v. Te Griswoldville Jfanufacturing
Co., 16 Conn. 593. In such cases it is nowhere held, so far as
we know, that a formal call must 'be made before a bill can be
filed. Indeed, the filing of the bill is equivalent to a call.
Before it is filed, the court has no jurisdiction of the matter.
In bankruptcy, an assessment or a call may be made, for the
assignee of a bankrupt corporation succeeds to its rights and
becomes the legal owner. Not so in equity.
In The Dalton, &e. Railroad Co..v. AcDaniel (56 Ga. 191),
a creditor's bill very like the present was filed. It was objected by the stockholders, who were defendants, that it was
for the directors of the company and not for the court to call
in the stock subscriptions, and that their contract only obligated them to obey a call emanating from the company; but
it was ruled that "principle and sound reason accord with
authority that equity will grant relief in all such cases."
In view of these considerations we think none of the assignments of error are sustained.
-Decreeaffirmed.

