Oct. 1879.]

WEST V. SMITH.

finding in favor of the validity of the certificate is equivalent to
a finding that its due execution had been proved. The question here is not whether the deeds from Lewis to Russell, without the clerk's certificate as to the official character of the officer
before whom the acknowledgment was made, would be sufficient
to justify the register of the.land-office in issuing his final certificate; but whether, in this action, they were admissible without such certificate to prove the fact that an assignment had
been actually made. For aught we know, they were properly
certified when presented to the register. Copies from the
county records were offered in evidence below, and the records
were made in 1816, long before any action was had by the register. It is not claimed that any certificate was necessary to
authenticate them for record or to make them admissible as
evidence in the cause.
On the whole, we see no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

WEST V. S30T.
1. Where an action has been removed from a State court to the Circuit Court,
the latter may, in accordance with the State practice, grant the plaintiff
leave to amend his declaration by inserting new counts for the same cause
of action as that alleged in the original counts.
2. In an action to recover the balance alleged to be due upon certain yarn spun
for, and from time to time delivered to, the defendant, for all of which he
had paid, except the last lot, he, by way of recoupment, claimed damages
because all the yarn was not of the stipulated size. To prove this, he put
in evidence a letter of the plaintiff wherein he, at the instance of the
defendant, deducted from one of his bills five cents per pound on a specified quantity, and stated the balance. The plaintiff, being examined, was
then asked by his counsel whether he accepted defendant's proposition
to make the deduction on that lot because he admitted that the yarn
was not according to contract, or to settle a controversy. He answered
that it was to avoid a controversy. Held, that the answer was properly
admitted.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

WEST V. SMITH.

,[Sup. Ot.

Mr. C. -. Perkins for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. A. P. ffyde, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Due removal of the suit before the court was made from the
State court where it was commenced, into the Circuit Court,
in which case it is no longer usual to file new pleadings, the
act of Congress providing that the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding in common-law actions shall
cqnform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding existing at the time, in like
causes, in the courts of record of the State within which such
Circuit Court is held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding. 17 Stat. 197; Rev. Stats., sect. 914.
Sufficient appears to show that the writ in the practice of
the State courts contains the declaration, the command of the
same to the sheriff being that he shall summon the defendant
to appear and answer to the plaintiff in a certain plea, wherein
is set forth the cause of action. Pursuant to that practice, the
defendants in this case were summoned to appear in a plea of
the case, the declaration containing two counts in assumpsit, the first being a count for goods sold and delivered, in the sum
of $8,000, in two forms; the second being a count for work and
labor done and performed, in the sum of $8,000, at the special
instance and request of the defendants. Both counts are in
the usual form, and the declaration concludes with the usual
breach alleging non-payment, to the damage of the plaintiffs
in the sum of $10,000. Personal service was made; and the
defendants having appeared and removed the cause into the
Circuit Court, pleaded the general issue that they never did
assume and promise in manner and form as the plaintiffs in
their declaration have alleged, and tendered an issue to the
country.
Special matter may be given in evidence under the general
issue, according to the State practice, if previous notice be
given by the defendant or defendants. Such notice was given
by the defendants in this case, that they would give in evidence
a written agreement, and the extension of the same for one
year, which is fully set forth in the transcript. Profert of the

Oct. 1879.]

WEST V. SMITH.

instrument was made, and the defendants averred that the supposed promises were made, if ever, in consideration of work
and labor done by the plaintiffs in the pretended performance
of the stipulations and agreements in said written contract contained, in respect to which the defendants allege that the
plaintiffs did not keep and perform their said agreements and
obligations, to the damage of the defendants in the sum of
$20,000, and greatly exdeeding the amount that would be due
to the plaintiffs for the alleged labor and work they had performed. What they claim is to set off so much of said damages as may be sufficient to extinguish their indebtedness to
the plaintiffs, and to recoup and recover the excess of the
$20,000 by a judgment in their favor.
In addition to the notice of such special matter, they also
pleaded the Statute of Limitations, which, it seems, would not
be admissible under the general issue and notice of special
matter.
Leave was asked by the plaintiffs to file two additional
special counts; and the court allowed them to file the one
called in the transcript the second special count, subject to the
objection of the defendants. Preliminary matters being closed,
the parties went to trial, and the verdict and judgment were
for the plaintiffs in the sum of $7,978.84. Exceptions were
filed by the defendants, and they sued out the present writ of
error, and removed the cause into this court.
Two errors are assigned in this court, as follows: 1. That
the Circuit Court erred in allowing the new count to be filed.
2. That the court erred in admitting parol evidence of the
plaintiffs' intention in writing the letter set forth and described in the transcript.
1. Amendments to the declaration under the State statute
may be made by the plaintiff to correct any defect, mistake, or
informality in the same, not changing the form or ground of the
action; and he may insert new counts in his declaration for
the same cause of action as that alleged in the original counts.
State Stats., Revision 1875, 426.
Authority is also given by the same statute to insert counts
in any form of action which might have been originally inserted in the declaration. As quoted, the word "in" before

WEST V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

"which," as found in the published statute, is left out, it being
regarded as a misprint, or, if not, that the word "declaration"
should follow it, which would give the provision the same
meaning as if the word " in" was omitted. Nor is it necessary
in this case to construe that provision, as it is clear that the
question before the court is controlled by the preceding part of
the section, which authorizes the plaintiff to insert new counts
in the declaration for the same cause of action as that alleged
in the original counts, as well as to correct any defect, mistake,
or informality in the declaration, not changing the form or
ground of action.
Such amendments to the declaration are allowed in the
State courts with great liberality, and it appears that the
practice is carried to such an extent as to justify the remark of
the court in a case cited for the plaintiffs, that the decisions
of other States furnish but little guidance in expounding the
meaning of their statute upon the subject. Nash v. Adams,
24 Conn. 33-38.
Their original statute was passed at a very early period, and
has been several times amended so as to enlarge and extend
the power of the court, and the course of the decisions in
the courts has been in the same direction, so as to further the
beneficial purpose intended by it, which was to prevent the
plaintiff from being put to a new action when by accident,
mistake, or inadvertence he had in his declaration failed to
describe his claim with legal accuracy. In a great proportion
of the cases, say the court, where amendments are allowed,
the ground of action is in one sense changed, as where for
instance the note in suit is incorrectly described; but amend.
ments in such cases are very frequent where the court is satis
fled that the error arose merely from mistake or inadvertence,
and that the action was intended to be brought for the cause
of action described in the amendment.
Other examples of like import are given in the opinion,
and the court remarks that the phrase, "ground of action," is not
used in the statute in any technical or narrow sense, but was
intended to refer rather to the real object of the plaintiff in
bringing the suit than to the technical meaning of the words;
and added, that such a construction had always been given to

Oct. 1879.]

WEST V. SMITH.

the phrase as would further that object. Bulkley v. Andrews,
39 Conn. 523, 535.
Where power is given to the court to allow the amendment,
the ruling of the court in that regard is a matter of discretion,
and is not the subject of error. Stuart v. Corning, 32 id. 105,
108; Merriam v. Langdon, 10 id. 460, 472.
New counts setting forth more specifically the cause of action
mentioned in the prior counts are not objectionable, as it cannot be held in such a case that the new counts describe a new
cause of action. Baldwin v. Walker, 21 id. 168, 180; Hollister
v. Hollister, 28 id. 178, 180.
Whenever the declaration misdescribes a writing which constitutes the cause of action, the State courts will allow the
plaintiff to amend and make the description accurate, and it
is even held that in an action for a breach of covenant the
plaintiff may add a new count setting forth a new and distinct incumbrance not previously mentioned in the declaration.
Spencer v. Howe, 26 id. 200.
Cases appealed, it is held in that State, may be amended in
the appellate courts; and the rule is well settled, that if the new
counts are founded upon the same transaction as the old ones,
they do not change the ground of action, within the meaning
of the act allowing amendments. Howland v. Couch, 43 id.
47-50.
Writs of summons or attachment in that State may be sued
out in civil actions, and the defendant, as matter of argument,
to show that the amendment was improperly allowed in this
case, insists that its effect would be to discharge an attachment,
as it would otherwise enlarge the lien which the attachment
created. Two answers may be made to that suggestion in the
case: 1. It is not shown that any of the property of the defendant was attached by the sheriff. 2. But if it was, the
defendant will not be injured if the plaintiff sees fit to discharge his attachment.
Without more, these authorities are sufficient to show that
the ruling of the Circuit Court in allowing the amendment
was fully justified by the State decisions, and that it is correct.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the defendants that

WEST v. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

the ruling of the court embraced in the second assignment of
error was erroneous, and that the judgment for that cause must
be reversed.
Articles of agreement were executed between the parties to
the effect that the defendants agreed to furnish for the plaintiffs cotton of a certain description, to keep the mill of the
plaintiffs supplied for a certain time, the cotton to be manufactured by the plaintiffs into yarn, two-threaded and of a certain described fineness, for thirty cents per pound, allowing
sixteen per cent for waste. Cash payments the first day of
each month were to be made by the defendants for manufacturing the yarn. Under that contract, as set forth at large in the
transcript, the defendants delivered a large amount of cotton
to the plaintiffs, who manufactured it into yarn, which they
delivered to the defendants. Invoices of cotton purchased
by the defendants were shipped to the plaintiffs, and when
the same was manufactured into yarn by the plaintiffs, the
yarn was sent back in bags, accompanied with invoices, to
the defendants.
Accounts between the parties were rendered monthly, and,
when adjusted, the plaintiffs drew upon the defendants for the
money due for manufacturing the yarn; and it appears that the
drafts were uniformly paid until the last month of the contract.
Payment of the last draft being refused, the plaintiffs brought
assumpsit, and furnished the defendants with the bill of particulars exhibited in the record.
It appears that the defendants were tape manufacturers, and
that they procured the yarn for the purpose of manufacturing
tape, and they offered evidence tending to show that when the
contract terminated they had on hand a large quantity of yarn
not woven into tape, which they had tested, and for the first
time discovered that it was of a coarser quality than that specifled in the contract, and they alleged that if the whole was of
that quality they had been seriously damaged.
Opposed to that, the plaintiffs offered evidence tending to
disprove that charge, and to show that during the early part of
the contract they, at the request of the defendants, manufactured a certain quantity of yarn for them of a lower grade, and
that if the defendants had on hand any of a lower grade than

Oct. 1879.]

WEST V. SMITH.

the contract required, it must be part of that so manufactured
by the plaintiffs at the request of the defendants, who accepted
the same with full knowledge of its defects.
Four letters upon the subject were written by the defendants
to the plaintiffs, and in the course of the trial the defendants
gave those letters in evidence, together with one written to
them by the plaintiffs in reply to the last of their series. In
that letter the plaintiffs refer to the fact that the defendants
claim a deduction of five cents per pound on a specified quantity of the yarn, and state that they deduct that amount
from the bill, adding to the effect that it leaves a balance due
of $2,680.24, &c.
For the purpose of rebutting any alleged admission contained
in that letter, the plaintiffs gave notice to the defendants to
produce the letters written by the plaintiffs in reply to the
other letters to them given in evidence by the defendants. Said
letters not having been produced, and it appearing that no
copies had been kept and that the originals were mislaid or lost,
parol evidence of their contents was admitted, which showed
that the plaintiffs denied the assertion of the defendants that
the yarn was of a lower grade than the contract required; and
they called the surviving partner of the firm, who was the
writer of the letter of the plaintiffs given in evidence, and he
was asked by the counsel of the plaintiffs whether he intended
in and by that letter to admit that the defendants' claim for
damages was valid and that the yarn was below the contract
grade, to which question the counsel of the defendant objected,
and the court sustained the objection and excluded the testimony.
Failing in that, the plaintiffs then asked the witness whether
his acceptance of the defendants' proposition to deduct five cents
per pound from the quantity of yarn named was because he admitted that the yarn was not according to contract or to settle
a controversy. Seasonable objection was made to the question
by the defendants; b.ut the court overruled the objection, and
the witness answered that he accepted the proposition because
he did not wish to be obliged to commence a lawsuit in the city
of New York, and to incur the expenses of a trial in the courts
of that State; and the defendants excepted to the ruling of the

WEST V. SM[IT..

[Sup. Ct.

court, which is the foundation of the second assignment of
error.
Evidence was then introduced by the plaintiffs showing that
the defendants refused to pay the draft for the balance, making
that deduction, and that they demanded the same reduction in
price upon all the yarn previously manufactured and delivered.
Certain exceptions were also taken to the charge of the court,
but they are not embraced in the assignment of errors, and for
that reason will not be re-examined.
Doubtless the general rule is that it is the province of the
court to construe written instruments; but it is equally well
settled that where the effect of the instrument depends not
merely on its construction and meaning, but upon collateral
facts and extrinsic circumstances, the inferences of fact to be
drawn from the paper must be left to the jury, or, in other
words, where the effect of a written instrument collaterally introduced in evidence depends not merely on its construction
and meaning, but also upon extrinsic facts and circumstances,
the inferences to be drawn from it are inferences of fact and
not of law, and of course are open to explanation. Etting v.
The Bank of the United States, 11 Wheat. 59; Barredav. Silsbee, 21 How. 146, 167.
Other cases have been decided by this court in which the
same principle was applied, and in which the doctrine is more
fully explained and illustrated. Iasigi v. Curtis, 17 How. 183,
196.
Damages were claimed by the plaintiff in that case for a
false representation respecting the pecuniary standing of a third
person, whereby he, the plantiff, had been induced to sell goods
and had incurred loss. Letters were introduced and facts and
circumstances connected with the letters proved ; and this court
held that it was for the jury to say, after examining the letters
in connection with the facts and circumstances, whether they
were calculated to inspire and did inspire a false confidence in
the pecuniary responsibility of the party, to which the defendant knew he was not entitled.
Admissions by a party or by an authorized agent, either in
court or out, may in general be given in evidence; but the circumstances surrounding the admission, the purposes for which

Oct. 1879.]

WEST v. SMITH.

it was made, and the conditions attached to it, may be fully
shown. It may not infrequently happen that the party making
the admission is not bound by it, and will not be estopped from
denying its truth, and in view of the showing on both sides,
allowing each to prove the whole truth, it will be for the jury
to determine how the proof stands on the facts in controversy
on which the admission is claimed to bear. Perry v. Simpson
Waterproof.Lfanuf. Co., 40 Conn. 313, 317.
The defendants charged at the trial that the act of the plaintiffs in making the deduction proposed by the defendants was
presumptive evidence that the plaintiffs admitted that they had
not fulfilled their contract. This was expressly denied by the
plaintiffs. On the other hand, the plaintiffs claimed that their
act in making the deduction, taken in connection with the fact
that they explicitly denied that they had broken their contract,
was presumptive evidence, not that they admitted a breach of
the contract, but that they made the deduction to avoid the expense of litigation. Neither of the presumptions was contrary
to the language of the letter, and inasmuch as it was doubtful
what the precise intent of the writer was, it is clear that the
question of intention was open to explanation.
Parol evidence is admissible to contradict or vary the language of a valid written instrument, by which is meant that the
language employed by the parties in making it, and no other,
must be used in ascertaining its meaning. Argument to support that proposition is unnecessary, and yet it is universally
admitted that it may be read in view of the subject-matter and
the attendant circumstances, in order more perfectly to understand the meaning and intent of the parties. 1 Greenl. Evid.
(12th ed.), sect. 277.
Written instruments as used in the rule, says Taylor, include
not only records, deeds, wills, and other instruments required
by statute or by the common law to be in writing, but every
document which contains the terms of a contract between different parties. Text-writers everywhere support that rule; but
Taylor admits that the rule will not strictly apply to certain
less formal documents, of which he gives several examples.
2 Taylor, Evid. (6th ed.) 988.
Extrinsic evidence, it may be admitted, is not admissible in

WEST V. SMITEE
I-

[Sup. Ot.

expounding written contracts to prove that other terms were
agreed to, which are not expressed in the writing, or that the
parties had other intentions than those to be inferred from it;
still it is competent, said Shaw, C. J., to offer parol evidence to
prove facts and circumstances respecting the relations of the
parties, the nature, quality, and condition of the property which
constitutes the subject-matter respecting which it was made.
Knight v. Tie New England Worsted Co., 2 Cush. (Mass.)
271-283.
Where a party was about to publish an advertising chart, and
the defendant promised in writing to pay him fifty dollars for
inserting his business-card in two hundred copies of the chart,
the Supreme Court of Massachusetts held, in an action to recover the amount, that parol testimony was admissible for the
interpretation of the contract and its application to the subjectmatter, that at the time of the making of the agreement the
plaintiff represented and promised that his chart should be composed of a certain material and be published in a certain manner. In disposing of the case, the court advert to the rule that
the obligation of a written contract cannot be abridged or modified by parol evidence, but add that it is equally well settled
that, for the purpose of applying the terms to the subject-matter
and removing or explaining any uncertainty or ambiguity which
arises from such application, parol testimony is legitimately
admissible, and for that purpose all the facts and circumstances
of the transaction out of which the contract arose, including the
situation and relation of the parties, may be shown. Authorities in great numbers are cited in support of the proposition;
and the court further say, that the purpose of all such evidence
is to ascertain in what sense the parties themselves used the
ambiguous terms in the writing which sets forth their contract.
Stoops v. Smith, 100 Mass. 63-66.
Apply the strictest rule to the question, and it is clear that
the ruling of the Circuit Court is correct, as the answer of
the witness, which was admitted, did not tend in any view to
contradict any thing stated in the letter; but the ruling of the
court may also be sustained upon the ground that the letter
was a mere offer of compromise, which could not prejudice the
rights of the plaintiffs, especially as the record shows that the

Oct. 1879.]

WEST V. SMITr.

defendants subsequently refused to pay the draft drawn for the
balance.
Offers of compromise to pay a sum of money by the way of
compromise, as a general rule, are not admissible against the
party making the offer; but if admitted, it is clear that the offer
is open to explanation, no matter whether it was by letter or
by oral communication. aerrishv. Sweetser, 4 Pick. (Mass.)
374; Bridge Company v. Granger, 4 Conn. 142, 148; Stranaban v. .East Haddam, 11 id. 507, 513.
By all or nearly all the cases the rule as established is not
that an admission made during or in consequence of an effort to
compromise is admissible, but that an offer to do something by
the way of compromise, as to pay sums of money, allow certain
prices, deliver certain property, or make certain deductions, and
the like, shall be excluded. These cannot be called admissions,
as they were made to avoid controversy and to save the expenses
of vexatious litigation.
Decided cases may be found where it is said that the evidence
is admissible unless the offer made was stated to be without
prejudice; but the rule in general, both in England and the
United States, is that the offer will be presumed to have been
made without prejudice if it was plainly an offer of compromise.
Lofts v. Hudson, 2 Man. & R. 481-484; Phil. Evid. (5th Am.
ed.) 427, note 124; 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 192.
Suffice it to say that such evidence having been admitted, it
was clearly competent to give evidence to explain it, especially
as the evidence given did not contradict any of the terms of the
letter introduced by the defendants.
Judgment affirmed.

Vol. Xi.

