WATER-METEt Co. v. DESPER.

[Sup. Ct.

of Harvey, belonging to the estate of Renick Huston, or to the estate of Thomas
T. Renick, - and for the purposes of these suits it matters not to which, as the
representatives of both estates are parties complainant, - as security for moneys
borrowed for the use of a mercantile firm, was a plain misappropriation of the
property of one of the estates. Our decree was that the notes should be returned to the representative of the estate from which it was wrongfully taken.
The defendants retain their claims against the firm of B. T. Rlenick & Co., on its
notes, and can prosecute them before the ordinary tribunals; and if any members of the firm have interests in the estate of Renick Huston, or of other deceased parties, they can seek to subject those interests to the payment of the
claims without prejudice from our decree in these cases.
Petitions denied.

WATER-METER

OMPANY

v.

DEsPER.

1. While letters-patent for a combination are not infringed if a material part of
it is omitted, yet if a part which is only formally omitted is supplied by a
mechanical equivalent performing the same office and producing the same
result, they are infringed.
2. The courts in this country cannot declare that any one of the elements entering into such a combination is immaterial. They can only decide
whether a part omitted by the alleged infringer is supplied by an equivalent device.
3. Reissued letters-patent No. 5806, granted March 24, 1874, being a reissue of
original letters No. 109,372 granted Nov. 22, 1870, to Phinehas Ball, and
Benaiah Fitts, for an improvement in liquid meters, are not infringed by
letters-patent No. 144,747, granted Nov. 18, 1873, to Henry A. Desper, for
an improvement in fluid meters.

API'.AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Andrew MeCallum for the appellant.
Mr. T. -E.Maynadier, contra.
. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the Union Water-Meter Company, the appellant, to restrain the infringement of a patent
and for an account of profits and damages. The letters-patent
alleged to be infringed are reissued letters No. 5806, being
a reissue of original letters-patent No. 109,872, granted 22d
M

Oct. 1879.]

WATER-METER

Co. v.

IDESPER.

November, 1870, to Phinehas Ball and Benaiah Fitts for certain
improvements in water-meters; the reissue being made to the
complainant as assignee, on the 24th of March, 1874. The
defendants, by their answer, deny that the reissued patent was
for the same invention described in the original; aver that the
invention claimed was covered by another patent granted 20th
July, 1869, to the same patentees, Ball and Fitts; deny that
they were the first and original inventors of the alleged improvement, specifying various older patents in which, as they
allege, it was described, and divers persons who had known and
used it; deny infringement; and aver that all water-meters
made by the defendants are constructed according to letterspatent No. 144,747, granted 18th November, 1873, to Henry
A. Desper, one of the defendants, except in the omission of a
certain adjusting screw.
The water-meter which is the subject of the patent consists
of two parallel horizontal cylinders, each traversed by two pistons, connected together by a connecting-rod of such length that
when one piston is at one end of the cylinder the other is at a
sufficient distance from the other end, to leave the requisite
space to be filled with the quantity of water to be measured at
each stroke. This water being discharged, the pistons are
made to traverse the cylinder and allow the opposite end to
be filled with water, and discharged in like manner. By this
reciprocating motion of the pistons, regulated quantities of
water are constantly received and discharged into and out of
the two ends of the cylinder alternately. The pressure of the
water from the source of supply, admitted by means of proper
valves, gives to the pistons this reciprocating motion. The
valve gear between the two parallel cylinders is so arranged
as to cause the pistons in one cylinder to move in an opposite
direction from those in the other. A rotary valve is used for
both cylinders, situated between and below them, being circular, or funnel-shaped, having holes, or ports, in its side for the
induction and eduction of the water into and out of the cylinders, and being crowned with a bevel-gear to give it a circular
motion. Across and over the valve, extending from one pistonrod to the other, is placed a shaft, having a crank at each end,
and a bevel pinion near one of the cranks, meshing into the

WATER-METER

Co.

v. DESPER.

[Sup. Ct.

bevel-gear of the valve; the two cranks are arranged at right
angles with each other, and each has a crank-pin which is inserted in a slot made in the centre of the piston-rod with which
side of the cylinder being removed, or
it is connected, -the
open, between the end portions that receive the water. The
slot which receives the crank-pin is perpendicular, and at right
angles with the length of the piston-rod, and is wider than the
diameter of the pin, and enlarged in the middle in order to
give the pin room, and allow the crank to turn freely over after
the piston has been stopped. The pistons are prevented from
coming into contact with the ends of the cylinders by means
of adjusting stops, slightly projecting therefrom inside. Projecting stops for arresting the movement of the pistons, and
much of the mechanical arrangement between the crank-shaft
and the slots in the piston-rods, used for giving the proper motion to the crank-shaft, are to be found described in a patent
granted to Mr. Ericsson in 1851 for a water-meter having slide
valves instead of a rotary valve, but in which a rotary motion
was communicated to the indicator.
The patent in question does not cover any of the separate
parts of the meter, it being conceded that these were all known
and used before the application for the patent. The claim
relied on by the complainant is for a combination only, being
the fourth claim in the reissued patent, which is in the following words: "4. The combination in a liquid meter of the following instrumentalities, to wit, a rotary valve, g, provided with suitable ports
or openings, through which the liquid to be measured can be supplied to the meter and discharged therefrom; two cylinders, b and
F, for the reception and measurement of the liquid; the doubleacting pistons, c and c', each carrying a rod, d, and each of these
provided with a single cam-slot, e, arranged as described, and of a
width greater than the diameter of the wrist n of the crank-shaft,
so as to permit of the adjustment of the pistons, that they may discharge at each stroke, as nearly as possible, the exact quantity of
water required of them, and so as to allow each of the crank-wrists
n freely to pass its dead-centre after its own piston has ceased to
act on it; adjusting stops, o, by means of which the adjustment of
the length of the stroke of the pistons at either end is effected;

Oct. 1879.]

WATER-METER

Co. v.

DESPER.

and, lastly, a crank-shaft, i, through which motion from the pistons
is imparted to the valves, the whole operating in the manner substantially as described."
The combination here claimed consists of five parts or elements, viz.: 1st, the rotary valve; 2d, the two cylinders; 8d,
the double-acting pistons, connected by a rod having a cam-slot
at right angles with the length of the rod; 4th, the adjusting
stops; 5th, the crank-shaft with its pinion, and cranks, by
means of which rotary motion is imparted from the pistons to
the valve. The rotary valve, and the combination of the cylinders, piston-rods, crank-shaft, and rotary valve were the subjects of a previous patent granted to Ball and Fitts on the 20th
of July, 1869. The only additional elements in the present
patent are the adjusting stops and the rectangular position of
the slots in the piston-rods.
It is a well-known doctrine of patent law, that the claim of
a combination is not infringed if any of the material parts
of the combination are omitted. It is equally well known that
if any one of the parts is only formally omitted, and is suplied
by a mechanical equivalent, performing the same office and producing the same result, the patent is infringed.
The first question, therefore, is, whether the defendants infringe the claim referred to, - whether they do, in fact, in
their water-meters, use all the parts of the combination above
specified.
The meter manufactured by the defendants is different in
several respects from that described in the complainant's patent.
It has a rotary valve like the latter, but without any bevel-gear;
it also has two cylinders, with an immaterial difference of position, being placed at right angles with each other instead of
being parallel; each cylinder is likewise provided with two
double-acting pistons, connected by a piston-rod, the same as
in the complainant's meter; the cylinder-heads are also furnished with Ericsson's stops projecting inside for arresting the
movement of the pistons, though these stops are fixed and not
adjustable. But the meter of the defendant;s has no crankshaft, and no semblance of a crank-shaft, for imparting motion
from the pistons to the rotary valve; on the contrary, their
valve is connected directly with the piston-rods in the follow-

WATER-MpETER

Co. v.

DESPER.

[Sup. Or.

ing manner: The piston-rods cross each other at right angles,
having transverse slots, and being halved together, one lying
immediately on the other, so that the axes of the pistons are
in the same plane. The valve below is connected directly with
the piston-rods by a single crank which is keyed on to its upper
solid stem, and has a crank-pin which works in the two slots
of the respective piston-rods. Thus arranged, the successive
reciprocating movements of the two double pistons impart a
circular motion to the valve, which, by duly arranged induction
and eduction ports, alternately fills and empties the respective
cylinders.
From this it appears that, in the construction of defendants'
meter, the crank-shaft, with its two cranks, pinion, and gearing
connection (which is an essential feature of the complainant's
meter), is altogether dispensed with. The defendants effect
the desired result of communicating rotary motion to the valve
-without any such shaft, or any thing equivalent thereto. The
entire part, with all its appurtenances, is thrown out of their
machine. They use a crank, it is true; but it is attached
directly to the rotary valve, and is a part of it. The use of a
crank in converting reciprocating into rotary motion is an old
device. It was pplied to the steam-engine a century ago, and
has been applied to hundreds of different machines since that
time. Ball and Fitts had no claim to it, but only to the particular method and device by which they emiployed it, in combination with the various other parts of their meter. Instead
of the crank-shaft, had they in their patented combination
claimed every method, and all methods, of communicating motion from the piston-rods to the rotary valve by means of a
crank, the defendants' meter would have been an infringement.
But such a claim might not have been valid. At all events, it
was not allowed.
The specification was evidently drawn with great care, and
it is to be presumed that the patentees claimed all that the
Patent Office considered them entitled to. We cannot say that
the crank-shaft was an immaterial part of their combination.
The patent, as it stands, occupies very narrow ground. It
requires the presence of every one of the elements specified in
the combination secured by it. We think that the defendants

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD Co. v. TENNESSEE.

do not use all of these elements, but that they dispense with
one of them at least which is material in the complainant's
meter. Our conclusion, therefore, is, that they do not infringe
the complainant's patent.
It may be observed, before concluding this opinion, that the
courts of this country cannot always indulge the same latitude
which is exercised by English judges in determining what parts
of a machine are or are not material. Our law requires the
patentee to specify particularly what he claims to be new, and
if he claims a combination of certain elements or parts, we
cannot declare that any one of these elements is immaterial.
The patentee makes them all material by the restricted form
of his claim. We can only decide whether any part omitted
by an alleged infringer is supplied by some other device or
instrumentality which is its equivalent. We think no such
equivalent is supplied in this case. The general construction
of the defendants' meter, and the arrangement of its parts, are
so different from that described in the complainant's patent,
and claimed therein, that the defendants are enabled to dispense with the entire part referred to.
Decree affrmed.

RAItROAD

CO1PANY

v. TENNESSEE.

The Constitution of Tennessee, in force in 1838, declares that "suits may be
brought against the State in such manner and in such courts as the legislature
may by law direct." The statute of 1855 providing that actions might be
instituted against the State under the same rules and regulations that govern
those between private citizens, but conferring no power on the courts to execute their judgments, was repealed in 1865. No other law was enacted prescribing the manner or the courts in which the State could be sued. In a suit
subsequently brought by the State in 1872 against the Bank of Tennessee and
certain of its creditors, A., who was admitted a defendant, filed a cross-bill,
setting up that while the first statute was in force the bank became indebted
to him, and, praying that under the indemnity clause of its charter a decree
be rendered against the State for the amount of the debt. The cross-bill was
dismissed solely upon the ground that the State could not be sued in her own
courts. HFd, that the repealing statute of 1865 did not impair the obligation
of a contract, within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution of
the United States.
22
VOL. x1.

