Oct. 1879.]

WOOD V. CARPENTER.

the judgment of the District Court and direct a judgment for the
plaintiff on the facts found for such amount as shall appear to
be due on the coupons sued for; and it is
So ordered.

WOOD

V. CARPENTER.

The statutes of Indiana provide that "an action for relief against frauds shall
be commenced within six years," and that "if any person liable to an action
shall conceal the fact from the person entitled thereto, the action may be
commenced at any time within the period of limitation after the discovery of
the cause of action." A., who had recovered judgment in 1860 in a court of
that State against B., brought suit in 1872, alleging that the latter, in 1858, in
order to defraud his creditors, confessed judgments, incumbered his property,
and in 1862 transferred his real and personal estate to sundry persons, who
held the same in secret trust for him; that on being arrested in 1862, upon
final process to compel the payment of A.'s judgment, he deposed that he was
not worth twenty dollars, and had in good faith assigned all his property to
pay his creditors; that A. believing the statement, and relying upon the representations of B., that C., his son-in-law, would with his own means purchasa
the judgment for fifty cents of the principal and interest, sold it in 1864 to
C.; that he has since discovered that the money he received therefor belonged
to B.; that the latter has now an indefeasible title to the property; and that
said judgment has been entered satisfied. Held, that the Statute of Limitations commenced running when the alleged fraud was perpetrated, and that
it is not avoided by a replication averring that B. fraudulently concealed the
facts in the declaration mentioned, touching the incumbering or the conveying
of the property, the confession of judgments, and his real ownership of the
property, and that A. had no knowledge of them until a short time before the
suit was brought.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Andrew L. Robinson and Mr. Asa Iglehart for the

plaintiff in error.
1Mr. ChYarles Denby and Mr. eT H. Slackelford for the defendant in error.
Mr.. JUSTICE SwAYNF, delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought Oct. 21, 1872. The amended complaint or declaration makes the following case: William L.

WOOD V. CARPENTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Wood, the plaintiff, recovered judgments in the Vanderburg
Circuit Court against Willard Carpenter upon sundry promissory notes and bills of exchange. The first judgment bore
date on the 16th of May, 1860, and the last on the 22d of
August in that year. In the aggregate they amounted to
the sum of $8,557.07. At the dates of the notes and bills the
defendant was the owner of real and personal estate of the
value of $500,000. For the purpose of defrauding the plaintiff and others by depreciating the value of their claims
against him, and of thereby inducing them to sell the claims to
him for less than their face, the defendant, in the year 1858,
entered into a fraudulent conspiracy with his brother, Alvin
B. Carpenter, and others to the plaintiff unknown, to incumber his real estate and hide away the title so that the property
should not be sold to pay his debts, but in the end inure to
his benefit. In pursuance of this scheme he confessed sundry
fraudulent judgments for large sums, and afterwards made a
fraudulent assignment of all his property to William H. Walker
and William D. Allis, and thereafter procured the title to all
his real and personal estate to be vested in his brother, Alvin,
and others, who held the property in secret trust for the defendant. In this way the title was so concealed that the plaintiff
was prevented from levying executions issued upon his judgments. On the 14th of January, 1862, the plaintiff, in order
to compel the defendant to pay his judgments, caused him to
be arrested by the sheriff, in Massachusetts, upon final process.
The defendant was taken before a master in chancery, and
afterwards, before the master, took the insolvent debtor's oath
according to the law of that State, and was thereupon discharged.
Upon that occasion he falsely deposed and swore that he was
not possessed of pecuniary means to the extent of twenty dollars, and that he had in good faith assigned all his property
for the benefit of his creditors. From that time forward the
defendant falsely pretended to the plaintiff and his other creditors that he was poor, and wholly unable to pay his debts, or
any part of them. Having thus put his property beyond the
reach of process upon the plaintiff's judgments, and procured
his discharge from custody in Massachusetts, and led the plaintiff to believe he had no property out of which the judgments

Oct. 1879.]

WOOD V. CARPENTER.

could be collected, the defendant afterwards, on the 1st of January, 1864, in further pursuance of the conspiracy, pretended
and represented that his son-in-law, one D. C. Keller, would
purchase the judgments with his own means, and so procured
the plaintiff, who acted upon the belief of the truth of the representations and of the perjured statement of the defendant, to
assign the judgments to Keller for fifty per cent of their principal and interest, amounting to $5,104.62, whereas, in fact,
the judgments were bought by Keller with money furnished by
the defendant, and they were held in trust by Keller for the
defendant until June 1, 1873, when Keller, at the instance of
the defendant, caused satisfaction to be entered. Before and
since the rendition of the judgments the defendant owned
property worth exceeding $200,000. The title was held in
secret trust for him by his brother Alvin and others, and was
fraudulently concealed from the plaintiff until long after the
assignment of the judgments. Within twelve months past the
property was all reconveyed to the defendant, and he holds it
by an indefeasible title. The plaintiff had no knowledge of the
ownership of the property by the defendant, nor of the secret
trust, nor of the falsity of his representations, as alleged, until
during the year 1872.
The defendant filed an answer consisting of three paragraphs: 1. He denied all the allegations of the petition.
2. He alleged that the causes of action set forth in the petition did not accrue within six years.
3. He averred that he was not guilty of any of the grievances set forth in the complaint at any time within six years
before the commencement of the action.
The plaintiff's reply to the second and third paragraphs
averred as follows: The defendant concealed the facts, that the judgments confessed in favor of Chapman and others were fraudulent; that
Alvin C. Carpenter held the said property, real and personal,
in trust for.the defendant; that the defendant had committed
perjury before the master in Massachusetts; that Keller had
bought the judgments with the defendant's money, and for
the defendant's use and benefit; that the defendant was in

WOOD V. OARPENTER.

[Sup. Ot.

fact the owner of the property, and that it was held by his
brother and others in secret trust for him; and that his
representations as to his insolvency were false and fraudulent.
It was averred further, that the concealment was effected
by the defendant by means of fraud, perjury, and the other
wicked devices set forth and described in the plaintiff's complaint herein; and that the plaintiff had no knowledge of the
facts so concealed by the defendant until the year 1872, and
a few weeks only before the commencement of this suit.
The defendant demurred to the last two paragraphs of the
reply. The demurrer was sustained. The plaintiff not asking
leave to amend, the court gave judgment against him, and he
thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The only question presented for our consideration is whether
the demurrer was properly sustained. The Statute of Limitations relied upon by the defendant declares: "The following actions shall be commenced within six years
after the cause of action has accrued, and not afterwards."
2 Rev. Stat. of 1876, p. 121.
. . If any person liable to an
action shall conceal the fact from the person entitled thereto,
the action may be commenced at any time within the period
of limitation after the discovery of the cause of action." Id.
128, sect. 219. Both these provisions apply to actions for
fraud. 2TMusselman v. Kent and Others, 33 Ind. 453; Cravens v.
-Duncan,55 id. 347. The statute begins to run when the fraud
is perpetrated. -Wynne et al. v. Cornelison et al., 52 id. 312.
In the case in hand, the specific wrong complained of, and
the gravamen of the action, is the transfer of the judgments
against Carpenter for the consideration of fifty cents on the
dollar of principal and interest, when it is averred they were
good for the entire amount, and which transfer, it is alleged,
was brought about by the fraud and misrepresentations of the
defendant and Keller. It is averred in the complaint that they
were assigned on the 1st of January, 1864. The cause of action
then accrued, and the statute began to run. The averments
of fraud, aside from this transaction, are only matters of inducement. The bar of the statute became complete on the 1st of
January, 1870, unless the reply brings the case within sect. 219,
".

Ot. 1879.]

WOOD v. CARPENTER.

which declares that, where there is concealment, such actions
may be brought within the time limited, after the discovery of
the cause of action.
Statutes of limitation are vital to the welfare of society and
are favored in the law. They are found and approved in all
systems of enlightened jurisprudence. They promote repose
by giving security and stability to human affairs. An important public policy lies at their foundation. They stimulate to
activity and punish negligence. While time is constantly destroying the evidence of rights, they supply its place by a
presumption which renders proof unnecessary. Mere delay,
extending to the limit prescribed, is itself a conclusive bar.
The bane and antidote go together.
The provision in the statute of which the plaintiff seeks to
avail himself was originally established in equity, and has
since been made applicable in trials at law. There is no trace
of it in the English statute of limitations of the 21st of James
I., which was adopted in most of the American colonies before
the Revolution, and has since been the foundation of nearly
all of the like legislation in this country.
Having been imported from equity, the adjudications of
equitable and legal tribunals upon the subject are alike entitled to consideration.
Upon looking carefully into the reply, we find it sets forth
that the concealment touching the cause of action was effected
by the defendant by means of the several frauds and falsehoods
averred more at length in the complaint. The former is only
a brief epitome of the latter. There is the same generality of
statement and denunciation, and the same absence of specific
details in both. No point in the complaint is omitted in the
reply, but no new light is thrown in which tends to show the
relation of cause and effect, or, in other words, that the protracted concealment which is admitted necessarily followed
from the facts and circumstances which are said to have produced it.
It will be observed also that there is no averment that during the long period over which the transactions referred to
extended, the plaintiff ever made or caused to be made the
slightest inquiry in relation to either of them. The judgments

WOOD V. OARPENTER.

[Sup. Ot.

confessed were of record, and he knew it. It could not have
been difficult to ascertain, if the facts were so, that they were
shams. The conveyances to Alvin and Keller were also on
record in the proper offices. If they were in trust for the defendant, as alleged, proper diligence could not have failed to
find a clew in every case that would have led to evidence not
to be resisted. With the strongest motives to action, the plaintiff was supine. If underlying frauds existed, as he alleges, he
did nothing to unearth them. It was his duty to make the
effort. It should be borne in mind that when the judgments
were assigned to Keller the country was in the throes of the
civil war. Lee had not surrendered. Gold and silver, in the
currency of the time, were at a high premium. All real property was largely depreciated. The future was uncertain. A
transaction which then seemed wise and fortunate, a year later
might be deemed greatly otherwise. It is hard to avoid the
conviction that the plaintiff's conduct marks the difference
between forethought in one condition of things and afterthought in another.
The discovery of the cause of action, if such it may be
termed, is thus set forth: "And the plaintiff further avers that
he had no knowledge of the facts so concealed by the defendant
until the year A.D. 1872, and a few weeks only before the
bringing of this suit." There is nothing further upon the
subject.
In this class of cases the plaintiff is held-to stringent rules
of pleading and evidence, "and especially must there be distinct averments as to the time when the fraud, mistake, concealment, or misrepresentation was discovered, and what the
discovery is, so that the court may clearly see whether, by ordinary diligence, the discovery might not have been before made."
Stearns v. Page, 7 How. 819, 829. "This is necessary to
enable the defendant to meet the fraud and tle time of its discovery." Moore v. Greene et al., 19 id. 69, 72. The same
rules were again laid down in Baubien v. Baubien, 23 id. 190,
and in Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 95.
A general allegation of ignorance at one time and of knowledge at another are of no effect. If the plaintiff made any particular discovery, it should be stated when it was made, what

Oct. 1879.]

WOOD V. CARPENTER.

it was, how it was made, and why it was not made sooner.
Carr v. Hilton, 1 Curt. C. C. 220.
The fraud intended by the section which shall arrest the
running of the statute must be one that is secret and concealed,
and not one that is 'patent or known. Martin, Assignee, 'c. v.
Smith, 1 Dill. 85, and the authorities cited.
"Whatever is notice enough to excite attention and put the
party on his guard and call for inquiry, is notice of every thing
to which such inquiry might have led. When a person has
sufficient information to lead him to a fact, he shall be deemed
conversant of it." Kennedy v. Greene, 3 Myl. & K. 722.
"The presumption is that if the party affected by any fraudulent transaction or management might, with ordinary care and
attention, have seasonably detected it, he seasonably had actual
knowledge of it." Angell, Lim., sect. 187 and note.
A party seeking to avoid the bar of the statute on account of
fraud must aver and show that he used due diligence to detect
it, and if he had the means of discovery in his power, he will
be held to have known it. Buckner & Stanton v. Calcote, 28
Miss. 432, 434. See also .Yudd v. amblin, 8 Allen (Mass.),
130.
In Cole v. MeGlathry (9 Me. 131), the plaintiff had given
the defendant money to pay certain debts. The defendant
falsely affirmed he had paid them, and fraudulently kept the
money. It was held that the plaintiff could not recover, because he had at all times the means of discovering the truth
by making inquiry of those who should have received the
money.
In 2JrcKown v. WMitmore (31 id. 448), the plaintiff handed the
defendant money to be deposited for the plaintiff in bank.
The defendant told the plaintiff that he had made the deposit.
It was held that, if the statement were false and fraudulent, the
plaintiff could not recover, because he might at all times have
inquired of the bank. In Rouse v. Southard (39 id. 404), the
defendant was sued as part owner of a vessel, for repairs, and
pleaded the Statute of Limitations. The plaintiff offered evidence that the defendant, when called on for payment, had
denied that he was such owner. It was held that, as the ownership might have been ascertained from other sources, the

WOOD V. OARPENTER.

[Sup. Ot.

denial was not such a fraudulent concealment as would take the
case out of the bar of the statute.
Numerous other cases to the same effect might be cited.
They all show the light in which courts regard the qualification here in question, of the limitation which would otherwise
apply.
The subject has been several times considered in the State of
Indiana, whence this case came. In Boyd v. Boyd (27 Ind.
429), it was ruled that the concealment under sect. 219,
which will avoid the statute, must go beyond mere silence. It
must be something done to prevent discovery.
Stanley v. Stanton (36 id. 445) is instructive with reference
to the case before us. In 1870, A. sued B. The complaint
alleged that in 1848 B. falsely represented himself to A. to be
the agent of C., to whom A. was indebted on a promissory note,
and that A. paid the money to B. as such agent, and that
B. promised to pay it over to C., which he had not done. B.
pleaded the Statute of Limitations. A. replied that he paid the
money to B. on his claim that he was the agent of C.; that B.
was not such agent, but concealed the fact from A., and prom-.
ised A. to pay the money to C., which he had not done, and
that by reason of the concealment A. did not discover the cause
of action until the fall of the year 1869. It was held that, the
concealment being all previous to the accruing of the cause of
action, something more than the silence of B. was necessary to
prevent the running of the statute, and that the action was
barred. The concealment, it was said, must be the result of
positive acts.
Wynne et al. v. Cornelison et al. (supra) was a case growing
out of an alleged fraudulent conveyance. There, as here, there
was a demurrer to a paragraph of the reply setting up concealment to countervail the defence of the Statute of Limitations.
The allegations were not unlike those in the case before us.
The judgment of the court below sustaining the demurrer was
affirmed. The court said: "The Statute of Limitations is a
statute of repose, and where its operation is sought to be
avoided by the party liable to the action, the allegation and
proof should bring the case clearly within the section. The
allegation that the defendants pretended and professed to the

Oct. 1879.]

PELTON V. NATIONAL BANK.

world that the transactions were bona fide transactions, is too
general to amount to any thing." A wide and careful survey of
the authorities leads to these results: The fraud and deceit which enable the offender to do the
wrong may precede its perpetration. The length of time is
not material, provided there is the relation of design and its
consummation.
Concealment by mere silence is not enough. There must be
some trick or contrivance intended to exclude suspicion and
prevent inquiry.
There must be reasonable diligence; and the means of knowledge are the same thing in effect as knowledge itself.
The circumstances of the discovery must be fully stated and
proved, and the delay which has occurred must be shown to be
consistent with the requisite diligence.
The reply is clearly bad. It contains some vigorous declamation, but is wanting in the averment of facts, which are indispensable to give it sufficiency as a pleading, for the purpose
intended. The complaint to which it refers does not help it.
Further remarks are unnecessary. The demurrer was properly
sustained by the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.

PELTON v. NATiONAL BAlx.
1. Although for purposes of taxation the statutes of a State provide for the
valuation of all moneyed capital, including shares of the national banks, at
its true cash value, the systematic and intentional valuation of all other
moneyed capital by the taxing officers far below its true value, while those
shares are assessed at their full value, is a violation of the act of Congress
which prescribes the rule by which they shall be taxed by State authority.
2. In such case, on the payment or the tender of the sum which such shares
ought to pay under the rule established by that act, a court of equity will
enjoin the State authorities from collecting the remainder.

APPE AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

