[Sup. Ct.

SIMMONS v. WAGNER.

tained in any case where they contain claims that have once
been formally disclaimed by the patentee, or rejected with his
acquiescence, and he has consented to such rejection in order to
obtain his letters-patent. Under such circumstances, the rejection of the claim can in no just sense be regarded as a matter
of inadvertence or mistake. Even though it was such, the
applicant should seem to be estopped from setting it up on an
application for a reissue.

Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

did not sit in this case.

SIMM oS v. WAGNER.
1. A tract of public land which has been sold by the proper officer of the United
States, and the purchase-money therefor paid, is not subject to entry while
the sale continues in force.
2. A party in possession of lands, holding an uncancelled certificate of the register of the land-office within whose district they are situate, showing that
full payment has been made for them, was sued in ejectment by the party
who subsequently entered them, and obtained a patent therefor. Held, that
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

1M1r. A. -L. Knapp for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles P. Wise for the defendant in error.
Mr. CHFr
JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by Simmons, the
plaintiff in error, against Wagner, the defendant, to recover
the possession of the N. E. fr. I see. 19, T. 4, N. R. 9 W. of
the third principal meridian, Illinois. Simmons claimed title
under a patent from the United States, dated April 25, 1871,
granting him the lands as the assignee of one Mecke, who entered them at the land-office Jan. 25, 1871. Wagner claimed
through a purchase made under the old credit system, April

Oct. 1879.]

SIMMONS V. WAGNER.

17, 1816, by one John Lewis, and a paper bearing date July 8,
1829, which purported to be a certificate of full payment of the
purchase-money in favor of William Russell.
A trial was had to the court without a jury, and resulted in
a judgment for the defendant. There was no special finding of
facts, but the evidence is set out in full in a bill of exceptions,
which concludes as follows: "The court found the issue joined
for the defendant on the ground that the premises in controversy, on the issue of the final certificate to William Russell,
ceased to be a part of the public domain, and were not thereafter subject to entry by individuals or sale by the United States,
and to which finding the plaintiff then and there excepted."
To justify this conclusion, the court must have found as a
fact that the final certificate in question was a genuine document, and issued by the proper officer in the regular course of
his official duty. This finding is conclusive on us, for we have
many times decided that a bill of exceptions cannot be used to
bring up the evidence for a review of the findings of fact. The
A, otsford, 98 U. S. 440, and the cases there cited. We have
to consider, then, upon this branch of the case, only the question whether one in possession under such a certificate, without
a patent, can successfully defend against an action of ejectment
to recover the possession by the holder of a patent issued upon
a subsequent purchase of the land as part of the public domain.
It is well settled that when lands have once been sold by the
United States and the purchase-money paid, the lands sold are
segregated from the public domain, and are no longer subject to
entry. A subsequent sale and grant of the same lands to another person would be absolutely null and void so long as the
first sale continued in force. Wirth v. Branson, 98 id. 118;
Frisbiev. WMdtney, 9 Wall. 187; Lyttle v. The State of Arkansas,
9 How. 314. Where the right to a patent has once become
vested in a purchaser of public lands, it is equivalent, so far as
the government is concerned, to a patent actually issued. The
execution and delivery of the patent after the right to it has
become complete are the mere ministerial acts of the officers
charged with that duty. Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S. 652;
Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402.
This leads us to the inquiry whether Lewis and his assigns

SIMMONS V. WAGNER.

(Sup. Ct.

had, under the facts as found, acquired a vested right in the
lands when the entry was made by means of which Simmons
got his patent. By the statute under which Lewis made his
entry in 1816, it was provided that purchases of public lands
might be made on credit, and that when payment of the purchase-money was completed the register of the land-office should
give "a certificate of the same to the party, and, on producing
to the Secretary of the Treasury the same final certificate, the
President of the United States is hereby authorized to grant a
patent of the lands to the said purchaser, his heirs or assigns."
2 Stat. 76, sect. 7. It follows, then, that if the final certificate
in this case was genuine and valid, as, in effect, it has been
found to be, Russell, the assignee of Lewis, had the legal right
to demand from the President a patent for the lands described.
This, certainly, was a complete segregation of the lands in controversy at that date. The sale to Mecke and patent thereon
to Simmons, more than thirty years afterwards, were null and
void, and conveyed no title as against Russell and his assigns.
It is of no consequence whether the assignees of Russell could
get a patent in their own names or not. After the certificate
issued the lands were no longer in law a part of the public domain, and the authority of the officers of the government to
grant them otherwise than to him, or some person holding his
rights, was gone. The question is not whether Wagner, if he
was out of possession, could recover in ejectment upon the certificate, but whether Simmons can recover as against him. He
is in a situation to avail himself of the weakness of the title of
his adversary, and need not assert his own. We think it clear,
therefore, that the court below was right in giving judgment
for defendant on the facts found.
Several exceptions were taken, during the progress of the
trial, to rulings on the admissibility of evidence. While errors
have been formally assigned on all these exceptions, only a few
have been insisted on- in the argument. Some have been already disposed of, as the objections were made entirely upon
the assumption that nothing short of a superior legal title could
defeat the patent which Simmons held. There was some evidence to prove the signatures of the register to the final certificate. That was one of the facts in the case, and the general

Oct. 1879.]

WEST V. SMITH.

finding in favor of the validity of the certificate is equivalent to
a finding that its due execution had been proved. The question here is not whether the deeds from Lewis to Russell, without the clerk's certificate as to the official character of the officer
before whom the acknowledgment was made, would be sufficient
to justify the register of the.land-office in issuing his final certificate; but whether, in this action, they were admissible without such certificate to prove the fact that an assignment had
been actually made. For aught we know, they were properly
certified when presented to the register. Copies from the
county records were offered in evidence below, and the records
were made in 1816, long before any action was had by the register. It is not claimed that any certificate was necessary to
authenticate them for record or to make them admissible as
evidence in the cause.
On the whole, we see no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

WEST V. S30T.
1. Where an action has been removed from a State court to the Circuit Court,
the latter may, in accordance with the State practice, grant the plaintiff
leave to amend his declaration by inserting new counts for the same cause
of action as that alleged in the original counts.
2. In an action to recover the balance alleged to be due upon certain yarn spun
for, and from time to time delivered to, the defendant, for all of which he
had paid, except the last lot, he, by way of recoupment, claimed damages
because all the yarn was not of the stipulated size. To prove this, he put
in evidence a letter of the plaintiff wherein he, at the instance of the
defendant, deducted from one of his bills five cents per pound on a specified quantity, and stated the balance. The plaintiff, being examined, was
then asked by his counsel whether he accepted defendant's proposition
to make the deduction on that lot because he admitted that the yarn
was not according to contract, or to settle a controversy. He answered
that it was to avoid a controversy. Held, that the answer was properly
admitted.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

