Oct. 1879.]

BECHTEL V. UNITED STATES.

BECHTEL V. UNITED STATES.
1. Sect. 5597 of the Revised Statutes saves all rights which had accrued under
any of the acts repealed by sect. 596.
2. The United States brought suit, Oct. 9, 1872, against A. on his bond, conditioned that he should account and pay for certain stamps. Pleas, non est
factum, the non-delivery of the stamps, and performance. At the trial in
April, 1876, the court, over A.'s objection, permitted the plaintiff to put in
evidence a copy of the bond and of A.'s receipts for the stamps, together
with a treasury transcript showing a balance due by him of 4,400. To these
papers was attached a certificate bearing date Oct. 11, 1872, and reciting
that it was issued pursuant to the act of March 3, 1797. The defendant
introduced no evidence, but requested the court to charge the jury that he
was entitled to have deducted from said $4,400 a commission of ten per
cent "on the same as allowed by the act of Congress of June 30, 1864,
amended in 1870, and incorporated in the Revised Statutes under section
342,." The court refused so to charge. Held, 1. That the papers were
competent evidence. 2. That the refusal of the court to charge as requested by the defendant was proper.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Edward Salomon for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith, contra.
MR.JUSTICE SwAr-E delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 25th of November, 1871, the defendants executed to

the United States a bond in the penal sum of $20,000, conditioned that Bock, Schneider, & Co., manufacturers of matches,
should account and pay for certain internal revenue stamps

therein mentioned to be used in their business. The declaration (which is upon this bond) avers that thereafter the United
States delivered to Bock, Schneider, & Co. such stamps of the
value of $5,500, and that they had refused and neglected to
pay for a portion of them of the value of $4,400.
The defendants pleaded non estfaetum, performance, and the
non-delivery of the stamps.
The case was tried by a jury, and a verdict and judgment
were rendered for the United States.
Upon the trial, the United States offered in evidence a cer-

BJECHTEL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup, G .

tified copy of the bond and certified copies of the receipts of
Bock, Schneider, & Co. for the stamps, both from the Treasury
Department, and a treasury transcript of the account of Bock,
Schneider, & Co., showing a balance of $4,400 against them.
The defendants objected to this evidence being received, and
asked the court to instruct the jury to find in their favor. The
court admitted the evidence, and refused the instruction. The
defendants excepted as to both points.
" The defendants then asked the court to charge the jury
and direct that the defendants were entitled to have deducted
from the balance shown to be due by the treasury accounts ten
per cent commission on the same, as allowed by the act of Congress of June 30, 1864, amended in 1870, and incorporated iu
the Revised Statutes under sect. 3425, page 677.
"The court, after argument, denied the motion, and the
defendants excepted.
" The court thereupon directed- the jury to find a verdict for
the plaintiffs for the sum of $4,400, principal, with interest from
October , 1872, to the date of said trial, at seven per cent per
annum, being the sum of $1,052.30, making a total of $5,452.30;
to which direction the defendants excepted.
" The jury rendered a verdict as directed."
The brief of the counsel for the plaintiffs in error is confined
to two points: 1. The admission of the documentary evidence from the
Treasury Department; and,
2. The refusal of the court to instruct the jury to allow the
deduction of ten per cent claimed by the defendants.
Our remarks will be confined to these subjects. We shall
consider them in the order in which we have named them.
The suit was commenced and put at issue by the pleadings,
and the copies and transcript from the treasury bear date more
than two years before the Revised Statutes were enacted, but
their enactment was prior to the trial. They were approved
by the President on the 22d of January, 1874, and then took
effect.
The repealing section, 5596, included the act of March 3,
1797, c. 20 (1 Stat. 512); but sect. 5597 saved all rights
which had accrued under any of the acts thus abrogated. It

Oct. 1879.]

BECHTEL V. UNITED STATES.

declared that all such rights "shall continue and be enforced
in the same manner as if said repeal had not been made."
Sect. 886 of the Revised Statutes, relied upon by the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error, is not, therefore, the statutory provision by which the rights of the parties as to the point
here in question are to be determined. They are governed
by the second section of the act of 1797, before mentioned,
upon which sect. 886 of the later enactment is founded.
They are materially different, and the latter is narrower than
the former.
The act of 1797 was the first regulation upon the subject
made by Congress. The second section declares that "in every
case of delinquency where a suit has been or shall be instituted,
a transcript from the books and proceedings of the treasury,
certified," &c., "shall be admitted in evidence, and the court
trying the cause shall be thereupon authorized to grant judgment and award execution accordingly; and all copies of bonds,"
&c., "relating to or connected with the settlement of any account
between thle United States and an individual, when certified,"
&c., "may be annexed to such transcripts, and shall have equal
validity and be entitled to the same degree of credit which
would be due to the original papers if produced and authenticated in court."
This section clearly comprehends the case before us.
The first section directs suit to be brought against "any revenue officer or other person accountable for public money" who
shall become a defaulter. If it be said that the second section
is limited by the first to the classes of persons named in the
first, there are several answers.
It will be observed that the language of the second section
contained no such restriction. It is general. Its terms are "in
every case of delinquency," and again, "the settlement of an
account between the United States and an individual." The act
contains seven sections. The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh
apply indisputably to all debtors of the United States, without discrimination.
The third section, fairly considered, must be regarded as no
less comprehensive.
The second section, being remedial in its character and relat-

BECHTEL v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

ing to the law of procedure, is to be liberally construed with
reference to the purpose of its enactment. Sedgwick, Statutory and Constitutional Law, pp. 311, 315, and notes.
This precise question came before the Circuit Court in United
States v. Lent, 1 Paine, 417. Mr. Justice Thompson there
said : "The construction contended for on the part of the plaintiffs
in error, that this provision, as to the admission of authenticated copies, is restricted to certain cases, where suits are
commenced under authority given by the first section of the
act, cannot be sustained, although it is not perceived why
the present is not such a case. But the provision is general,
and applies to all eases where the evidence is required, and is
founded upon a proper precaution to guard against th6 loss of
the original."
See also United States v. Lee, 2 Cranch, C. C. 462.
As the act of 1797 has been repealed, we forbear to pursue
the subject further.
A few words will be sufficient to dispose of the other
point.
It arises under the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, sect. 161.
13 Stat. 294; Rev. Stat., sect. 3425. The deduction claimed
of ten per cent is allowed by the statute to a purchaser "who
furnishes his own die," &c. The defendants declined to give
any evidence to the jury, and it certainly does not appear by
the record that any was adduced on this point. But it is said
it was treated by the government at the trial as a conceded
fact. There is no such admission here by the counsel of the
United States.
We cannot look beyond the record, and that is silent upon
the subject.
It is said, further, that the transcript shows the deduction
from a charge for stamps of $1,100, not here in controversy.
It would be a long stride in dialectics, and one we are not prepared to take, from this fact to the inference, that the purchaser
also furnished the die when the stamps in question were bought.
The conclusion claimed from such premises would be a palpable
non sequitur.
It is rather to be inferred that the allowance was made in

Oct. 1879.]

CRAMIPTON V. ZABRISKIE.

one case becafise the die was furnished, and refused in the other
because it was not.
Error must be affirmatively shown. It is not to be presumed.
Judgment affirmed.

CRAMPTON V. ZABRISKIE.
1. Under the laws of New Jersey, the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Hudson had no authority, Dec. 14, 1876, to purchase lands
whereon to erect a court-house, and to issue in payment therefor bonds
payable out of the amount appropriated and limited for the fiscal year
commencing Dec. 1, 1877.
2. Unless otherwise provided by legislative enactment, a resident tax-payer has
the right to invoke the interposition of a court of equity to prevent an illegal disposition of the moneys of the county, or the illegal creation of a debt
which he in common with other property-holders may otherwise be compelled to pay.
3. After the Supreme Court of New Jersey had decided that the resolution
adopted by the board for such purchase and payment was illegal, A., the
vendor of the lands, brought an action on said bonds against the board.
Thereupon certain resident tax-payers filed their bill, praying that A. be restrained from prosecuting that action or one to recover the value of the
lands; that the board be enjoined from paying the bonds, and directed to
convey the lands to A., and that he be required to accept a deed therefor.
Held, that they were entitled to the relief prayed for.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
"The Board of Chosen Freeholders of the County of Hudson," in the State of New Jersey, adopted, Dec. 14, 1876, a
resolution for the purchase of certain lots in Jersey City, on
which to erect a court-house and offices for the county, at the
price of $2,000 for each twenty-five hundred square feet. In
payment therefor the county was to issue to the owner of them
bonds "payable out of the amount appropriated and limited
for the expense of the next fiscal year; said bonds to run one
year from the date thereof, and bearing interest at the rate of
seven per cent per annum."
Crampton, the owner, in accordance with the terms of the
resolution, accepted the proposition of purchase, and delivered,
Dec. 22, 1876, to the board a duly executed deed for the lots,

