Oct. 1879.]

BAST

v.

BANK.

BAST v. BAiNK.
March 1, 1876, A., by way of collateral security for his notes of even date, payable four months thereafter, made an instrument in writing assigning to B.,
the payee of them, a judgment against C., and authorizing him to sell it,
in case they should not be paid at maturity, and apply the proceeds to the
payment of them. C., at said date, had sufficient personal property to satisfy the judgment. Execution was issued June 19, but that property had
been previously exhausted by the levy of other executions. In a suit by
B. against A. on the notes, -Hed, 1. That B. was not bound by the terms
of the assignment to take steps for the collection of the judgment before
the maturity of the notes. 2. That, in the absence of accident, mistake, or
fraud, evidence was not admissible to show his parol agreement, made contemporaneously with the assignment and as part of the transaction, to
issue execution and collect the judgment whenever the money could be made
thereon.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. F. W Hughes for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. B.H. Schick and Hr. C. .B. Kaerecr, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an action on three notes made by Bast, the plaintiff
in error, to the First National Bank of Ashland, defendant in
error, dated March 1, 1876, and payable four months after
date, two being for $2,000 each, and the other for $3,481.79.
Simultaneously with the delivery of the notes the following
assignment in writing was made: -

"Know all men by these presents, that I, Emanuel Bast, do hereby transfer and assign to William Torrey, cashier, of Ashland,
Pennsylvania, a certain judgment of June Term, 1875, in Court of
Common Pleas of Schuylkill County, No. 1292, in which the First
National Bank of Ashland is plaintiff, and the Ringgold Iron and
Coal Company is defendant, and the three several drafts upon
which the said judgment was obtained as collateral security for
the payment of two notes of $2,000 each, and one for $3,481.69,
made by me to order of William Torrey, cashier, dated March 1,
1876, payable in four months after date, and upon failure on my

[Slip. Ot.

BAST v. BANK.

part to pay said notes at maturity, or at the maturity of time,
for which the same may be renewed, then the said Torrey, cashier,
is hereby authorized and empowered to sell the same at public sale,
after ten days' notice, to me, and apply the proceeds thereof to
payment of my said notes, and in case the proceeds of same shall
not be sufficient to pay said notes, then I promise to pay any balance that may be due.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this
first day of March, 1876.
" E~&iANUL BAST. [sEAL.]
"Witness: A. P. Sp:Nxy, S.

H].TRY

Nonuis."

Bast was at the time the owner of the judgment assigned, on
which there was due the exact amount of his notes, and on
each of the notes was an indorsement to the effect that the
judgment assigned was held as collateral. There was no legal
impediment in the way of an immediate issue of execution on
the judgment, and until May 19, 1876, the Iron and Coal
Company, the judgment defendant, had unincumbered personal
property subject to levy and sale on execution sufficient to pay
the amount that was due. No execution was issued until June
19, and before that time the property of the company had all
been exhausted by the prior levy of executions issued on other
judgments. Bast made no demand on the bank to issue execution on his judgment at any time before June 19.
After the maturity of the notes the judgment was sold pursuant to the authority contained in the assignment and $2,141
realized, which was applied towards the payment of the notes.
This suit was brought to recover the balance due after this
application was made.
Bast filed an affidavit of merits, which in Pennsylvania has
the effect, in cases of this class, of a plea, in which he alleges,
1, that it was the duty of the bank under the written assignment to have issued execution on the judgment prior to the
time it did; and, 2," that simultaneously with his delivery of
said notes to said bank as aforesaid, as well as said assignment
of said judgment as collateral security for the same, it was
agreed between deponent (Bast) and said bank, as part of the
transaction, that said bank would issue execution upon said
judgment and proceed to collect the same whenever the money

Oct. 1879.]

BAST v. BANK.

, 95

could be made thereon." He then claimed that, "by reason of
the supine neglect of the plaintiff in not issuing execution as
aforesaid, the said judgment assigned to it as aforesaid as collateral security for the payment of the notes sought to be collected in this case was lost and became worthless, whereby
deponent suffered damages to an amount equal to the full
amount due upon the notes in suit."
The court below held that the defence set up in the affidavit of merits was insufficient in law, and gave judgment
for the bank for $5,440.46, the balance remaining due on the
notes.
To reverse this judgment this writ of error has been brought.
Two questions are presented by the defence in this case.
1. Was the bank bound by the terms of the written assignment to take steps for the collection of the judgment before the
maturity of the notes?
2. Was parol evidence admissible to prove the alleged
promise, made simultaneously with the assignment and as part
of the transaction, to issue execution and collect the judgment
whenever the money could be made thereon?
1. As to the assignment.
No obligation to collect was in terms put on the bank by
the writing. On the contrary, the only power conferred on the
bank in reference to the judgment was to sell if the notes were
not paid at maturity, or at the maturity of their renewals. All
parties seem to have contemplated delay in the collection, and
Bast seems also to have been especially careful to retain in
his own hands the power to withhold execution if he saw fit.
Until a sale was made tnder the 'express power granted for that
purpose he continued the actual owner of the judgment, subject only to the lien of the bank to secure the payment of his
notes. So far ab any thing appears on the face of the written
instrument, he retained full control of the collection by legal
process; but whether that be so or not, he certainly could call
on the bank at any time before a sale to take the necessary
steps, or permit him to do so, to enforce its collection, or to
secure and preserve such priority of lien as the judgment was
entitled to over other judgments or executions thereon. If
the bank had failed to comply with his demand, and loss had

96

.

BAST v. BANK.

[Sup. at.

ensued, other qubstions than such as are now presented might
have arisen. But upon the face of the assignment we are
clearly of the opinion that the bank put itself under no obligation to collect except on the demand of Bast. Any attempt to
do so before the maturity of the notes, without his cQnsent,
would be a direct violation of the terms of the instrument
under which it acquired all its rights.
2. As to the parol evidence.
No principle of evidence is better settled at the common law
than that when persons put their contracts in writing, it is, in
the absence of fraud, accident, or mistake, "conclusively presumed that the whole engagement, and the extent and manner
of their undertaking, was reduced to writing." I Greenl. Evid.,
sect. 275. In Pennsylvania, the stringency of this rule has been
very considerably relaxed, but we have been referred to no case
where, in the absence of fraud or mistake, parol evidence has
been admitted to alter the plain and unequivocal terms of a
written instrument. In Martin v. Berens (67 Pa. St. 463), the
court say: "Where parties, without any fraud or mistake,
have deliberately put their engagements in writing, the law
declares the writing to be not only the best, but the only evidence of their agreement, and we are not disposed to relax the
rule. It has been found to be a wholesome one, and. now that
parties are allowed to testify in their own behalf, the necessity
of'adhering strictly to it is all the more imperative." In this
case the Pennsylvania decisions are extensively reviewed, and
the exceptions to the rule of the common law which they recognize carefully stated, but the conclusion is that, " as a general rule, it (parol evidence) is inadmissible to contradict or
vary the terms of a written instrument." Again, in Bernlart
v. Biddle (29 id. 96) this language is used: "Where parties
have deliberately put their engagements in writing, and no
ambiguity arises out of the terms employed, you shall not add
to, contradict, or vary the language mutually chosen as most fit
to express the intention of their minds. What if parol evidence prove, never so clearly, that they used such and such
words in making their bargain; the writing signed, if it contain not those words, is final and conclusive evidence that they
were set aside in favor of the other expressions that are found

Oct. 1879.]

BAST v. BANK.

in the written instrument. And hence this rufe of law is only
a conclusion of reason, that that medium of proof is most trustworthy which is most precise, deliberate, and unchangeable."
This is the rule, it was said, which prevails in reference "to
the terms in which the writing is couched," and that "evidence
to explain the subject-matter of an agreement is essentially different from that which varies the terms in which a contract
is conceived." It is not always easy to determine when in
Pennsylvania parol evidence is admissible to explain a written
instrument, but in Anspach v. Bast (52 id. 356), it is expressly
declared that "no case goes the length of ruling that such evidence is admitted to change the promise itself, without proof
or even allegation of fraud or mistake. The contrary has been
repeatedly decided." To the same effect is the case of Hfacker
v. National Oil Refining Co. (73 id. 93), as well as many others
that might be cited.
In the present case, as we have seen, the contract which the
parties reduced to writing is, in effect, that the bank should
not, before the maturity of the notes, take measures to collect
the judgment assigned without the consent of Bast. The offer
was to prove a contemporaneous parol agreement that it should
do so. This is a clear contradiction of the terms of the written
contract, in a matter where there is no pretence of ambiguity,
and where there has been no fraud or mistake.
We think the court below was right in giving judgment for
the bank, notwithstanding the aflidavit of merits.
Judgment affirmed.

VOL XI.

