CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

not inconsistent -with this opinion, as law and justice may
require; and it is
So ordered.
NoTE. -In Darlington v. County of Jackson, error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri, which was argued by Mr.
John B. Henderson for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. John C. Gage for the
defendant in error, and in Foote v. County of Pike, error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, which was argued by Mr.
John B. Hendersonand Mr. Odon Guitarfor the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. George
F. Edmunds, 3r. Thomas J. C. Fagg, and Mr. Fillmore Beall for the defendant in
error, ME. CHiER JusTicE WAITI delivered the opinion of the court, reversing the judgments below on the authority of Douglass v. County of Pike, supra,
p. 677.

CASE

v.

BEAUREGARD.

1. A. filed his bill claiming that he, as a creditor of a commercial firm, all the
members of which were insolvent, had a prior lien or privilege upon the
partnership property which had been transferred by them in payment of
their individual debts, and seeking to subject that property to the payment
of his debt. The bill, on a final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, was
dismissed. A. thereupon commenced a suit for the same cause of action
against the same parties, alleging, in addition to the matters set forth in his
former bill, that he had recovered a judgment at law against the partnership for the debt, and that an execution issued thereon had been returned
nulla bona. Held, that the former decree is as resjudicataa bar to the suit.
2. Whenever a creditor has a trust in his favor, or a lien upon property for
the debt due him, he may go into equity without exhausting his remedy
at law.
AIPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts out of which this case arises are stated in Case v.
Beauregard,99 U. S. 119. The bill in each case is in every essential particular the same, except that here the additional allegation is made that the complainant, as receiver, had brought
an action at law and recovered judgment against Beauregard
and May, as partners; that Graham, the other partner, was
beyond the reach of process; and that an execution upon the
judgment was returned nulla bona. The defendants pleaded

Oct. 1879.]

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

the decree in the former suit in bar, and the court, finding
that the matter set up in the plea was sustained by the evidence, dismissed the bill. Case appealed.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Charles Case for the
appellant, and by Mr. Henry C. .Miller for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STRoNG delivered the opinion of the court.

That the complainant's bill exhibits the same cause of action
which was set forth in his former bill against these defendants, and that he now seeks the same relief as that which was
sought in his first suit, is quite apparent. The identity of the
claims and equities asserted, as well as of the relief asked, is
shown by an inspection of the records, and it is hardly denied.
The object of both suits was to follow and subject to the payment of a debt due by the partnership of May, Graham, &
Beauregard to the First National Bank of New Orleans, certain
property alleged to have formerly belonged to the partnership,
but which before the first bill was filed had been transferred to
the railroad company. The claim made in each of the cases
is that the bank has a privilege or lien upon the property for
the partnership debt; that the railroad company acquired the
property with knowledge of the existence of the lien, and that
it is charged with a trust in favor of the bank. The decree dismissing the former bill must, therefore, be a bar to the present
suit (it having been pleaded), unless the court which dismissed
it was without jurisdiction of the case.
In the former bill it was not averred that judgment at law
had ever been recovered against the partnership for the debt,
and that an execution had been issued thereon and returned
fruitless. The present bill contains such an averment. It is
alleged that judgments at law were obtained against two of the
members of the partnership on or about the twenty-sixth day
of February, 1878, which was after the decree dismissing the
former bill, and that executions issued upon those judgments
had been returned that no property could be found. The complainant insists that this averment not having been made in the
former bill, the decree of dismissal, though unqualified, cannot
be regarded as a final adjudication of the equities between the
parties, and that it is, therefore, no bar to the present suit,
voL. x1.

44

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

It is no doubt generally true that a creditor's bill to subject
his debtor's interests in property to the payment of the debt
must show that all remedy at law had been exhausted. And
generally, it must be averred that judgment has been recovered
for the debt; that execution has been issued, and that it has
been returned nulla bona. The reason is that until such a
showing is made, it does not appear., in most cases, that resort
to a court of equity is necessary, or in other words, that the
creditor is remediless at law. In some cases, also, such an averment is necessary to show that the creditor has a lien upon the
property he seeks to subject to the payment of his demand.
The rule is a familiar one, that a court of equity will not entertain a case for relief where the complainant has an adequate
legal remedy. The complaining party must, therefore, show
that he had done all that he could do at law to obtain his rights.
But, after all, the judgment and fruitless execution are only
evidence that his legal remedies have been exhausted, or that
he is without remedy at law. They are not the only possible
means of proof. The necessity of resort to a court of equity
may be made otherwise to appear. Accordingly the rule, though
general, is not without many exceptions. Neither law nor
equity requires a meaningless form, "Bona, sed impossibilianon
cogit lex." It has been decided that where it appears by the
bill that the debtor is insolvent and that the issuing of an
execution would be of no practical utility, the issue of an execution is not a necessary prerequisite to equitable interference.
Turner v. Adams, 46 Mo. 95 ; Postlewait &. Creaganand Keeler
v. Howes, 3 Iowa, 365 ; Ticonie Bank v. Harvey, 16 id. 141;
Botsford v. Beers, 11 Conn. 369; Payne v. Sheldon, 63 Barb.
(N. Y.) 169. This is certainly true where the creditor has a
lien or a trust in his favor.
So it has been held that a creditor, without having first
obtained a judgment at law, may come into a court of equity to
set aside fraudulent conveyances of his debtor, made for the
purpose of hindering and delaying creditors, and to subject the
property to the payment of the debt due him. Thurmond and
Others v. Reese, 3 Ga. 449; Cornell v. Badway, 22 Wis. 260;
Sanderson v. Stockdale, 11 Md. 563.
In Brisay v. Hogan (53 Me. 554), it was ruled that when a

Oct. 1879.]

OASE v.

BEAUREGARD.

creditor seeks by his bill to obtain payment of his debt from
land paid for by the debtor, but conveyed to his wife, a levy of
an execution is unnecessary, if the debtor never had legal title
to the land. See also -Day et al. v. Was burne, 24 How. 352.
The foundation upon which these and many other similar
cases rest is that judgments and fruitless executions are not
necessary to show that the creditor has no adequate legal remedy. When the debtor's estate is a mere equitable one, which
cannot be reached by any proceeding at law, there is no reason
for requiring attempts to reach it by legal processes.
But, without pursuing this subject further, it may be said
that whenever a creditor has a trust in his favor, or a lien upon
property for the debt due him, he may go into equity without
exhausting legal processes or remedies.
Tappan v. Evans,
11 N. H. 311; Mfolt v. Bancroft, 30 Ala. 193. Indeed, in those
cases in which it has been held that obtaining a judgment, and
issuing an execution, is necessary before a court of equity can
be asked to set aside fraudulent dispositions of a debtor's property, the reason given is that a general creditor has no lien.
And when such bills have been sustained without a judgment
at law, it has been to enable the creditor to obtain a lien, either
by judgment or execution. But when the bill asserts a lien, or
a trust, and shows that it can be made available only by the
aid of a chancellor, it obviously makes a case for his interference.
Now, if we are correct in these views of equity jurisdiction,
it is a plain inference that the decree pleaded in bar of the present suit was a final adjudication of the equities asserted by the
complainant therein.
The bill in that case asserted in the most ample terms the
remedilessness of the complainant at law. It averred that at
and before the transfer and conveyances of the partnership
property, sought to be charged, to the railroad company, each
of the members of the partnership was largely indebted, without means and in a state of insolvency, and that they had since
been and still were insolvent; so that a suit at law and the
recovery of a judgment against them, or either of them, would
not afford the complainant any relief, because neither of the
partners have or had, since the dates of the pretended transfers

692

CASE v. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

of said partnership property, any property whatever upon which
the complainant could levy an execution at law, or seize for the
satisfaction of the debt due to the bank. What more could
have been necessary to show that the complainant had no rem'edy at law, - that his remedy, if he had any, was in equity?
But this was not all. The bill charged that the conveyances
.of the partnership property, and the transfers by which it had
been vested in the railroad company, were illegal and fraudulent, that the bank had a privilege or lien upon the property,
and it prayed that the various acts of sale, transfer, and conveyance by which the property that had belonged to the partnership had been conveyed to the railroad company, should be
declared null and void, and that the property should be decreed
to be liable to the payment of the amount due to the bank.
Thus it appears the bill exhibited all that was necessary to
give to the court, sitting as a court of equity, complete jurisdiction over the subject of the controversy between the parties,
and over all the equities now asserted by the complainant in
his present suit. It must, therefore, be held that the decree
dismissing that bill determined the equities of the case. And
this must be so, whether the reasons for the dismissal were
sound or not. That decree was affirmed in this court, and
affirmed on the merits. We regarded the case and treated it
as requiring an adjudication upon the complainant's equity to
be paid out of the property in the hands of the railroad company. Nothing that can now be done in another suit can take
away the legal effect of the decree. Even were we of opinion
that the case was erroneously decided, it would still be resjudicata, a bar to the complainant, a protection to the defendants.
It would be idle, therefore, to reconsider the question whether
the bank has a lien upon the property he seeks to charge, or
whether there had been a trust in the bank's favor.

-Decreeaffirmed.

