Oct. 1879.]

V. MANIERRE.
8MOHR

prehensive view in determining the necessity of a law, and the
character of the purpose to be accomplished by it. A court,
with any propriety, cannot arrogate to itself all power and
wisdom in such matters; and if there be grave doubt as to the
nature of the purpose, the doubt must always be solved in
favor of the action of the legislature." 62 Ill. 273. In a previous case the court had said that "a proper respect for the
legislative department requires us to regard its acts as prima
facie constitutional." 42 Ill. 14.
We express no opinion as to what, in our judgment, is the
true exposition of those parts of the Illinois Constitution to
which reference has been made, or as to the wisdom or propriety of such legislation as that under examination.
Our purpose has been to ascertain what was the law of the
State as expounded by its highest judicial tribunal. And
while, perhaps, the judgment of the Circuit Court might, in
view of our own decisions, be sustained upon other grounds, it
is sufficient for the disposition of this case to say, that the adjudications of the State court do not show any such settled or
uniform construction of the State Constitution upon the questions here involved as would justify us, with proper respect to
the legislative department of Illinois, in holding that it had
transgressed her fundamental law.
Judgment affirmed.

MOEIR V. MANIERRE.
The statute of Wisconsin which provides for the sale of the real estate of a
lunatic to pay his debts when his personal property is insufficient therefor,
enacts that the order of the county court to show cause why the application
of the guardian for a license to sell such real estate shall not be granted "shall
be published at least four successive weeks in such newspaper as the court
shall order, and a copy thereof shall be served personally on all persons interested in the estate and residing in the county in which such application is
made, at least fourteen days before the day therein appointed for showing
cause: provided however, if all persons interested in the estate shall signify in
writing their assent to such . . . sale the notice may be dispensed with." It
also enacts that the court "upon proof of the due service or publication of a
VOL X1.
27

MOnR V. MANIERRE.

[Sup. Ot.

copy of the order, or upon filing the consent in writing to such sale, of all
persons interested, shall proceed to the hearing of such petition, and if such
consent be not filed, shall hear and examine the allegations and proofs of the
petitioner and of all persons interested in the estate who shall think proper to
oppose the application." A. was duly declared to be a lunatic and his lands
in that State were on the petition of his guardian sold by order of the proper
court. The sale was reported to the court and confirmed, and a deed made to
the purchaser, against whom after the proceedings in lunacy were suspended,
A. brought ejectment. He insisted that the court had no jurisdiction to make
the order granting license to the guardian to sell, inasmuch as notice of the
time and place of hearing the petition had not been published for the full
period of four successive weeks. Held, 1. That the publication of notice of
the hearing is only intended for the protection of parties having adversary
interests in the property, and is not essential to the jurisdiction of the court.
'2. That so far as the rights of the lunatic are concerned the jurisdiction of
the court attached upon filing of the guardian's petition setting forth the
facts required by the statute. 3. That as against the lunatic a license to
sell is not rendered invalid by reason of an insufficient publication of notice
of the hearing. 4. The rulings in Grignon'sLessee v. Astor (2 How. 310), and
Comsock v. Crawford (3 Wall. 396), cited on this latter point.

Euuon to the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. P. 1. Cotzhausen and Mr. James C. Jenkins for the
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. S. U. Pinney, contra.
Mi. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action for the possession of certain laud in the
county of Walworth, in the State of Wisconsin. It was commenced in one of the State courts, and on the application of
the plaintiff was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States. It was there tried by the court, without the intervention of a jury, upon stipulation of the parties. The court was
held by the circuit and district judges, and, as they were opposed in opinion, the case is brought here upon a certificate of
the points upon which they differed.
The facts out of which this division arose are briefly these:
The plaintiff Mohr, previously to the sale under which the
defendant claims, was the owner of the premises in controversy.
In 1869, he was, by legal proceedings in the county court of
Walworth, adjudged to be a lunatic incapable of taking care of

Oct. 1879.]

MOHR

V. MANIERRE.

himself and managing his property, and a guardian was appointed over him. In October, 1870, the guardian applied, by
petition to the court, for license to sell the real estate of his
ward for the purpose of paying his debts. The petition alleged
that the goods, chattels, rights, and credits of the lunatic in the
hands of the guardian were insufficient to pay such debts and
the charges of managing his estate. It set forth the amount of
the debts and charges, the extent to which they exceeded the
personal estate of the lunatic, and his opinion as to the necessity of using the whole or the greater part of the estate to pay
the indebtedness, accompanied by a certificate of the supervisors of the town to the same effect; and it gave a description
of the real property. Upon being filed, an order was made
by the court requiring the next of kin of the lunatic, and all
persons interested in his estate, to appear before the court on a
day named, and show cause why a license should not be granted
for the sale of the estate as prayed; and that notice be given
by publication in a newspaper for four successive weeks prior
to the day of hearing, and also by service upon certain persons
named.
On the day appointed, Jan. 2d, 1871, there being no appearance adverse to the application, and no objection interposed,
the court made an order granting a license to the guardian to
sell the lands. The order recited that pursuant to the order
made on the 21st of November, 1870, the petition was heard
and considered; that the affidavits of two persons, who were
named, were filed, showing that the notice required had been
duly published; that it appeared after full examination, that it
was necessary, in order to pay the debts of the lunatic, that all
his real estate should be sold; and that the supervisors of the
town had certified to the judge of the court their approbation
of the proposed sale, and that they deemed it necessary. The
order required the guardian, before the sale, to execute to the
judge a bond in the sum of $15,000, conditioned that he would
sell the property, and account for and dispose of the proceeds
in the manner provided by law; also that he would take the
oath required by statute; give notice of the terms and place of
the sale, with a proper description of the property, by posting
in three public places in the town where the property was

MOHR V. MANIERRE.

[Sup. Ot.

situated, and by publication for three weeks in a weekly newspaper. It contained other directions not material to be mentioned, which were designed to secure a fair sale and a just
price for the property; and it required the guardian to report
his proceedings to the court. Under this license a sale was
made, and a deed executed to the purchaser, and a report thereof
made to the court, which was confirmed. The defendant claims
under the purchase at this sale.
Subsequently the proceedings and commission in lunacy were
superseded, and the plaintiff Mohr brought the present action
to recover possession of the premises. After it was commenced
a party to whom he had transferred an undivided interest was
joined with him as co-plaintiff.
The case turns upon the validity of the sale in question.
The order of the county court of Wisconsin, in granting the
guardian license to sell the property, was assailed as having
been made before notice of the time and place of bearing the
petition of the guardian had been published for four successive
weeks, as required by the court and the statute of the State.
It is insisted that such notice was in the nature of process to
bring the parties before the court, and its constructive service
by publication for the period mentioned was essential to give
the court jurisdiction. The order recited, as already stated,
that by the affidavit of two persons named, the required publication was shown to have been made; but the judges certify
that it appeared from one of the affidavits that the notice was
not thus published. It is to be regretted that the two affidavits
are not embodied in the record. We might differ from the
judges in the conclusion reached by them. We might, perhaps,
find that a publication was made once a week in four successive
weeks, and hold that this was a sufficient compliance with
the statute. Between the 21st of November, 1870, when
the order for publication was made, and the 2d of January,
1871, when the petition was heard, more than four weeks had
elapsed.
We shall assume, however, that the notice was not published
for the full period prescribed, and the question for consideration
is whether such omission, all other requisites of the statute
having been complied with, rendered the order of the court

Ot. 1879.]

M0HR V. MANIERRE.

invalid as against the plaintiff lJIohr,* the then lunatic; or, in
other words, whether such publication was essential to the
jurisdiction of the court to grant the license to sell. The
Supreme Court of the State, in a case brought by this plaintiff,
Mohr v. Tulip, - which came before it in 1876, affecting a
part of the premises sold at the same guardian's sale, upon substantially the same proofs here presented, held that the sale
was invalid for want of sufficient publication of such notice. On
the other hand, the Supreme Court of the United States, in
considering the validity of a sale of a decedent's estate under a
statute in force in what was then the Territory of Wisconsin,
requiring the county court, before passing upon the application
for a license to sell, to order notice of its hearing to be given to
all parties interested who did not signify their assent to the
sale, had held, as far back as 1844, after deliberate consideration, that the absence of such notice from the record, or the
fact that no such notice was given, did not affect the jurisdiction
of the court, but was merely a matter of error, to be corrected
by an appellate tribunal; and this decision has been repeatedly
recognized as correctly marking the distinction between matters
of error and matters of jurisdiction in proceedings for the sale
of such estates. Grignon'sLessee v. Astor, 2 How. 319.
Under these circumstances the circuit and the district judge
differed in opinion upon the following questions: 1st, Whether the county court had jurisdiction to make the
order granting the license to sell; or whether the order was
invalid by reason of the alleged defect in the publication of
notice; and 2d, Whether, in view of the decision of the Supreme Court
of the United States and the decision of the State Supreme
Court in 3Iohr v. Tulip, the circuit court should follow the latter
decision and hold the sale invalid.
The framers of the Constitution, in establishing the Federal
judiciary, assumed that it would be governed in the administration of justice by those settled principles then in force in the
several States, and prevailing in the jurisprudence of the country
from which our institutions were principally derived. Among
* The record says as against the defendant, which is the same thing, for no
one disputes his title but the plaintiff.

MOHR V. MANIERRE.

[Sup. Ct.

them none were more important than those determining the
manner in which the jurisdiction of the courts could be acquired.
This necessarily depended upon the nature of the subject upon
which the judicial power was called to act. If it was invoked
against the person, to enforce a liability, the personal citation
of the defendant or his voluntary appearance was required. If
it was called into exercise with reference to real property by
proceedings in rem, or of that nature, a different mode of procedure was usually necessary, such as a seizure of the property,
with notice, by publication or otherwise, to parties having
interests which might be affected. The rules governing this
matter in these and other cases were a part of "thegeneral law
of the land, established in our jurisprudence for the protection
of rights of persons and property against oppression and spoliation. And when the courts of the United States were invested
with jurisdiction over controversies between citizens of different
States, it was expected that these rules would be applied for the
security and protection of the non-resident citizen. The constitutional provision owed its existence to the impression that
State prejudices and attachments might sometimes affect injuriously the regular administration of justice in the State
courts. And the law of Congress which was passed to give
effect to the provision, made it optional with the non-resident
citizen to require a suit against him, when commenced in a
State court, to be transferred to a Federal court. This power
of removal would be of little value, and the constitutional provision would be practically defeated, if the ordinary rules established by the general law for acquiring jurisdiction in such cases
could he thwarted by State legislation or the decision of the
local courts. In some instances the States have provided for
personal judgments against non-residents without personal
citation, upon a mere constructive service of process by publication; but the Federal courts have not hesitated to hold such
judgments invalid. Pennoyer v. Neff, 96 U. S. 744. So, on
the other hand, if the local courts should hold that certain
conditions must be performed before jurisdiction is obtained,
and thus defeat rights of non-resident citizens acquired when a
different ruling prevailed, the Federal courts would be delinquent
in duty if they followed the later decision.

Oct. 1879.]

MOHR V. M1ANIERRE.

If these views be applied to the present case there will be
little difficulty in answering the questions which appear to
have embarrassed the judges below. The statute of Wisconsin
provides for the sale of the real estate of a lunatic to pay
his debts when his personal property is insufficient for that
purpose, and points out the steps which his guardian must
take to obtain a license to make the sale. It is admitted
that these steps were taken for the sale in question, except that
the order of the county court to show cause why the license to
sell should not be granted, issued upon filing the petition, was
not published for four successive weeks before the petition was
heard and the license granted. The statute on this subject
says, in its fourth section, that "every such order to show cause
shall be published at least four successive weeks in such newspaper as the court shall order, and a copy thereof shall be
served personally on all persons interested in the estate and
residing in the county in which such application is made, at
least fourteen days before the day therein appointed for showing
cause; provided however, if all persons interested in the estate
sale the
shall signify in writing their assent to such notice may be dispensed with." And the sixth section provides
that "the judge of the county court, at the time and place appointed in said order, or at such other time as the hearing shall
be adjourned to, upon proof of the due service or publication of
a copy of the order, or upon filing the consent in writing to such
sale, of all persons interested, shall proceed to the hearing of
such petition, and if such consent be not filed, shall hear and
examine the allegations and proofs of the petitioner and of
all persons interested in the estate who shall think proper to
oppose the application."
It is apparent from these sections that the publication of
notice of the hearing is only intended for the protection of
parties having adversary interests in the property, and is not
essential to the jurisdiction of the court. It may be dispensed
with if the parties having such interests consent to the sale.
The consent could not be signed by the lunatic, for he, by his
condition, would be incapable of giving a consent, and yet
upon the others' consent, the court could proceed to act without
notice to him.

MOHP V. MANIERRE.

[Sup, Ct.

Nor, indeed, was there any reason why publication of notice
should be made for other parties than those who held adversary
interests. The lunatic could not be affected by such publication
any more than by his consent. The application of the guardian
to the county court was required by the law only as a cheek
against any improvident action by him. There was nothing in
the nature of the proceedings which required a notice of any
kind, so far as the rights of the lunatic were concerned. The
law would have been free from objection had it simply authorizQd, upon the consent of the court, a sale of the lunatic's
property for the payment of his debts. The authority of the
court in that case, as in this, would have existed to license the
sale whenever it appeared that the personal estate of the lunatic
was insufficient to pay his debts, and that a sale of his real
property was necessary for that purpose.
There is no charge of fraud in the action of the guardian,
nor is it suggested that the property sold did not bring a fair
price. The simple question is whether, as against the lunatic,
the license to sell was invalid for insufficient publication of
notice of the hearing, the same being, as already stated, required
only for the protection of other parties interested in the estate.
The decision of this court in arignon'sLessee v. Astor, to which
we have already referred, would seem to be decisive on this
point. Indeed, it goes beyond what is required for the affirmance of the judgment here. That was a case of an administrator's sale under a statute in force in the Territory of Wisconsin, which provided that the county court, previous to passing
upon the presentation made by the petition of an executor,
administrator, or guardian for license to sell the property in
his hands belonging to the deceased or his ward, should order
due notice to be given to all parties concerned or their
guardians, who did not signify their assent to the sale, to show
cause at such time and place as should be appointed why the
license should not be granted. But in the order granting the
license, it did not appear that notice had been given as thus
required, and various other omissions were mentioned as impairing its validity. This court, however, held that no other
requisites to the jurisdiction of the county court were prescribed
by the statute than the death of the intestate, the insufficiency

Oct. 1879.]

MOHR V. MANIERRE.

of his personal estate to pay his debts, and a representation of
these facts to the county court where he dwelt or his real estate
was situated; that the decision of the county court upon the
facts was the exercise of the jurisdiction which the representation conferred; that any irregularities or errors in the decision
were matters to be corrected by an appellate court; and that
the decision could not be collaterally attacked by reason of
them. The court observed, in substance, that it was not
necessary that the record should disclose the contents of all
the papers before the county court, or its action in preliminary
matters; that it was sufficient to call its powers into exercise
that the petition stated the facts upon the existence of which
the law authorized the sale; that the granting of the license
was an adjudication that such facts existed; and that a purchaser was not bound to look beyond the decree. The doctrine
thus stated has ever'since been adhered to by this court in like
cases, and in 1865, in" Comstoe v. Crawford, which arose upon
a similar statute in the same Territory, that decision was followed. 3 Wall. 396. Its maintenance was held to be essential
to the security of numerous estates in Wisconsin, where it is
said many defects are found in the records of the proceedings
of the probate courts in the early period of her history. It
was adopted for many years by her courts after she ceased to
be a territory and became a State of the Union. It was well
fitted for the repose of titles. Whether the reasoning of this
court in other cases would not lead to some modification of its
doctrine it is unnecessary to consider. As already intimated,
there is no occasion to go to the full extent of the doctrine for
the disposition of the present case. Here no parties claiming
interests adverse to those of the lunatic are objecting to the
license to sell, granted on his behalf and at his request through
his guardian.
In Mo)ir v. Tulip, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin overlooked
the distinction between the position of the lunatic, who was in
fact the applicant through his representative, and that of parties having adversary interests in the property. He can no
more object to the sale of his property for want of notice to
them, if the provisions of law intended for his protection were
followed, than a plaintiff in a personal action could object to a

GUNTON

V. OARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

sale upon his own judgment on the ground that the latter was
prematurely entered. The object of notice or citation in all
legal proceedings is to afford to parties having separate or
adverse interests an opportunity to be heard. It is not required
for the protection of the applicant or suitor.
The statute declared that upon the existence of certain facts
the sale of the lunatic's estate might be made, and when these
appeared in the petition of the guardian, the court had jurisdiction to act, so far as his rights were concerned, as fully so as if
the statute had so declared in terms, whatever may be the
effect of its proceedings upon the interests of parties not properly brought before the court. We see no reason, therefore, so
far as his interests are affected, to depart from the doctrine of
Gtrignon'sLessee v. Astor.
Judgment affirmed.

GUNTON v. GARIIOLL.
A. and 3. in November, 1846, entered into an agreement under seal, providing
for the settlement of long standing and disputed accounts. A balance from
B. to A. was ascertained and the mode of payment and security agreed upon.
A. released property of B. from the lien of judgments. B. among other things
stipulated that he would obtain partition of certain lands wherein he had an
undivided interest, and convey in fee the part assigned to him in severalty to
A. at such price as should be adjudged by three appraisers, one to be appointed
by A., one by B. and one by the other two. Such price to be credited on
the judgments held by A. against B. and that the latter would give good
security for the balance remaining due. B. died in 1849. There was no partition until 1866, when it was effected by his devisees, a fact not known to A.
until 1872. They have made to A. no conveyance of the part of said lands
assigned to them in severalty. A. filed his bill in 1876, alleging that ie had
performed all the stipulations on his part to be performed, and that $40,000 of
the original debt with accruing interest remains unpaid, and praying for such
a conveyance, for the ascertainment of the balance under the order of the
court and for general relief. The devisees demurred. .eld, 1. That upon the
case made by the bill, A's remedy was not barred by the lapse of time. 2. That
A. having under the agreement parted with rights, and B. received value, the
consideration of which was in part the stipulation concerning the lands, the
agreement for the conveyance can be specifically enforced and the court
will, if it be necessary, provide a mode for ascertaining the value of the
lands.

