COWDREY V. VANDENBURGH.

[Sup. 0t.

As to the second defence, it is claimed that the probate
records attached as exhibits to the answer, showing the inventory and distribution, are conclusive evidence that the debt
has been paid. Undoubtedly, final settlements of administra,tors and executors, when adjudicated, have the force and effect
of judgments as between the parties to such settlements; but
neither Adams nor these appellants were parties to this settlement, which concluded the executor and distributees, but no
one else. Nothing is more common than for an executor or an
administrator to charge himself with debts due the estate
before they are collected, and thus expedite a final settlement.
It would be dangerous to hold that, as between the executor
or administrator and the debtor, such a settlement was conclusive evidence of the actual payment of the debt and the discharge of the debtor. The question presented by the answer
is not whether the estate now owns the note secured by the
mortgage, if it be still unpaid, but whether it has been paid.
Decree affirmed.

COWDREY V. VA±NDENBURGH.
1. Except where the original owner of a non-negotiable demand which he has
indorsed in blank is estopped from asserting his original claim thereto, the
purchaser thereof from any party other than such owner takes only such
rights as the latter has parted with.
2. Semble, that if the pledgee of such a demand writes a Sormal assignment to
himself over the blank indorsement made by the pledgor, and in that form
sells it to a third party for value, the pledgor is, as against such third party,
estopped from asserting ownership,thereto.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was a bill in equity, filed by J. W. V. Vandenburgh,
H. L. Crawford, and L. S. Filbert, trading as J. W. V. Vandenburgh & Co., against Rudolph Blumenburgh, to compel the
surrender of a certain certificate, of which the following is a

copy:

-

Oct. 1879.]

COWDREY V. VANDENBURGH.

"No. 4441.]

OFFICE OF AUDITOR, BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS,

" WASHINGTOIr, D. C., Dec. 6, 1873.
"I hereby certify that I have this day audited and allowed the
account of J. V. W. Vandenburgh & Co., for work on Columbia
Street, amounting to eight thousand four hundred and fifty-one
dollars and eighty-eight cents.
11$8,451.88.
". C. LAY, -Auditor."

N. A. Cowdrey was subsequently made a party. A decree was
rendered against him, from which he appealed to this court.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.3r. Joseph H. Bradley for the appellant.
ir. James G. Playne, contra.

MR. JUSTICE FE LD delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainants, composing the firm of Vandenburgh & Co.,
of the District of Columbia, had, previously to Dec. 6, 1863,
entered into contracts with the Board of Public Works of the
District for grading, paving, and improving certain streets in
the city of Washington. On that day, their account, amounting to $8,451.88, for work on one of the streets, was audited
and allowed, and a certificate of the auditor to that effect was
issued to them. On the 17th of February following the complainants borrowed of the defendant Blumenburgh the sum of
$3,160 for six months, and deposited with him as collateral
security the certificate, to be returned upon the payment of the
money. The certificate was at this time indorsed by them in
blank. When the money became due they called with the
amount and accrued interest at the former place of business of
Blumenburgh to pay the debt and take up their certificate; but
he had disappeared, and no one there knew when he had left
or whither he had gone. The complainants could not find
him, nor any one representing or acting for him; and, what
was of more consequence, they could not find their certificate
either. He had clandestinely departed from the city; and they
charge in their bill, in substance, that he always intended to
cheat and defraud them; and that without their knowledge he
has disposed of the certificate to some one, who in conjunction

COWDREY V. VANDENBURGH.

[Sup. Ct.

with him is attempting to wrongfully use it, and thus deprive
them of their property.
By the legislation of Congress relating to the District of
Columbia, certificates of allowed and audited accounts, like that
in question, could be surrendered to a board of audit, and certificates of indebtedness against the District received for them;
and these latter certificates could be exchanged for interest..
bearing bonds of the District. The complainants, informed
that the certificate belonging to them had been presented to the
board of audit by agents of Blumenburgh, or of persons to
whom it had been passed, for the purpose either of obtaining
money therefor or bonds of the District, filed the present bill to
arrest the further use of the certificate, and compel its restitution to them. Learning afterwards that the appellant, N. A.
Cowdrey, of New York, claimed to be owner of the certificate,
and was seeking to obtain for it from the board of audit a certificate of the indebtedness of the District, for which an
interest-bearing bond could be issued, they amended their bill,
and brought him in as a defendant.
In his answer-he admits the possession of the certificate, and
avers, in substance, that he purchased it in the ordinary course
of business of a broker in Washington for value with other
certificates of a similar character, but does not state what
amount he paid for it; that he was at the time ignorant of the
transaction between complainants and Blumenburgh stated in
the bill, and that the certificate had the blank indorsement of
the complainants, which justified him in concluding that they
had parted with their interest; and he insists that he is therefore entitled to protection as a bona fide holder for value without
notice. To the answer a replication was filed, and its affirmative allegations are unsupported by any proofs. The answer
cannot, therefore, be taken as evidence on his behalf. He must,
therefore, be treated as one standing in the place of Blumenburg,
and holding the certificate subject to the claim and equities of
the original holder. The certificate was not a negotiable instrument which could pass by indorsement and delivery. It was
not a promise to pay any sum, nor was it an order upon any
one or upon any fund for the payment of money, or for the
delivery of any thing of value. It was simply a statement that

Oct. 1879.]

COWDREY V. VANDENBURGH.

the account of the complainants for work done by them upon
one of the streets of Washington had been audited and allowed
by an officer of the city, whose duty it was to ascertain and
certify as to the amount and price of the work done by a
contractor. Whoever takes such a certificate, whether with or
without notice, takes it subject to all the rights and equities of
the actual owner, as much so as if it were tangible property in
the streets.
The cases where by law certificates of a similar character are
made negotiable can have no application. It is not pretended
that any law of Congress has made the certificates of the
auditors of the District of Columbia negotiable, or given to
them any special character beyond that which they purport on
their face to possess. Nor can any weight be given to the suggestion that, by custom, these instruments are considered and
treated as negotiable paper in the District. There was no evidence offered of the existence of any such custom, even had
such evidence been admissible to contravene an established rule
of law.
That the purchasers of non-negotiable demands, like the certificate here, from others than the original owner of them, can
take only such rights as he has parted with, except when by
his acts he is estopped from asserting his original claim, is
established by all the authorities. He must in such case, as
Lord Thurlow said, abide by the case of the person from whom
he buys. Cutts v. Guild, 57 N. Y. 229; Ingraham et al. v. Di8borough, 47 id. 421; Bush v. Lathrop, 22 id. 535.
If the pledgee, Blumenburgh, had written over the blank
indorsement of the complainants a formal assignment to himself
of the claim, and in that form had sold the certificate to Cowdrey
for value, it is possible that the latter might have successfully
insisted that the complainants were estopped from asserting, as
against him, ownership of the claim. The principle is well
settled that when the owner of property in any form clothes
another with the apparent title or power of disposition, and
third parties are thereby induced to deal with him, they shall
be protected. The case of Mlcreil v. The Tenth National Bank,
in the Court of Appeals of New York, contains a clear statement of the law on this head. There, it is true, a certificate

576

COWDREY V. VANDENBURGH.

[Sup. Ct.

of stock was pledged with a blank assignment and power of
attorney indorsed, which the pledgee afterwards filled up, and
then disposed of the stock. It was evident that the owner
contemplated that the blanks in the assignment and power
should be filled up, if it should ever become necessary. 46
N. Y. 325.
But the principle stated by the court is as applicable where
,no such intention is manifested. The rights of innocent third
parties, as the court there observes, "do not depend upon the
actual title or authority of the party with whom they deal
directly, but are derived from the act of the real owner, which
precludes him from disputing, as against them, the existence of
the title or power which, through negligence or mistaken confidence, he caused or allowed to appear to be vested in the
party making the conveyance." Here the complainants could
have expressed in their indorsement the purpose of the deposit
of the certificate with Blumenburgh,- that it was as security
for a specified sum of money, - and thus imparted notice to
all subsequent purchasers or assignees that the pledgee held
only a qualified interest in the claim. But having indorsed
their name in blank, they virtually authorized the holder to
transfer or dispose of the certificate by writing an absolute
assignment over their signature. Had it, therefore, appeared
in this case that Cowdrey paid any money for the certificate,
and took it with the assignment which he himself afterwards
wrote over the signature of the complainants, we are inclined
to think that his defence would have been sustainable. But as
he has not shown that he parted with any value for the claim,
and no assignment was at the time indorsed over the blank
signature, he must be treated as standing in the shoes of his
alleged vendor, Blumenburgh.
Dearee affirmed.
MR. JUs CE SWAyNE dissented.

'

