TRUST

Co. v.

NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

TRUST COmPANY v. NATIONAL BANK.
1. The defences of the maker of a promissory note can be cut off only by the
payee's indorsement of it before maturity.
2. A guaranty written upon it by the payee is not such an indorsement.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Samuel W. Packardfor the appellant.
Mr. J. A. Sleeper and Mr. H. K. Whiton, contra.

Mi.

JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This case, as made by the bill, answers, replications, and
proofs, is as follows: On the twenty-fourth day of September,
1874, the First National Bank of Wyandotte, Kansas, made its
promissory note at Chicago, Illinois, in these words : -

"$51,000.

CHmAGO, ILLrIois, Sept. 24, 1874.
"Four months after date we promise to pay to Cook County
National Bank, of Chicago, or order, five thousand dollars, with
interest at the rate of per cent per annum after due, value
received, all payable at Cook County National Bank.
"B. JUDD,
"Cas fer 1st Na'l Bank, Wyandotte, Ka's.
"$6,000 Wyandotte Co. and City bonds as collateral."
The note was made and delivered to the Cook County Bank,
in pursuance of an arrangement between that bank and Judd,
the cashier of the Wyandotte Bank, by which it was agreed
the latter should execute a four months' note for $5,000, with
security, and have the same discounted by the Cook County
Bank, and the proceeds placed to the credit of the Wyandotte
Bank, but not to be drawn against so as to reduce the credit for
such proceeds below $4,000, - such note to remain with the
Cook County Bank, and to be surrendered to the maker on the
renewal or close of the account. It was distinctly understood
between the officers of the two banks when the note was
given that it should be held by the Cook County Bank as a
memorandum, and not be negotiated or separated from the

Oct. 1879.]

TRUST Co. v. NATION L BANK.

Wyandotte city and county bonds for $6,000 accompanying it,
which were delivered contemporaneously with it as collaterals.
Accordingly, the sum of $4,000, part of the proceeds of the
discount, was suffered to remain on deposit to the credit of the
Wyandotte Bank, until the Cook County Bank failed, became
insolvent, and passed into the hands of a receiver. At the
time of such failure and the appointment of a receiver there
was also an additional credit of $868 due from the Cook County
Bank to the Wyandotte Bank. When, therefore, the note matured there was due from the payee to the maker of the note
the sum of $.4,868. But before its maturity, to wit, on the
seventh day of October, 1874, the Cook County Bank, in violation of its agreement above mentioned, passed the note to the
New York State Loan and Trust Company, by which it was
discounted, without any knowledge of any defence which the
Wyandotte Bank had against it, or any knowledge of the origin
of the note and of the agreement between the two banks, other
than what the face of the note revealed.
The note was protested when it fell due, and it is now held
by the Central Trust Company of New York, the receiver of
the New York State Loan and Trust Company, and the collaterals, the municipal bonds, are held still by the Cook County
Bank.
This bill has been filed to compel its surrender and the surrender of the Wyandotte city and county bonds on the payment of $132, the difference between $5,000 and $4,868, the
sum standing to the credit of the Wyandotte Bank against the
payee, the claimant offering to pay that sum.
In view of these facts, fairly deducible from the evidence,
it is manifest that, as between the complainant and the Cook
County Bank, there is a perfect defence against the note to the
extent of 84,868, the sum standing to the credit of the Wyandotte Bank due from the payee. On the payment of $132 the
maker of the note has a clear equity to have it surrendered,
together with the municipal bonds held as collaterals.
But it is claimed that the Trust Company having received
the note before its maturity, and having discounted it in the
usual course of business without any knowledge of any equities
or defence against it, is entitled to hold it free from any defence

70

TRUST

Co.

v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

which the maker could set up against the payee; that is,
against the Cook County Bank.
A large portion of the argument before us has been expended
upon the questions whether, inasmuch as the note was given
by the cashier of the Wyandotte Bank at Chicago, and was
made payable at a future day, it was not void under the general
banking law. We pass those questions as unnecessary to be
considered. If it be conceded that the note was valid at its
inception, it is certainly true the maker had a good defence
against it while it was in the hands of the payee, and we do
not perceive that the manner in which the Trust Company or
its receiver obtained it puts them or either of them in any
better position than the payee occupied.
The note was not indorsed to the Trust Company, and it
was not, therefore, taken in the usual course of business by
that mode of transfer in which negotiable paper is usually
transferred. Had it been indorsed by the Cook County Bank,
it may be that the Trust Company would hold it unaffected by
any equities between the maker and the payee. But instead
of an indorsement, the president of the Cook County Bank
merely guaranteed its payment, and handed it over with this
guaranty to the Trust Company. The note was not even
assigned. There was written upon it only the following:"For value received, we hereby guarantee the payment of the
within note at maturity or at any time thereafter, with interest at
ten per cent per annum until pid, and agree to pay all costs and
expenses paid or incurred in collecting the same.
"B. F.

ALLEN, Pre't."

In no commercial sense is this an indorsement, and probably
it was not intended as such. Allen had agreed that the note
should not be negotiated, and for this reason perhaps it was
not indorsed. That a guaranty is not a negotiation of a bill
or note as understood by the law merchant, is certain. Snevily
v. .Mel, 1 Watts & S. (Pa.) 203;
ramourieux v. fHewitt,
5 Wend. (N. Y.) 307 ; 111iller v. Gaston, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 188.
In this case, the guaranty written on the note was filled up.
It expressed fully the contract between the Cook County Bank
and the Trust Company. Being express, it can raise no appli-

Oct. 1879.]

THomAS V. RAILROAD CO.

cation of any other contract. BExpressum facit cessare tacitum.
The contract cannot, therefore, be converted into an indorsement or an assignment. And if it could be treated as an
assignment of the note, it would not cut off the defences of the
maker. Such an effect results only from a transfer according
to the law merchant; that is, from an indorsement. An
assignee stands in the place of his assignor, and takes simply an
assignor's rights; but an indorsement creates a new and collateral contract. 2 Parsons, Notes and Bills, 46 et seg., notes.
At best, therefore, the defendants below can claim no more
or greater rights than those of the Cook County Bank, and the
complainants are entitled to a return of the note and of the
collaterals on payment of the sum of $132.
-Decreeaffirmed.

THoMAs v. RAUROAD ComP-NY.
1. The powers of a corporation organized under a legislative charter are only
such as the statute confers; and the enumeration of them implies the
exclusion of all others.
2. A lease by a railroad company of all its road, rolling-stock, and franchises
for which no authority is given in its charter is ultra vires and void.
3. The ordinary clause in the charter authorizing such a company to contract
with other transportation companies for the mutual transfer of goods and
passengers over each other's-roads confers no authority to lease its road
and franchises.
4. The franchises and powers of such a company are in a large measure designed to be exercised for the public good, and this exercise of them is the
consideration for granting them. A contract by which the company renders itself incapable of performing its duties to the public, or attempts to
absolve itself from its obligation without the consent of the State, violates
its charter and is forbidden by public policy. It is, therefore, void.
5. The fact that the legislature, after such a lease was made, passes a statute
forbidding the directors of the company, its lessees or agents, from collecting more than a fixed amount of compensation for carrying passengers and
freight, is not a ratification of the lease or an acknowledgment of its
validity.
6. Where a lease of this kind for twenty years was made, and the lessors resumed possession at the end of five years, and the accounts for that period
were adjusted and paid, a condition in the lease to pay the value of the
unexpired term is void, the case not coming within the principle that executed contracts originally ultra vires shall stand good for the protection of
rights acquired under a completed transaction.

